 Case Number:  23STCV12624    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  73 05/15/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
686-WOPG, LLC v. RODRIGUEZ, et al. (23STCV12624)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Randy Chang
(The Chang Firm) 
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Brian Wagner (Kutak
Rock LLP)
 
demurrer TO FIRST AMENDED complaint (filed 4/18/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to all of Plaintiff’s causes of action against Defendant Ahn is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s first, second, third, fourth and
fifth causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and
tenth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 2, 2023, 686-WOPG, LLC (“686-WOPG”) filed a breach of
contract action against Daniel Rodriguez, individually and as a dba of
Pablito’s Tacos, and Transcendent Development Group, Inc. (“Transcendent”).
 
On July 13, 2023, Transcendent filed a Complaint against 686-WOPG
and David Ahn (“Ahn”). 
 
On February 5, 2024, the Court found both cases are related and consolidated
the cases. 
 
On February 28, 2024, the Court sustained the Demurrer of Ahn and
686-WOPG to all causes of action in Transcendent’s Complaint.
 
On March 18, 2024, Transcendent
filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action: 
            C/A 1: Forceable Entry
            C/A 2: Forceable Detainer
            C/A 3: Trespass
            C/A 4: Conversion of Tangible
Personal Property
            C/A 5: Breach of Written Lease
Contract
            C/A 6: Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing
            C/A 7: Quiet Enjoyment 
            C/A 8: Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage
            C/A 9: Unfair Business Practices
            C/A 10: Declaratory Relief
 
The FAC alleges the following. In or around July 27, 2021, Plaintiff and Defendant 686-WOPG entered
into a written lease agreement for a term of 10 years for the premises located
at 686 Spring Street, suite 104, Los Angeles, California. (FAC, ¶ 2.)
Defendant, 686-WOPG is a California Limited Liability Company consisting of a
single member LLC, fully controlled by Defendant Ahn. (FAC, ¶ 4.)
On or about April 14, 2023, Defendants changed the door locks, gate locks,
security entry codes, etc. for entry into the aforesaid premises all without permission
or consent by Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 1.)
 
On April 18, 2024, Defendants Ahn and 686-WOPG (collectively
“Defendants”) filed the instant demurrer, arguing:
·       All
of Plaintiff’s causes of action against Defendant Ahn fail because the FAC does
not plead an alter ego relationship sufficient to state a claim against him.
·       The rest of
Plaintiff’s causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. 
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing that the FAC sufficiently
sets forth facts to constitute a cause of action.
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff failed to
plead facts to constitute each of its causes of action.  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating she called
Plaintiff’s counsel to meet and confer regarding the instant motion, but Plaintiff’s
counsel did not answer or return her call. (Andrews Decl., ¶¶
2-3.) She states she also emailed Plaintiff’s counsel to schedule a phone call,
but Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond. (Andrews Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) While the parties did not meet and confer in person or by
telephone, the failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain
a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the Court proceeds
on the merits.
 
B.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
C.     All Causes of
Action against Defendant Ahn
 
Defendant Ahn
demurs to the entire FAC on the grounds that it fails to plead an alter ego
relationship sufficient to state a claim against him.
 
In Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36, the
Court of Appeal held the following was sufficient to allege alter ego
liability:  
 
Rutherford
alleged that Caswell dominated and controlled PDR; that a unity of interest and
ownership existed between Caswell and PDR; that PDR was a mere shell and
conduit for Caswell's affairs; that PDR was inadequately capitalized; that PDR
failed to abide by the formalities of corporate existence; that Caswell used
PDR assets as her own; and that recognizing the separate existence of PDR would
promote injustice. These allegations mirror those held to pass muster in First
Western Bank & Trust Co. v. Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 910,
915–916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657. As in First Western, “[a]ssuming these facts
can be proved, [Caswell] ... may be held liable ... under the alter ego
principle.” (Id. at p. 916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657.) 
 
Defendants
argue that Rutherford failed to allege specific facts to support an alter ego
theory, but Rutherford was required to allege only “ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, 67 Cal.Rptr.3d 330, 169 P.3d 559.) Moreover, the “less particularity [of
pleading] is required where the defendant may be assumed to possess knowledge
of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that possessed by the plaintiff,”
which certainly is the case here. (Burks v. Poppy Construction Co.
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474, 20 Cal.Rptr. 609, 370 P.2d 313.) Therefore, we
affirm the trial court's ruling that Rutherford sufficiently pled an alter ego
theory of liability. 
 
Here, unlike
the allegations in Rutherford, Plaintiff’s allegations fall short in
sufficiently pleading alter ego liability. The Court previously found the
Complaint’s allegations of alter ego liability were boilerplate, general, and vague.
Plaintiff amended its FAC to include allegations that Defendant Ahn was
involved in the lockout, stating:
 
“David Anh, as the sole member of Defendant, 686-WOPG, LLC
participated in the illegal lockout and/or authorized or directed that it be
done and as such, is personally liable for the damages sued herein. PMC v.
Kadisha, (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1368, 1378, 1381. When Plaintiff demanded
that Defendant David Anh undo the lockout and return that Premises to
Plaintiff, Defendant Anh refused and alleged that Plaintiff had abandoned the
Premises.” (FAC, ¶¶ 7-8.) 
 
The
Court finds these new allegations insufficient to plead alter ego liability as
to Ahn. Plaintiff fails to plead any facts that could support an alter legal
liability theory, such as Ahn and the corporation having any unity of interest
and ownership, and whether Ahn used the corporate assets as his own.
 
 As such, the
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint against Defendant Ahn is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
D.     First and
Second Causes of Action: Forcible Entry and Forcible Detainer
Defendants next
demur to the first and second causes of action for forcible entry and forcible
detainer for lack of sufficient facts. 
 
“Every person is guilty of a forcible entry who
either: 1. By breaking open doors, windows, or other parts of a house, or by
any kind of violence or circumstance of terror enters upon or into any real
property; or, 2. Who, after entering peaceably upon real property, turns out by
force, threats, or menacing conduct, the party in possession.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1159.)
 
A person is guilty of forcible detainer: “(1) By
force, or by menaces and threats of violence, unlawfully holds and keeps the
possession of any real property, whether the same was acquired peaceably or
otherwise. (2) Who, in the night-time, or during the absence of the occupant of
any lands, unlawfully enters upon real property, and who, after demand made for
the surrender thereof, for the period of five days, refuses to surrender the
same to such former occupant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1160.)¿ 
 
Here, the FAC alleges that in or
around July 27, 2021, Plaintiff
and Defendant 686-WOPG had entered into a lease agreement for a term of 10
years for the premises. (FAC, ¶ 2.) On or about April 14, 2023, Defendants unlawfully
entered the premises without Plaintiff’s consent and refused to return possession
of the premises to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 1-9, 20-25.) The FAC further alleges
that Defendants continue to hold and keep possession of the real property. (FAC,
¶ 9.) 
¿ 
The Court
finds these allegations sufficient. While Defendants argue that the entry was
not accomplished by violence or threats, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants
entered the premises without permission. (See Jordan v. Talbot
(1961) 55 Cal.2d 597, 605 (actual force or violence is not necessary and a
defendant violates the statute by unlocking an apartment without consent, and
entering even though there was no physical damage or actual violence).)
Defendants also argue that Plaintiff was past due on rent and thus, defaulted
on the lease and was no longer entitled to possession of the premises. However,
a lease provision permitting the landlord to enter the premises upon the
tenant's breach is¿not¿a defense. (Kassan v. Stout¿(1973) 9 Cal.3d 39, 43-44;
see¿Jordan v. Talbot, supra, 55 Cal.2d at 605,—void as contrary to
public policy expressed in¿CCP § 1159.) Nor can the
landlord defend on ground the tenant (plaintiff) has defaulted in rent. (Jordan
v. Talbot, supra, 55 Cal.2d at 603.) Thus, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient
facts to assert a claim for forcible entry and forcible detainer. 
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer to the FAC’s first and second causes of action are OVERRULED. 
 
E.     Third Cause
of Action: Trespass
 
“The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's
ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant's intentional,
reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the
entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's
conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm.” (Ralphs Grocery Co.
v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has pled: (1) Plaintiff
leased/had control of the Property; (2) Defendant entered the Property; (3)
Plaintiff did not give Defendant permission to enter the property/no proper
notice was given; (4) Plaintiff was harmed as they currently have no access to
the Property. (FAC, ¶ 1.) Thus, the elements for trespass have been met. While
the parties dispute as to whether Plaintiff should have had access to the
premises as Defendants argue that Plaintiff was past due on rent, the Court
finds that issue is outside the scope of this demurrer. The Court finds
Plaintiff has pled sufficient allegations as to this cause of action.  
 
Thus, Defendant’s
Demurrer to the FAC’s third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
F.      Fourth Cause
of Action: Conversion
 
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of
dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are:
(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.”  (Lee v. Hanley
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges sufficient
facts to state a cause of action for conversion. The FAC alleges Defendants
locked Plaintiff out of the Premises and converted Plaintiff’s food preparation
equipment, ABC license and inventory. (FAC, ¶ 1.)  This sentence
alleges the elements of a conversion claim.  (Gruber v. Pacific States
Savings & Loan Co. (1939) 13 Cal.2d 144, 147 (finding defendant’s
refusal to permit the plaintiff to have access to his equipment or to remove
his equipment “constituted an improper and wrongful exercise of dominion over
the plaintiff’s property in violation of his rights as owner and [], amounted
to a conversion”); Burlesci v. Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066
(finding conversion claim that defendant converted plaintiff’s restaurant
equipment should have gone to the jury); Haro v. Ibarra (2009) 180
Cal.App.4th 823, 835 (“It is not necessary that there be a manual taking of the
property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of control or ownership
over the property, or that the alleged converter has applied the property to
his own use.”).  
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the FAC’s fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
G.    Fifth and
Sixth Causes of Action: Breach of Written Lease Contract and Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract claim “is based on
alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the
body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.”  (Harris
v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)  In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also
“plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.”  (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-99.)
 
“A breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty
itself and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than
mistaken judgment.”  (Careau & Co.
v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,
1394.)  “If the allegations do not go
beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged
acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated . . . . 
[T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.”  (Id. at 1394-95.) To recover in tort
for breach of the implied covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably
or without proper cause.” (Id. at 1395, cleaned up.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges breach of the written lease and attaches the lease agreement
to the FAC. The Court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the existence of
the lease, that Plaintiff has paid all rents and obligations, and that
Defendants breached the lease by locking Plaintiff out of the premises. (FAC, ¶¶ 1-3.) However, as the Court noted in its order
sustaining Defendants’ demur to the Complaint’s breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, this cause of action is subsumed within the fifth cause of
action for breach of the lease. The Court does not find any additional claim is
actually stated as the allegations rely on the same alleged act of the breach
of the lease. 
 
Therefore, Defendants’
demurrer to the FAC’s fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s sixth
cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
H.    Seventh Cause
of Action: Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
The elements
of a claim for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment are: (1) a lease
agreement between plaintiff and defendant; (2) absence of language contrary to
the implied covenant that tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession; (3)
act or omission of the landlord, or anyone claiming under the landlord, which
“substantially interfere[s] with a tenant[’]s right to use and enjoy the
premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy”; and (4) an applicable
remedy. (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578,
588–591.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that “by virtue of
their landlord/tenant relationship, Defendants owned Plaintiff a duty of not
deprive Plaintiff of the beneficial use and enjoyment of the demised property
and premises as described herein. Defendants, and each of them, breached this
duty and the implied covenant by their conduct described above including, but
not limited to, the above described "lock out" of Plaintiff from the
demised premises.” (FAC, ¶¶ 45-46.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that it was a tenant at Defendants’ property
and that Defendants’ acts substantially interfered with the use of the premises.
As stated above, the Court finds the
issue of whether Plaintiff was past due on rent is outside the scope of this
demurrer. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action at this stage. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to the FAC’s seventh cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
I.       Eighth Cause
of Action: Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
 
The elements of a claim for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an economic relationship
between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future
economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the
relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the defendant
designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.”  (Crown
Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404, cleaned
up.)  Further, “the alleged interference
must have been wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference
itself. For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be
unlawful, that is, it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable
legal standard.”  (Ibid., cleaned
up.)
 
The FAC
states that because of the illegal lockout, Plaintiff could not fulfill their
obligations to Uber, Grub Hub, Door Dash, Stripe, Hide the Llama, Hungary, The
Voice and cater to the 2 Me. (FAC, ¶¶ 47-55.) In all of those relationships, Plaintiff had a
reasonable expectation of economic benefit by virtue of supplying to those
third parties prepared foods from Plaintiffs facilities at 686 Spring Street,
Suite 104, Los Angeles, California. (Ibid.) On April 14, 2023, but for the illegal lockout,
Plaintiff would have realized economic benefits from selling the food. (Ibid.)
 
However, the
Court does not find the eighth cause of action is sufficiently set forth. The
cause of action is not adequately set forth with details of the arrangements,
what happened, dates, what was impacted, etc. It is general and conclusory. Plaintiff
fails to specify the economic benefit expected to be realized and whether this
cause of action is different than damages flowing from the alleged breach of
the lease. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to
the FAC’s eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
J.      Ninth Cause
of Action: Unfair Business Practices
 
To set forth a claim for a violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish
Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain
specific acts.  (Bus. & Prof. Code §
17200.)  A cause of action for unfair
competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract
action.”  (Cortez v. Purolator Air
Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)
 
Here, the FAC
alleges that in illegally locking out Plaintiff, Defendants have engaged in
unfair and/or unlawful business practices and have thereby acquired money or
property rightfully belonging to Plaintiff by engaging in such unfair business
practices. (FAC, ¶ 60.) 
 
The
Court does not find these allegations adequately set forth a cause of action for violation of section 17200. Plaintiff alleges a breach of
contract and as the Court stated in its previous order sustaining this cause of
action in the Complaint, it is unclear what this cause of action adds to the
dispute.
 
Defendants’ demurrer to
the FAC’s ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
K.     Tenth Cause
of Action: Declaratory Relief 
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party
would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a
proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, cleaned up.) 
“[T]here is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved.”  (Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
366, cleaned up.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks a declaratory judgment “in
that Plaintiff contends and Defendants deny that Defendants have committed all
of the wrongs, misconduct and breaches set forth herein and have on or about
April 14, 2023, unlawfully "locked out" Plaintiff from its above
described demised premises resulting in all of the harm to Plaintiff alleged
hereon.” (FAC, ¶ 67.) 
 
However, the
Court finds the tenth cause of action is not sufficiently set forth. It is
cumulative of the prior causes of action. No new or additional declaration is
sought in this cause of action that is not covered by the prior causes of
action.
 
Defendants’ demurrer to
the FAC’s tenth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to all of Plaintiff’s causes of action
against Defendant Ahn is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s first, second,
third, fourth and fifth causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth, seventh,
eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend. 