  Case Number:  23STCV09234    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  73 5/15/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
GARCIA, et al. v. RUFFALO (23STCV09234)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Michael Ebiner (Ebier
Law Office)
Counsel for Defendants/opposing
party:  Whitney Davis-Houston (Law Offices
of Whitney Davis-Houston)
 
MOTION FOR TRIAL SETTING PREFERENCE (filed 02/20/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Trial Setting Preference is DENIED.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 25, 2023, Plaintiffs Marcos
Garcia and Esperanza Garcia filed this action against Defendant Luzelena
Ruffalo. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 
C/A 1: Financial Elder Abuse 
C/A 2: Order
Cancelling Instrument
C/A 3: Constructive Trust
 
The Complaint alleges
the following. On June 17,
1997, Plaintiffs purchased the real property ("Property") commonly
described as 2743 Flower 14 Street, Huntington Park, CA 90255. Plaintiffs took
title to the Property as joint tenants. In 2007, Plaintiffs were under
financial stress and applied for a loan to refinance their mortgage. Their loan
application was denied. Defendant, Luzelena Ruffalo, is the daughter of Marcos
and Esperanza. Defendant suggested to Plaintiffs that she would join them on
title to the property for the sole purpose of helping them qualify for a loan.
On May 10, 2007, Plaintiffs signed a Grant Deed ("2007 Grant Deed")
transferring title of the Property to themselves and Defendant as joint
tenants. Plaintiffs did not understand that by placing Defendant on title to
the Property, Defendant would gain an ownership interest to the Property.
Plaintiffs never intended to give Defendant an ownership interest in their
property. In May 2022, Plaintiffs tried to refinance the mortgage and learned
that Defendant had an ownership interest in the property. Plaintiffs asked
Defendant to return her ownership interest to Plaintiffs, but Defendant refuses
to be taken off title. 
 
On February
20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Trial Setting Preference, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs
are requesting the Court set this action for trial within 120 days due to
Plaintiff’s advanced age, resulting particular susceptibility to disease and
substantial likelihood that Plaintiffs, as with anyone at this advanced age, may not survive for any
extended period of time.
·      
Here, the facts entitle Marcos Garcia and Esperanza Garcia to
trial preference under CCP § 36(a). Both Plaintiffs are over the age of 70, and
have a substantial interest in the litigation as a whole here.
 
On May 7, 2024,
Plaintiffs’ counsel filed a declaration in support of the instant Motion,
stating:
·       Plaintiff,
Marcos Garcia, died on April 30, 2024. 
·       Plaintiff
Esperanza Garcia intends to proceed with the case. 
 
Defendant did not file an
opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
CCP section
36(a) states that a preferential trial date is mandatory where the party is
over 70 years old; the party has a substantial interest in the action; and the
health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest.  (See Code Civ. Proc. sec. 36(a).) 
 
CCP section
36(c)(1) requires a motion for mandatory trial preference under CCP section
36(a) must be supported by a declaration that all essential parties have been
served with process or have appeared. (CCP § 36(c)(1); Weil & Brown, Civ.
Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2019) ¶12:273.) 
 
CCP section
36.5 provides that “[a]n affidavit submitted in support of a motion for
preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney
for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the
medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.  The affidavit is not admissible
for any purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of
Section 36.  
 
CCP section
36(e) states that, “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, the court may
in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by a showing
that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by
granting this preference.”  (Code Civ. Proc. sec. 36(e).)  
 
B.      Discussion
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that pursuant to Plaintiffs’
counsel’s declaration, Plaintiff Marcos Garcia passed
away on April 30, 2024. Thus, Plaintiffs motion only applies to Plaintiff
Esperanza. Plaintiffs move the Court to set this action
for trial within 120 days due to Plaintiff Esperanza’s advanced age, resulting
particular susceptibility to disease and substantial likelihood that she may
not survive for any extended period of time. It is undisputed that Plaintiff
Esperanza is over 70 years old and has a substantial
interest in the action. 
 
First, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to support their
motion with a declaration that all essential parties have been served with
process or have appeared as required by CCP §
36(c)(1). Plaintiffs merely state in their motion that service was completed
and attach a proof of publication in support. (Motion, p. 3, Ex. 1.) The Court
does not find Plaintiffs have complied with CCP § 36(c)(1).
 
Further,
the Court finds that while Plaintiff Esperanza is
over 70 years old and has a substantial in this action as a whole, Plaintiff
Esperanza has not shown that her health is such that a preference is necessary
to avoid prejudicing her interest in the litigation. Plaintiff Esperanza’s
declaration states that she is 88 years old and has “an impending surgery.”
(Esperanza Garcia Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)
However, this statement does not state Plaintiff Esperanza’s prognosis or given any
indication as to the possible duration of Plaintiff Esperanza’s lifespan.
Plaintiffs’ conclusory statements in their motion that Plaintiff Esperanza’s
life expectancy is uncertain based on her advanced age is not sufficient to
warrant a trial preference under CCP § 36(a). For example, the present facts are readily
distinguishable from those in Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 529, where trial preference should have been granted to an
81-year-old with (1) stage IV mesothelioma which had metastasized to the femur,
clavicle, and spine, (2) asbestosis, (3) asbestos-related pleural disease, (4)
severe coronary artery disease, (5) anemia, (6) whole body aches and pain, (7)
severe abdominal and bowel complications, (8) nausea and vomiting, (9)
dehydration, (10) drowsiness, (11) extreme weakness and fatigue, (12)
chemotherapy-induced impairment to focus, concentration, and communication,
(13) a extremely weak immune system, and (14) worsening side effects of the
chemotherapy. (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 532.) Thus, Plaintiffs
fail to meet their burden under CCP § 36(a) to show that Plaintiff Esperanza’s
health is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her
interest in this action. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Trial Setting
Preference is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 

Plaintiffs’
Motion for Trial Setting Preference is DENIED without prejudice. 