 Case Number:  23PSCV03560    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Trini
Nguyen, et al. v. Khiem “Kevin” Nguyen 
Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Compliance with Three Subpoenas Duces Tecum Records Only from
Chase Bank Over Objection by Defendant 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS the motion. Chase Bank must produce all documents
requested in the subject subpoenas within 30 days of this order. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a partition action. On November 14, 2023, plaintiffs Trini
Nguyen, Natalie Nguyen, Bryant Nguyen, Patrick Nguyen, and David Lovold (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendant Khiem “Kevin” Nguyen (Defendant)
and Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for partition by sale of real
property, constructive trust, and contribution. 
On August 14, 2024, Plaintiffs moved to compel compliance with
three subpoenas duces tecum records only from Chase Bank over objection by
Defendant. On September 4, 2024, Defendant opposed the motion. On September 9,
2024, Plaintiffs replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or
the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of
an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd. (a).) 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE 
            The Court notes that
Plaintiffs combined three subpoenas into one discovery motion, but paid only
one filing fee. (Motion, p. 188 of pdf.) Since there are three separate
subpoenas at issue, each one should have been the subject of a separate motion
with a separate filing fee. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020, subd. (b); Gov.
Code, § 70617,
subds. (a), (f).) The Court will still consider the motions, but admonishes
Plaintiffs going forward to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure and Government Code going forward. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).) But, the Court takes
judicial notice only as to the existence, content, and authenticity of such
documents; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters
asserted therein. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.
App. 5th 389, 400.) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
            Although a meet-and-confer
declaration is not required for a motion to compel compliance with a subpoena,
the Court appreciates Plaintiffs’ efforts to meet and confer before bringing
this motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1; Dept. 6 Courtroom Information; Dachner
Decl., ¶¶ 11-13, Exs. 10-13.) 
Summary of Arguments 
Plaintiffs seek to compel non-party Chase Bank’s compliance with
three deposition subpoenas for production of records, to which there were
objections. Plaintiffs contend Defendant lacks standing to object to production
of records for third parties, such as the parties’ mother, Nhung Thi Nguyen
(Mother), and aunt, Ahn Thi Nguyen (Aunt). Plaintiffs contend that privacy is
not grounds to prevent production of the requested records. Plaintiffs contend
the requested records are directly relevant to their claim that Defendant could
not have afforded to buy the house alone and must have been receiving
assistance from Mother and Aunt. Plaintiffs contend the financial records are
the best evidence of Defendant receiving contributions from Mother and Aunt. Plaintiffs
also contend Defendant’s objection of overbroad is improper because the
subpoenas at issue do not seek records going back the full length of time
Mother and Aunt gave money to Defendant. 
In opposition, Defendant contends Plaintiffs lack the authority to
be the estate personal representative, and that the statute of limitations for
unjust enrichment is two years based on an unwritten contract. Defendant
indicates that he withdrew his objections to his Aunt’s and Mother’s accounts,
including those jointly with him, but states that he and his wife object to the
subpoena for her bank records and those held jointly with Defendant. Defendant
contends the subpoena is excessive, requesting records from a period of over 14
years, and contends Plaintiffs cannot show their need for the records
requested. Defendant contends the request is also not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence given its breadth. Defendant
contends Plaintiff has not shown the subpoena seeks relevant records, and contends
that the records relating to Aunt are not relevant to this lawsuit given how
far back the request reaches and the two-year statute of limitations. 
Analysis 
The Court finds Plaintiffs are entitled to the documents requested.
First, “[t]he party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally
protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.” (Williams
v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (Williams).) Defendant does
not have a reasonable expectation of privacy for personal records in the bank
accounts of other persons, namely Mother and Aunt. (Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 36-37 [plaintiff must have
had a reasonable expectation of privacy under the circumstances, which includes
the customs, practices and physical settings surrounding the particular
activity.] Defendant also concedes to having withdrawn his objections to the
records sought in connection with Mother, Aunt, or an account that Defendant
jointly held with either of them. (Opp., 3:6-12.) Thus, the only accounts at
issue now are those belonging to Defendant’s wife, Ngoc Nguyen (Wife), and any
accounts Defendant jointly holds with her. (Id.) 
With respect to any joint accounts between Defendant and Wife, the
Court finds Defendant has not met his burden of establishing the extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion. (See Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th
at p. 557.) Nowhere in Defendant’s opposition does he explain or provide
evidence that production of the documents requested would cause him to suffer
some sort of undue burden. The Court further finds Plaintiffs have sufficiently
established that the documents requested are relevant to their claims and are
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) 
The Court does not consider Defendant’s arguments regarding Plaintiffs’
standing to bring this action and the claims being barred by the statute of
limitations as such arguments are not properly before the Court in an opposition
to a motion to compel subpoenas. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion. Chase Bank must produce all documents
requested in the subject subpoenas within 30 days of this order. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.