 Case Number:  23PSCV00104    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Roy
Nara Kwon, et al. v. Burrtec Waste Industries, Inc., et al. 
Defendant
Loan Pham dba Pho Vina Noodle & Grill’s Motion for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Loan Pham dba Pho Vina Noodle &
Grill’s motion for determination of good faith settlement. The Court will sign
the proposed order submitted with the motion. 
            Defendant Loan Pham dba Pho Vina
Noodle & Grill is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five
calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a property damage case. On January 12, 2023, plaintiffs Roy
Nara Kwon and Mihavana Cigars, Inc. (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this
action against defendants Burrtec Waste Industries, Inc., VEJ Pomona 5, LP,
Loan Pham dba Pho Vina Noodle & Grill (Loan Pham), Homage Brewing, Inc.
(collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action
for negligence, trespass, nuisance, and violation of Health & Safety Code §
13007. 
On August 16, 2024, Defendant Loan Pham moved for determination of
good faith settlement. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Any party to an action in which it is alleged that
two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt
shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement
entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided in
subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may
shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of
the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or
before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has
commenced.

(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a).) 
[T]he intent and policies underlying section 877.6
require that a number of factors be taken into account including a rough
approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate
liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds
among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant
considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. [Citation.] Finally,
practical considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the
basis of information available at the time of settlement. “[A] defendant's
settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable
person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's
liability to be.” [Citation.] The party asserting the lack of good faith, who
has the burden of proof on that issue [citation], should be permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in
relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives
of the statute. 
(Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499-500 (Tech-Bilt).)           
DISCUSSION 
Defendant
Loan Pham moves for determination of good faith settlement based on a
settlement with Plaintiffs for $100,000.00. Loan Pham contends the settlement
was made in good faith after the recent completion of mediation. Loan Pham contends
Plaintiffs’ total likely recovery is highly contested but they are nevertheless
receiving the maximum available under Loan Pham’s insurance policy limits. Loan
Pham disputes liability and notes that $100,000.00 is more than Loan Pham would
be paying if Loan Pham prevailed on a motion for summary judgment, but is
settling in an effort to avoid further legal costs and the burdens of continued
litigation. Loan Pham notes that allocation of the settlement proceeds between
Plaintiffs would be determined by Plaintiffs, and contends that Loan Pham’s
liability would likely be more than $100,000.00 if Plaintiffs were to succeed
at trial. Loan Pham further indicates that Loan Pham’s financial condition is
not an issue here because the settlement amount is not disproportionately low,
and Loan Pham’s insurance carrier has agreed to pay the policy limits of
$100,000.00. Loan Pham also contends there is no collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed at the non-settling Defendants. 
The Court
finds Loan Pham’s motion well taken. The Court construes the lack of opposition
from the other parties to this action as a tacit admission that Loan Pham’s
motion is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac.
Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support
them with reasoned argument and citations to authority. [Citation.]”]) The
Court also notes the lack of opposition because there is no argument or
evidence from any of the parties here that this settlement was made in bad
faith, and the party asserting bad faith bears the burden of proof. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499-500.) Additionally, there is no indication that
this settlement was the result of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed
at the non-settling Defendants. 
Moreover, the
Court finds the amount of $100,000.00 to be fair and reasonable in light of the
contested issues between the parties with respect to Loan Pham’s liability. There
does not appear to be any clear indication one way or the other as to what Loan
Pham’s liability would be in this matter if Loan Pham continued in this
litigation, and Loan Pham’s insurer’s agreement to pay the maximum policy limit
is a reasonable compromise between the parties. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Loan Pham DBA Pho Vina Noodle &
Grill’s motion for determination of good faith settlement. The Court will sign
the proposed order submitted with the motion. 
            Defendant Loan Pham DBA Pho Vina
Noodle & Grill is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five
calendar days of this order.