  Case Number:  21PSCV00428    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Maria Angela
Rodriguez v. Mercado Latino, Inc., et al. 
Defendant
Jorge Rodriguez’s Supplemental Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint 
TENTATIVE RULING           
The Court SUSTAINS
the demurrer to the First, Second, and Fifth Causes of Action without leave to
amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action. The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action as moot. 
Defendants
are ordered to file an Answer to the Third Amended Complaint within 20 days of the
Court’s order. 
Jorge is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This
is an involuntary dissolution action. On May 21, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Angela
Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants Mercado Latino, Inc.
(Mercado Latino), Grosac, Inc. (Grosac), Richard Yarruths Rodriguez (Richard), Roberto
Rodriguez (Roberto), Jorge Rodriguez (Jorge) (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50. On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended
Complaint (TAC), alleging causes of action for involuntary dissolution of
Mercado Latino and Grosac, breach of fiduciary duty, financial elder abuse, and
accounting. 
On
August 22, 2024, Defendant Jorge demurred to the TAC. On September 4, 2024, Plaintiff
opposed the demurrer. On September 10, 2024, Jorge replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
A
demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function
of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co.
(1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a
superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and
accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the
pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A
demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            The Court
GRANTS Jorge’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).)
However, the Court takes judicial notice only as to
the existence, content, and authenticity of such documents; it does not take
judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted therein. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.) 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE 
            Plaintiff correctly notes in her opposition that Jorge’s
demurrer is untimely. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) Nevertheless, the
Court exercises its discretion to still consider the demurrer, but admonishes
Jorge to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going
forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 750 [court
has discretion to consider late-filed demurrer].)           
DISCUSSION           
            Meet
and Confer 
            Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Jorge was required to
meet and confer telephonically, in person, or by video conference before
bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds
Mahaffey’s efforts to meet and confer insufficient, as there is no indication
of having attempted to speak telephonically, in person, or by video conference.
(Mahaffey Decl., ¶ 2.) Nevertheless, the Court may not overrule a demurrer for
failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(b)(4).) The Court will still consider the demurrer, but admonishes Jorge to
comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.
First and Second Causes of Action – Involuntary Dissolution
To state a cause of action for involuntary
dissolution, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating the plaintiff is a
person entitled to bring such an action and the grounds for such relief, as set
forth in Corporations Code section 1800. (Corp. Code, § 1800.) 
Jorge demurs to the First and
Second Causes of Action for involuntary dissolution of Mercado and Grosac,
respectively, on the grounds that they constitute sham pleadings. Jorge
contends the allegations of the TAC contradict allegations made in the prior probate
action (LASC No. 17STPB08193) regarding how Plaintiff purportedly came to own
the shares in Mercado and Grosac. Jorge then demurs to these two causes of
action on the grounds that Jorge was improperly named, as an individual cannot
be the subject of an involuntary dissolution claim per Weisman v. Odell,
which affirmed a dismissal against individual defendants where no claim was
sought against them in connection with an involuntary dissolution action. Jorge
also demurs on the grounds that the TAC does not allege Plaintiff is a 33.33%
stockholder of both Mercado and Grosac per Corporations Code section 1800,
subdivision (a)(2). Jorge finally demurs on the grounds that these two causes
of action fail because they are derivative claims and do not comply with
Corporations Code section 800’s notice requirements. 
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends Jorge’s sham pleading arguments are statutorily barred because they
were not raised in earlier demurrers or joinders. Plaintiff then contends the
TAC is consistent with earlier versions of the complaint and does not conflict
with the pleadings in the prior probate action. Plaintiff then contends Weisman
v. Odell does not bar Plaintiff’s claims against Jorge because that
decision only held that a dissolution action cannot be brought against
shareholders for whom no relief was sought, whereas here Plaintiff is seeking
an accounting, her share of the corporations’ profits, misappropriated assets
and damages. Plaintiff further contends she has standing to sue for involuntary
dissolution because she alleges she holds at least 33.33% of Grosac and
Mercado, excluding the shares owned by Richard, Roberto, and Jorge. Plaintiff
also contends Corporation Code section 1800 permits shareholders to bring suits
individually, and thus a derivative action is not required. 
            The
Court finds Plaintiff’s arguments regarding Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (b), persuasive. Jorge did not raise the sham pleading
arguments in a prior demurrer, and therefore does not support sustaining the
demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action of the TAC. The Court also
agrees with Plaintiff that claims for involuntary dissolution may be brought by
individual shareholders, as Corporations Code section 1800 makes clear that it
is the minority shareholder who can sue for involuntary dissolution. (Corp.
Code, § 1800, subd. (a).) 
            But,
the Court agrees with Jorge on two other grounds, namely that Jorge as an
individual cannot be made party to the two causes of action for involuntary
dissolution per Weisman v. Odell (1970) 3 Cal.App.3d 494 (Weisman),
and that the TAC fails to allege Plaintiff has the requisite 33.33% needed for
standing to bring a voluntary dissolution claim per Corporations Code section
1800. First, the Court of Appeal in Weisman held that where a minority
shareholder seeks only involuntary dissolution against a corporation, the
individual shareholders may not be joined as defendants. (Id., at p.
499.) The Court of Appeal affirmed the dismissal of the individual shareholder
defendants in the trial court because there was no other cause of action
alleged against them and because involuntary dissolution claims proceed only
against the corporation, not the individual shareholders. (See Id., at
p. 498 [“We do not, however, construe [former version of Corporations Code
section 1800] as meaning that stockholders who are alleged to have participated
in wrongful acts (affecting minority stockholders) may be joined as defendants
against their will.”]) While Jorge may theoretically be liable for other
alleged wrongs committed against Plaintiff, that does not mean Jorge may be
liable for involuntary dissolution. (See Id.) Thus, the fact that
Plaintiff is alleging other causes of action against Jorge, even based on
alleged wrongdoing that would otherwise support the involuntary dissolution
claim, does not change the result here. (See Id.) 
            Second,
the TAC alleges multiple times throughout that Plaintiff is a 25% shareholder
of Mercado and Grosac, exclusive of the shares owned by her brothers. (See TAC,
¶¶ 23, 29-30, 32, 34, 41, 45, 50, subd. (i), 53, 64, Prayer for Relief, ¶ 1.)
It also alleges multiple times throughout that Plaintiff is an equal
shareholder with her three other brothers, which also necessarily means
Plaintiff would be a 25% shareholder. (TAC, ¶¶ 13, 16-17, 20, 22-23.) Only one
paragraph in the entire TAC alleges Plaintiff has a 33.33% share in Grosac.
(TAC, ¶ 47.) This last allegation directly conflicts with all other allegations
in the TAC as noted above. Plaintiff’s argument that she really owns 33.33% after
excluding her brothers’ respective shares because of their alleged wrongdoing
is not a fact-based allegation, but is instead a speculative contention, which
the Court disregards on demurrer. (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713 [A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”]) Plaintiff also made no offer of proof as to how
this cause of action can be corrected. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action without
leave to amend. 
Third Cause of Action –
Breach of Fiduciary Duty 
To state a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating,
“(1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage
proximately caused by that breach.’ [Citation.]” (O'Neal v. Stanislaus Cnty.
Employees' Ret. Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.) “The statute of limitations
for breach of fiduciary
duty is three years
or four years, depending on whether the breach is fraudulent or nonfraudulent.
[Citations.]” (Am. Master Lease LLC v. Idanta Partners, Ltd.
(2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1479.) “While a demurrer based on statute of
limitations lies where the dates in question are shown on the face of the
complaint, if those dates are missing, there is no ground for a general
demurrer. [Citation.]” (United W. Med. Centers v.
Superior Ct. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 500, 505.) 
Jorge demurs to the Third
Cause of Action for breach of fiduciary duty on the grounds that it is
time-barred. Jorge contends the 2017 petition from the prior probate action
shows that Plaintiff was involved with and aware of the alleged problems with
the management of both companies, which are the bases of Plaintiff’s claims in
this action. Jorge also contends this cause of action fails to allege specific
damages caused by Jorge. 
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends her breach of fiduciary duty claim is not time-barred due to the
discovery rule. Plaintiff contends the TAC alleges she did not learn until
October of 2018 that the Defendants were withholding her stock certificates and
the stock associated with the certificates, and that she had no reason to
suspect this until October 2018 when her brothers, including Jorge, told her
she would receive nothing. 
The Court finds the TAC alleges
facts sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty. First,
the Court is not persuaded that this cause of action is time-barred.
Plaintiff’s claim regarding the stock certificates appears to be based on a
non-fraudulent breach of fiduciary duty claim, which means the four-year
statute of limitations applies. (TAC, ¶ 58; Am. Master Lease LLC v. Idanta
Partners, Ltd., supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 1479.) The Court does
not see any allegations in the 2017 petition from the prior probate case that
indicates Plaintiff’s claim was based on Jorge’s failure to provide Plaintiff’s
stock certificates. (See Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 1.) Even if it did,
Plaintiff filed this action less than four years after the 2017 petition from
the prior probate case. (See Id.) 
A demurrer must dispose of an
entire cause of action. While the TAC may be deficient with respect to the
transfer of shares, the TAC does allege that defendants, including Jorge,
breached their fiduciary duty by wrongfully removing Plaintiff, as a minority
shareholder, from her position as an officer and director of MERCADO and GROSAC,
and wrongfully withholding dividends from Plaintiff and paying themselves
excessive compensation, resulting in harm to Plaintiff (TAC, ¶¶ 38, 50, 56, 58,
59.) The Court finds these allegations sufficient to state a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action. 
Fourth Cause of Action – Financial Elder Abuse 
“Financial
abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any
of the following: 
(1)
Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of
an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or
both. 
(2)
Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both. 
(3)
Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking,
secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of
an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70. 
(Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30, subd.
(a).) 
Elder abuse claims are statutory causes of action and
therefore must be pleaded with particularity. (See Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790, citing Lopez v. Southern Cal.
Rapid Trans. Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795). 

            Jorge
incorporates by references the arguments the other Defendants made in their
demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action. Plaintiff did not address this cause of
action in her opposition. 
            The Court
previously sustained the demurrer to this cause of action without leave to
amend as to Jorge and the other Defendants. (Order re Tentative Ruling
(9/4/24).) Plus, the Court construes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition as a tacit
admission that Jorge’s arguments are meritorious. (Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the
Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial
Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived
when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to
authority. [Citation.]”]) 
            Accordingly,
the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action as moot. 
            Fifth
Cause of Action – Accounting 
            To
state a cause of action for an accounting, the plaintiff must allege facts
demonstrating, “[a] cause of action for an
accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between the plaintiff
and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is due the
plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. [Citations.]” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.) 
            Jorge demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action for an
accounting on the grounds that it states no claim with which Jorge can comply
because he is not the corporation. In opposition, Plaintiff contends the TAC
alleges at relevant times that Jorge was the companies’ chief financial
officer, and is alleged to have withheld assets from Plaintiff. 
            The Court finds the Fifth Cause of Action fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The TAC contains no
allegations that demonstrate a relationship between Plaintiff and Jorge in his
individual capacity that requires an accounting. The allegation that Jorge was
the chief financial officer and withheld Plaintiff’s assets at most supports a
claim for an accounting against Mercado and Grosac, not Jorge individually.
(See TAC, ¶¶ 38, subd. (e); 74; Teselle v. McLoughlin, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at p. 179.) Plaintiff also made no offer of proof as to how this
cause of action can be corrected. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer
to the Fifth Cause of Action without leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION           
The Court SUSTAINS
the demurrer to the First, Second, and Fifth Causes of Action without leave to
amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action. The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action as moot. 
Defendants
are ordered to file an Answer to the Third Amended Complaint within 20 days of the
Court’s order. 
Jorge is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days.