 Case Number:  22PSCV00533    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Yanmin  Han v. Heather Lien, et al.  Defendants  Joe M. Chou and Heather Lien’s Motion for Leave to File Compulsory  Cross-Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Defendants Joe M. Chou and Heather Lien’s motion  for leave to file compulsory cross-complaint.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a construction dispute. On June 3, 2022, plaintiff Yanmin  Han (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Heather Lien (Lien), Joe  Mun Yen Chou dba Impact Construction Company (Chou), Luxury Construction, Inc.,  TZ Global, Inc. (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 10, alleging  causes of action for breach of contract, intentional misrepresentation,  negligent misrepresentation, negligence, common count: money had and received,  disgorgement under Business and Profession Code section 7031, violation of  Business and Profession Code section 7160, and aiding and abetting unlicensed  contracting.  On August 19, 2024, Defendants Lien and Chou moved for leave to  file a compulsory cross-complaint. On September 4, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the  motion. No reply was filed.  LEGAL  STANDARD (a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the  parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or  at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the  court has set a date for trial. (c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any  cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)  or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the  course of the action. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 428.50.) A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the  requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,  neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his  pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during  the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall  grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the  pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who  failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be  liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 426.50.) The legislative mandate is clear. A policy of liberal construction  of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the  trial court. A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course  of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is  demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as  oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient  grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith. (Silver  Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.) DISCUSSION  Defendants  Lien and Chou (collectively, Moving Parties) seek leave to file a compulsory  cross-complaint. Moving Parties contend the proposed cross-complaint arises  from the same set of operative facts as the current operative complaint  regarding the construction project at 18321 Handah Ct., Rowland Heights, CA  91748. Moving Parties contend they are acting in good faith, as their counsel  substituted in months ago, and their counsel identified suspicious facts while  preparing discovery responses. Moving Parties also contend their claims relate  back for purposes of the applicable statutes of limitations.  In  opposition, Plaintiff contends Moving Parties’ delay in filing the proposed  cross-complaint evidences bad faith. Plaintiff notes that this action was filed  in June 2022, Moving Parties first appeared in this case in November 2022, and  Moving Parties never indicated any intent to file a cross-complaint, even when  they applied ex parte to continue trial in October 2023. Plaintiff contends the  moving papers admit the proposed cross-complaint arises from the same  transaction in 2021 and Moving Parties provide no declaration justifying the  delay in bringing the proposed cross-complaint more than 21 months into the  case and less than one month before the discovery motion cutoff deadline of  September 28, 2024. Plaintiff further notes that Moving Parties’ counsel’s  declaration admits the facts arose long ago and provides no explanation for the  delay in bringing this motion, despite their current counsel having substituted  into this case back in January 2024.  The  Court finds Moving Parties are not entitled to the relief sought. Although  policy favors liberally granting leave to file cross-complaints, the Court finds  this motion was not brought in good faith. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at  pp. 98-99.) Plaintiff correctly contends that Moving Parties provide no  evidence explaining the delay in seeking leave to file the proposed  cross-complaint. (See Law Decl., ¶¶ 5-10.) Moving Parties’ counsel formally  substituted in on January 24, 2024. (Substitution of Attorney (1/24/24).) Moving  Parties’ counsel acknowledges that the facts underlying the proposed  cross-complaint occurred a long time ago. (Law Decl., ¶ 10.) The facts alleged  in support of the motion were known to Defendants when the transactions  occurred, i.e. that Chou was unilaterally terminated by Plaintiff while Chou  was on the job and the Lien was asked to provide kickbacks by Tiffany Wu. (Motion,  p. 3:25-27.) There is nothing in the moving papers to suggest that the failure  to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and the other parties was a result  of inadvertence. This case has been pending for more than two years now, and is  currently set for trial on October 28, 2024, i.e., less than two months away. The  Court finds this motion was brought in bad faith and to delay the trial in this  action.  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Defendants Joe M. Chou and Heather Lien’s motion  for leave to file compulsory cross-complaint.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 