  Case Number:  23STCP02886    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  82 Conjunction Junction LLC              
                       Case No. 23STCP02886
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
November 20, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
 The City of Rancho Palos Verdes,
et al.                       Judge: Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
[Tentative] Order Sustaining Demurrer without
Leave to Amend
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Motion to Strike
as Moot
 
INTRODUCTION
 
 
Conjunction
Junction LLC (“Petitioner”) filed this action against the City of Rancho Palos
Verdes (the “City”) and Amy Seeraty, in her official capacity as Senior Planner
for City (collectively, “Respondents”).  In order to create more affordable housing,
the Legislature passed the Housing Accountability Act, which requires cities
lacking a “substantially compliant” housing element to approve “housing
development projects.”  This is commonly
known as the “Builder’s Remedy.”  A
“housing development project” is one that satisfies one of three requirements:
(1) The project is comprised of “residential units only;” (2) The project is a mixed-use
development with “at least two-thirds of the square footage designated for
residential use;” or (3) The project is for transitional or supportive
housing.  
 
Petitioner
seeks a writ of mandate requiring the City to approve its project.  However, Petitioner does not seek to build a
“housing development project” that will help alleviate the state’s housing
crisis.  Instead, according to the operative
second amended petition (the “SAP” or the “operative petition”) and exhibits, Petitioner
seeks to build a luxury compound featuring two mansions and one small guest
house—presumably the unit reserved for low-income housing—along with a large
barn, a large indoor arena, an outdoor equestrian center, several buildings for
equipment and storage, multiple sporting and recreation facilities, and parking
in excess of what is necessary for only three units.  This is not a “housing development project”
within the meaning of the statute because it does not satisfy any applicable
definition.  This project is not
comprised exclusively of residential units; only approximately 15,000 square
feet of the 76,000 square feet of land is being used for housing; and there is
no allegation that this project is for transitional or supportive housing.  Therefore, the court sustains Respondents’
demurrer. 
 
In
the alternative, the court sustains Respondents’ demurrer because Petitioner
has not alleged that the City did not have a “substantially compliant” housing
element as of October 2, 2023, when Petitioner submitted the relevant
application (a copy of which is attached to the operative petition).  Finally, in the alternative, the court
sustains Respondents’ demurrer because Petitioner has not alleged that the City
“disapproved” the application within the meaning of the Builder’s Remedy.  Although Petitioner argues that the City is
attempting to enforce requirements not in effect when its application was
submitted, the remedy is to file a petition for writ of mandate under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1085 requiring the City to process the application and
either approve or deny it.  Therefore,
the court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.  
BACKGROUND
 
            The
operative petition alleges that Petitioner “submitted a Builder’s Remedy
application to the City of Rancho Palos Verdes” and that the City “began
creating roadblocks immediately to try to block the project,” including: 
 
a.      Claiming that Plaintiff cannot build the project due to the
private road used to access their property. The private road is actually a
non-exclusive reciprocal easement between Plaintiff and its neighbors and
provides access to the property.
 
b.     Claiming that Plaintiff is required to comply with its
zoning regulations for a Landslide Moratorium Exclusion Permit….
 
c.      Environmental Review – the project is a 3 unit development.
As such, it falls within Government Code Section 65913.4, which provides that
the project is ministerial and is exempt from environmental review.
 
d.     Neighborhood Compatibility – Use of a neighborhood
compatibility review is expressly prohibited under the Builder’s Remedy law.
 
e.      Portuguese Bend Community Association – The City informed
Plaintiff that it should comply with all of the design standards for the
Portuguese Bend Community Association (the local HOA)….
 
(SAP ¶¶ 46-53.)  The operative petition alleges that “[t]hese
requirements were imposed in a letter from Defendant Amy Seeraty on July 7,
2023.”  (Id. ¶ 54.)  Further, “[s]ince the filing of this lawsuit,
… the City has passed a moratorium on new building permits in the region,
including the Petitioner’s property.”  (Id.
¶¶ 55-56.)  Petitioner alleges that
“[a]t the City Council hearing on this matter, the City Attorney represented to
the City that part of the reason to pass the moratorium was to block the
pending Builder’s Remedy applications, including Plaintiff’s application.”  (Id. ¶ 57.)
 
            The
prior petitions did not include a copy of Petitioner’s development application
or allege when it was submitted to the City. 
The
operative petition is based on an application dated October 2, 2023, after the
original petition was filed on August 10, 2023, and after Defendant Seeraty issued
her incompleteness letter on July 7, 2023. 
(See SAP ¶¶ 46-47, Exh. 1 [stating that Petitioner submitted the
“Builder’s Remedy” application attached as Exhibit 1, which is dated October 2,
2023].)  The development plans attached
to the application describe the project as follows: “Multifamily residential
development consisting of 3 units with 1 unit deed restricted for low income
housing, along with accessory residential structures.”  (SAP Exh. 1 at 31.)  The plans show that 15,132 of the total
76,093 square footage is dedicated to the three residential units.  The remaining 60,961 square feet is for
accessory structures.  (Ibid.)  
 
            


 
In
the first cause of action for writ of mandate, Petitioner contends that the City
“refuses to process Builder’s Remedy applications without Plaintiff being
required to perform actions that fall outside the Builder’s Remedy process.”  (Id. ¶ 81.)  Petitioner prays for a writ of mandate “ordering
the City to comply with the Builder’s Remedy law.”  (Id. ¶ 83.)  Petitioner also asserts a second cause of
action alleging a violation of Title 42, United States Code, section 1983.  Finally, Petitioner asserts the third cause
of action, titled “Challenge to Landslide Moratoriums – If Necessary,” which seeks
a judicial determination that the City’s Landslide Moratorium is invalid.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil Proc. §
430.30, subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “We
assume the truth of the allegations in the complaint, but do not assume the
truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California
Logistics, Inc. v. State (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  The
allegations in the petition must be liberally construed in favor of Petitioner
on demurrer.  (See Mobil Oil Corp. v
Exxon Corp. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.)  “A demurrer must dispose of an entire
cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY
ISSUES 
 
            The
court need not rule on Respondents’ request for judicial notice of Exhibit A,
as the court did not rely on that exhibit in sustaining the demurrer.  (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(q).)  The court grants Respondents’ request for
judicial notice of Exhibit B—the “Notice of Incomplete Project Application”—per
Evidence Code section 452(c).  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        First
Cause of Action – Writ of Mandate 
 
In the first cause of action,
Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate ordering Respondents to comply with the Builder’s
Remedy law.  (SAP ¶ 83.)  There are two essential requirements to the
issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate: (1) a clear, present, and ministerial
duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial
right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty. (California
Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where …
the claim is that an agency has failed to act as required by law.”  (Id. at 705.)
 
Government
Code section 65589.5(d)(5), known as the “Builder’s Remedy,” is a provision of
the Housing Accountability Act (the “HAA”) that prevents jurisdictions without
a “substantially compliant housing element” from “disapproving” specific types
of housing projects, even if the projects do not comply with the local agency’s
zoning ordinance or general plan.  A Builder’s Remedy is only available for a “housing development project,”
which is defined in the HAA as “a use consisting of any of the following:
 
(A)  Residential units only.
 
(B)  Mixed-use developments consisting of
residential and nonresidential uses with at least two-thirds of the square
footage designated for residential use.
 
(C)  Transitional housing or supportive housing 
 
(Gov. Code § 65589.5(h)(2)(A)-(C).)[1]  
 
                        1.         Petitioner
does not sufficiently allege a “housing development project”
 
Petitioner
does not clearly allege that the project consists of “[r]residential units
only” or is a “[m]ixed-use development[] consisting of residential and
nonresidential uses with at least two-thirds of the square footage designated
for residential use.”  The court
previously sustained Respondents’ demurrer to the first amended petition on
this basis, and the second amended petition does not correct the defect.  Petitioner alleges only: (1) Petitioner
submitted a Builder’s Remedy application; (2) To qualify as a Builder’s Remedy
application, the project must have at least 20% of the units be designated for
low-income; (3) The application contains such a designation; (4) The other
requirement (at this stage) is that the Builder’s Remedy application be
initially submitted as an SB330 application; and (5) This application was
initially submitted as an SB330 application. 
(See SAP ¶¶ 46-51.)  Nowhere in
the second amended petition does Petitioner clearly allege facts making clear that
this project falls within the scope of section 65589.5(h)(2)(A) or section 65589.5(h)(2)(B).[2]  Therefore, the second amended petition is
defective on its face. 
 
2.         Petitioner
cannot correct this defect with leave to amend 
 
In
Petitioner’s opposition, counsel argues that this is a “residential project
with associate residential uses for the occupants of the residents” and
“therefore falls naturally under Section (h)(2)(A).”  (See Opposition at 3.)  Petitioner is incorrect.  This project does not, in fact, fall within
the scope of subsection (h)(2)(A), which applies to projects consisting of
“residential units only.”  According to
the application attached to the operative petition, Petitioner intends to build
only three units totaling 15,132 square feet, one of which is vastly smaller
than the other two.  (See SAP Exh. 1 at 2
& A1.01-A1.02.)  The remaining 60,961
square feet will be used for “other residential accessory structures” and
outdoor space.  (See SAP Exh. 1 at 2.)  These purported “residential accessory
structures” include a large barn, a large indoor arena, and several buildings
for “equipment and storage.”  (See SAP
Exh. 1 at A1.03.)  There is a large area
designated as an “Outdoor Equestrian Area.” 
(See ibid.)  There is both an
indoor sporting area and an indoor recreation area.  (See SAP Exh. 1 at A1.01 & A1.02.)  Finally, there are 23 parking spaces.  (See SAP Exh. 1 at 2.)  
 
Citing
no authority, Petitioner argues that these structures necessarily are included
in the scope of “residential units” because they are used by the
residents.  In interpreting the subsection
(h)(2)(A) and the definition of “residential units only,” the court first
considers the plain language of the statute. 

 
The rules governing statutory construction are well settled.  We begin with the fundamental premise that the
objective of statutory interpretation is to ascertain and effectuate
legislative intent.  To determine
legislative intent, we turn first to the words of the statute, giving them
their usual and ordinary meaning. When the language of a statute is clear, we
need go no further. 
 
(Nolan v. City of Anaheim (2004) 33
Cal.4th 335, 340, internal citations omitted.) 
The term “residential units only” is clear on its face.  If the court applies this strict definition,
Petitioner’s project clearly would fall outside the scope of subsection (h)(2)(A)
because it includes a barn, an indoor arena, an outdoor equestrian area,
several large equipment and storage facilities, and several recreation
facilities.  
 
            Nevertheless, as Petitioner’s
counsel argues, there might be a basis to relax this definition.  Such a strict and literal interpretation
would exclude things that are necessary to reside in residential units, like
parking, which is essential in most parts of Los Angeles County.  Similarly, such a strict and literal
interpretation would exclude common areas like hallways, elevators/stairs, lobbies,
outdoor spaces, laundry facilities, and/or recreation facilities like a gym
and/or swimming pool.  The court may
disregard the plain language of an unambiguous statute to avoid “absurd
results.”  (See California Highway
Patrol v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 726, 736.)  
 
            Even if the court looks beyond the
plain language, it would not bring this particular project within the scope of
subsection (h)(2)(A).  The Legislature’s
intent in passing the HAA was to address the “lack of housing,” which stems
from “activities and policies of many local governments that limit the approval
of housing, increase the cost of land for housing, and require that high fees
and extractions be paid by the producers of housing.”  (Gov. Code 
§
65589.5(a)(1)(A) & (B).)  In
addition, the Legislature was concerned that “the consequence of these actions
are discrimination against low-income and minority households,” among other
concerns, given that “California housing has become the most expensive in the
nation.”  (Gov. Code § 65589.5(a)(1)(B)
& (C).)  Simply, the Legislature’s objective
was to create more housing, especially for “very low, low-, or moderate-income
households.”  (See Gov. Code §
65589.5(d).)  Assuming the court deviates
from the plain language of the statute, any interpretation of subsection (h)(2)(A)
must be governed by these objectives.  Accordingly,
at most, subsection (h)(2)(A) includes “residential units” and anything reasonably
necessary to use and enjoy them, like reasonable amounts of parking and common
space.  The court would define
“reasonable” as an amount of space that does not detract from the Legislature’s
goal of creating more housing, including affordable housing.  
 
Even if the court were to apply this relaxed
definition, Petitioner’s project still would not fall within subsection (h)(2)(A).  Petitioner plans to use 76,093 square feet of
land to construct only three residences, which total 15,132 square feet.  One of the units—presumably the one
designated for low-income housing—is a fraction of the size of the other
two.  (See SAP Exh. 1 at A1.01 &
A1.02.)  The recreation
facilities—especially the barn, the indoor arena, the outdoor equestrian
center, the multiple storage buildings, and the multiple recreation facilities—are
not reasonably necessary to use the residential units.  Nor is it necessary to have 23 parking spaces
for only three residences.  Moreover, the
recreation facilities and outdoor space compromise approximately 60,000 square
feet that could have been used for housing, which is not “reasonable” given the
Legislative intent of the HAA.    
 
In sum, this is not a “housing development project”
intended to alleviate the state’s housing crisis, like a large apartment
complex with parking and a gym and/or swimming pool.  This is nothing more than a luxury compound
with two mansions and one small guest house—which satisfies the low-income
housing requirement—where the vast majority of the land is not being used for
housing or that which is necessary for housing. 
Therefore, Petitioner’s project does not fall within the scope of
subsection (h)(2)(A) even under a relaxed definition of “residential units
only.”   
 
Petitioner does not argue that this project provides
supportive and transitional housing. 
Therefore, Petitioner’s project would have to qualify for the Builder’s
Remedy under subsection (h)(2)(B), which governs “mixed use” developments and
requires that at least two-thirds
of the square footage designated for residential use.  Per the application attached to the second
amended petition, out of a total of 76,093 square feet, Petitioner intends to
use 15,132 square feet for the two mansions and the guest house.  This is only approximately 19.88 percent.  Even if the court included a reasonable
amount of parking and common space, i.e., a reasonable amount of space for a
gym and swimming pool, the project still would not reach the two-thirds
threshold.  Therefore, this luxury
project does not qualify as a “housing development project,” which would make
leave to amend futile.    
 
            3.         Petitioner does not allege a violation
of the Housing Element Law 
 
In the alternative, Petitioner does not allege, with
particularity, how the City’s housing element fails to substantially comply
with the Housing Element Law.  Under the Builder’s Remedy, a city
must approve a “housing development project” if it does not have a
“substantially compliant” housing element.  (Gov. Code § 65589.5(d)(1).)  
 
Petitioner
alleges that the California Department of Housing and Community Development
(“HCD”) “maintains a database of which municipalities within the State of
California have been approved as compliant” and that “[a]t the time this
lawsuit was filed, HCD had determined that the City’s Housing Element was
non-compliant.”  (SAP ¶¶ 35-36.)  This lawsuit was filed on August 10,
2023.  However, Petitioner acknowledges
that “the City has since come into compliance” and “[t]he effect of this is
that no new Builder’s Remedy applications can be submitted.”  (Id. ¶¶ 36-37.) 
 
These
allegations are insufficient to state a cause of action.  Petitioner does not include any specific
allegations as to how the City’s housing element failed to substantially comply
with state law.  The trial and appellate
courts “independently ascertain as a question of law whether the housing
element at issue substantially complies with the requirements of the Housing
Element Law.”  (Fonseca v. City of
Gilroy (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1191; accord Martinez v. City
of Clovis (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 193, 237.) 
Thus, a determination by HCD that a municipality is “out of compliance” may
not be dispositive.  Further, the SAP is
based on an application dated October 2, 2023, about two months after the
original petition was filed.  (See SAP
¶¶ 46-47, Exh. 1.)  The SAP does not
allege that the City’s housing element failed to comply with state law as of
October 2, 2023.  
 
Based
upon the foregoing, Petitioner has not alleged that it submitted its Builder’s
Remedy application at a time when the City’s housing element was not
substantially compliant with state law.  The
court previously identified this as a defect in Petitioner’s first amended
petition, and Petitioner’s counsel has not corrected the issue.  Therefore, the court declines to grant leave
to amend.   
 
            4.         The
first cause of action is not ripe
 
Finally,
in the alternative, this petition for writ of mandate is not ripe because the
City has not issued a final decision on Petitioner’s application.  To state a claim under the HAA and to invoke
the Builder’s Remedy, Petitioner must allege that the City “disapprove[d] a
housing development project.”  (Gov. Code
§ 65589.5(d).)  The term
“disapprove the housing development project” includes any instance in which the
local agency does any of the following: (1) Votes on a proposed housing
development project application and the application is disapproved, including
any required land use approvals or entitlements necessary for the issuance of a
building permit; (2) Fails to comply with the time periods in the Permit
Streamlining Act (the “PSA”) and other applicable acts; or (3) Fails to make a determination of
whether the project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act or
commits a related abuse of discretion if certain
conditions are satisfied.  (See Gov. Code
§ 65589.5(h)(6)(A)-(D).)
 
Relatedly, exhaustion of administrative
remedies is “a jurisdictional prerequisite to judicial review.”  (California Water Impact Network v. Newhall County Water Dist. (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1464, 1489.) 
“The exhaustion requirement applies whether relief is sought
by traditional (Code Civ. Proc. § 1085) or
administrative (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5) mandamus.”  (Eight Unnamed Physicians v. Medical
Executive Com. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 503, 511.)  “Before seeking judicial review a party must
show that he has made a full presentation to the administrative agency upon all
issues of the case and at all
prescribed stages of the administrative proceedings.”  (Edgren
v. Regents of University of California (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 515,
520.)   There are exceptions to the
exhaustion requirement, including “when the subject of the controversy lies
outside the administrative agency's jurisdiction, when pursuit of an
administrative remedy would result in irreparable harm, when the administrative
agency cannot grant an adequate remedy, and when the aggrieved party can
positively state what the administrative agency’s decision in his
particular case would be.”  (Edgren,
supra, 158 Cal.App.3d at 520, citations omitted.)  
 
Here, the SAP does not allege that the
City failed to comply with time limits in the PSA or that a “disapproval” under
section 65589.5(h)(6)(D) occurred in connection with the City’s CEQA review and
all of the stated conditions are satisfied. 
Thus, to invoke the Builder’s Remedy, the petition must allege that the City
“[v]ote[d] on a proposed housing development project application and the
application is disapproved, including any required land use approvals or
entitlements necessary for the issuance of a building permit.”  (Gov. Code § 65589.5(h)(6)(A).)  The petition only alleges that Respondent Amy
Seeraty, a Senior Planner for City, issued a letter on July 7, 2023, specifying
that the application was incomplete for various reasons.  (SAP ¶ 54; see also Resp. RJN Exh. B.)  Petitioner does not allege that the City,
through its City Council or other decision-making body, has “voted on” and made
any final determination to disapprove the application on the grounds it is
incomplete or for other reasons.  (See
generally Govt Code § 65943(c).)  Further, the SAP is based on an application
dated October 2, 2023, after Seeraty’s incompleteness letter.  (SAP ¶¶ 46-47, Exh. 1.)  Petitioner does not allege that the City has
made any decision that could constitute a “disapproval” with regard to the
October 2, 2023, application.  While
Petitioner references a “moratorium on new building permits in the region,
including the Petitioner’s property,” Petitioner does not allege that this was
in effect when its application of October 2, 2023, was field.  Accordingly, Petitioner has not alleged
either a disapproval of the application under the HAA or that it has exhausted
its administrative remedies.  Petitioner
also does not allege an excuse from the exhaustion requirement.  
 
In sum, the law on the Builder’s
Remedy is clear: There must be a disapproval. 
As discussed in the court’s order sustaining the prior demurrer,
Seeraty’s letter does not constitute a disapproval (even assuming it applies to
the current application).  The letter
merely requests additional information in order to deem the application
“complete” and begin “processing.”  If  Petitioner believes so strongly that its
application should be granted without the additional requirements, Petitioner’s
counsel could submit the formal application without the additional materials
and demand that the City process the application.  If the City refuses to process the
application and render a decision on the merits, then Petitioner could seek a
writ under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 requiring the City to do
so.  This is different than a writ
requiring the City to issue the permit, and Petitioner does not seek this
relief in the SAP.  
 
            Petitioner
argues that “actions may proceed” when “the local agency, in violation of
subdivision (o), required or attempted to require a housing development project
to comply with an ordinance, policy, or standard not adopted in effect when a
preliminary application was submitted.” 
(Gov. Code § 65569.5(k)(1)(a)(i)(III).) 
Subdivision (o) states in relevant part that “a housing development
project shall be subject only to the ordinances, policies, and standards
adopted and in effect when a preliminary application including all of the
information required in subdivision (a) of Section 65951.1 was submitted.”  (Gov. Code § 65569(o).)
 
            Petitioner’s
reliance on these authorities is misplaced. 
Per the statute’s plain language, the Builder’s Remedy provision applies
only if the City “disapprove[d] a housing development
project.” (Gov. Code § 65589.5(d).)  “When
interpreting statutory language, we may neither insert language which has been
omitted nor ignore language which has been inserted.”  (See People
v. National Auto. and Cas. Ins. Co. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 277, 282.)  Since Petitioner has not alleged that a
disapproval occurred, Petitioner has not stated a cause of action.  Instead, these authorities may be relevant to
a preceding petition for writ of mandate requiring the City to process and
approve or disapprove a housing development project, i.e., if the City is
insisting upon compliance with additional “ordinances, policies, and
standards.”  
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, Petitioner does not allege the City has “disapprove[d] the
housing project,” as defined by subsection (h)(6).  Similarly, Petitioner has not exhausted its
administrative remedies.  If Petitioner’s
application vested and the City is attempting to enforce ordinances, policies,
or standards that do not apply, the remedy is a petition for writ of mandate to
require the City to process the application in the absence of these
requirements, not a petition for writ of mandate under the Builder’s Remedy.  Petitioner may obtain such a writ only after
the project has been disapproved.  Therefore,
the court sustains Respondents’ demurrer to the first cause of action. 
 
            B.        Second
Cause of Action – Violation of 42 U.S.C. section 1983  
 
Petitioner’s
second cause of action asserts a violation of Title 42, United States Code,
section 1983.  This cause of action appears
entirely derivative of the first cause of action for writ of mandate.  Specifically, Petitioner alleges that “Defendants
acted pursuant to a policy or custom of Defendant City of Rancho Palos Verdes
of refusing to accept or process Builder’s Remedy applications in violation of
State and Federal law.”  (SAP ¶ 91.)  To allege a section 1983 claim, Petitioner
must allege that it was “deprived of a constitutionally protected property
interest.”  (Gerhart v. Lake County, Montana,
637 F.3d 1013, 1019 (9th Cir. 2011).) 
For the reasons discussed, Petitioner does not allege that City has
rendered a final decision on the development application and that Petitioner
has been deprived of any property interests.  Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause
of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
C.        Third
Cause of Action – Challenge to Landslide Moratoriums – If Necessary 
 
In the third
cause of action, Petitioner alleges: 
 
Plaintiff believes that a Builder’s Remedy project does not need to comply
with the Landslide Moratorium municipal code sections as they are Zoning Codes,
and thus are overruled by the Builder’s Remedy. . . .  However, if Plaintiff is forced to comply with
the Landslide Moratorium, Plaintiff also asserts that the Moratorium itself is
invalid.  
 
(SAP ¶¶ 95-96.) 
Petitioner alleges that the Moratorium is “invalid” because of the
following: 
 
After [a
slow-moving] landslide occurred, the City enacted a ‘one size fits all’
solution on the region. They passed a series of development moratoriums on the
region, including the subject property….. 
[On remand from Monks v. City of Rancho Palos Verdes (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 263], the City therefore carved out a small portion of Portuguese
Bend now known as the “Monks Parcels” where development is allowed, but
retained the moratorium for all of the other owners in the region. These
parcels are not wholly contiguous, but instead are scattered throughout the
area.  This places the other owners in
the moratorium, including Plaintiff, in the same position that the Monks
plaintiffs were at the beginning of their process.  The City has now engaged in “spot zoning” to
allow development amongst a small group of parcels, with the only appreciable
difference between the Monks parcels and the non-Monks parcels being that the
owners of the Monks parcels sued to be allowed to develop and won.
 
(SAP
¶¶ 99, 108-115, internal paragraph numbers omitted.)  Petitioner asserts that “if the
Court determines that the project is subject to the Landslide Moratorium
despite the Builder’s Remedy, Plaintiff respectfully states that the Court
should analyze and determine that the Landslide Moratorium is invalid.”  (SAP ¶ 117, emphasis added.)
 
The second amended petition cites no legal
predicate or authority for the third cause of action.  The court cannot determine whether the third
cause of action seeks a writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section
1085 and/or 1094.5; whether the third cause of action raises a constitutional
challenge; or whether the third cause of action asserts a right under some
other law.  Based on the allegations, the
court concludes that Petitioner may be attempting to circumvent the ripeness
issue that precludes it from proceeding on the first cause of action.  If so, the demurrer is sustained for the same
reasons.  To the extent Petitioner is
arguing that the City is required to process its application, notwithstanding the
Landslide Moratorium, that must be raised in a petition for writ of mandate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 seeking a writ requiring the City to
process and approve or disapprove the application.  Petitioner does not clearly seek this relief
in the instant petition.    
 
D.        Leave
to Amend  
 
A demurrer may be sustained without leave to amend when there
is no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)  In assessing whether leave
to amend should be granted, the burden is on the complainant to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. 
(Goodman v.  Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348-349.)  
 
Petitioner
has had three opportunities to state a cause of action.  Further, in its ruling on the prior demurrer,
the court discussed the deficiencies in the pleading with respect to each cause
of action and gave Petitioner clear guidance on the issues that needed to be
addressed to state a cause of action. 
Petitioner failed to successfully amend the petition and has not shown
reasonable probability in doing so in an amended petition.  The lawsuit was prematurely filed and, until
the City takes action that could constitute “disapproval” under the HAA, any
further amendment would be futile.    
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
Petitioner
is seeking to abuse the Builder’s Remedy. 
According to the operative second amended petition and exhibits, Petitioner
seeks to build a luxury compound featuring two mansions and one small guest
house—presumably the unit reserved for low-income housing—along with a large
barn, a large indoor arena, an outdoor equestrian center, several buildings for
equipment and storage, multiple sporting and recreation facilities, and parking
in excess of what is necessary for only three units.  This is not the type of project the
Legislature envisioned when it passed the HAA to create more housing,
especially for low-income residents of the state.  Nor does the project qualify for the
Builder’s Remedy under the terms of the statute because it is not “residential
units only” or common areas reasonably necessary for housing; at least
two-thirds of the square footage is not being used for housing; and the project
does not provide supportive or transitional housing.  All of this is clear from the operative
second amended petition and exhibits.  Therefore,
the demurrer is sustained on that basis alone. 
  
 
In
the alternative, Petitioner has not alleged that the City did not have a
“substantially compliant” housing element as of October 2, 2023, when
Petitioner submitted the relevant application (a copy of which is attached to
the operative petition).  Finally, in the
alternative, the court sustains Respondents’ demurrer because Petitioner has
not alleged that the City “disapproved” the application within the meaning of
the Builder’s Remedy.  
 
Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court sustains Respondents’
demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action without leave to
amend.  
 
            2.         The court denies Respondents’ motion to
strike as moot.
 
            3.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
lodge a proposed judgment forthwith.  
 
            4.         Respondents’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED
 
 
Dated:
December 4, 2024                                           ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


