 Case Number:  23STCV08792    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  A 
23STCV08792
 Ronnisha Potts, et al. v. House of Winston Funeral Service, Inc.

Thursday,
 November 16, 2023

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING
DEMURRER
 TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
complaint alleges that Plaintiff, Ronnisha Potts, individually and as Guardian
ad Litem for Richelle Wright and Richshad Wright, are heirs of Richard Wright, Decedent.
Plaintiffs allege Defendant negligently handled Decedent’s remains by embalming
Decedent against his religious beliefs. Plaintiffs allege claims for (1)
negligent infliction of emotional distress, (2) negligence per se (3) unlawful
business practices, (4) Unruh Civil Rights Act (“Unruh”) (5) breach of contract
and (6) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Defendant
demurs to the fourth cause of action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights
Act on grounds Plaintiffs lack standing to bring the claim on Decedent’s behalf.
The allegations are not sufficient to state a claim on their own behalf as
Plaintiffs have not alleged discriminatory animus. 
       In
opposition, Plaintiffs explain that the claim seeks damages for their own emotional
distress arising from Defendant’s violation of their civil rights to have Decedent’s
religious wishes considered. Plaintiff, Ronnisha Potts, can and will amend the
pleadings to bring claims on behalf of Decedent’s estate.  Plaintiffs have alleged Defendant’s
discriminatory animus as Defendant was indifferent to Decedent’s and
Plaintiffs’ known religious beliefs.  
       In
reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ opposition was late and should not be
considered. Plaintiffs did not allege discrimination against them based on
their religious beliefs. The Court should deny leave to amend. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       A demurrer tests the sufficiency of the
pleading as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) In testing its sufficiency, the court must
assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts
that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3)
judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The Court may not consider contentions, deductions,
or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638.) Plaintiff must show that the pleading alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the pleading fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should
sustain the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126.) 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
     The Court has considered Plaintiffs’
opposition filed on August 16, 2023, although it was due on August 15,
 2023, nine court days before the original hearing date of August 28,
2023. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005). The Court has discretion to consider late
papers in favor of the strong policy favoring disposition of the case on the
merits. (Kapitanski v. Von’s (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 29, 32, [“Judges
are well aware of the unnecessary burdens placed on courts and counsel when
strict compliance with local procedural rules results in the expenditure of
unnecessary time and money for the preparation of later section 473 motions.”].)
Defendant has not shown any prejudice arising from the late filing. (Id.) The Court has considered Defendant’s
reply.
       The
complaint alleges that Defendant violated Unruh “by failing to respect and
afford special care for the religious restrictions on funeral practices
expected by their Muslim customers, including plaintiffs, and by desecrating
Mr. Wright's body according to the customs and beliefs of Muslims.” (Complaint
¶ 42.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s conduct was “constructively intentional,
demonstrating a reckless indifference to their own commission of gross offense
to Muslim beliefs and desecration of Mr. Wright's body under same.” (Complaint,
¶ 43.) 
       Standing
to sue for an Unruh violation is broadly construed to include any person
aggrieved by persons engaged in “conduct of resistance to the full enjoyment of
any rights.” (Liapes
v. Facebook, Inc. (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 910, 920.) Plaintiffs must
actually suffer discriminatory conduct. Therefore, “only plaintiffs who have
transacted with a defendant and have been subject to discrimination have
standing under the Unruh Civil Rights Act.” (Liapes
at 920–921.) 
       The
complaint meets these requirements. Contrary to Defendant’s argument,
Plaintiffs have alleged violations of their spiritual beliefs. (Complaint, ¶ 9
[Defendant “assumed a duty to perform such services with due care and respect
for the emotional well-being and spiritual/religious beliefs of Ms. Potts, her
family, and her deceased spouse.”].) To the extent Plaintiffs intend to assert
a survival cause of action on behalf of Decedent’s estate, which is not alleged
here, Plaintiffs must comply with the requirements of Civil Procedure, section 377.20, et seq.
       Contrary
to Defendant’s argument, the complaint does not allege discrimination based on
a disparate impact theory alone, as opposed to disparate treatment, the latter
of which is defined as “intentional discrimination on prohibited grounds.” (DeJung
v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533, 549, fn. 20) Prohibited
discrimination based on “disparate impact,” applies where a facially neutral practice
or policy has a disproportionate adverse effect on members of the protected
class, regardless of motive (Id.) 
       On
the one hand, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s “policies and practices” lead
to the alleged desecration of Decedent’s body. (Complaint, ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs,
however, also allege that Defendant knew of Plaintiffs’ spiritual and religious
beliefs and violated Unruh by failing to “respect and afford special care for
the religious restrictions on funeral practices expected by their Muslim
customers, including Plaintiffs.” (Complaint ¶¶ 9.) Defendant’s conduct was
allegedly motivated by anti-Muslim animus and/or lack of proper, equal respect
for Muslim religious beliefs. (Complaint ¶ 46.) Accordingly, the complaint
properly alleges intentional discrimination to support the claim. Defendant’s
contention that Plaintiffs omitted the allegation of intentional discrimination
previously alleged in the complaint in the now-dismissed action is not
supported. 
V.      CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, the demurrer to the complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant is
ordered to file its answer within 10 days. 
 
 
       
 
 