  Case Number:  22STCV20692    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 1/15/25                                                               
TRIAL DATE: 7/28/25
Case #22STCV20692
 
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
Motion filed on 10/11/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Traffic Management Inc. 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Robert Parco,
individually and as successor-in-interest to Decedent Stellina Parco; John
Parco; Maria Parco and Johnny Parco

NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting
summary judgment* in favor of Defendant Traffic Management Inc. and against
Plaintiffs Robert Parco, individually and as successor-in-interest to Decedent
Stellina Parco; John Parco; Maria Parco and Johnny Parco (collectively,
Plaintiffs) on Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint.  
 
*The notice of motion does not indicate that
summary adjudication is being sought in the alternative to summary
judgment.  However, the separate
statement filed in support of the motion sets forth 3 issues for summary
adjudication regarding the 2nd, 4th and 5th
causes of action.  Since the issues are
not set forth in the notice as required by CRC 3.1350, they will not be
considered in the alternative to summary judgment.  See CRC 3.1350(b), (h).

 

RULING: The request for summary judgment is
granted.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on September 30, 2021 at the intersection of Lyons Avenue and Avenida
Rotella in Santa Clarita (the accident). 
Decedent Stellina Parco (Stellina) was a passenger in Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Helen Ann Lynn’s (Lynn) vehicle.  The
accident occurred as Lynn was attempting to make a left-turn at the subject
intersection, and her vehicle was struck by Defendant Alexander Gray Popejoy’s
(Popejoy) vehicle.  At the time of the accident,
Defendant Henkels & McCoy, Inc. (H&M) was working on a construction
project for the benefit of Defendant Southern California Gas Company, Inc.
(SCG) at the subject intersection, which required lane closures from the oncoming
traffic side heading westbound toward Lynn. 
Defendant Traffic Management Inc. (TMI) provided traffic controls at the
subject intersection at the time of the accident.  Stellina suffered injuries as a result of the
accident and subsequently died on March 5, 2024.  
 
Plaintiffs Robert Parco, individually and as
successor-in-interest to Decedent Stellina Parco; John Parco; Maria Parco and
Johnny Parco’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) First Amended Complaint  alleges three causes of action against TMI:
(1) Negligent Infliction of Personal Injuries (Second Cause of Action), (2) Loss
of Consortium (Fourth Cause of Action) and (3) Wrongful Death (Fifth Cause of
Action).  As to TMI, Plaintiffs contend
TMI failed to ensure proper traffic controls were in place at the intersection causing
the vehicle Stellina was in to be involved in the traffic accident.  Specifically, Plaintiffs contend the
construction work, road maintenance and traffic control created a visual
obstruction in the roadway which, along with the negligence of the drivers, led
to the collision between Lynn’s vehicle and Popejoy’s vehicle when Lynn was
making a left turn.    
 
On October 11, 2024, TMI filed and served the instant
motion seeking an order granting  summary
judgment in favor of TMI and against Plaintiffs on Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint.  The notice of motion does not
indicate that summary adjudication is being sought in the alternative to
summary judgment.  However, the separate
statement filed in support of the motion sets forth 3 issues for summary
adjudication regarding the 2nd, 4th and 5th
causes of action.  Since the issues are
not set forth in the notice as required by CRC 3.1350, they will not be
considered in the alternative to summary judgment.  See CRC 3.1350(b), (h).
 
Plaintiffs have opposed the motion and TMI has filed a
reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs’ objections, numbers 1 and 2, are overruled.  
 
TMI’s’ Request for Judicial Notice is granted.
 
TMI’s objections, numbers 1-7, to Plaintiffs’ evidence
are overruled.  TMI’s objections, numbers
8-10, to Plaintiff’s evidence (the Gish declaration) are sustained.  
 
*    *   
*
 
Standard on Summary Judgment Motion
 
A motion for summary judgment shall be granted “if all
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  CCP 437c(a). 

 
A defendant has met its burden of proof on a motion for
summary judgment if the defendant has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
that cause of action.  CCP 437c(p)(2).  If a defendant makes a prima facie showing
for summary judgment, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to present non-speculative
evidence showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.  See Union Bank (1995) 31 CA4th
573, 583; Aguilar (2001) 25 C4th 826, 864; Lee (1996) 49 CA4th
1750, 1756 (speculation and conjecture do not create a triable issue of
material fact).  The mere “presence of a
factual conflict will not defeat a motion for summary judgment unless the fact
in dispute is a material one.”  People
ex. rel. Department of Transportation v. Outdoor Media Group (1993) 13
CA4th 1067, 1077; See also McGonnell (2002) 98 CA4th 1098,
1105-1106.   
  
2nd cause of action – Negligent Infliction
of Personal Injuries/Negligence  
 
To prevail on a claim of negligence against TMI,
Plaintiffs must establish that TMI owed a duty, TMI breached that duty, and the
breach caused their damages.  See Conroy
(2009) 45 C4th 1244, 1250.  To prove
causation, a plaintiff must show that the defendant’s conduct was a substantial
factor in causing the plaintiff’s injury. 
See Viner (2003) 30 C4th 1232, 1239; Saelzler
(2001) 25 C4th 763, 778.  The mere
possibility of causation is insufficient to impose liability on a
defendant.  See Ortega 26
C4th 1200, 1205-1206.  On this motion, TMI
contends that Plaintiffs cannot establish the element of causation.
 
The evidence establishes that neither Lynn nor Popejoy contend
the construction project caused or contributed to the accident.  (Separate Statement (SS) 2, 4, 5).  Lynn, the driver of the vehicle in which Stellina
was a passenger, testified multiple times that her view of oncoming traffic was
not obstructed, that she could see Popejoy’s vehicle at all relevant times and that
she would not have pulled out if her view of approaching traffic was blocked in
any way.  (See SS 2, 3, 6).  Popejoy, the driver of the other vehicle
involved in the accident, testified that he saw Lynn’s vehicle when he was
about 90 feet away from the intersection and that Lynn began making her left
turn when he was about 50-60 feet from the intersection.  (Nielsen Decl., Ex.4, p.20:4-12).  Popejoy merely speculates that he may have
seen Lynn’s vehicle earlier if a truck had not been in the left-hand turn
pocket.  (Nielsen Decl., Ex.4,
p.24:3-6).  Popejoy went on to state that
he told the investigating officer at the scene of the accident that as he was
approaching the intersection, Lynn made “what felt like a very unexpected…left
into the intersection” resulting in the collision despite Popejoy hitting his
brakes really hard.  (Nielsen’s Decl.,
Ex.4, p.33:1-8).  Additionally, in his
written discovery responses, Popejoy indicated that no dangerous condition
contributed to the accident.  (SS 4).  Further, the City of Santa Clarita’s
Inspector, who visited the intersection on the morning of the accident, did not
find any code violations and did not note any issues with the traffic controls
in place that day. (SS 7).   
 
As noted by the Court in ruling on prior motions for
summary judgment, the fact that Lynn’s written discovery responses, prepared months
before her deposition took place, reference an unidentified visual obstruction is
insufficient to create a triable issue of material fact as to whether or not
her view was obstructed by the construction in the face of her clear deposition
testimony that her view was not obstructed and that she would not have made the
turn if it was.    
 
Also, the fact that the investigating officer may have
thought that there was a visual obstruction for drivers making left-hand turns
at the intersection does not create a triable issue of material fact because the
totality of the evidence establishes that Lynn saw Popejoy’s vehicle at all
relevant times and thought she could safely make the left turn before he
reached the intersection, but unfortunately she did not.  Additionally, Plaintiffs’ reliance on the
testimony of inspector Viser where he states that “there’s an obstruction until
there isn’t” is misleading because he further explained that “[i]f you pull far
enough forward, you can see up the road, and you turn when it’s clear,
right?  Everyone knows that when you’re
making a left turn.”  (Nielsen Decl., Ex.6,
p.84:7-11).  
 
Plaintiffs have not presented any evidence which connects
TMI’s services at the intersection to the accident.  Mere speculation that TMI could be
responsible because it provided traffic control at the site is insufficient to
create a triable issue of material fact. 
See Ortega, supra. 
The assertion that a truck was present at the intersection and might
have obscured Lynn’s and/or Popejoy’s view of oncoming traffic does not create
a triable issue of material fact regarding TMI’s purported liability.  Even if a large construction truck was parked
in the left-hand turn bay of westbound Lyons and created a visual obstruction
to eastbound traffic turning left onto Avenida Rotella, such does not create a
triable issue of material fact regarding whether TMI caused or contributed to
the accident.  (See Plaintiffs’
Addition Fact 16).  
 
First, regardless of whether or not construction was
occurring at the intersection, a large truck, which may or may not have
obscured the view of other drivers, could have been in the left-hand turn bay
to make a turn at the intersection.  In
such case, other drivers would be required to take precautions to avoid
collisions such as not making a turn if their view was blocked by the truck (which
is what Lynn testified she would do if her view had been blocked).  (See TMI, Ex.B, p.59:14-21).  Second, and more importantly, Lynn repeatedly
testified that her view of oncoming traffic was not obstructed and that she saw
Popejoy’s vehicle before she began her turn. 
(See TMI, Ex.B, p.24:10-22, p.29:10-12, p.47:6-10, p.48:2-17,
p.51:13-16, p.59:14-21, p.60:14-17).  Even
if the declaration of Russell Gish, filed in support of the opposition, is
considered, it does not overcome Lynn’s clear testimony that she saw Popejoy’s,
and all of the other vehicles, in the lane Popejoy’s vehicle was traveling
before beginning the turn.  (Id.,
p.47:6-p.48:17); (See Evidentiary Objections, above). 
 
Plaintiffs’ fail to support their argument that the lack
of a written traffic control plan from TMI caused or contributed to the accident.  However, even if such a plan was required and
TMI was responsible for creating same does not create a triable issue of
material fact in the face of Lynn’s repeated deposition testimony that her view
of oncoming traffic was not obstructed and that she saw Popejoy’s vehicle before
she began her turn.  As such, Plaintiffs
cannot establish that any such failure was a substantial factor in causing the
collision.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff cannot establish the
required element of causation against TMI. 
 
 
4th cause of action – Loss of Consortium
 
The elements of a loss of consortium cause of action are:
(1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at
the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse; (3)
loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4) the loss was proximately
caused by the defendant’s act.  See
LeFiell Manufacturing Co. (2012) 55 C4th 275, 284-285; Vanhooser
(2012) 206 CA4th 921, 927.  By its
nature, a cause of action for loss of consortium depends on the existence of a
cause of action for tortious injury to a spouse.  Hahn 
(2007) 147 CA4th 740, 746.   
 
Since the underlying tort claim against TMI fails, the
claim for loss of consortium which depends on the tort claim also fails.  
   
5th cause of action – Wrongful Death
 
The elements of a wrongful death cause of action are: (1)
the underlying tort, (2) a resulting death, and (3) damages.  B.B. (2020) 10 C5th 1, 31.  Again, since the underlying tort claim fails,
so does the wrongful death cause of action. 

 
Plaintiffs’ Request for a Continuance
 
Plaintiffs request that if the Court is inclined to grant
the motion, that the hearing be continued pursuant to CCP 437c(h) which
provides: 
 
“If it appears from the affidavits
submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The
application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be
made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition response
to the motion is due.”
 
Plaintiffs contend that additional facts and evidence
exist to support the opposition.  (See
Nielsen Decl. ¶¶15-17).  However, no
additional evidence Plaintiffs obtain can refute Lynn’s clear testimony that
her vision was not obstructed, she saw Popejoy’s vehicle at all times before the
accident and she would not have attempted the left turn if her view was
obstructed.  (See TMI’s Ex.B, p.47:6-10,
p.48:2-17, p.51:13-16, p.59:14-21, p.60:14-17, p.75:12-p.76:3, p.80:3-13).  As such, the Court finds that a continuance
is not warranted.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The request for summary judgment is granted.  
 