  Case Number:  22STCV25084    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      February 9, 2024                                         TRIAL DATE:   Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Fred Goldstein v. Joshua Driskell, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV25084
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Joshua Driskell
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Fred
Goldstein
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            This is a legal malpractice action.  Plaintiff, Fred Goldstein, a self-represented
litigant, alleges that he retained Defendants, Joshua Driskell, Primuth
Driskell & Terzian LLP, and Lagerlof LLP, in November 2018 to represent
Plaintiff in the underlying probate action filed as 18STPB11264 in the County
of Los Angeles.  
 
            On August 3,
2022, Plaintiff filed a Complaint in pro per against Defendants.  Thereafter, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint on November 4, 2022, and the Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on
December 8, 2022.  The SAC alleged causes
of action for (1) Legal Malpractice/Negligence, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duties,
(3) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and (4) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.  Defendants
demurred to the Second Amended Complaint. 

 
On June 26, 2023, the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer
to all four causes of action in the SAC. 
Plaintiff was granted leave to amend. 

 
On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Third
Amended Complaint (TAC) alleging the same four causes of action.  As alleged in the TAC, Plaintiff and his
brother, Roy Goldstein (Roy), were appointed as co-executors of their mother’s
estate in the underlying action.  Because
Roy refused to cooperate or respond in a timely fashion towards commencing
probate proceedings, Plaintiff retained Defendants to be appointed as the sole
executor.  However, during the
representation, Defendants refused to provide Roy with financial information of
the estate assets which caused Roy to suspect Plaintiff of hiding estate assets;
failed to locate or even search for the original will, which led the probate
court to declare in April 2019 that the matter concerned a contested will; failed
to timely file a creditor’s claim based on a misunderstanding of the law; failed
to timely notify Plaintiff of discovery requests propounded by Roy’s counsel
and submitted Plaintiff’s incomplete and unsigned discovery responses without his
authorization; responded and filed a motion to withdraw as Plaintiff’s counsel
based on the falsehood that Plaintiff was uncooperative; and was slow to
respond to Plaintiff’s communications. 
As a result, Plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress.
 
On August 25, 2023, Defendants filed this demurrer to the
Fourth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED) in
the TAC.  
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].)  Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give
effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent
general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America
v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)   
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Meet and Confer 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties shall meet and confer at least 5
days before the date the responsive pleading is due.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “A determination by the court that the meet
and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain
a demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a)(4).)  
 
Plaintiff argues the demurrer should be overruled because
Defendants did not meet and confer 5 days prior to filing the demurrer.  Plaintiff is correct that the parties did not
meet and confer at least 5 days before filing this demurrer.  (See Declaration of Nina Niedbalski, ¶ 2.)  However, Plaintiff makes no argument as to
the insufficiency of the meet and confer. 
Moreover, the court cannot overrule or sustain a demurrer based on the
failure to comply with the meet and confer requirement.  (Code. Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the court
exercises its discretion to consider Defendants’ demurrer.
 
Analysis
 
The elements of an
IIED cause of action are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant;
(2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) severe emotional suffering; and (4) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast
Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy the element of extreme and outrageous
conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’” (Moncada, 221
Cal.App.4th at p. 780, quoting Tererice v. Blue Cross of California
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.)¿¿ 
 
In sustaining
Defendants’ demurrer to the SAC, the court concluded, in relevant part, that
the IIED claim in the SAC contained conclusory allegations which did not
specify what emotional distress Plaintiff suffered as a result of Defendants’
conduct nor sufficiently explain why withdrawal from representing Plaintiff was
intentional and maliciously done to harm Plaintiff.  The court further stated that the litigation
privilege bars tort claims premised on communications that bear some relation
to judicial proceedings, such as filing and submitting discovery
responses.  As such, Plaintiff could not
rely on the allegations for deficient discovery responses, notice of withdrawal
in the underlying probate action and the deficient discovery responses to
support his IIED claim.  
 
Defendants now argue
the IIED claim is still deficient because the TAC does not adequately plead
intentional conduct or conduct that rises to the level of malice or conscious
disregard.  
 
Given that the
court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the IIED claim in the SAC, the court
compares the allegations in the SAC to the operative complaint.  Upon review, the court finds that the factual
allegations in the TAC remain largely unchanged from the SAC.  The IIED claim is still premised upon the
same alleged conduct: Defendants refused to provide Roy with financial
information of the estate assets; failed to locate or even search for the
original will, which led the probate court to declare in April 2019 that the
matter concerned a contested will; failed to timely file a creditor’s claim
based on a misunderstanding of the law; failed to timely notify Plaintiff of
discovery requests propounded by Roy’s counsel and submitting Plaintiff’s
incomplete and unsigned discovery responses without his authorization; filed a
motion to withdraw as Plaintiff’s counsel based on the falsehood that Plaintiff
was uncooperative; and was slow to respond to Plaintiff’s communications.  (Compare SAC, ¶¶ 18-44 with TAC, ¶¶ 61-98.)  
 
Plaintiff does not
add any new factual allegations showing Defendants’ conduct was carried out with
the intent to cause Plaintiff emotional distress or that Defendants conduct
rises to the level of malice or conscious disregard for the purposes of an IIED
claim.  
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff attempts to draw the court’s attention to the numerous instances that
the terms “emotional distress” and “intent” appear throughout the TAC.  However, the frequency with which these terms
are alleged does not overcome the lack of new, factual allegations in
the TAC to sustain his IIED claim.  The
Fourth Cause of Action is deficient.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Plaintiff argues
leave to amend should be granted.  He
states that the complaint “can be amended by, for example, removing virtually
all the email excerpts and replacing some of them as quotes within references
as factual support for each allegation of fact.”  (Opp., p. 23:24-25.)  However, Plaintiff does not show what new or
different allegations can be added to the complaint to state a claim for
IIED.  Further, given that the court
granted leave to amend once before and Plaintiff did not assert any new facts
to support his IIED claim, Plaintiff does not demonstrate that the complaint
can be amended to state an IIED claim.
 
 IV.
      CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of
Action for IIED in the TAC is SUSTAINED. 
Leave to amend is DENIED.
 
Defendants are ordered to serve and file their Answer within
10 days of this order.
 
Defendants to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   February 9, 2024                                




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿ 




 
 
 
            