  Case Number:  22SMCV01225    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Ecure, et al.,
v. UHC of California, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV01225
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   2/8/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            A party may move for summary
judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The
purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to
cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (CCP, § 437c(f)(1).) If a party seeks summary
adjudication as an alternative to a request for summary judgment, the request
must be clearly made in the notice of the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior
Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1544.)  “[A] party may move for
summary adjudication of a legal issue or a claim for damages other than
punitive damages that does not completely dispose of a cause of action,
affirmative defense, or issue of duty pursuant to” subdivision (t).
(CCP, § 437c(t).) 
 
            To
prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law. (CCP, § 437c(c).) The motion cannot succeed unless the
evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the
court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when a material fact is the witness’s state of
mind and “that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s]
affirmation thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).) 
 
            Once
the moving party has met their burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(1).) “[T]here is no obligation on the opposing party... to establish
anything by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated
facts establishing every element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his
favor.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) 
 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary
judgment motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment
is to delimit the scope of the issues and to frame the outer measure
of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity
National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations
and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff's theories of
liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a moving party need
not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the
pleadings.” (Ibid.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
Defendants’ objections are SUSTAINED as to the Rutschman
Declaration, Exhibit I [hearsay] and SUSTAINED IN PART as to Objection 4
[Aleman Decl. ¶ 7] and OVERRULED as to the remainder.  As to Objection 4, it is sustained starting
with “It would not have done so . . .” to the end of the objection based upon
foundation, lack of personal knowledge.
 
Analysis
 

Defendants United Healthcare
Insurance Company (“UHIC”) and UnitedHealthcare Benefits Plan of California
(“UHCBPC”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move for summary adjudication of
Plaintiff Ecure CA, LLC’s claims for reimbursement for services provided to two
Patients, identified as Patients 1 and 2. Defendants notice the following two
issues:
 
1.    
Patient 1 did not receive emergency or
post-stabilization services, but rather underwent a scheduled non-emergent
surgery, and Plaintiff thus cannot recover under any of its causes of action as
to Patient 1. Further, Plaintiff’s claims as to Patient 1 are barred under
California law because the services were rendered at a hospital that was
contracted with United, and thus California law bars litigation over the
payment amount unless the physician first exhausts administrative remedies.
There is no evidence that the assigning physician exhausted the mandatory
independent dispute resolution provision prior to assigning the claims to
Plaintiff. Finally, this patient was covered by a health plan issued by
UHCBPC—not UHIC—so UHIC cannot be held liable for these services. As such,
Plaintiff cannot prevail on its claims as to Patient 1; and
 
2.    
Defendants are entitled to summary adjudication as to
the claims for Patient 2. Patient 2’s surgery was non-emergent, and Plaintiff
thus cannot recover under any of its causes of action as to Patient 2. Further,
the services were rendered at a hospital that was contracted with United and
there is no evidence that the physician exhausted the mandatory independent
dispute resolution provision prior to assigning the claims to Plaintiff.
Finally, Patient 2 was covered by a health plan issued by UHIC—not UHCBPC—so
UHCBPC cannot be held liable for these services. As such, Plaintiff cannot prevail
on its claims as to Patient 2.
 
Patient 1 – Emergency Services and Quantum Meruit
 
Defendants first argue that the
claims as to Patient 1’s care fail because Patient 1 did not receive “emergency
or post-stabilization services,” as Patient 1’s surgery was scheduled and non-emergent.
Plaintiff opposes and argues that the evidence supports both an implied-in-fact
contract theory and a quantum meruit theory of recovery.
 
Generally, quantum meruit allows the plaintiff to recover
the reasonable value of services rendered that directly benefit the defendant.
(Producers Cotton Oil Co. v. Amstar Corp. (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 638,
659.) A claim for quantum meruit must allege: 1) performance of services, work
or labor; 2) at defendant’s request; and 3) circumstances inferring defendant’s
promise to pay a reasonable value. (Maglica v. Maglica (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 442, 449-450; Chodos v. Borman (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 76, 96
[“ ‘The measure of recovery in quantum meruit is the reasonable value of
the services rendered provided they were of direct benefit to the
defendant.’ ”].) In the medical insurance context, a plaintiff must establish both that he was acting pursuant to
either an express or implied request for services from the defendant; that the
services rendered were intended to and did benefit the defendant; and, further,
the defendant retained the benefit with full appreciation of the facts. (Pacific Bay Recovery, Inc. v. California Physicians'
Services, Inc.¿(2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 200.) 
 
In Pacific Bay, an
out-of-network medical services provider, Pacific Bay, contacted an insurer,
Blue Shield, “to obtain prior authorization, precertification, and consent to
render treatment to the subscriber and was led to believe it would be ‘paid a
portion or percentage of its total billed charges, which charges correlated
with usual, reasonable and customary charges.’ ” (Id. at 205.) Pacific
Bay submitted claims to Blue Shield for services provided to a Blue Shield
subscriber, Blue Shield paid Pacific Bay, but Pacific Bay contended the payment
was insufficient. (Id. at 207.) The Pacific Bay court held that
because the claim arose from an insurance payment dispute concerning claims
submitted by a medical provider to a health plan for processing and payment,
the Knox-Keene Act controlled, and the payment of non-emergency services claims
were generally limited by Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1300.71(a)(3)(C) which
states “[f]or non-emergency services provided by non-contracted providers to
PPO and POS enrollees: the amount set forth in the enrollee's Evidence of
Coverage.” (Ibid.; see also Orthopedic Specialists of Southern
California v. Public Employees' Retirement System (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
644, 648.) Recovery for a quantum meruit claim beyond the Act would be
inappropriate, since such a recovery would frustrate the law and public policy.
(Pacific Bay, supra, 12 Cal.App.5th at 215; citing Dinosaur
Development, Inc. v. White¿(1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1310, 1315.)
 
Defendants present evidence that Dr.
Sanjay Khurana, one of the treating physicians, performed a complex spinal
surgery for Patient 1 at Cedars-Sinai Marina Del Rey Hospital, in order to
relieve back pain. Plaintiff seeks additional payments for such healthcare
services rendered in 2020 for Patient 1. (UMF 1.) It is undisputed that Patient
1 was covered by a health plan issued by UHCBPC. (UMF 2-3.) Cedars-Sinai Marina
Del Rey Hospital was a contracted, in-network facility with United. (UMF 3-4.) 
 
Defendant presents evidence that
Patient 1 did not receive emergency or post-stabilization services, but rather
underwent a scheduled non-emergent surgery three weeks after his initial visit
with Dr. Khurana. (UMF 6; Stalinski Decl. ¶ 9; see also Wood Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. F,
pp. 99-100 [pre-certification of services for Patient 1 submitted to UHCBPC by
Dr. Khurana on August 14, 2020].) Notably, Dr. Khurana submitted a claim form
to UHCBPC which included a place of service code indicating that the services
were performed inpatient (code 21) and were not billed using emergency CPT
codes 99281-99285. (UMF 5.) 
 
Plaintiff freely admits that the
payment terms were to be governed by the factors set forth in the authorization
letter and pursuant to the Knox-Keene Act’s regulations. Plaintiff argues that
28 CCR section 1300.71(a)(3)(B) applies and would provide for recovery of the
reasonable value of the services rendered by “contracted providers without a
written contract.” This argument ignores subsection (C). The relevant portions
of section 1300.71(a)(3) are as follows:
 
(B)
For contracted providers without a written contract and non-contracted
providers, except those providing services described in paragraph (C) below:
the payment of the reasonable and customary value for the health care services
rendered based upon statistically credible information that is updated at least
annually and takes into consideration: 
(i)
the provider's training, qualifications, and length of time in practice;
(ii)
the nature of the services provided;
(iii)
the fees usually charged by the provider;
(iv)
prevailing provider rates charged in the general geographic area in which the
services were rendered;
(v)
other aspects of the economics of the medical provider's practice that are
relevant; and
(vi)
any unusual circumstances in the case; and
 
(C) For
non-emergency services provided by non-contracted providers to PPO and POS
enrollees: the amount set forth in the enrollee's Evidence of Coverage [“EOC”].
 
(Emphasis added.) Section 1317.1 defines an “ ‘[e]mergency
medical condition’ ” as “a medical condition manifesting itself by acute
symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe pain) such that the absence
of immediate medical attention could reasonably be expected to result in any of
the following: [¶] (1) Placing the patient's health in serious jeopardy. [¶]
(2) Serious impairment to bodily functions. [¶] (3) Serious dysfunction of any
bodily organ or part.” (28 CCR § 1317.1 (b)(1)-(3).) Since there is no dispute of
fact that services for Patient 1 were non-emergency services, subsection (C)
precludes recovery beyond the EOC for Patient 1’s PPO. 
 
In sum, Plaintiff cannot succeed on
the quantum meruit claim as to Patient 1. Plaintiff does not dispute that
Patient 1 is a member of a PPO plan, that the terms of the PPO would control
payment pursuant to the Act. Moreover, Plaintiff does not present evidence that
they have not been paid in full under the applicable EOC. Accordingly, any
claim beyond the EOC would be an attempt to circumvent the applicable statutes
“to recover something to which it is not entitled.” (Pac. Bay, supra, 12
Cal. App. 5th at 215.) Accordingly, cause of action based upon quantum meruit
would fail as to Patient 1.
 
Patient 1 - Implied Contract
 
As to the basic elements, there is
no difference between an express and implied contract.¿While an express
contract is defined as one where the terms of which are stated in words (Civ.
Code, § 1620), an implied contract is an agreement, the existence and terms of
which are manifested by conduct (Civ. Code, § 1621). “[B]oth types of contract
are identical in that they require a meeting of minds or an agreement
[citation]. Thus, it is evident that both the express contract and contract
implied in fact are founded upon an ascertained agreement or, in other words,
are consensual in nature, the substantial difference being in the mode of proof
by which they are established [citation].” (Pacific Bay, supra, 12
Cal.App.5th at 215.) 
 
To recover under an implied
contract theory, the Pacific Bay court found plaintiff’s complaint did
not allege whether defendant authorized a certain amount of treatment or agreed
to pay a specific rate. (Pacific Bay, supra, 12 Cal.App.5th at 215; see Casa
Bella Recovery International, Inc. v. Humana Inc.¿(C.D. Cal., Nov. 27,
2017, No. SACV1701801AGJDEX) 2017 WL 6030260, at *4.) If the plaintiff could
demonstrate authorization, then the recovery would be taken out of the
regulatory scheme. (Id.) The Pacific Bay court concluded that further
payment beyond the EOC would have frustrated the Knox-Keene Act regulation,
that Pacific Bay had not alleged any facts that removed its payment dispute
from the confines of the regulations, and that Pacific Bay had not alleged Blue
Shield paid it improperly¿under the EOC. (Pacific Bay, supra, 12
Cal.App.5th at 215-217; see also Orthopedic Specialists, supra, 228
Cal.App.4th at 646, 649 [the advised provider of insured’s coverage, but no
specific agreement was alleged that the insurer would pay a certain rate, thus,
an oral/implied promise was not created].) Accordingly, it is possible that an
out-of-network medical provider to create an implied contract for payment
beyond the statutory rates where the insurer specifically agreed to pay the
provider at a certain rate.  Here,
however, the evidence does not demonstrate that they agreed to pay for certain
treatments or at certain rates.
 
Plaintiff cites two “formal written
authorization letters” confirming the terms of its agreement with Dr. Khurana.
(AMF 2-6; Rutschman Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4, Exs. A, B.) Plaintiff emphasizes that the authorization
letters list the factors pursuant to which Dr. Khurana’s payment will be
determined including “[r]eimbursement policies,” “[t]he guidelines and policies
when services were provided,” and “[i]nformation in the submitted
claim.”(Rutschman Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Examining this evidence in the light most
favorable to Plaintiff, the authorization letters would not support the
existence of an implied in fact contract claim that would entitle Plaintiff to
their usual and customary rates, as opposed to the amounts owed under the EOC pursuant
to the Act. Critically, Plaintiff fails to point to any precise language in the
authorization letters which would show the parties’ intent to charge beyond the
EOC.  
 
In the context of this action,
Plaintiff would need to present evidence that the parties came to a meeting of
the minds regarding a specific price term. Plaintiff cites no terms within the
authorization letters demonstrating that the parties came to a specific price
term. The only evidence is that Defendants paid some amount of money,
presumably the amounts under the EOC. Plaintiff further insists that the
payment terms were to be governed pursuant to the Knox-Keene Act’s regulations,
citing 28 CCR section 1300.71(a)(3)(B). As discussed above, this particular subsection
does not apply. Plaintiff does not show that Patient 1’s services were
emergency services. Therefore, section 1300.71(a)(3)(C) would apply and
preclude recovery above the EOC. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication is GRANTED as to this issue.
 
Patient 1 - Dispute Resolution
 
Defendants also argue that the
claims for services rendered to Patient 1 are barred because Dr. Khurana did
not exhaust administrative remedies. (Ins. Code § 10112.82(a); Heal. & Saf.
Code §§ 1371.30(d), 1371.31(a).)  AB 72
provides, in mandatory terms, for statutory remedies that must be pursued prior
to pursuing “any right or remedy established under other applicable law.” (Id.)
Specifically, it requires insurers to reimburse noncontracting physicians at a
specified rate: the greater of the average commercial contracted rate or 125
percent of the amount Medicare reimburses on a fee-for-service basis for the
same or similar services in the general geographic region in which the services
were rendered. (Id.) Providers may seek higher payment through the statutory
“Independent Dispute Resolution Process” (IDRP) before the applicable regulator
(the Department of Insurance or the Department of Managed Health Care). If the
provider is dissatisfied with the reimbursement determination, they may appeal
the decision to IDRP and receive a binding decision. (Id.) Then, “[i]f
dissatisfied [with the outcome of the IDRP], either party may pursue any right,
remedy, or penalty established under any other applicable law.” (Ins. Code § 10112.81(d);
Heal & Saf. Code § 1371.30(d).) Given the mandatory terms, and that the
parties may only pursue rights and remedies “if dissatisfied” with the outcome
of the IDRP, the statutes provide a substantive remedy before an administrative
body, which must therefore be exhausted before suit.  Plaintiff does not obtain any greater rights
that Dr. Khurana as an assignee of this claim. 

 
Therefore, as an alternative
ground, Defendants motion is GRANTED based upon a failure to use the IDRP
process.
 
Patient 2 – Emergency Services
 
Defendants argue Patient 2’s
surgery was non-emergent, and Plaintiff thus cannot recover under any of its
causes of action as to Patient 2. 
 
Section 1317.1(b) defines an “
‘[e]mergency medical condition’ ” as “a medical condition manifesting itself by
acute symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe pain) such that the
absence of immediate medical attention could reasonably be expected to result
in any of the following: [¶] (1) Placing the patient's health in serious
jeopardy. [¶] (2) Serious impairment to bodily functions. [¶] (3) Serious
dysfunction of any bodily organ or part.” (Health & Safety Code §
1317.1(b)(1)-(3).)
 
Defendants note that Patient 2
received “elective” services from Dr. Jamshid Nazarian at West Hills Hospital
and Medical Center. (UMF 10.) On the date Patient 2 received services, West
Hills Hospital and Medical Center was a contracted, in-network facility with
United. (UMF 8-11.) Defendants note that the relevant services were billed
using emergency service CPT codes. (UMF 12.) Defendants’ evidence fairly suggests
that the services rendered to Patient 2 were not on an emergency basis.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff presents
evidence which disputes this material fact. Patient 2 presented at the
emergency room of West Hills Hospital and Medical Center on January 5, 2020, with
a large inguinal hernia on the right side. (AMF 10.) Patient 2 continued to
have pain despite receiving initial treatment in the emergency room, and this
emergency room visit ultimately did not resolve or stabilize his condition.
(AMF 11.) Two days later, on January 7, 2020, Dr. Jamshid Nazarian discovered inguinal
hernias on both sides of Patient 2’s body. (AMF 12.) On that same date, Dr.
Nazarian performed immediate surgery on Patient 2 “to avoid another
incarceration.” (AMF 14.) Nazarian explains that an incarcerated hernia can
result in obstruction of the protruding organ or complete impairment of that
organ’s function, and the consequences of an untreated incarceration of the
bowel and bladder could lead to the death of the incarcerated tissue and can be
life-threatening. (AMF 15.) With this evidence, a reasonable fact finder could
conclude that the Dr. Nazarian’s services were on an emergency basis.
 
While Defendants have favorable
evidence showing that this may not have been an emergency, the Court does not
find the cited evidence as dispositive on the issue. For instance, Doctor
Nazarian corrects certain aspects of his report on which Defendants relied.
Nazarian explains that he noted that it was “elective” but this did not mean
that the services were per se non-emergent and further states that the ER
visit did not fully “resolve” the patient’s emergency condition. (UMF 10, AMF
8-11.) All in all, a reasonable fact finder could conclude that it was necessary
to perform this surgery on an immediate “emergency” basis to prevent placing
patient 2’s health into serious jeopardy or great bodily harm. Therefore, there
is a dispute of material fact as to whether Patient 2 received emergency
services.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
on this issue.
 
Patient 2 - Dispute Resolution
 
Defendants argue that the claims
for services rendered to Patient 2 are still barred because Dr. Nazarian did
not exhaust administrative remedies. (See Ins. Code § 10112.82(a)(8).)
Defendants contend that Dr. Nazarian was obligated to use the IDR process if he
wished to contest payment on the claim, but there is no evidence that he
exhausted the IDR process. (UMF 13.) However, this section does “not apply to
emergency services and care, as defined in Section 1317.1 of the Health and
Safety Code.” As discussed above, there is a dispute of fact as to whether such
emergency services were rendered. Therefore, there is a dispute of fact as to
whether the IDR process would apply in the first place. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
on this issue.
 
Patient 2 – UHCBPC’s liability
 
UHCBPC argues that it has no
liability for Patient 2’s claims because there is no dispute that Patient 2 was
covered by an insurance policy issued by UHIC (not a health plan issued by
UHCBPC). Indeed, it is undisputed that on the date of service, Patient 2 was
covered by a policy issued by UHIC. (UMF 9.) Plaintiff provides no evidence to
support UHCBPC’s liability on claims related to Patient 2. 
 
Accordingly, UHCBPC’s motion is
GRANTED as to Patient 2.