 Case Number:  23NWCV02447    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  C JONATHAN
AGUILAR v. ETHOS ENERGY GROUP, LTD.
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV02447
HEARING: 
 3/27/24 @ 9:30 A.M. 
 
#7
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant EthosEnergy
Field Services, LLC’s demurrer to plaintiff’s first amended complaint is OVERRULED.
The motion to strike is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART. 
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.

 
 
Background
 
This
is an employment law action. On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Jonathan Aguilar
filed a first amended complaint alleging the following: 
 
1.   
FEHA
Discrimination 
2.   
FEHA
Retaliation 
3.   
Failure
to Provide Reasonable Accommodation 
4.   
Failure
to Engage in Interactive Process 
5.   
Failure
to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, or Retaliation 
6.   
Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy 
7.   
Constructive
Termination.
 
Meet
and Confer
 
The
parties satisfied the meet-and-confer requirements. (Decl. Miller, ¶¶ 2 to 4; Code.
Civ. Proc., § 430.41; Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) 
 
Demurrer
 
Defendant
EthosEnergy Field Services, LLC demurs to the first to seventh causes of action
on the grounds that they do not state sufficient facts to constitute causes of
action.
 
Disability
Discrimination
 
To establish a prima facie case of
disability discrimination under FEHA,
a plaintiff must show the following: (1) plaintiff
suffers from a disability; (2) plaintiff is otherwise qualified to do the job
with or without reasonable accommodation; and (3) plaintiff was subjected to an
adverse employment action because of the disability. (Sandell v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297, 310.) 
 
Defendant demurs on the grounds that
the first amended complaint does not state whether Plaintiff had a qualifying
disability, what kind of disability Plaintiff had, whether Plaintiff made an
accommodation request, when it was made, to whom it was made, whether the
requested accommodation was granted or denied, how and when Defendant allegedly
denied his requested accommodation, how and when Plaintiff applied for workers’
compensation, and what happened to his application. However, as stated above, except
for Defendant’s assertion about “qualifying disability,” that is not the law. Whether
Plaintiff adequately pleaded “qualifying disability” is discussed further
below. 
 
The FEHA prohibits discrimination
against individuals who have a “physical disability, mental disability or
medical condition.” (Gov. Code, § 12920.) The legislature intends “mental
disability” and “physical disability” to be construed broadly so that employees
are protected from discrimination due to actual or perceived physical
impairment that is disabling, potentially disabling, or perceived as disabling
or potentially disabling. (Gov. Code, § 12926.1, subd. (b).) “Physical
disability” includes any physiological disease, disorder, condition, cosmetic
disfigurement, or anatomical loss that limits a major life activity. (Gov.
Code, § 12926, subd. (m)(1)(B).) “Mental disability” includes any mental or
psychological disorder or condition that limits a life activity. (Gov. Code, §
12926, subd. (j)(1).) “Major life activity” includes working. (Gov. Code, §§
12926, subd. (j)(1)(C), (m)(1)(B)(iii).) “Medical condition” means any health
impairment related to or associated with a diagnosis of cancer or a record or history
of cancer or genetic characteristics. (Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (i).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff pleads the
following: “During his employment, Plaintiff Jonathan Aguilar suffered from
work related injuries which required him to miss work and receive treatment.”
(FAC ¶ 10.) The Court infers that Plaintiff suffered a physical or mental disability.
The complaint must be construed liberally by
drawing reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Flynn v. Higham (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 677, 679.) 
 
In addition, Plaintiff pleaded that
his purported disability limited the life activity of working. (FAC ¶ 10.)
 
Based on this, the Court overrules the demurrer as to this cause
of action. 
 
FEHA
Retaliation
 
To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a
plaintiff must show the following: (1) he or she engaged in a “protected
activity,” (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment
action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the
employer’s action.
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028,
1042.) 
 
Defendant demurs on the grounds that
the first amended complaint does not state whether Plaintiff had a qualifying
disability, what kind of disability Plaintiff had, whether Plaintiff made an
accommodation request, when it was made, to whom it was made, whether the
requested accommodation was granted or denied, how and when Defendant allegedly
denied his requested accommodation, how and when Plaintiff applied for workers’
compensation, and what happened to his application. However, as discussed
above, that is not the law. Plaintiff does not need to plead he had a
qualifying disability, what kind of disability Plaintiff had, whether Plaintiff
made an accommodation request, when it was made, to whom it was made, whether
the requested accommodation was granted or denied, how and when Defendant
allegedly denied his requested accommodation, how and when Plaintiff applied
for workers’ compensation, and what happened to his application.
 
The
demurrer is overruled as to this cause of action. 
 
Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation 
 
The elements of a reasonable accommodation cause
of action are the following: (1) the employee suffered a disability, (2) the
employee could perform the essential functions of the job with reasonable
accommodation, and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the
employee's disability. (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359,
373.) A reasonable accommodation is a modification of or adjustment to the
workplace that enables the employee to do the essential functions of the job. (Ibid.)
“Essential functions” means the fundamental job duties of the employment
position the individual with a disability holds or desires. (Gov. Code, §
12926, subd. (f).) 
 
Defendant demurs on the grounds that
the first amended complaint does not state whether Plaintiff had a qualifying disability,
what kind of disability Plaintiff had, whether Plaintiff made an accommodation
request, when it was made, to whom it was made, whether the requested
accommodation was granted or denied, how and when Defendant allegedly denied
his requested accommodation, how and when Plaintiff applied for workers’
compensation, and what happened to his application. However, as stated above, except
for “qualifying disability,” that is not the law. 
 
The FEHA prohibits discrimination
against individuals who have a “physical disability, mental disability or
medical condition.” (Gov. Code, § 12920.) The legislature intends “mental
disability” and “physical disability” to be construed broadly so that employees
are protected from discrimination due to actual or perceived physical
impairment that is disabling, potentially disabling, or perceived as disabling
or potentially disabling. (Gov. Code, § 12926.1, subd. (b).) “Physical
disability” includes any physiological disease, disorder, condition, cosmetic
disfigurement, or anatomical loss that limits a major life activity. (Gov.
Code, § 12926, subd. (m)(1)(B).) “Mental disability” includes any mental or
psychological disorder or condition that limits a life activity. (Gov. Code, § 12926,
subd. (j)(1).) “Major life activity” includes working. (Gov. Code, §§ 12926,
subd. (j)(1)(C), (m)(1)(B)(iii).) “Medical condition” means any health
impairment related to or associated with a diagnosis of cancer or a record or
history of cancer or genetic characteristics. (Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (i).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff pleads the
following: “During his employment, Plaintiff Jonathan Aguilar suffered from
work related injuries which required him to miss work and receive treatment.”
(FAC ¶ 10.) The Court infers that Plaintiff suffered a physical or mental disability.
The complaint must be construed liberally by
drawing reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Flynn v. Higham (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 677, 679.)
 
In addition, Plaintiff pleaded that his
purported disability limited the life activity of working. (FAC ¶ 10.)
 
Based on this, the Court overrules the demurrer as to this cause
of action. 
 
Failure
to Engage in Good Faith Interactive Process
 
The
employer must engage in a "timely, good faith, interactive process"
to determine effective reasonable accommodations with an individual who has a
known disability or medical condition and requests accommodation, although
liability exists only if reasonable accommodation is in fact
possible. (Gov. Code, §12940, subd. (n); 2 Cal. Code Regs §11069, subd. (a); Nadaf-Rahrov
v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 982.) Unless
a disability is obvious, it is the employee's burden to initiate the process,
usually by requesting accommodation, and no particular "magic words"
are required. (2 Cal. Code Regs §11069, subd. (b)(1); Gelfo v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 34, 62 n22.)
 
Defendant demurs on the grounds that
the first amended complaint does not state whether Plaintiff had a qualifying
disability, what kind of disability Plaintiff had, whether Plaintiff made an
accommodation request, when it was made, to whom it was made, whether the
requested accommodation was granted or denied, how and when Defendant allegedly
denied his requested accommodation, how and when Plaintiff applied for workers’
compensation, and what happened to his application. However, as stated above,
that is not the law. Plaintiff does not need to plead he had a qualifying
disability, what kind of disability Plaintiff had, whether Plaintiff made an
accommodation request, when it was made, to whom it was made, whether the
requested accommodation was granted or denied, how and when Defendant allegedly
denied his requested accommodation, how and when Plaintiff applied for workers’
compensation, and what happened to his application.
 
The
demurrer is overruled as to this cause of action. 
 
Failure
to Prevent/Remedy Discrimination
 
The
elements of failure to prevent or remedy discrimination are the following: (1)
actionable discrimination or harassment by employees or non-employees; (2)
defendant's legal duty of care toward plaintiff (defendant is
plaintiff’s employer); (3) breach of duty (failure to take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring); (4) legal
causation; and (5) damages to plaintiff. (Trujillo v. No. County Transit
Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 287, 289.)
 
Defendant demurs on the grounds that
the first amended complaint does not state whether Plaintiff had a qualifying
disability, what kind of disability Plaintiff had, whether Plaintiff made an
accommodation request, when it was made, to whom it was made, whether the
requested accommodation was granted or denied, how and when Defendant allegedly
denied his requested accommodation, how and when Plaintiff applied for workers’
compensation, and what happened to his application. However, as stated above,
that is not the law. Plaintiff does not need to plead he had a qualifying
disability, what kind of disability Plaintiff had, whether Plaintiff made an
accommodation request, when it was made, to whom it was made, whether the
requested accommodation was granted or denied, how and when Defendant allegedly
denied his requested accommodation, how and when Plaintiff applied for workers’
compensation, and what happened to his application.
 
The
demurrer is overruled as to this cause of action. 
 
Wrongful
Termination 
 
Defendant demurs to the wrongful termination cause of action on the
grounds that the statute of limitations bars it. Where the dates alleged in the
complaint show the cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations, a
general demurrer lies. (Saltier v. Pierce Bros. Mortuaries (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 292, 300.)
 
A claim for wrongful termination in violation of public policy is
subject to the two-year personal injury statute of limitations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1; Barton v. New United Motor Mfg., Inc. (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1206.) It accrues upon an
actionable adverse action. (Romano v. Rockwell Int’l, Inc. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 479, 501-502.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant terminated him in
October 2020. (FAC ¶ 9.) Plaintiff filed this lawsuit on August 3, 2023. Thus,
the statute of limitations passed when he filed his lawsuit. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the doctrine of
equitable tolling applies. The three core elements of equitable tolling are the
following: (1) timely notice to the defendant in filing the first claim; (2)
lack of prejudice to defendant in gathering evidence to defend against the
second claim; and (3) good faith and reasonable conduct by the plaintiff in
filing the second claim. (Collier v. City of Pasadena
(1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 917, 924.)
 
The timely notice requirement means that the first claim must have
been filed within the statutory period. (Collier v. City of Pasadena, supra,
142 Cal.App.3d 917 at pg. 924.) A claimant must first exhaust administrative remedies by filing a
complaint with the Civil Rights Department (formerly known as the Department of
Fair Employment and Housing) within three years from the date of the “unlawful
action” or “refusal to cooperate.” (Gov. Code, § 12960, subd. (e)(5).) Plaintiff alleges that he exhausted his
administrative remedies by timely filing an administrative complaint with the
Department of Fair Employment and Housing and that on October 7, 2022, he
received a right-to-sue letter. (FAC ¶ 20.) Thus, Plaintiff filed the first claim within the
statutory period. 
 
The second requirement means that the facts of the two claims be
identical or at least so similar that the defendant’s investigation of the
first claim will put him in a position to fairly defend the second. (Collier v. City of Pasadena, supra, 142
Cal.App.3d 917 at pg. 925.) Plaintiff alleges, “Defendants terminated
plaintiff’s employment in violation of various fundamental policies underlying
both state and federal laws. Specifically, plaintiff’s employment was
terminated in part because of his protected status (i.e., race, ancestry,
employee’s disability (history of, actual and/or perceived) and medical
condition, and/or protected activity.) These actions were in violation of, but
not limited to, the FEHA, the California Constitution, Government Code 12900,
et seq., and California Labor Code section 1102.5.” (FAC ¶ 63.) Based on the reference to the state laws and Plaintiff’s
protected status in the first amended complaint, the two claims are similar. Thus,
defendant’s investigation of the FEHA claims has put it in a position to fairly
defend the wrongful termination claim. 
 
Plaintiff filed this civil lawsuit a short time after tolling
ended. The time to file a civil lawsuit is tolled during pendency of administrative
remedies. (Olson v. County of Sacramento (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 958, 965.)
The tolling ended on October 7, 2022, and Plaintiff filed the civil lawsuit on
August 3, 2023. Based on this, there is good faith and reasonable conduct. (Collier
v. City of Pasadena, supra, 142 Cal.App.3d 917 at pg. 926.) 
 
Thus, the doctrine of equitable tolling
applies. The effect of equitable
tolling is that the limitations period stops
running during the tolling event and begins to run again only
when the tolling event has concluded. (Lantzy
v. Centex Homes (2003) 31 Cal.4th 363,
370.) The tolled interval is tacked onto the end of the limitations
period, thus extending the deadline for suit by
the length of time during which the tolling event occurred. (Id. at 370-371.)
 
The toll period ended on
October 7, 2022, and Plaintiff filed the civil lawsuit on August 3, 2023. However,
from the face of the complaint, it is unknown when the
tolling period began. Thus, the running of the statute
of limitations does not appear “clearly and affirmatively” from the face of the
complaint. (Com. for Green Foothills v.
Santa Clara County Bd. of Supervisors (2010) 48 Cal. 4th 32, 42.) 
 
The demurrer is overruled as to this
cause of action. 
 
Constructive
Discharge
 
Defendant demurs to the constructive discharge cause of action on the
grounds that the statute of limitations bars it. 
 
A
claim for constructive discharge is also subject to the two-year personal
injury statute of limitations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1; Barton v. New United Motor Mfg., Inc., supra, 43 Cal.App.4th 1200 at pg.
1206.) It accrues upon an actionable adverse action. (Romano v. Rockwell
Int’l, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th 479 at pgs. 501-502.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant terminated him in
October 2020. (FAC ¶ 9.) Plaintiff filed this lawsuit on August 3, 2023. Thus,
the statute of limitations has passed. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the doctrine
of equitable tolling applies. As discussed above, the
three core elements of equitable tolling are the following: (1) timely notice
to the defendant in filing the first claim; (2) lack of prejudice to defendant
in gathering evidence to defend against the second claim; and (3) good
faith and reasonable conduct by the plaintiff in filing the second claim. (Collier v. City of Pasadena, supra, 142 Cal.App.3d 917
at pg. 924.)
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff provided timely notice to the defendant in
filing the first claim. 
 
As discussed above, the second requirement means that the facts of the
two claims be identical or at least so similar that the defendant’s
investigation of the first claim will put him in a position to fairly defend
the second. (Collier v. City of
Pasadena, supra, 142 Cal.App.3d 917 at pg. 925.) Here, Plaintiff alleges,
“Specifically, plaintiff’s employment was terminated in part because of his
protected status (i.e., race, ancestry, employee’s disability (history of,
actual and/or perceived) and medical condition, and/or protected activity.)
These actions were in violation of, but not limited to, the FEHA, the
California Constitution, Government Code 12900, et seq., and California Labor
Code section 1102.5.” (FAC ¶ 69.) Based on the reference to the state laws
and Plaintiff’s protected status in the first amended complaint, the two claims
are similar. Thus, defendant’s investigation of the FEHA claims has put it in a
position to fairly defend the wrongful termination claim. 
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff filed this civil lawsuit a short
time after tolling ended. Based on this, there is good faith and reasonable
conduct. (Collier v. City of Pasadena, supra, 142 Cal.App.3d 917 at pg.
926.) 
 
Thus, the doctrine of equitable tolling
applies. The effect of equitable
tolling is that the limitations period stops
running during the tolling event and begins to run again only
when the tolling event has concluded. (Lantzy
v. Centex Homes, supra, 31 Cal.4th 363
at pg. 370.) The tolled interval is tacked onto the end of the
limitations period, thus extending
the deadline for suit by the length of time during which the
tolling event occurred. (Id. at 370-371.)
 
The toll period ended on
October 7, 2022, and Plaintiff filed the civil lawsuit on August 3, 2023.
However, from the face of the complaint, it
is unknown when the tolling period began. Thus, the running of the statute
of limitations does not appear “clearly and affirmatively” from the face of the
complaint. (Com. for Green Foothills v.
Santa Clara County Bd. of Supervisors, supra, 48 Cal.4th 32 at pg.
42.) 
 
The demurrer is overruled as to this
cause of action. 
 
Motion
to Strike
 
Defendant moves to
strike punitive damages allegations and attorney fees allegations. 
 
          Punitive Damages
 
To state a prima facie
claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated
in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Super. Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) 
 
“‘Malice’” is defined
in the statute as conduct “intended by the defendant to cause injury to
plaintiff, or despicable conduct that is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.” (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1); College Hospital, Inc. v.
Super. Ct., supra, 8 Cal.4th 704 at p. 725.) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (c)(2).)
“‘Fraud’” is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) 
 
Conclusory
allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a
conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. (Smith v.
Super. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that defendant
tried to hide the illegal reason for taking adverse employment action against him
and based on case law, these actions constitute punitive damages. However, the
case law that Plaintiff cites made findings of punitive damages based on more
specific factual assertions. (Cloud v. Casey (1990) 76 Cal.App.4th 895, 911-912;
Stephens v. Coldwell Banker Commercial Group, Inc. (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d
1394, 1403-1404.)  In contrast,
Plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory and do not satisfy the higher pleading requirement
for punitive damages. (FAC, ¶¶ 10a, 11a, 12a.)  
 
Thus, the Court GRANTS
the motion to strike portions of the first amended complaint about punitive
damages. 
 
          Attorney Fees 
 
An
award of attorney’s fees
is proper when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
1032, subd. (b), 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
 
Here,
Plaintiff requests attorney’s fees for the sixth and seventh causes of action
of wrongful termination and constructive discharge. The basis for these causes
of action is Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b). A court may award
reasonable attorney fees to an employee who brings a successful action for
Labor Code section 1102.5. 
 
Thus,
Defendant’s request to strike attorney fees is DENIED. 
 