  Case Number:  24CHCV02232    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 24CHCV02232

 
Demurrer
Filed: 8/6/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
EBF Holdings, LLC, dba Everest Business Funding (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Yizhaq Vaknin, in pro per (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant demurs against Plaintiff’s entire complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The unopposed
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a commercial action in which Plaintiff alleges that he
is the sole shareholder and officer of nonparty Socal Green Roofing &
Builders, Inc. (the “Company”). (Compl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff alleges that on
10/17/23, he personally guaranteed a $80,000.00 loan from Defendant to Socal
Green. (Id. at ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that he ultimately defaulted on
the loan due to its 137.85% interest rate. (Id. at ¶¶ 10–12.)
 
On 6/17/24, Plaintiff filed his complaint, alleging against
Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Violation of California Unfair
Competition Law; (2) Unjust Enrichment; and (3) Money Had and Received.
 
On 8/6/24, Defendant filed the instant demurrer. No opposition has been filed to
date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter,
a party may respond to a pleading against it by demurrer on the basis of any
single or combination of eight enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
Here, Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s
entire complaint on the basis that Plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient
to constitute any of the causes of action therein.
 
A.   
Meet
and Confer
 
Before filing its
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The demurring
party must file and serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A)
The means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet
and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and
confer in good faith.” (Id. at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Defendant’s
counsel declares that on 7/17/24 and 7/25/24, he wrote to Plaintiff in an
attempt to resolve the issues raised in the instant demurrer, but received no
response. (Decl. of Marshall F. Goldberg ¶¶ 3–9.) Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer
requirements set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a).
 
B.    
Standing
 
As a preliminary matter,
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff lacks the necessary standing to bring the
instant breach of contract action. All civil actions must be prosecuted in the
name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided by statute.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 367.) A party who is not the real party in interest does not
have standing to sue, because the claim belongs to someone else. In such a
case, the complaint is subject to a general demurrer. (City of Brentwood v.
Campbell (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 488, 504; The H.N. & Frances C. Berger
Found. v. Perez (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 37, 42.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that “there
are no charging allegations in any of the three causes of action which contend
that Plaintiff is entitled to sue in his individual capacity and there is
nothing that shows Plaintiff was damage because the payments made to Defendant
under the Purchase Agreement were made by the Company under the Company’s
obligation.” (Dem. 5:25–6:2.)
 
While the demurrer is unopposed,
the Court finds it sufficient that Plaintiff alleges that he is the sole
shareholder and officer of the Company, and the signatory and personal
guarantor of the subject agreement. (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 8; Ex. A to Compl.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to
show that he has standing to bring the instant action.
 
C.   
Unfair
Competition
 
Plaintiff’s first cause of
action alleges Violation of California Unfair Competition Law (the “UCL”) against
Defendant. To succeed on a claim for unfair business practices in violation of
the UCL, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant was engaged in an
“unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive,
untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) “In essence, an
action based on Business and Professions Code section 17200 to redress an
unlawful business practice ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and treats these
violations, when committed pursuant to business activity, as unlawful practices
independently actionable under section 17200 et seq. and subject to the
distinct remedies provided thereunder.” (People ex rel. Bill Lockyer v.
Fremont Life Ins. Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 508, 515.) A plaintiff
alleging an “unfair” business practice under the UCL must show that the
defendant’s conduct is “tethered to an underlying constitutional, statutory or
regulatory provision, or that it threatens an incipient violation of an
antitrust law, or violates the policy or spirit of an antitrust law.” (Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 613.) “‘Fraudulent,’
as used in the statute, does not refer to the common law tort of fraud but only
requires a showing members of the public ‘are likely to be deceived.’” (Olsen
v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 608, 618.)
 
Here, Plaintiff essentially
alleges that Defendant engaged in unfair business practices in charging a usurious
interest rate of 137.85% on the loan. (Compl. ¶¶ 15–17.) “Usury is the charging
of interest for a loan or forbearance on money in excess of the legal maximum.”
(11 Cal. Real Est. § 37:1 (4th ed.).) “The essential elements of usury are: (1)
The transaction must be a loan or forbearance; (2) the interest to be paid must
exceed the statutory maximum; (3) the loan and interest must be absolutely
repayable by the borrower; and (4) the lender must have a willful intent to
enter into a usurious transaction.” (Ghirardo v. Antonioli (1994) 8
Cal.4th 791, 798.)
 
As a preliminary matter,
Defendant asserts that “the question of whether the Purchase Agreement is a
loan subject to usury law is properly determined under New York law.” (Dem.
6:21–22, citing Ex. A to Compl., p. 7, para. 4.5 [“Except as set forth in
Arbitration Section, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the state of New York, without regards to any
applicable principals of conflicts of law.”].) Under New York law, the elements
for usury are similar to those under California law: “(1) a loan or forbearance
of money (2) that requires interest in violation of a usury statute (3) charged
by the holder or payee with the intent to take interest at a greater rate than
allowed by law.” (N.Y.Prac., Com. Litig. in New York State Courts § 100:89 (5th
ed.).)
 
Here, Defendant argues that “the
transaction was not a loan and could not be usurious.” (Dem. 7:3–4.) Defendant
argues that Plaintiff mischaracterizes the agreement as a loan agreement, where
it is in fact a purchase agreement of future accounts. (Dem. 2:3–11.) Based on
the face of the agreement, as proffered by Plaintiff, the Court agrees. The
first page of the “Offer Summary,” attached as Exhibit A to Plaintiff’s
complaint, lists the 137.85% figure cited by Plaintiff as an “Estimated Annual
Percentage Rate (APR),” explicitly stating that “APR is not an interest rate.”
(Ex. A to Compl.) The first page of the subject agreement states that “Seller
hereby sells, assigns and transfers to Purchaser, without recourse, upon
payment of the Purchase Price, the Purchased Amount of Future Receipts by
delivering to Purchaser the Specified Percentage of the proceeds of each future
sale by Seller.” (Id. at p. 1.) “There is no interest rate or
payment schedule and no time period during which the Purchased Amount must be
collected by Purchaser. Seller going bankrupt or going out of business, in and
of itself, does not constitute a breach of this Agreement. Purchaser is
entering into this Agreement knowing the risks that Seller’s business may slow
down or fail, and Purchaser assumes these risks based on Seller’s representations
warranties and covenants in this Agreement, which are designed to give
Purchaser a reasonable and fair opportunity to receive the benefit of its
bargain.” (Id. at p. 2.)
 
Defendant
further argues that Plaintiff cannot state a UCL claim because “an out of state
choice of law clause preempts a California UCL claim.” (Dem. 11:1, citing S
& J Rentals, Inc. v. Hilti, Inc. (E.D. Cal. 2018) 294 F.Supp.3d 978
[granting a motion to dismiss a UCL claim under a valid contractual forum
selection clause choosing Oklahoma as the proper forum].)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that it lacks the jurisdiction to hear
Plaintiff’s UCL claim. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained against
Plaintiff’s first cause of action.
 
D.   
Unjust
Enrichment; Money Had and Received
 
Plaintiff’s second cause of
action alleges Unjust Enrichment against Defendant. “The elements for a claim
of unjust enrichment are receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of the
benefit at the expense of another. The theory of unjust enrichment requires one
who acquires a benefit which may not justly be retained, to return either the
thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly
enriched.” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769
[quotations and citations omitted.])
 
Plaintiff’s third cause of
action alleges Money Had and Received against Defendant. The required elements
of a common count claim are “(1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain
sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3)
nonpayment. A cause of action for money had and received is stated if it is
alleged the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum for money
had and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.” (Farmers
Insurance Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460 [citations and
quotations omitted].)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant has been unjustly enriched by receiving “money which belongs to
Plaintiff and should rightfully be returned. Such amount is equal to all the
receivables that Defendants taken from Plaintiff and his business in an amount
according to proof at trial.” (Compl. ¶¶ 23, 26.) Defendant argues that because
the purchase agreement was not a usurious loan, Defendant “has not been
unjustly enriched nor has [Defendant] received any money [Plaintiff] alleges
belongs to him.” (Dem. 13:2–3.) The Court agrees, and again notes that
Plaintiff has failed to oppose the instant demurrer or otherwise respond to
meet and confer efforts.
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action for Unjust Enrichment or Money Had and Received. Accordingly,
the demurrer is sustained against Plaintiff’s second and third causes of
action.
 
E.    
Leave
To Amend
 
Where a demurrer is sustained,
leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th
118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Here, the Court finds that in
failing to oppose the instant demurrer, Plaintiff makes no showing of a
reasonable possibility that he may successfully remedy the underlying
deficiencies in the complaint. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 