 Case Number:  23AHCV00838    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 23, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         ZIX, INC., a
California corporation, v. US LONGTON, INC., a California corporation; JI LI,
an individual; ALL PERSONS UNKNOWN, claiming any legal or equitable right,
title, estate, lien, or interest in the property described in the complaint
adverse to Plaintiff’s title, or any cloud on Plaintiff’s title thereto; and
DOES 1 through 50, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00838
 
 
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Jason J.L. Yang, counsel for
Plaintiff Zix, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed.
 
SERVICE:                              Filed March 22, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Counsel Jason J.L. Yang (“Yang”)
moves to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff Zix, Inc.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiff
Zix, Inc.’s (“Plaintiff”) claim for quiet title for four
properties located at 314 E. Mission Road, #A-D, San Gabriel, CA 91776, APN:
5368-019-046, 5368-019-047, 5368-019-048 and 5368-019-049 (“Subject
Properties”). Plaintiff filed this complaint on April 13, 2023, alleging four
causes of action for (1) quiet title, (2) fraud, (3) partition, and (4)
declaratory relief.
             
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The court will delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the clients have been properly
served with notice of the next trial date have been filed with the court.
 
            Counsel
is  ordered to submit a declaration or
affirmatively inform the court at the hearing that Zix, Inc. understands
that as corporations it cannot proceed in pro per status.
 
            Subject to
service of the proofs of service and counsel’s statements at hearing, Yang’s
motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            
Code of Civil Procedure §284(1) allows for a change or substitution of
attorney “[u]pon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk,
or entered upon the minutes.” If both parties do not consent to a substitution
of attorney, Code of Civ. Proc. §284(2) allows for a substitution “[u]pon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth
procedures for relieving counsel without the mutual consent of both parties.
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, an attorney seeking to
withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the client, as here, is required
to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. The motion also
requires a declaration stating “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1362(c).)  Judicial Council form
MC-052, the attorney’s declaration, requires that the client be provided no
less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.  A proposed order prepared on form MC-053 must
also be lodged with the court with the moving
papers.
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d) also requires that the motion, notice of
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice served on the
client by mail must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts that show
that either the service address is current or “that [t]he service address is the last known residence or business
address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current
address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the
filing of the motion to be relieved.”
(California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d)). 
 
The Court of Appeals has recognized, “A lawyer violates his or her
ethical mandate by abandoning a
client [citation], or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby
prejudicing the client’s case. 
[Citation.]  We are, however,
aware of no authority preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when
withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s
interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Yang
moves to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff Zix, Inc. Yang provides
that there are irreconcilable differences that prevent him from effectively
representing the client. Yang provides that Plaintiff was served at the last
known address, which was confirmed by the Secretary of State. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The court will delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the clients have been properly
served with notice of the next trial date have been filed with the court.
 
            Counsel
is  ordered to submit a declaration or
affirmatively inform the court at the hearing that Zix, Inc. understands
that as corporations it cannot proceed in pro per status.
 
            Subject to
service of the proofs of service and counsel’s statements at hearing, Yang’s
motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 23, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
