 Case Number:  JCCP5326    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  11 Metropolis Homeowners Association Cases (JCCP 5326)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Petition for Coordination
 
Date:                                       7/12/24
Time:                                      1:45
pm
Moving Party:                       Oleg Pariser
(“Petitioner”)
Opposing Party:                    Greenland LA Metropolis I
LLC, et al. (collectively “Greenland”)
Department:                          11
Judge:                                    David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Petitioner’s request for judicial notice and Greenland’s request for
judicial notice are granted in full.  The
documents are court records.  The Court
will judicially notice the existence of the documents but not the truth of
their contents.
 
Petitioner’s petition for coordination is denied.
 
BACKGROUND


Petitioner submitted a petition to the Chairperson of the Judicial
Council for pretrial coordination of the following cases (“Included Actions”):
 
* Metropolis Master
Association v. Pariser (23STCV27046 [Los Angeles County]) (“MMA”);
 
* Pariser v. Metropolis Master
Association (23STSC04388 [Los Angeles County]); and
 
* Greenland LA Metropolis
Development I LLC v. Metropolis I Condominium Owners’ Association
(30-2023-01346055-CU-NP-CJC [Orange County]) (“Greenland”).
 
Petitioner describes the Included
Actions this way:
 
This litigation
arises from a developer/declarant’s failure to tender timely payment of
assessments levied by its successor master homeowner association and its
subassociation.  In 2022, a member of the
master homeowner association who was also a volunteer director for the
subassociation, Oleg Pariser, blew the proverbial “whistle” on years of
non-payments in reliance on purported assessment abatement agreements entered
into when the developer/declarant controlled the boards of directors for both
non-profit corporations.  This action
stems from the developer/declarant’s continued failure to pay assessments due
and owing to the master homeowner association and failure to disqualify its
candidates in accordance with applicable statute and its Governing Documents,
as that term is defined in section 4150 of the Civil Code.
 
This action is also
part of a larger dispute currently pending in several different forums that[,
in addition to the Included Actions,] includes . . . an arbitration[] and an
administrative action brought by the Department of Real Estate . . . .  At the heart of each of these actions is the
developer/declarant’s failure to pay levied assessments due and owing in
reliance on purported assessment abatement agreements entered while the
developer/declarant controlled the boards of directors for both non-profit corporations.
 
(Petitioner’s Memorandum of
Points and Authorities (“MP&A”), pp. 1-2, emphasis deleted.)
 
The Chief Justice and Chair of the
Judicial Council issued an order assigning this Court to sit as the
coordination motion judge to determine whether the Included Actions are complex
and, if so, whether coordination is appropriate.
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.         Complex Determination
 
Only “complex”
cases may be coordinated.  (Edmon &
Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June
2023 Update) ¶ 12:374.5.)  A “complex”
case requires “exceptional judicial management to avoid placing unnecessary
burdens on the court or the litigants and to expedite the case, keep costs
reasonable, and promote effective decision making by the court, the parties,
and counsel.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.400(a).)  
 
In deciding whether an action is a complex case under
(a), the Court must consider, among other things, whether the action is likely
to involve:
 
(1) Numerous pretrial motions raising difficult or novel
legal issues that will be time-consuming to resolve;
 
(2) Management of a large number of witnesses or a
substantial amount of documentary evidence;
 
(3) Management of a large number of separately
represented parties;
 
(4) Coordination with related actions pending in one or
more courts in other counties, states, or countries, or in a federal court; or
 
(5) Substantial postjudgment judicial supervision.
 
(Id. at rule 3.400(b).)
 
[A]n action is provisionally a complex case if it
involves one or more of the following types of claims:
 
(1) Antitrust or trade regulation claims;
 
(2) Construction defect claims involving many parties or
structures;
 
(3) Securities claims or investment losses involving many
parties;
 
(4) Environmental or toxic tort claims involving many
parties;
 
(5) Claims involving mass torts;
 
(6) Claims involving class actions; or
 
(7) Insurance coverage claims arising out of any of the
claims . . . .
 
(Id. at rule 3.400(c).)
 
Petitioner
admits that the Included Actions are not provisionally complex. (See Petitioner’s
MP&A, p. 10.)
 
He
also admits that Parisher is a small claims action (see id. at p. 5), “[n]one
of the parties have requested a ‘complex’ designation” (id. at p. 10), “the
pre-trial motions will neither be difficult nor novel” (ibid.), “there are
approximately a dozen witnesses total, with all the witnesses being the same”
(ibid.), the Included Actions will not “be[] overly document intensive” (ibid.),
and “no postjudgment supervision is anticipated.”  (Ibid.)
 
Indeed,
he contends there is only one factor that “weighs in favor of a complex
designation” – improper venue.  (Id. at
p. 10 [claiming Orange County is an improper venue for Greenland].)
 
The
Court disagrees.  Venue is a routine
issue and does not bear on complexity. 
It does not transform a noncomplex case into a complex one.  Moreover, since the venue issue exclusively pertains
to Greenland, it fails to make MMA and Pariser complex.  These facts plus Petitioner’s admissions
render rule 3.400 unsatisfied at to all three cases.  
 
This
is reason enough to deny the petition.[1]
 
II.        Code of Civil Procedure Section 404.1
 
Section
404.1 states that a petition for coordination should be granted if doing so
will “promote the ends of justice,” taking into account the following seven
factors: 
 
[W]hether
the common question of fact or law is predominating and significant to the
litigation; the convenience of parties, witnesses and counsel; the relative
development of the actions and the work product of counsel; the efficient
utilization of judicial facilities and manpower; the calendar of the courts;
the disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent rulings, orders, or
judgments; and the likelihood of settlement of the actions without further
litigation should coordination be denied.
 
(Code Civ.
Proc. § 404.1.)
 
A.        Predominating Common
Questions
 
Petitioner asserts that the
Included Actions “concern the same Development, the same parties, and the same
predominant issues of fact and law, to wit, whether the Illegal Abatement
Agreements purportedly consummated while Greenland controlled the Met
Master-Board and Met I-Board are enforceable or result in liability.”  (Petitioner’s MP&A, p. 7; see also Petitioner’s
Reply, pp. 3-4 [claiming “[t]he dispositive issue in each action is whether
Greenland was required to tender timely payment of all assessments due and
owing to Met I and Met Master”].)
 
On March 28, 2024, Judge Michele
Williams Court granted Petitioner’s motion for leave to submit a petition for
coordination.  (See 3/28/24 Pariser
Minute Order, p. 1.)  She held that
Petitioner demonstrated a common issue of fact or law.  Importantly, though, she did not find that
common issues predominated.  As she
pointed out, the motion before her did not require her to “determine the
ultimate issue of whether the cases should be coordinated.”  (Id. at p. 6.)  She merely had to assess whether Petitioner showed
the existence of “civil actions sharing a common question
of fact or law [] pending in different courts.” 
(Ibid., emphasis added.) 
 
This factor favors denial.  Petitioner’s burden now is to establish predominating
common questions.  The Court agrees with
Greenland that Petitioner fails to meet his burden because:   
 
. . . The matters
involve entirely separate disputes relating to separate legal entities with 12
different legal counsel. 
 
The Orange County
Action involves the improper disqualification of Greenland's representative
before she was able to participate in the election for Met I Association's
board of directors. In the Los Angeles Action and Small Claims Action, no
individual is being disqualified from an election; rather, an association
member is challenging the already-existing board of directors for the separate
legal entity Master Association – i.e., not Met I Association – and past
election as being allegedly inconsistent with Master Association's election
rules. 
 
While one could
overgeneralize to say there is a common fact in that the same real estate development
is involved and both disputes loosely entail election disputes related to
disputed assessments, these factors are not sufficient to . . . rise to the
level of being "predominating and significant" to the litigation. Met
I Association and Master Association are separate legal entities, with separate
governing documents, separate boards of directors, and separate counsel. The
election for one association's board of directors would have no bearing on the
election for the other, and an individual could be ineligible to serve on one
association's board and still be eligible to serve on the other association's
board. Likewise, the issue of whether or not assessments are allegedly owed by
Greenland to either association would involve entirely separate analyses, as
there are different assessments, different abatements, and different
associations implicated. Notably, despite Mr. Pariser's currently developed
theory of Greenland's alleged "illegal" abatements, he was a member
of the board of directors at the time of Greenland's abatements, was present at
the meetings where the abatements were proposed, and did not vote against the
abatements. 
 
Additionally, out of
at least fourteen different named parties across the three actions, the only
two parties in common are Mr. Pariser himself and Master Association, which was
only added to the Orange County Action by way of Mr. Pariser's own cross-complaint
in the matter. Greenland does not contend that Master Association is
responsible for Met I Association's misconduct during the subject election at
issue in the Orange County Action. 
 
Coordination of the
actions is simply not necessary, as the matters involve different disputes
implicating different entities, different governing documents, different
elections, different boards of directors, and different counsel. The inquiry as
to one association would not impact the inquiry as to the other, as separate
election rules, separate assessments, and separate abatements are involved. . .
.
 
(Greenland’s
Opposition, pp. 10-11, emphasis deleted.)[2]
 
B.        Convenience of the Parties, Witnesses, and
Counsel
 
Petitioner contends coordination would 
 
promote forum convenience as
it is undisputed that this is a local action (the Metropolis complex is 1.6
miles from the Stanley Mosk Courthouse), the Governing Documents for both CIDs
disclose their principal offices at locations in Los Angeles County, their
corporate disclosures do the same, their statutory disclosures do the same, and
the Projects are indisputably located in Los Angeles County. 
 
(Petitioner’s MP&A, p. 9.)
 
This factor is neutral or favors denial.  Deciding common
issues in one forum typically conveniences the parties, witnesses, and counsel,
but the present situation is different. 
The overlap is minimal.  To
reiterate, the disputes, entities, governing documents, elections, boards of
directors, and counsel all differ.  “The
inquiry as to one association would not impact the inquiry as to the
other[.]”  (Greenland’s Opposition, p.
11.)  Individual issues predominate, so
coordination would yield minor convenience at best.[3]

 
C.        Development of the Cases and the Work
Product of Counsel
 
Petitioner does not appear to address this
factor in his moving brief.  (See
Petitioner’s MP&A, pp. 9-12.) 
 
In reply, he claims the Included Actions are
“in their infancy.”  (Petitioner’s Reply,
p. 5.)  He states that “[n]o trial dates
have been set, no depositions have been taken, minimal written discovery has
been served, no experts have been disclosed, and no dispositive motions are
pending.”  (Ibid.)
 
This factor favors denial.  The cases
are not at the same stage.  Pariser
has already been adjudicated and is on appeal, and, in Greenland, there
is a motion to compel arbitration pending. 
(See Greenland’s Opposition, pp. 11-13.) 
Under
these circumstances, the Court doubts that coordinating discovery and motion practice would produce the usual
benefits and efficiencies.
 
D.        Efficient
Use of Judicial Resources and Manpower
 
This factor favors
denial.  For the reasons stated in sections II.A. and II.B, the threat of
separate courts duplicating case efforts on the same issues and claims is low.
 
E.        Calendars
of the Courts
 
This factor is neutral or favors denial.  Petitioners’ brief fails to address the
individual court calendars.  (See
Petitioner’s MP&A, pp. 9-12.)
 
F.         Duplicative and Inconsistent Rulings
 
This factor favors
denial.  The analysis is the same as sections II.A., II.B., and II.D.  (See also Greenland’s Opposition, pp. 13-14.)
 
G.        Likelihood
of Settlement in the Absence of Coordination
 
Petitioner argues:
 
. . . coordination in a single forum that
permits all stakeholders to adjudicate their common claims and their common defenses
will not only best serve the interests of justice, judicial economy, alleviate
burdens on parties and witnesses, but also promote any possible resolution by
way of compromise and settlement.  In the
absence of coordination, Greenland’s ongoing efforts at piecemeal resolution
will do little more than promote piecemeal compromise which by its very
definition will not fully and finally resolve a dispute entirely caused by
Greenland’s corporate malfeasance and nonfeasance.
 
(Petitioner’s Reply, p. 7.)
 
This factor is neutral or favors
denial.  The inquiry is not whether
coordination will promote settlement; it is whether settlement is expected
“without further litigation should coordination be denied.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
404.1.)  Pariser is on appeal;
Greenland is participating in an abatement arbitration right now; an
arbitration motion is pending in Greenland; and none of the cases has
settled.  The Court sees nothing in the
record that suggests Defendants intend to settle prior to filing discovery motions
and, possibly, motions for summary judgment. 
Some additional litigation seems probable.  Given the predominating individual issues and
minimal overlap, the Court believes coordination would have either no impact or
a negative impact on settlement.
 
H.        Summary
 
On balance, the factors support denial.  The Court finds that coordination should be
denied.
 
III.      Site for the Coordinated Proceedings
 
Rule of
Court 3.530(b) sets forth the factors that the coordination motion judge may
consider in making a recommendation for the site of the coordination
proceedings. The factors include: the number of included actions in particular
locations; whether the litigation is at an advanced stage in a particular
court; the efficient use of court facilities and judicial resources; the
locations of witnesses and evidence; the convenience of the parties and
witnesses; the parties' principal places of business; the office locations of
counsel for the parties; and the ease of travel to and availability of
accommodations in particular locations. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.530(b).) 

 
In light of
the preceding analysis, this issue is moot.
 
IV.       Stay Request
 
Petitioner
does not request a stay.
 


