  Case Number:  19SMCV00189    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Parker v. MM
Enterprises USA LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00189
MOTION:                  Motion
to be Relieved
HEARING DATE:   4/23/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
The
court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before
or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or
attorney and after notice from one to the other. (CCP §
284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must take “reasonable steps to
avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the client, including
giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment of other
counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See, e.g., Vann v.
Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where attorney
withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday before trial began
the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to
withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)  
 
An
application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) The
requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have
appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).)
When a client is served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that
the client’s address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was
confirmed. (Id.) If the attorney is
unable to confirm the client’s current address, the declaration must state the
reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to obtain the client’s current
address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally,
the declaration “must state in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought
instead of filing a substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
Analysis
 

Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory
& Natsis LLP - Scott J. Leipzig, Esq., Tim C. Hsu, Esq., and Kent W.
Toland, Esq. move to be relieved as counsel of record for Defendants Defendants
MM Enterprises USA, LLC; Advanced Patients’ Collective; The Compassion Network;
MMOF San Diego Retail, Inc.; MMOF RE SD, LLC; Desert Hot Springs Green
Horizons, Inc.; Cyon Corporation, Inc.; MMOF Vegas Retail, Inc.; MMNV2 Holdings
I, LLC; MMNV2 Holdings V, LLC; MMOF Fremont Retail, Inc.; MedMen NY, Inc.; MME
Florida LLC. 
 
            Counsel
provides all mandatory forms. Counsel states that an irreparable breakdown of
the attorney-client relationship has occurred. Counsel served their client by
mail at the client’s last known address, which was confirmed within the past 30
days by telephone, public filings and email. As this is a post-judgment matter
with no other hearing dates set, the court finds that the clients will not be
prejudiced by the withdrawal.
 
Accordingly,
the motion is tentatively GRANTED. The order is effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the order on the client. Until then, counsel remains
counsel of record.