 Case Number:  22SMCV00405    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Affinity House
Inc. v. Lighthouse Brooks LLC
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00405
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   4/23/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            A party may move for summary
judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The
purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to
cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (CCP, § 437c(f)(1).) If a party seeks summary
adjudication as an alternative to a request for summary judgment, the request
must be clearly made in the notice of the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior
Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1544.)  “[A] party may move for
summary adjudication of a legal issue or a claim for damages other than
punitive damages that does not completely dispose of a cause of action,
affirmative defense, or issue of duty pursuant to” subdivision (t).
(CCP, § 437c(t).) 
 
            To
prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law. (CCP, § 437c(c).) The motion cannot succeed unless the
evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the
court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when a material fact is the witness’s state of
mind and “that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s]
affirmation thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).) 
 
            Once
the moving party has met their burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(1).) “[T]here is no obligation on the opposing party... to establish
anything by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated
facts establishing every element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his
favor.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) 
 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary
judgment motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment
is to delimit the scope of the issues and to frame the outer measure
of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity
National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations
and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff's theories of
liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a moving party need
not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the
pleadings.” (Ibid.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Requests
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request for judicial notice is GRANTED. (Evid.
Code § 452(d).)
 
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d).)
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
            Defendants object to portions of the
declarations of Robert O’Neill, Ariel Chazanas, and Ross Kutash.  With respect to the numerous objections based
upon Plaintiff’s failure to respond to discovery, those objections are all OVERRULED.  There has been no discovery motions brought
(or even pending) by Defendants on these issues, and obviously, no discovery sanctions
issued by the Court.  Defendants evidentiary
objections are, in fact, premature requests for discovery sanctions.    The
Court rules on the remainder of the objections as follows:
 
            As to the O’Neill declaration the
Court SUSTAINS objection nos. 3, 6 (starting with “In this way Kolahi . . ..”),
8-10, 12 (hearsay portions), 19, 23, 24, 27-29, and 33. 
 
            As to the Chazanas declaration, the
Court SUSTAINS objection nos. 6, 7, 9, and 10. 
 
            As to the Kutash declaration, the
Court OVERRULS all objections. 
 
            Plaintiff’s objections to the declaration
of Ramin Kolahi are SUSTAINED as to objection nos. 1 and 2.  Otherwise, Plaintiff’s objections are
OVERRRULED.
 
            Defendants further submitted a supplemental
declaration of Ramin Kolahi in support of their reply brief.  In addition to being new evidence submitted
for the first time in reply, the declaration is almost complete hearsay.  Based upon hearsay and a lack of foundation,
the Court will not consider paragraphs 3-5.
 
Analysis
 

Defendants Lighthouse Brooks, LLC
(“Lighthouse”) and Ramin Kolahi (“Kolahi”) move for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication against Plaintiff Affinity House, Inc.’s complaint
and each cause of action. Defendants generally argue that there was no breach
as alleged because the Certificates of Occupancy for the Subject Properties
remained valid, and Plaintiff did not suffer any damages.
 
Certificates of Occupancy
 
Defendants argue that each cause of
action relies on the non-validity of certain Certificates of Occupancy (“COs”)
for the Subject Property: 742, 744, 746, and 748 Brooks Avenue in Venice, California.
The complaint alleges five causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2)
fraud, (3) negligent concealment, (4) declaratory relief, and (5) negligence.
All five causes of action are pled against Lighthouse; but only fraud,
negligent concealment, and negligence are pled against Kolahi. 
 
“The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract
are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity
(or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) “[T]o establish fraud through nondisclosure
or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant ‘was under a
legal duty to disclose them.’” (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC
World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845.) Non-disclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff, the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff, or the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. (Id.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1060
provides that a person may bring an action for declaratory relief if he or she
“desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another,
or in respect to, in, over or upon property . . ..” (CCP, § 1060.)
 
The elements for negligence are:
(1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3)
causation; and (4) damage to the plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)  
 
The complaint alleges that it was
critically important for Defendants to maintain the COs for the Properties as
part of the lease. (Compl., ¶ 16.) Unbeknownst to Plaintiff, during the
negotiation process for the lease, Defendants were embroiled in litigation
involving neighbors in the Venice community and the California Coastal
Commission (the "Construction Lawsuit"). (Compl., ¶ 19.) The
plaintiffs in the Construction Lawsuit sought to have the Properties demolished
and/or for the COs to be revoked. (Id.) According to the complaint, Defendants
concealed and actively misrepresented certain facts to deter Plaintiff from discovering
these material issues. (Compl., ¶¶ 20-24.) If Plaintiff knew about the lawsuit,
it would not have leased the Properties. (Id. ¶ 24.) After the parties signed the
Lease, the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety (LADBS) allegedly
revoked the COs pursuant to a court order. (¶ 25.) Defendants also did not
inform Plaintiff of the revocation, and authorized Plaintiff to complete
approximately $800,000 in renovations to the Subject Property. (¶ 27.) 
 
First, Defendants do not
demonstrate that Plaintiff’s occupancy, use, and enjoyment of the Subject
Properties has never been impaired or injured because the COs remained valid
and in place from the date of issuance to the present. Defendants do not show
that the COs were, in fact, always valid. Defendants principally rely on
certain printouts showing that the LADBS website evidences that the COs for the
Subject Properties were issued in 2019. (UMF 7, 9, 13-15, 23; Kolahi Decl., Ex.
D.) These printouts are not the COs and do not purport to provide a complete
history of the validity of the subject COs. Strictly construing this evidence, the
fact that the COs were issued in January 2019 does not mean that they
were never revoked. To the contrary, the undisputed facts show that in July 2019,
the Superior Court ordered the COs to be revoked, even if that order was
overturned two years later in July 2021. Defendants cite a letter from the City
of Los Angeles indicating an intent to not comply with the court order during
the pendency of the appeal. (Id., Ex. G.) However, strictly construing this
evidence as well, the Court cannot find that this meets Defendant’s burden demonstrating
that the COs remained valid at all times. The fact that the City indicated an
intent to not comply with the order does not mean that the City did not comply
with the order.  Defendants do not submit
any declaration or records from LADBS demonstrating the continued validity of
the COs.  While Defendants submit
additional evidence in reply, the additional evidence should have been part of the
moving papers.  (See San Diego
Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 313
(“While the code provides for reply papers, it makes no allowance for
submitting additional evidence or filing a supplemental separate statement.”)  
 
Even if the proffered evidence met
Defendants’ burden, which it does not, Plaintiff presents a dispute of material
fact through judicially noticeable documents and evidence. Plaintiff proffers certified
copies of the COs for the Properties from March 21, 2024, which are marked as “Revoked
– Invalid.” (RJN Exs. A-D.)  The continued revocation may be an
error in light of the successful appeal of the court order, and contradicts inadmissible
hearsay evidence submitted by Defendants in reply (See 4/17/24 Kolahi Decl., ¶
4), but the Court must construe any ambiguity in this evidence in favor of the
non-moving party. Thus, Defendants do not meet their initial burden of
production and, even if they did, there is a disputed issue of material fact as
to the status of the COs.
 
Furthermore, even if the COs were
valid throughout the tenancy, Plaintiff alleges independent duties and non-contract
damages beyond the invalidity of the COs. The breach of contract cause of
action only seeks damages for rent collected while the COs were invalid.
(Compl., ¶ 37.) However, the fraud cause of action seeks damages stemming from
Defendants’ failure to disclose the Construction Lawsuit, as well as from their
failure to disclose the revocation of the COs. (¶¶ 43-49.) The declaratory
relief action seeks a determination of: (a) the actual and legally correct
amount of the present monthly rent, (b) the amount that should be credited to
Affinity House's tenant ledger arising from current and previous excess rent
payments and unpermitted rent collection, and (c) the nature and amount of any
consequent sums that should be reimbursed or disgorged to the plaintiff. (¶
60.) The negligence cause of action seeks substantially the same relief as the
fraud and breach of contract causes of action. (¶ 65.) The complaint alleges
that the Construction Lawsuit itself was a material fact of the
transaction which was concealed. (Compl., ¶ 19.) Plaintiff pleads that it would
not have entered into the Lease or the option to purchase if it knew of the
lawsuit. (Compl., ¶ 18.) Plaintiff pleads that it would not have accepted the
heightened rent of $34,000.00 but for an option to purchase. (Id.) 
 
Defendants do not explain why the
validity of the COs would have any impact on the alleged failure to disclose
the Construction Lawsuit itself during negotiations for the Lease. The complaint
therefore establishes a breach of the duty to disclose material facts and
resulting damages, which remain unrebutted by Defendants. Therefore, even if
Defendants show that the COs were never revoked, Defendants still do not meet
their burden to defeat the fraud, declaratory relief, or negligence causes of
action.
 
Damages
 
Defendants do not demonstrate that
Plaintiff has not been damaged by all of the pled breaches. As Defendants have
not shown that the COs remained valid throughout the tenancy, Plaintiff
properly claims rent collected during that period as damages. Without the COs in
place, Plaintiff was reasonably precluded from invoking its bargained-for
option to purchase in 2020. (Compl., ¶ 30.) The Court concurs that a reasonable
person may not want to invoke the option to purchase while the validity of the
COs were in question. Thus, the Court sees no reason why this potentially would
not be a basis for potential damages. Plaintiff also agreed to pay a higher
than market rate monthly rent of $34,000.00 because of the option agreement,
which was contingent on the validity of the COs as well as the option. (¶ 31.) Defendant
does not present any evidence or undisputed material facts rebutting these
items of damages.
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff
claims damages beyond those damages connected to the validity of the COs,
including from the fraudulent inducement of the Lease and option agreement. Such
damages are not addressed in the moving papers. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED. 