 Case Number:  21STCV33923    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  48  
                                                                                                   
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEO CORDOVA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LONG SPRING FREIGHT, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV33923
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED
  AS COUNSEL; SETTING OSCs
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 24, 2023



 
Kevin
Yang, counsel of record for Defendant Long Spring Freight LLC, seeks to be relieved
as counsel.  Counsel’s declaration states
that he is unable to continue representing Long Spring because client communication
is no longer possible after the death of Defendant Grace Hui, the manager and sole
client contact for Long Spring.  Grace Hui’s
brother told counsel that Long Spring is no longer operational, and no one is authorized
to make litigation decisions on its behalf.
Plaintiff
Leo Cordova opposed the motion.  Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections are overruled.  Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice is granted.
Plaintiff
argues that there is an alternative managing member for Defendant Long Spring.  According to Long Spring’s Statement of Information
filed on October 5, 2022, Jerry Wang is a manager and Chief Executive Officer.  (RJN, Ex. A.)
Jerry
Wang provided a declaration to Plaintiff’s counsel.  (Opposition, Bressler Decl., Ex. 1 [“Wang Decl.”].)  He declares that before Grace Hui’s death, she
asked him to assist her in winding down the operations of Long Spring.  (Wang Decl. ¶ 3.)  Jerry Wang was not aware of any appointment as
an officer.  (Wang Decl. ¶ 3.)  Other than assisting Grace Hui with winding down
Long Spring, he does not have any knowledge of Long Spring’s past business activities,
any documents relating to Plaintiff, or any personal knowledge about Plaintiff’s
allegations.  (Wang Decl. ¶ 3.)
Despite
this, Jerry Wang is indeed named as a manager of Long Spring in its most recent
Statement of Information.  The Court takes
judicial notice of the fact that Long Spring is currently listed as Active and in
good standing with the Secretary of State. 
Long Spring has not been formally dissolved, pending instructions from Grace
Hui’s estate.  (Wang Decl. ¶ 4.)  Accordingly, because Long Spring remains active
and Jerry Wang is an alternative client contact, the motion to be relieved as counsel
is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
If
counsel files a future motion to withdraw on a different basis, Long Spring is cautioned
that “a corporation cannot represent itself in a court of record either in propria
persona or through an officer or agent who is not an attorney.”  (Caressa Camille, Inc. v. Alcoholic Beverage
Control Appeals Bd. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.)
Plaintiff
also argues that if the motion is granted, he will be unduly prejudiced by a continuance
of the December 11, 2023 trial date because he is “prepared and ready to present
his case at trial.”  Although the Court is
denying the motion, the trial date still needs to be continued.  This case is not yet at issue.  Defendant A&D Hauling Services has been served,
but it has not yet appeared in this action, and Plaintiff has not taken its default.  Plaintiff must also dismiss Grace Hui or seek
to substitute her personal representative or successor-in-interest.
An
Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal for Failure to Obtain Entry of Default of A&D
Hauling Services is scheduled for January 25, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
An
Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal for Failure to Substitute Successor-in-Interest
is scheduled for January 25, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
The
Final Status Conference scheduled for November 27, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. is advanced
to this date and CONTINUED to August 19, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
The
Jury Trial (10 day estimate) scheduled for December 11, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. is advanced
to this date and CONTINUED to September 3, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 24th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 