  Case Number:  24TRCV02926    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
LYNDA
  HARRAP, an Individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02926




 
v.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted




 
ROBINSON
  HELICOPTER COMPANY, INC., a California corporation; and DOES 1 through 100,
  inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             November 12, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:          Defendant Robinson
Helicopter Company 
 
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Lynda Harrap
 
HEARING: MOTION TO DISMISS OR STAY
ACTION FOR FORUM NON CONVENIENS
            
The Court considered the moving
papers.  
 
RULING
            The Court grants the Motion to dismiss for
Forum Non Conveniens.
 
BACKGROUND
            On September 3, 2024,
Plaintiff Lynda Harrap filed the Complaint against Defendant Robinson
Helicopter Company, alleging causes of action for strict products liability,
breach of warranties, and negligence arising from a helicopter crash that
occurred on June 12, 2021, in New Zealand.
 
            On October 11, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant Motion to Dismiss or Stay Action for Forum Non
Conveniens.
 
            On November 5, 2024,
Defendant filed the Opposition.
 
            On November 6, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the notice of non-opposition.
            
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“When a court, upon motion of a party or its
own motion, finds that in the interest of substantial justice, an action should
be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the
action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).) 
 
“Forum non conveniens is an equitable doctrine
invoking the discretionary power of a court to decline to exercise the
jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of action when it believes that the
action may be more appropriately and justly tried elsewhere. (Stangvik v.
Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.)
 
The defendant bears the burden of proof,
meaning the defendant must provide the trial court with sufficient
evidence to enable it to carry out its weighing and balancing analysis. (National
Football League v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 902,
926-927, 933.) 
 
The plaintiff's choice of forum will not be
disturbed unless the court is convinced that (1) a “suitable” alternative forum
exists and (2) the balance of private and public interest factors makes it
“just” that the litigation proceeds in the alternative forum. (Stangvik,
supra, 54 Cal.3d 752.)
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
This
case arises out of a helicopter crash that occurred on June 12, 2021, when the
helicopter experienced a power loss shortly after takeoff from a wedding venue.
The cause of the power loss remains undetermined. 
 
The
helicopter involved in this case, a Robinson model R44 II registered in New
Zealand, crashed near Christchurch, New Zealand, allegedly injuring Plaintiff
Lynda Harrap, a New Zealand resident. The aircraft was exported new to New
Zealand in 2006, and was registered, maintained, and overhauled in New Zealand.
The accident investigation was conducted by the New Zealand Civil Aviation
Authority, as mandated by international aviation agreements, with no U.S.
agencies involved. 
 
Timeliness

 
            All opposition papers must be served on the opposing
party and filed with the court at least nine court days before the
hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005 sudb. (b).) Here, the instant motion is to
be heard on November 11, 2024, and the Opposition was not filed until November
5, 2024, only four days before the hearing. While it is the preference of the
Court to hear every motion on its merits, such a late filing prejudices Defendant,
as they do not have the ability to respond with a timely reply, which is due
five court days before the hearing. Therefore, the Court cannot take the
opposition under consideration. (See, Rancho Mirage Country Club Homeowners
Assn. v. Hazelbaker (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 252, 262.)
 
            Defendant requests the Court dismiss the case or stay the
action until Plaintiff’s claim is reasserted in New Zealand, and then dismiss
the case.
 
Suitable
Alternative Forum
 
            The alternate forum is inadequate only in rare
circumstances where the remedy offered by the other forum is so clearly
unsatisfactory, that it is no remedy at all. (Piper Aircraft Co. v. Reyno
(1981) 454 U.S. 235, 254.)
 
            Defendant argues that New Zealand is an adequate
alternative forum for this case because New Zealand’s Accident Compensation Act
of 2001, provides for compensation for injuries and lost earnings through an
administrative no-fault system, which courts have previously deemed adequate. (Lueck
v. Sundstrand Corp. (9th Cir. 2001) 236 F.3d 1137, 1145; In re Silicone
Gel Breast Implants Products Liability Litigation (N.D.Ala.1995) 887
F.Supp. 1469, 1475.) Additionally, New Zealand’s status as a Commonwealth
nation and its regulations on accident claims further validate it as a suitable
forum.  (Ministry of Health, Province
of Ontario, Canada v. Shiley Inc. (C.D. Cal. 1994) 858 F.Supp. 1426, 1441.)
Furthermore, because Plaintiff is a foreign national seeking damages for an
accident occurring in her own country, her choice of a U.S. forum is entitled
to less deference. Consequently, Defendant contends that New Zealand’s legal
system offers an adequate and appropriate venue for resolving Plaintiff’s
claims.
 
            The Court has previously found that the New Zealand’s
Accident Compensation Act is an adequate remedy. (See, Lueck 236 F.3d
1137, 1144-1455.) Thus, because Defendant has shown that a satisfactory remedy
is available in New Zealand. (See, Piper, 454 U.S. 235, 254.) Therefore,
the Court finds that New Zealand is a suitable alternative forum.
 
Private Interests
 
            “The private interest factors are those that make trial
and the enforceability of the ensuing
judgment expeditious and
relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof,
the cost of obtaining
attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory process for
attendance of unwilling
witnesses.” (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at 751.)
 
            Defendant argues that the private interest factors
strongly favor trial in New Zealand. Although evidence related to the
helicopter's design and manufacture is in the U.S., New Zealand has the
strongest connections to the case, as Plaintiff is a New Zealand resident and
witnesses essential to the defense, including those knowledgeable about
aircraft maintenance, pilot training, and the accident investigation, are
located in New Zealand. Furthermore, easy access to the accident site and
witnesses familiar with local conditions would aid the trial.
 
Defendant also
highlights the lack of compulsory process to secure the attendance of New
Zealand witnesses and third-party defendants in the U.S., making it difficult
to compel testimony crucial to Defendant’s case. However, U.S.-based evidence
can be shared for a trial in New Zealand. Thus, Defendant argues that
proceeding in the U.S. would be unfair, given that critical witnesses and
evidence are beyond reach and that the case would be better handled in New Zealand,
where all relevant parties and evidence are accessible.
 
In Piper,
the Court found that the private interests favored the case proceeding in
Scotland even though design, manufacturing, and testing documents were held in
the US because the witnesses needed to testify on the accident as well as the
maintenance and upkeep records of the plane were in Scotland. (See, Piper 454
U.S. 235, 242.) Here, like in Piper, while all documents relating to the
design, manufacturing, and testing of the helicopter are in the US, witnesses
who will be called upon to testify regarding the maintenance, flight, and crash
of the helicopter are in New Zealand.  (See
Id.) Therefore, the Court finds that the private interests favor that the
litigation occurs in New Zealand. 
 
Public Interests
 
            “The public interest factors include avoidance of
overburdening local courts with
congested calendars, protecting
the interests of potential jurors so that they are not called upon to decide
cases in which the local community has little concern, and weighing the
competing
interests of California and the
alternate jurisdiction in the litigation.” (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d
at 751.)
 
            Defendant argues that public interest factors favor trial
in New Zealand, highlighting the local interest in having foreign incidents
resolved in the jurisdiction where they occurred. Defendant contends that New
Zealand’s laws govern this case based on the accident’s location, the
helicopter’s registration, and the pilot’s licensure in New Zealand. Defendant
emphasizes that California’s connection to the accident is minimal, as all
significant aspects, aircraft maintenance, pilot training, accident
investigation, and witness testimony, are based in New Zealand.
 
Given these factors
and recent dismissals of similar cases, Defendant contends that trial in New
Zealand is appropriate, as it reduces U.S. court congestion and respects New
Zealand’s legal jurisdiction.
 
            Under the International Convention on Civil Aviation this
case will likely be tried under New Zealand Law. Furthermore, New Zealand has a
stronger interest in this litigation than California does. The Plaintiff is a
New Zealand resident who was flying a helicopter based out of and maintained in
New Zealand, and the crash occurred in New Zealand. Thus, if California was to
be the forum of this litigation, California judges and jurors would be deciding
on a case wholly based in New Zealand, under New Zealand Law. Therefore, the
Court finds that the public interest weighs in favor of granting the motion.
 
            The Court grants the Motion to dismiss based on Forum Non
Conveniens.