 Case Number:  23STCV19743    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  August 17, 2023, Plaintiff Judy Lipkin (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendants City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100 for dangerous  condition of public property under Government Code sections 830, subdivision (a),  835, subdivision (b), and 835.2.  On  December 12, 2023, Defendant filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Roes 1-10 for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and  declaratory relief.  On  February 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a demurrer to Defendant’s answer, to be heard  on March 1, 2024.  On  February 5, 2024, Defendant filed a first amended answer.  On  February 16, 2024, Plaintiff a demurrer to the first amended answer, to be  heard on March 14, 2024. On March 1, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition.  On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  reply.  The Court continued the hearing  to April 15, 2024.  Trial  is scheduled for February 13, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Plaintiff  asks the Court to sustain the demurrer to Defendant’s first amended answer.  Defendant  asks the Court to overrule the demurrer or grant leave to amend. LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 430.20 provides:  “A party against whom an answer has been filed may  object, by demurrer as provided in Section 430.30, to the answer upon any one  or more of the following grounds:  “(a) The answer does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a defense.  “(b) The answer is uncertain. As used in this  subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.  “(c) Where the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be  ascertained from the answer whether the contract is written or oral.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.20.)            Code of Civil Procedure section 430.30, subdivision (a),  provides:  “(a) When any ground for objection to a complaint,  cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face thereof, or from any matter of  which the court is required to or may take judicial notice, the objection on  that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the pleading.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30,  subd. (a).)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 430.40, subdivision (b), provides:  “(b) A party who has filed a complaint or  cross-complaint may, within 10 days after service of the answer to his  pleading, demur to the answer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40,  subd. (b).)  DISCUSSION  A.   The complaint  The  complaint alleges that on October 31, 2022, due to Defendants’ negligence,  Plaintiff’s foot struck a raised portion of sidewalk located on public property  at or near 2018 Westwood Boulevard in Los Angeles which was cracked, broken,  elevated and mis-leveled.  As a result,  Plaintiff tripped and fell, suffering injuries.  B.   Defendant’s answer  The  answer denied the complaint’s allegations and asserted seven affirmative defenses.  C.   The first amended answer  The first  amended answer denies the complaint’s allegations and asserts four affirmative  defenses.  ·       First affirmative defense: “The damages alleged were  directly and proximately caused and contributed to by the negligence of  plaintiff, and the extent of damages sustained, if any, should be reduced in  proportion to the amount of said negligence.” ·       Second affirmative defense: “The damages alleged were  directly and proximately caused and contributed to by the negligence of other  persons, and the extent of damages sustained, if any, should be reduced in  proportion to the amount of said negligence.” ·       Third affirmative defense: “Plaintiff had actual  knowledge of the condition and particular danger alleged, knew and understood  the degree of the risk involved, and voluntarily assumed such risk.” ·       Fourth affirmative defense: “That Plaintiff failed to  exercise reasonable care and diligence to mitigate any damages sustained by  reason of Defendant’s alleged acts. Therefore, any damages awarded to Plaintiff  shall be limited to the damages Plaintiff would have sustained had Plaintiff  mitigated their damages.”  D.   The Court takes the hearing on Plaintiff’s demurrer to  Defendant’s initial answer off calendar  “A  party may amend its [answer] once without leave of the court . . . after a  demurrer . . . is filed but before the demurrer . . . is heard if the amended  [answer] is filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to  the demurrer . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 472, subd. (a).)  The opposition to a  demurrer must be filed at least nine court days before the hearing on the  demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,  subd. (b).)  Defendant  filed its amended answer on February 5, 2024, which was more than nine court  days before the demurrer hearing scheduled for March 1, 2024.  Therefore, the amended answer supersedes the  original answer and moots Plaintiff’s original demurrer, which the Court takes  off calendar.  (Cf. L. Edmon & C.  Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶  7:122.16, p. 7(l)-56 (Cal. Practice Guide).)  E.   Plaintiff’s demurrer to Defendant’s amended answer  Plaintiff  asserts that the four affirmative defenses alleged in Defendant’s amended  answer (Section C above) do not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.  According to Plaintiff, the affirmative  defenses contain only conclusory allegations and lack supporting facts.  F.    Analysis  Like  a complaint, an answer must plead “ultimate facts” rather than “evidentiary”  matter or legal conclusions.  (Cal.  Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:459, pp. 6-144 to 6-145; see FPI  Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384 (FPI)  [answer’s affirmative defenses of fraud in the inducement and failure of  consideration, proffered in the form of terse legal conclusions, would not have  survived a demurrer].)  The answer “must  aver facts ‘as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which constitute  the cause of action and which are alleged in the complaint.’ ”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:459, p. 6-145, quoting FPI, supra,  231 Cal.App.3d at p. 384, omitting internal quotes.)   “Lawyers  and judges have struggled with [the distinction between ultimate facts,  evidentiary facts, and legal conclusions].   [In the context of complaints], ‘[u]ltimate facts’ are those that raise  the issues on which the right to recover depends – i.e., the essential elements  of the cause of action.  All the facts that  are material to the cause of action – i.e., the facts that make a difference to  the outcome of the case – must be alleged [citation].  [Citations.]   By contrast, allegations of unnecessary detail and generalized argument  may be objectionable as ‘evidentiary’ pleading and ‘legal conclusion,’  respectively.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,  ¶ 6:124, pp. 6-39 to 6-40; see id., ¶ 6:125, p. 6-40 [as example,  allegation that defendant drove while under the influence of alcohol pleads an  ultimate fact; allegation that defendant drove immediately after consuming a  fifth of vodka pleads evidentiary matter; allegation that defendant drove in  violation of California's drunk driving laws pleads a legal conclusion].)  The requirement  that answers plead ultimate facts “is frequently ignored in practice.” (Cal.  Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:459, p. 6-145.)  The routine acceptance of answers with  affirmative defenses phrased as legal conclusions may account for the relative  lack of legal authority addressing their validity.   Here,  Defendant’s affirmative defenses allege legal conclusions and give  Plaintiff no information about the acts or omissions, by Plaintiff or others,  on which Defendant bases the defenses.  Defendant  argues that reviewing the answer in the context of the complaint provides  adequate notice of potentially meritorious defenses.  But Defendant points to nothing in the  complaint that provides this notice.  Indeed,  the complaint contains no allegations of ultimate facts that support  Defendant’s affirmative defenses.  Defendant  also cites Hoelzle v. Fresno County (1958) 159 Cal.App.2d 478 (Hoelzle) for the  proposition that “affirmative defenses are only required to put a plaintiff on  notice of the affirmative defenses plead.” [1]  (Opposition p. 4.)  In Hoelzle, the plaintiff filed an  action for wrongful death.  The defendant’s  answer included a general denial and asserted as an affirmative defense that  the decedent “ ‘did not exercise ordinary care, caution, or prudence in the  premises to avoid the happening of said accident and the said accident and  death of [decedent] were directly and proximately caused and contributed to by  the negligence in the premises of [decedent].’ ”  (Hoelzle, supra,  159 Cal.App.2d at p. 480.)  At trial,  the plaintiff objected to the defendant’s introduction of evidence and moved  for judgment on the pleadings, arguing that the defendant’s answer failed to  raise any issue or state a defense.  (Ibid.)  The trial court overruled the objection and  denied the motion.  (Ibid.)  The jury returned a verdict for the defendant.  (Ibid.)  The  plaintiff appealed, arguing the defendant’s answer was not sufficient to raise  the issue of contributory negligence.  (Hoelzle, supra, 159 Cal.App.2d at p. 482.)  Affirming, the Court of Appeal observed that “no  demurrer was filed to the answer, and if one had been filed and overruled the  plaintiff would not be entitled to a reversal of the judgment in the absence of  a showing of prejudice.” (Hoelzle,  supra, 159 Cal.App.2d at p. 482.)   Citing the ruling that pleadings are to be liberally construed (Code  Civ. Proc., § 452), the Court of Appeal concluded that “[n]o prejudice appears  here since the answer made it perfectly clear what issues the adverse parties  must meet.  Taken in connection with the  complaint, no reasonable person could be in any doubt about the issues to be  met.  Since there were no eyewitnesses to  this accident the precise facts were not known to either party, and this  suggests an additional reason why the provision for a liberal construction [Code  Civ. Proc., § 452] should be applied here.   The appellant was in no way misled and the answer was sufficient to  raise the issues of negligence and contributory negligence.” (Hoelzle, supra, 159 Cal.App.2d at p. 483.)            The Court of Appeal in Hoelzle did not squarely address  whether the trial court should have sustained a demurrer to the answer.  Instead, the Court of Appeal held that, if the  plaintiff had filed a demurrer to the answer and the trial court had overruled it,  the plaintiff could not have shown prejudice from the ruling.  In addition, Hoelzle is factually  distinguishable because Defendant has not shown that “there were no  eyewitnesses to the accident” or “the precise facts were not known to either  party.”  (See Hoelzle, supra,  159 Cal.App.2d at p. 483.)  Based on the  facts presented here, the Court finds that the Defendant is not excused from  pleading ultimate facts that inform Plaintiff of the issues she must address in  responding to Defendants’ affirmative defenses.            Finally, Defendant argues that its answer “alleges no new  matters” and its “affirmative defenses are properly premised on its general  denial of all the allegations asserted in Plaintiff’s Complaint.”  (Opposition p. 3.)  Defendant is mistaken.  Affirmative defenses are “new matter” and raise  issues “that would otherwise not be in issue under a simple denial.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:430,  p. 6-135; see Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (b) [“The answer to a complaint  shall contain (1) the general or specific denial of the material allegations of  the complaint controverted by the defendant. (2) A statement of any new matter  constituting a defense”].)  The  Court sustains Plaintiff's demurrer to the affirmative defenses in the first amended answer with leave to amend.  At the hearing on the demurrer, the parties agreed that the answer's denials would not be affected by the Court's ruling on the demurrer to the affirmative defenses. CONCLUSION  The  Court SUSTAINS Plaintiff Judy Lipkin's demurrer to the affirmative defenses in Defendant City of Los Angeles’s first amended answer with 30 days leave to amend.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.    