  Case Number:  21STCV05218    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 9, 2021, Plaintiff Robert Sutton (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Culver City (“City”), Westfield Culver City
(“Westfield Culver City”), and Does 1-20 for premises liability. 
On
March 25, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant State of
California Department of Transportation (“State”) as Doe 1. 
On
March 29, 2021, the Court dismissed the City without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
June 9, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Culver City
Mall LLC (“Mall”) as Doe 2. 
On
July 2, 2021, the Court dismissed Westfield Culver City without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
August 12, 2021, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against the State,
the Mall, and Does 1-20 for premises liability. 
On
September 15, 2021, the Mall filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants the State and Roes 1-10 for implied indemnity, contribution
and apportionment, and declaratory relief. On November 10, 2021, the State
filed an answer. 
On
November 10, 2021, the State filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
the Mall and Roes 1-50 for equitable indemnity, contractual/express indemnity,
and declaratory relief. On November 16, 2021, the Mall filed an answer. 
On
December 30, 2021, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against the State,
the Mall, and Does 3-20 for premises liability. 
On
February 14, 2022, the State filed an answer to the second amended complaint. 
On
December 19, 2022, Plaintiff amended the second amended complaint to include
Defendant Westfield Property Management,
LLC (“Westfield”) as Doe 3. 
On
March 22, 2023, the State filed a motion for summary judgment to be heard on
June 5, 2023. At Plaintiff’s request, the Court continued the hearing to April
8, 2024. On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff and the Mall filed oppositions.  On April 3, 2024, the State filed a
reply.  On August 8, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing to August 15, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 12, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The State
asks the Court to grant summary judgment on Plaintiff’s second amended
complaint and the Mall’s cross-complaint. 
Plaintiff
and the Mall oppose the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.
     Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Public entity liability for
dangerous condition of public property 
Government
Code section 835 provides: 
“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: 
“(a) A negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of his employment created the dangerous condition; or 
“(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” 

(Gov. Code, § 835.) 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections:Overruled:   3, 5-10, 12-27, 31-41Sustained:    1, 2, 4, 11, 28-30
State’s evidentiary
objections:Overruled:   2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7Sustained:    1
DISCUSSION 
I.              
The State’s
motion for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s complaint 
A.   The second amended complaint 
The
second amended complaint alleges the following: 
On
February 15, 2020, Plaintiff was driving a trash collection truck for the City
of Culver City. He was making a stop to empty trash bins in the Mall’s parking
lot, which the Mall operates.  The 90 Freeway,
which the State maintains, bisects this parking lot.  The parking lot contains marked and unmarked
points where vehicles must cross under concrete overpasses to traverse the
parking lot. 
Plaintiff
entered the parking lot at a point that was accurately marked for clearance,
then came upon an unmarked portion. Plaintiff, in reliance on the previous
clearance and not seeing anything indicating a dangerously low clearance,
entered under the concrete overpass but then his truck struck the underside or
soffit of the 91 Freeway as it was approximately halfway through. The Mall and
the State knew or should have known to accurately warn foreseeable motorists,
especially those with higher profile vehicles such as Plaintiff, of low
clearances at all reasonably foreseeable points in the parking lot where a
vehicle must cross under concrete. Plaintiff encountered a dangerous condition
on both private property (the mall parking lot) and public property (the 91
Freeway overpass that bisects the parking lot). Both Defendants had a duty to
warn of this unmarked low clearance that followed a marked slightly higher
clearance. Defendants failed to warn motorists or otherwise safeguard
motorists, leading to Plaintiff's injuries. 
B.   Undisputed facts: State’s motion for summary judgment
on Plaintiff’s second amended complaint 
On February
15, 2020 between about 5:30 a.m. to 6:00 a.m., Plaintiff was driving a garbage truck with an estimated height of 13
feet 4.8 inches when he entered a parking lot which the Mall operated in Culver
City.  The parking lot was located below
the eastbound State Route 90 onramp structure, which serves as a concrete
overpass above the parking lot. 
Plaintiff
entered the covered parking lot under a 14’6” clearance marker which showed
that the height clearance of the State Route 90 overpass was 14 feet 6 inches
at that location.  Plaintiff’s garbage
truck cleared the initial overpass without issue. 
Plaintiff
drove to the next trash dumpster. 
Because the parking lot was empty or nearly empty, Plaintiff did not drive
up and down each painted lane in the lot but instead drove across a series of
marked parking spaces toward the trash dumpster.  The height clearance of the overpass where
Plaintiff drove was lower than 14 feet 6 inches.  Plaintiff did not see any warnings that the
clearance gradually sloped downward. 
Plaintiff
did not notice that the overpass structures were slanted or angled and were of
different heights. Plaintiff assumed the height clearance of all the overpass
structures was 14 feet 6 inches.  He was
not concerned about the height clearance as labeled because he had already
cleared the overpass.    
Prior
to exiting the parking lot, Plaintiff’s vehicle struck the bottom of State Route
90 where the height clearance is 12 feet, six inches.  The point where Plaintiff's vehicle struck the underpass
was not labeled for Plaintiff to see from his direction of travel. Caltrans and the Mall had not placed signage warning
drivers that the clearance at this location was any lower than the clearance
where Plaintiff entered the parking lot. 
Plaintiff
alleges that he suffered injuries as a result of a dangerous condition of
public property. He alleges the State is liable under Government Code section
835 et seq. because it did not warn him of the height clearance of the overpass
that he struck. 
CalTrans
owned the parcel of land on which State Route 90 was built, owned the freeway
overpass structures, and reserved the right to control the space within three
feet in all directions of all structure surfaces. CalTrans determines all
vertical clearances on overpasses, reviews all requests for signage for
approval, issues permits for signage, and approves all clearance signs. 
The
portion of State Route 90 involved in the accident was constructed in the 1960s
under the jurisdiction of the Division of Highways in California, Department of
Public Works (now known as the Department of Transportation or Caltrans). The
design plans for Contract No. 07-032824 (“the Contract”), approved on November
28, 1966, show the basic alignment and profile grade which existed on the day
of the accident.  The plans for the Contract were signed and
approved, in advance of construction, by licensed engineers exercising
discretionary authority to give such approval. After construction, the plans
were stamped “As Built,” which signifies the project was completed in accordance
with the plans. The plans for the
Contract did not require any vertical clearance markings on any structures
prior to the accident on February 15, 2020. 
These
signed plans, and the information they contained, indicate that State engineers
acting within the scope of their authority and discretion approved the design
and that Caltrans has satisfied the discretionary approval element of the
immunity. 
State
Route 90 at the accident location was constructed per preapproved design plans.  These design plans were approved as
reasonable by licensed engineers vested with the discretionary authority to
give such approval.  The design plans for
the accident location conform to the standards at the time of design and
construction.  The construction was completed in conformity with those
plans.  The designs were reasonable and
there was substantial evidence the designs were reasonable. 
The
State knew that the portion of the underpass that Plaintiff struck did not have
a vertical clearance marking. 
C.   The State’s motion for summary judgment 
1.    Dangerous condition 
The
State argues it is not liable for Plaintiff’s injuries because the accident
location was not a dangerous condition as a matter of law under Government Code
section 830.2. 
“ ‘Dangerous
condition’ means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which
it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.”  (Gov. Code, § 830,
subd. (a), emphasis added.)  “A
condition is not a dangerous condition within the meaning of this chapter if
the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the
plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition
was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding
circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition
created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property
was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably
foreseeable that it would be used.” (Gov.
Code, § 830.2, emphasis added.) 
Pointing
to Plaintiff’s admission that he assumed the height clearance of the entire
parking lot was 14 feet, six inches, the State argues that Plaintiff did not
use due care when he drove through the parking lot.  (See UMF 3; Plaintiff’s depo. pp. 23-24,
50.)  According to the State, Plaintiff’s
lack of due care prevents Plaintiff from establishing the existence of a
dangerous condition as a matter of law. 
“It
has long been held that the negligence or lack of due care exhibited by a
plaintiff-user of public property does not necessarily defeat his cause of
action.”  (Swaner v. City of Santa
Monica (1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 789, 798-799.) “The Law Revision Commission's
comment to [Government Code] section 830 provides: ‘Although the condition will not be considered
dangerous within the meaning of this chapter unless it creates a hazard to
those who foreseeably will use the property or adjacent property with due care,
this does not require that the injured person prove that he was free from
contributory negligence. Contributory negligence is a matter of defense under
subdivision (b) of Section 815. The plaintiff is, however, required to
establish that the condition was one that created a hazard to a person who
foreseeably would use the property or adjacent property with due care.’”  (Id. at p. 799, quoting Law Revision
Com. com. to § 830, 32 West's Ann. Gov. Code (1980 ed.) p. 266; Deering's Ann.
Gov. Code, § 830 (1982 ed.) p. 222.)  “The
negligence of a plaintiff-user of public property, therefore, is a defense
which may be asserted by a public entity; it has no bearing upon the
determination of a ‘dangerous condition’ in the first instance.”  (Ibid.; accord Alexander v. State of California Ex Rel Dept. of
Transportation (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d
890, 899 [“[t]he Tort Claims Act does not require plaintiff to prove that the
property was actually being used with due care at the time of the injury,
either by himself or by a third party (e.g., driver of automobile in which
plaintiff was riding as a passenger)”].) 
The
State has not carried its initial burden of proof on the issue of dangerous
condition because it has not shown that, as a matter of law, the condition did
not create a hazard to those who foreseeably will use the property or adjacent
property with due care. 
2.    Actual or constructive notice 
Government
Code section 835.2 provides: 
“(a) A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous
condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual
knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of
its dangerous character. 
“(b) A public entity had constructive notice of a
dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only
if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period
of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the
exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous
character. On the issue of due care, admissible evidence includes but is not
limited to evidence as to: 
“(1) Whether the existence of the condition and its
dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection system that was
reasonably adequate (considering the practicability and cost of inspection
weighed against the likelihood and magnitude of the potential danger to which
failure to inspect would give rise) to inform the public entity whether the
property was safe for the use or uses for which the public entity used or
intended others to use the public property and for uses that the public entity
actually knew others were making of the public property or adjacent property. 
“(2) Whether the public entity maintained and operated
such an inspection system with due care and did not discover the condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.2.) 
The
State argues that Plaintiff cannot establish liability under Government Code section 835 because Plaintiff cannot
prove the State had actual or constructive notice of a dangerous
condition.  The State relies on evidence
that (1) it had no actual notice of any similar accidents at this location in
the 10 years before the accident and (2) it did not receive any safety-related
complaints about the overpass in the 10 years before accident. (See Gov. Code,
§ 835, subd. (b).) 
Plaintiff is not required to prove notice.  The Tort Claims Act codified the “ ‘well
established’ rule that a public agency was presumed to have notice of a
dangerous condition of property that was the ‘natural and probable consequence’
of the entity's own work.”  (Brown v.
Poway Unified School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 834 (Brown).)  “ ‘The creation by the public entity of a
physical facility or condition that is “dangerous” dispenses with the necessity
of notice, for the entity presumably knows already that it has affirmatively
created the condition, and thus has notice that it is dangerous.’ ” (Id.
at p. 835, quoting Van Alstyne, Cal. Government Tort Liability Practice
(Cont.Ed.Bar 1980) § 3.17b, p. 208.) In addition, it is undisputed that the State knew that the portion of the underpass that Plaintiff struck did not have a vertical clearance marking.
The
State has not carried its initial burden of proof on the issue of notice. 
3.    Sign immunity 
The
State argues it is immune from liability under Government Code sections 830.4
and 830.8.  Government Code section 830.4
provides: 
“A condition is not a dangerous condition within the
meaning of this chapter merely because of the failure to provide regulatory
traffic control signals, stop signs, yield right-of-way signs, or speed
restriction signs, as described by the Vehicle Code, or distinctive roadway
markings as described in Section 21460 of the Vehicle Code.” 
(Gov. Code, § 830.4.) 
          Government Code section 830.8 provides: 
          “Neither a public entity nor a public
employee is liable under this chapter for an injury caused by the failure to
provide traffic or warning signals, signs, markings or devices described in the
Vehicle Code. Nothing in this section exonerates a public entity or public
employee from liability for injury proximately caused by such failure if a
signal, sign, marking or device (other than one described in Section 830.4) was
necessary to warn of a dangerous condition which endangered the safe movement
of traffic and which would not be reasonably apparent to, and would not have
been anticipated by, a person exercising due care.” 
(Gov. Code, § 830.4; see Mixon
v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 124, 136 [“a
concealed dangerous condition that is a trap to motorists or pedestrians may
require the posting of a warning sign but the absence of a warning sign itself
is not a dangerous condition”].) 
The
State asserts that the allegedly dangerous condition was not concealed and was
a “trap” only for irresponsible drivers. 
The
Court has reviewed the evidence and concludes that the State has not carried
its initial burden of showing that, as a matter of law, a reasonable person
exercising due care would have anticipated or perceived the decreasing height clearance in
the parking lot in the absence of a warning sign. 
4.    Design immunity 
a.    Statutory and case authority 
Government
Code section 830.6 provides: 
“Neither a public entity nor a public employee is
liable under this chapter for an injury caused by the plan or design of a
construction of, or an improvement to, public property where such plan or
design has been approved in advance of the construction or improvement by the
legislative body of the public entity or by some other body or employee
exercising discretionary authority to give such approval or where such plan or
design is prepared in conformity with standards previously so approved, if the
trial or appellate court determines that there is any substantial evidence upon
the basis of which (a) a reasonable public employee could have adopted the plan
or design or the standards therefor or (b) a reasonable legislative body or
other body or employee could have approved the plan or design or the standards
therefor. Notwithstanding notice that constructed or improved public property
may no longer be in conformity with a plan or design or a standard which
reasonably could be approved by the legislative body or other body or employee,
the immunity provided by this section shall continue for a reasonable period of
time sufficient to permit the public entity to obtain funds for and carry out
remedial work necessary to allow such public property to be in conformity with
a plan or design approved by the legislative body of the public entity or other
body or employee, or with a plan or design in conformity with a standard
previously approved by such legislative body or other body or employee. In the
event that the public entity is unable to remedy such public property because
of practical impossibility or lack of sufficient funds, the immunity provided
by this section shall remain so long as such public entity shall reasonably
attempt to provide adequate warnings of the existence of the condition not
conforming to the approved plan or design or to the approved standard. However,
where a person fails to heed such warning or occupies public property despite
such warning, such failure or occupation shall not in itself constitute an
assumption of the risk of the danger indicated by the warning.” 
(Gov. Code, § 830.6.) 
“[Government
Code [s]ection 830.6, commonly referred to as ‘design immunity,’ precludes
liability for any injury caused by ‘the plan or design of . . . , or an
improvement to, public property.’”  (Tansavatdi
v. City of Rancho Palos Verdes (2023) 14 Cal.5th 639, 653 (Tansavatdi),
quoting Gov. Code, § 830.6.) “As [the Court] explained in [Cornett v. Dept.
of Transportation (2001) 26 Cal.4th 63 (Cornett)], design immunity
requires that a public entity establish three elements: “ ‘(1) a causal
relationship between the plan or design and the accident; (2) discretionary
approval of the plan or design prior to construction; and (3) substantial
evidence supporting the reasonableness of the plan or design.’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Cornett, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 69.) “Resolution of the
third element — the existence of substantial evidence supporting the
reasonableness of the adoption of the plan or design — is a matter for the
courts, not the jury, to decide.” (Ibid., citing Gov. Code, § 830.6
[“[T]he trial or appellate court” is to determine whether “there is any
substantial evidence upon the basis of which ... a reasonable public employee
could have adopted the plan or design”].) 
In Menges
v. Department of Transportation (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 13, 19, the Court of
Appeal explained: 
“ ‘ “[T]he normal rules governing a motion for summary
judgment, and requiring its denial if any triable issue of fact appears, are
not fully applicable [to cases involving design immunity under Government Code
section 830.6.] For example, the defendant is not required to prove to the
court that the design or plan was in fact a reasonable one. Instead, the
defendant is merely required to adduce any ‘substantial evidence’ that a
reasonable public employee or legislative body could have approved the plan or
design used under [Government Code section] 830.6. Thus, when the defendant
files a motion for summary judgment, the existence of a possible conflict of
evidence, as shown by the proof submitted on the motion, will not create a
triable issue on this aspect of the defense that can defeat a summary judgment
....” ’ [Citation.]” (Wyckoff v. State of California (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 45, 50-51, 108 Cal.Rptr.2d 198 (Wyckoff).) “We are not
concerned with whether the evidence of reasonableness is undisputed; the statute
provides immunity when there is substantial evidence of reasonableness, even if
contradicted. [Citations.]’ ” (Grenier v. City of Irwindale (1997) 57
Cal.App.4th 931, 939-940, 67 Cal.Rptr.2d 454 (Grenier).) “That a
plaintiff's expert may disagree does not create a triable issue of fact.’ ” 
(Id. at p. 941.) 
b.    Analysis 
Plaintiff
does not dispute the State’s assertion that it has established the first
element of design immunity: a causal relationship between the plan or design
and the accident. 
The
State argues that the following undisputed facts establish the second element
of design immunity, discretionary approval of the plan or design prior to
construction: 
·       The portion of State Route 90 involved in the accident
was constructed in the 1960s under the jurisdiction of the Division of Highways
in California, Department of Public Works (now known as the Department of
Transportation or Caltrans). The design plans for Contract No. 07-032824 (“the
Contract”), approved on November 28, 1966, show the basic alignment and profile
grade which existed on the day of the accident. 
The plans for the Contract were signed and approved, in advance of
construction, by licensed engineers exercising discretionary authority to give
such approval. After construction, the plans were stamped “As Built” which
signifies the project was completed in accordance with the plans. The plans for
the Contract did not require any vertical clearance markings on any structures
prior to the accident on February 15, 2020. 
·       These signed plans, and the information they
contained, indicate that State engineers acting within the scope of their
authority and discretion approved the design and that Caltrans has satisfied
the discretionary approval element of the immunity. 
·       State Route 90 at the accident location was
constructed per preapproved design plans. 
These design plans were approved as reasonable by licensed engineers
vested with the discretionary authority to give such approval.  The design plans for the accident location
conform to the standards at the time of design and construction.  The construction was completed in conformity
with those plans. 
In
response, Plaintiff argues that the State has failed to show it considered the
risk presented by a sloping overpass that did not warn drivers of its
decreasing height clearance after the point of entry. 
In Rodriguez
v. Department of Transportation (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 947 (Rodriguez),
the plaintiff contended that a public official's approval of a
design did not constitute an exercise of discretionary authority under
Government section 830.6 if the official admitted that he or she never actually
considered whether to utilize the safety feature plaintiff asserted would have
prevented his or her injuries.  (Rodriguez,
supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at pp. 950-951.) 
The Court of Appeal rejected the plaintiff’s contention and affirmed the
trial court’s grant of summary judgment, reasoning: 
“[U]nder the language of [Government Code] section
830.6, all that is required to establish the discretionary approval element is
evidence that an employee with discretionary authority approved the plan or
design. Here, Caltrans presented such evidence. That the project engineer also
stated he did not consider the use of [the safety feature that the plaintiff
asserted would have prevented his injuries] is irrelevant to the discretionary
approval element. It is relevant, however, to the reasonableness element, as it
is at that stage the court considers whether it is reasonable that an employee,
in approving a design without considering a particular design feature, adopted
a design that “ ‘a reasonable ... employee could have approved.’ ” (Id.
at p. 958, quoting Gov. Code, § 830.6.) 
Accordingly,
the State has established the discretionary approval element. 
The
State has established the third element – the existence of substantial evidence
supporting the reasonableness of the adoption of the plan or design – based on
the undisputed facts that the designs were reasonable and there was substantial
evidence the designs were reasonable. 
Therefore,
the State has established that it is entitled to design immunity on a cause of
action for public entity liability for a dangerous condition of public property.  This conclusion does not necessarily mean the
Court must grant the State’s motion for summary judgment, however, because
Plaintiff has asserted a separate claim for failure to warn. 
5.    Failure to warn 
In Tansavatdi,
supra, 14 Cal.5th 639, the Supreme Court held that “design immunity does
not categorically preclude failure to warn claims that involve a
discretionarily approved element of a roadway.” 
(Tansavatdi, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 647, citing Cameron
v. State of California (1972) 7 Cal.3d 318, 329 (Cameron).)  Thus, “ ‘[w]here the state is immune from
liability for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of its property because
the dangerous condition was created as a result of a plan or design which
conferred immunity under [Government Code] section 830.6, the state may
nevertheless be liable for failure to warn of this dangerous condition.’ ” (Ibid.)  As a result, “while section 830.6 shields
public entities from liability for injuries resulting from the design of the
physical features of a roadway, they nonetheless retain a duty to warn of known
dangers that the roadway presents to the public.”  (Ibid.) 
The
Court concluded that a plaintiff pursuing a claim for failure to warn of a
dangerous traffic condition that is subject to design immunity must prove the
following elements: “(1) the public entity had actual or constructive notice
that the approved design resulted in a dangerous condition (see [Gov. Code] §§
835, subd. (b) & 835.2 [defining ‘notice’ within the meaning of § 835,
subd. (b)]); (2) the dangerous condition qualified as a concealed trap, i.e.,
‘would not [have been] reasonably apparent to, and would not have been
anticipated by, a person exercising due care’ (§ 830.8); and (3) the absence of
a warning was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury.”  (Tansavatdi, supra, 14 Cal.5th
at p. 662.) 
On
the first element (notice), as discussed above, the Tort Claims Act codified
the “ ‘well established’ rule that a public agency was presumed to have notice
of a dangerous condition of property that was the ‘natural and probable
consequence’ of the entity's own work.” 
(Brown, supra, 4 Cal.4th at p. 834.)  “ ‘The creation by the public entity of a
physical facility or condition that is “dangerous” dispenses with the necessity
of notice, for the entity presumably knows already that it has affirmatively
created the condition, and thus has notice that it is dangerous.’ ” (Id.
at p. 835.)  In addition, it is undisputed that the State knew that the portion of the underpass that Plaintiff struck did not have a vertical clearance marking. 
On
the second element (whether the dangerous condition qualified as a concealed
trap), the Court has already determined that the State has not carried its initial burden of showing that, as a
matter of law, a reasonable person exercising due care would have anticipated or perceived the decreasing height clearance in the parking lot in the absence of a warning sign. (Part I.C.3, ante.) 
The
State does not directly address the third element (whether the absence of
warning was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury) aside from
arguing that Plaintiff’s own negligence caused the accident.  
The
Court finds that the State has not carried its initial burden on summary
judgment of showing that Plaintiff cannot present evidence to support his claim
for failure to warn based on Tansavatdi and Cameron.  The
Court therefore denies the State’s motion for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s second amended complaint. 
II.           
The State’s
motion for summary judgment on the Mall’s cross-complaint 
The
State argues: “For the same reasons the State is not liable to plaintiff for a
Dangerous Condition of Public Property, the State cannot be liable to Culver
City Mall for any of its claims. Moreover, the State is immune from liability
for common law tort causes of action, so a finding of Negligence against Culver
City Mall cannot be a basis for indemnity, contribution or apportionment
against the State.” 
The
Court takes the State’s motion for summary judgment on the Mall’s
cross-complaint off calendar.  To the
extent that the motion is not based on the same issues raised in the State’s
motion for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s second amended complaint, the Court
declines to address those issues in the absence of a separately filed motion
for summary judgment. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant State of California Department
of Transportation’s motion for summary judgment on Plaintiff Robert Sutton’s second
amended complaint. 
The
Court takes off calendar Defendant State of California Department of Transportation’s motion for summary
judgment on Defendant and Cross-Complainant Culver City Mall LLC’s
cross-complaint. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.