 Case Number:  24STCP00741    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  82 Beta Pi Sigma Sorority, Inc.                                     Case
No. 24STCP00741
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: May 24, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Ida
F. Cochrane, et al.                                              Department: 82 
                                                                                    Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petitioner’s Motion
for Preliminary Injunction
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Petitioner
Beta Pi Sigma Sorority, Inc. (“Petitioner” or “BPS”) is a non-profit sorority.  This writ petition concerns a dispute over
who controls Petitioner and the accuracy of the Statement of Information on
file with the Secretary of State. 
Petitioner alleges that Respondents “organized an unofficial and
unauthorized 2023 National Convention in August 2023, wherein they elected a
National Board of Directors and national officers (‘Fake Board and/or
Officers’).”  (Petition, ¶ 1.)  Petitioner alleges that the “fake” board and
officers “seized access to BPS national checking accounts, . . . diverted BPS
fund for unauthorized BPS purposes; seized access to BPS’s website and
improperly identified themselves as notional board and national elected
officials; [and] placed the Fake Board and/or Officers onto BPS’s Statement of
Information on file with [the] California Secretary of State . . . .”  (Id., ¶ 2.) 
Several current or former members of Petitioner filed declarations in
support of the motion for preliminary injunction.[1]  
 
            Petitioner
filed an ex parte application for a temporary restraining order.  The court (Beckloff, J.) denied the ex parte
application, finding no exigency, but construed the pleadings as a motion for
preliminary injunction.  Petitioner seeks
a prohibitory preliminary injunction enjoining Respondents from engaging in any
of the following acts prior to the trial on the writ petition: (1) Transferring
any funds related to Beta Pi Sigma Sorority Inc.’s checking account (Account
number 0005 5790 4028); (2) Making changes to BPS’s website (https://www.betapisigmasorority.org/); (3) Holding themselves out as BPS national board and/or
national elected officers; and (4) Making changes to BPS’s Statement of
Information on file with California Secretary of State.  Petitioner also seeks a mandatory preliminary
injunction requiring Respondents to: (1) Secure and “hand over” BPS’s archives;
(2) Transfer any and all bank account records to Petitioner and allow
Petitioner to transfer said bank accounts to BPS’s duly elected national
officers and or members of BPS’s duly-elected National Board of Directors; and
(3) Relinquish control of BPS’s website to BPS’s duly-elected National Officers
and/or National Board of Directors.  
 
 
FACTUAL BACKGROUND 
 
Petitioner is a California
non-profit corporation that is registered with the California Secretary of
State.  (McLurkin Decl. ¶ 3.)  Petitioner has existed as a corporation since
May 1945.  (Mahoney Decl. filed 3-19-24 ¶
1.)  According to the Statement of
Information filed with the California Secretary of State on September 7, 2023, Petitioner’s
Chief Executive Officer is Respondent Terri Stallings and Petitioner’s Chief
Financial Officer is Respondent Teresina Mahoney.  (Stalling Decl. filed 3-19-24, ¶ 2 and Exh. A
[Statement of Information filed with Secretary of State, 9-7-23].)  According to the petition, which is verified
by Cassandra Ray, Petitioner’s
Constitution and Bylaws (Subsection III, Article XVI, Section 4) state that the
host chapter for the Petitioner’s National Convention and Annual Meeting shall
be assigned in “Greek Alphabetical Order.” 
(Pet. ¶ 16.)  The petition alleges
that “for 2023, pursuant to the National Rotation Schedule, the host chapter
for 2023 National Convention was Epsilon chapter.”  (Ibid.; see also Hurd Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)    
 
Since 2019, Marguerite Turner has
been the Baselius (or President) of the Epsilon chapter, which is based in Los
Angeles.  At the August 2022 Annual
Meeting, Turner caused a flyer to be distributed that indicated that the August
2023 National Convention would be hosted by Epsilon chapter in Los
Angeles.  (Turner Decl. ¶ 3, Exh.
A.)  A committee of Epsilon chapter
selected the Four Points by Sheraton in Culver City, CA, as the proposed
location for the August 2023 National Convention.  (Id. ¶ 5.) 
However, Respondent Gwendolyn Hutchinson, the Petitioner’s Supreme
Basileus (National President) criticized the proposed location, indicated that
she wanted the 2023 National Convention to be held in Las Vegas, and refused to
approve the contract with Four Points. 
(Id. ¶ 5.)
 
            An
emergency meeting with Petitioner’s National Board of Directors was allegedly scheduled
for February 7, 2023, via Zoom, to discuss Hutchinson’s refusal to approve a
contract with Four Points for the August 2023 National Convention.  (Id. ¶¶ 7-8.) 
Hutchinson did not appear for the Zoom call.  (Id. ¶ 9.) 
According to Turner, the National Board of Directors acknowledged that
the Epsilon chapter was the “proper chapter to host the 2023 National
Convention and that any documents that needed to be executed by the National
Officer/Board would be executed by Ruby Hurd, National Chairperson of the
Board.”  (Id. ¶ 11; see also
Jordan-Thomas Decl. ¶¶ 8-11.)  However, Respondent
Stallings declares that there was no quorum at the February 2023 meeting; that
Hurd was not authorized to sign the contract with Four Points; and that Hurd
was subsequently removed as chairperson of the National Board and as a member
of Petitioner’s sorority as a result of her misconduct.  (Stallings Decl. ¶¶ 4-7, Exh. B-C.)
 
            On
or about July 20, 2023, at Hurd’s instruction, Channel Law Group, LLP, issued a
letter to Hutchinson and other “selected members” of Petitioner stating, in
part: “[T]he upcoming convention in Las Vegas, NV between August 7-16, 2023 is
not authorized and/or sanctioned by Beta Pi Sigma…. Any attempts to amend Beta
Pi Sigma’s By Laws, Constitution, etc. will be deemed invalid and any election
of officers will be deemed void.”  (Hurd
¶ 12, Exh. A.) However, neither Hurd nor Petitioner filed a lawsuit to enjoin
this upcoming convention.  
            
            Two
different National Conventions were held in August 2023.  According to Hurd, “[t]he National Convention
was eventually approved and it was conducted virtually from August 9-11, 2023”
(hereafter “Virtual Convention”).  (Hurd
Decl. ¶ 13.)  Hurd declares that “[o]n
August 12, 2023, the new board and officers were duly elected. Cassandra Ray
was elected Chairman of BPS’s National Board of Directors. Pamela Tiller was
elected Supreme Baselius, Pamela Tiller as Secretary and Inil Swann-Cook as
Treasurer.”  (Id. ¶ 14.)  According to Respondents, the National
Convention was held in person in San Mateo (hereafter “San Mateo Convention”).  (Mahoney Decl. ¶ 3.)[2]  Mahoney declares that the Respondents were
elected to the National Board at this convention, and that the Statement of
Information was filed with the Secretary of State based on the “official
election” that occurred at this convention. 
(Id. ¶ 5.)
 
Shortly after the conventions held
in August 2023, Cassandra Ray, who was elected the National Board Chairman at
the Virtual Convention, sought to add newly elected officers to Petitioner’s
bank accounts.  At that time, Ray learned
that the alleged “rogue group of BPS members went to Bank of America and put
their names in as the persons with signing authority,” causing Ray and others
to be “locked out” of the bank accounts. 
(Ray Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
On or about September 5, 2023, Petitioner’s
Certified Public Accountant, Mark R. Jackson, resigned.  (Pet. ¶ 29; Ray Decl. ¶ 11.)  In his resignation letter, Jackson explained:
“I have not been provided with any information or support to prepare the
organization’s fiscal year ended July 31, 2022 tax returns. Also, I've been
provided conflicting information as to the current Board Officers for the
organization.”  (Ray Decl. Exh. H.)
 
On or about September 15-16, 2023,
Ruby Hurd received information that Petitioner’s storage unit for its archives
had been closed and the contents moved to a different location.  (Hurd Decl. ¶¶ 15-19.)  Hurd reported the matter to the Carson
Sheriff’s Office, which indicated that “it was a civil matter.”  (Id. ¶ 19.) 
  
 
On or about September 27, 2023, a
meeting was held between members of the National Board who were purportedly
elected at the Virtual Convention and members of the National Board who were
purportedly elected at the San Mateo Convention.  The topic of this meeting was “reunification
of our Sorority.”   (Ray Decl. ¶ 13, Exh.
J.)
 
In or about October 2023, Cassandra
Ray, who was elected the National Board Chairman at the Virtual Convention,
instructed attorney Charles McLurkin, of Channel Law Group, to file a complaint
against the “rogue element of BPS” with the California Department of
Justice.  On October 16, 2023, the
Attorney General’s office responded that “[t]he Attorney General does not
review matters involving internal labor disputes, contested elections,
disagreements between directors and members over policy and procedures, and
most legal actions between charities and third parties regarding contracts or
torts.”  (Ray Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B.)
 
On or about January 16, 2024,
Petitioner’s insurance advisor emailed Ray and stated that Petitioner’s General
Liability insurance policy would be cancelled if not paid by February 6,
2024.  (Id. ¶ 14, Exh. K.)  Petitioner’s declarants and Respondents do
not indicate whether this bill was paid or whether the insurance policy was
cancelled.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
The purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo
pending a decision on the merits.  (Major v. Miraverde Homeowners Ass’n.
(1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 618, 623.)  In
deciding whether or not to grant a preliminary injunction, the court looks to
two factors, including “(1) the likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail on
the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms that is likely to result from
the granting or denial of interim injunctive relief.”  (White
v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 553-54.) The factors are interrelated, with
a greater showing on one permitting a lesser showing on the other.  (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.)  However, the party seeking
an injunction must demonstrate at least a reasonable probability of success on
the merits.  (IT Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 73-74.)  The party seeking the injunction bears the
burden of demonstrating both a likelihood of success on the merits and the
occurrence of irreparable harm.  (Savage v. Trammell Crow Co. (1990) 223
Cal.App.3d 1562, 1571.) Irreparable harm may exist if the plaintiff can show an
inadequate remedy at law.  (CCP §
526(a).) 
 
“The granting or denying of a preliminary injunction does not constitute
an adjudication of the ultimate rights in controversy.”  (Cohen v. Board of Supervisors (1985)
40 Cal.3d 277, 286; see also Yee v. American National Ins. Co. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 453, 457-458 [“a preliminary injunction is not a determination
on the merits….”].)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Respondents
filed their opposition late.  Because the
hearing was noticed for May 24, 2024, the opposition brief should have been
served electronically by May 9, 2024. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1005 & 1010.6(a)(3)(B).)  The opposition was filed and served
electronically on May 14, 2024.  The
court shall consider this opposition brief. 
The brief was only two pages (in addition to the caption and signature
pages) and Petitioner filed a reply brief on the merits, so there is no
prejudice to Petitioner.  
 
            The
court denies the motion for a preliminary injunction the merits.  The application is based on Petitioner’s
cause of action for writ of ordinary mandate pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085.  There are two
essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate: (1) a
clear, present, and ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a
clear, present, and beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the
performance of that duty. (California
Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.)
 
            Petitioner
alleges that Respondents’ actions in holding the San Mateo Convention; electing
a “Fake Board and Officers;” seizing access to Petitioner’s bank accounts and
website; identifying themselves as officers on the Statement of Information;
and taking control of Petitioner’s archives violated Petitioner’s Constitution
and Bylaws.  (Pet. ¶¶ 24, 34,
36-38.)  Although the argument is not
fully developed, Petitioner suggests that Respondents’ actions conflicted with
Subsection III of Petitioner’s Constitution and Bylaws, and particularly with Article
XVI, Section 4, which states that the National Convention and Annual Meeting
shall be assigned in “Greek Alphabetical Order.” (Pet. ¶¶ 14-16 and Ex Parte
Section II.A.)  
 
            Article
XVI, titled “Meetings, Conventions, and Founders Day,” states in relevant part:

 
The National Convention and/or Annual
Meeting shall be held in the month of August at a location selected by the host
Chapter. Host Chapter for National Convention and Annual Meeting shall be
assigned in Greek Alphabetical Order. [1987] Conventions shall be held in odd
numbered years, Annual Meetings shall be held in even number years.  
 
(Jordan-Thomas
Decl. Exh. 1.)  Jordan-Thomas
authenticates Petitioner’s National Rotation Schedule, which states that
Epsilon Chapter was the assigned host for the 2023 National Convention.  (Id. Exh. 2.) 
Based upon the foregoing, it appears that: (1) the Epsilon Chapter was
the proper host of the 2023 National Convention/Annual Meeting; (2) The Epsilon
Chapter may select the location for the National Convention/Annual Meeting; and
(3) The Epsilon Chapter conducted a virtual National Convention/Annual Meeting.  By contrast, Respondents take the position
that the virtual meeting was procedurally defective:
 
If Ms. Hurd claims that she held an
election of national officers virtually and with only 22 delegates, such an
election is void and extraconstitutional without the participation of the
Supreme Basileus (our Sorority’s President), without National Officers
participating, without a Nominating Committee, without a National Credential
Committee—all of whom attended the August 2023 in person National Convention
last August.
 
(Mahoney
Decl., ¶ 4.)  Moreover, Petitioner’s
evidence suggests that the Supreme Basileus has a role in approving the
location of the National Convention. 
(See, e.g., Declaration of Rhonda Jordan-Thomas, ¶ 5.)   Simply, the court cannot determine which
party is likely to prevail on the merits (especially since the parties’
briefing does not adequately address the dispositive issues).  Therefore, Petitioner’s motion for a preliminary
injunction is denied.  The court need not
reach the issue of irreparable harm.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s
motion for a preliminary injunction is denied.
 
            2.         The
court advances the trial setting conference. 
The court sets trial for ______________, ___, at 9:30 a.m.  The opening brief shall be due 60 days before
trial; the opposition brief shall be due 30 days before trial; and the reply
brief shall be due 15 days before trial. 
 
            3.         Petitioner’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  


