  Case Number:  22AHCV00990    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



DARRYL ABBINANTE,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
KATHERINE
   R. HARTER, M.D., et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00990
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT FILED BY DEFENDANTS HUNTINGTON HEALTH
  AND HUNTINGTON MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 17,
  2024




 


 


 



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
          Plaintiff
Darryl Abbinante (“Plaintiff”) filed this medical malpractice action against
defendants Huntington Health and Huntington Memorial Hospital (collectively,
“Defendants”) on November 2, 2022. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
failed to provide a safe environment in
which diagnosis, treatment and recovery could be carried out, failed to
implement proper procedures, policies, protocols, guidelines, and rules, failed
to insure adherence to existing procedures, policies, protocols, guidelines,
and rules, failed to provide appropriate and adequate facilities, testing,
supplies, and failed to provide to provide qualified personnel reasonably
necessary for the treatment of patients, including, but not limited to,
Plaintiff, failed to authorize or discouraged the use of necessary medical
testing as a cost saving scheme thereby placing profits over patient care, failed
to comply with California and federal statutory law and failed to properly
investigate and extend, maintain and/or revoke privileges or employment of
[co-defendant] Katherine R. Harter, M.D. and Does 1 through 5, inclusive, and
each of them, and failed o terminate the employment of other healthcare providers
and non-profesional employees as required to provide for the safety and
well-being of, among others, Plaintiff herein. 
 
(Compl., ¶ 17.) 
          On February
28, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for summary judgment. The motion is
unopposed. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once
the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . .
. to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.)
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
IV.    DISCUSSION
In a medical malpractice action,
a plaintiff must establish the following elements: “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.  [citations.]” (Galvez v.
Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice action
must “present evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact from
finding it was more likely than not that their treatment fell below the
standard of care.” (Johnson v. Superior
Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) “When a defendant moves for summary
judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the
community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.3d 977, 984-985.)
          Defendants submit the
expert declaration of Miles Shaw, M.D. (“Dr. Shaw”), a board-certified
emergency physician, who opines that the care and treatment provided by
Defendants and its nurse complied with the standard of care. Dr. Shaw reviewed
Plaintiff’s complaint and medical records and states that the nursing records
show that Plaintiff’s complaints were appropriately responded to by Defendants’
nurses and employees and that Dr. Harter was appropriately contacted by the
nursing staff with concerns. (Shaw Decl. ¶ 27, 29.) Dr. Shaw also states that
the nursing records show that the nurses and employees followed physician
orders and reassessed Plaintiff at appropriate intervals. (Shaw Decl. ¶ 27.) Further,
the radiological studies, EKGs and laboratory testing ordered by Dr. Harter
were performed in a timely manner and the medications ordered by Dr. Harter
were appropriately administered. (Shaw, Decl. ¶ 30.) 
          Defendants also argue
that they are not vicariously liable for any physician’s alleged wrongdoing
under an ostensible agency theory. A hospital may be liable for the negligence
of physicians on an ostensible agency theory, unless (1) the hospital gave the
patient actual notice that the treating physicians are not hospital employees,
and there is no reason to believe the patient was unable to understand or act
on the information, or (2) the patient was treated by his or her personal
physician and knew or should have known the true relationship between the
hospital and physician. (Wicks v. Antelope Valley Healthcare District (2020)
49 Cal.App.5th 866. 884.) 
Here, on the day of Plaintiff’s admission to the
hospital, Plaintiff signed a “Conditions of Admission” and initialed the
section which informed him that the physicians and surgeons providing services
are not employees or agents of the hospital, but independent contractors. (UMF
Nos. 33-34.) Also, the triage nurse noted that Plaintiff was alert, awake, and
oriented; therefore, there is no evidence that he could not understand or act
on the Conditions of Admission. (UMF No. 35.) 
          In
light of the foregoing, Defendants have met their moving burden to show that no
triable issue of fact exists regarding: (1) their nurses and employees’ compliance
with the applicable standard of care and (2) their lack of liability under an
ostensible agency theory. Plaintiff did not oppose this motion and failed to
raise a triable issue of fact. Accordingly, summary judgment is appropriate. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment is GRANTED.
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 17th
day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at AHLDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the
instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org. Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter. Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.