

This is a breach of contract action. Rhonda Rothstein (Rothstein) and her company, Cal First Responders
Insurance Agency, Inc. (CFR) (jointly, Plaintiffs) sued Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company (MetLife or MLIC), Metropolitan Property and Casualty
Insurance Company, MetLife Legal Plans, Inc. (MetLaw or MLP), County of Los
Angeles Fire Museum Association (CLAFMA), Winston Financial Services, Inc.
(Winston), Jeffrey Kaliher, Paul Oyler, and Paul Schneider for breach of
contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fraud,
conversion, unfair business practices, and promissory estoppel.
Rothstein alleged that she
developed a group insurance plan for Los Angeles County firefighters. She then
reportedly entered into numerous contracts with the various Defendants to
provide and administer the insurance. The Third Amended Complaint (TAC)
principally alleges the existence of the following agreements:
• January 28, 2019: contract
between Rothstein, through her company RRIA, with Metropolitan Property and
Casualty Insurance Company. This contract was later assigned by RRIA to CFR.
The agreement governed Rothstein's commissions as to personal lines of property
and casualty insurance.
• January/February 2019: contract
between Plaintiffs and MetLaw allegedly providing Plaintiffs 10% commission of
total annual premiums for new enrollments of firefighters in the MetLaw plan
relating to legal coverage.
• Two contracts between Rothstein,
through CFR, and MetLife that were executed on May 16, 2019 (First MetLife
Non-Standard Commission Agreement) and June 10, 2019 (Second MetLife
Non-Standard Commission Agreement). These agreements allegedly established
Plaintiffs entitlement to commissions as to optional life, optional accidental
death & dismemberment, dependent optional life, dependent optional
accidental death & dismemberment, and voluntary short-term disability
coverage.
• May 16, 2019: contract between
Rothstein, through CFR, and MetLife (MetLife Enrollment Vesting Based
Commission Agreement). This agreement governed Plaintiffs' commission structure
as to critical illness insurance, hospital indemnity insurance, and accident
with hospital coverage insurance.
The Pleadings allege that by July
2019, Rothstein was entitled to at least $533,611.62 in commissions, but has
only received $19,900. In addition, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants colluded
with each other to remove her from the agreements and divert her commissions to
CLAFMA. 
As one example, Plaintiffs allege
that MetLife Defendants pressured Plaintiffs into making Winston Financial
Services (Winston) the third-party benefits administrator to its group
insurance plan. Rothstein alleges that she frequently had to step in and
provide guidance to any firefighters that had enrollment questions or
inquiries. Rothstein further alleges that, as part of this fraudulent plan,
CLAFMA terminated Plaintiffs as its insurance broker, using Winston’s
ineptitude as pretext for the termination.
Defendants County of Los Angeles
Fire Museum Association (CLAFMA), Paul Oyler (Oyler), and Paul Schneider
(Schneider) (collectively, CLAFMA Defendants) demur to the fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth causes of
action in Third Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs filed an opposition and
Defendants filed a reply.
The demurrer is sustained as to
each cause of action without leave to amend. 
Defendants MetLife and MetLaw
(collectively, MetLife Defendants) demur to the fifth, sixth, seventh,
eighth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, sixteenth and seventeenth causes of action in
the Third Amended Complaint. MetLife Defendants move to strike the
request for punitive damages and attorney fees. Plaintiffs filed an opposition
and Defendants filed a reply.
The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to the fifth,
tenth, eleventh, twelfth, sixteenth and seventeenth causes of action and
overruled as to the sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action. The
motion to strike is granted in full without leave to amend. 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
(1.)  Defendants County of Los Angeles Fire Museum
Association, Paul Oyler, and Paul Schneider’s
Demurrer to the Fifteenth,
Sixteenth, and Seventeenth Causes of Action
 
Fifteenth Cause of Action for
Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200
 
            The TAC alleges
CLAFMA Defendants engaged in unlawful conduct when it tortiously interfered
with Plaintiffs’ contracts with MetLife Defendants. (TAC ¶¶ 232-240.) 
 
The UCL
defines unfair competition as “any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act
or practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.) A business practice need only
satisfy one of the three criteria—unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent—to be
considered unfair competition. (McKell v. Wash. Mut., Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1470-1471.) 
 
            Here, the
TAC alleges that Defendants Oyler, Schneider, and CLAFMA knew about these MetLife
contracts, that CLAFMA Defendants terminated Plaintiffs as broker of record for
the purpose of diverting Plaintiffs’ commissions to themselves, and that the
termination of Plaintiffs as CLAFMA’s broker of record disrupted Plaintiffs’
contracts by inducing MetLife Defendants to claim that Plaintiffs were no
longer owed commissions as a result of being terminated as CLAFMA’s broker of
record. (TAC ¶¶ 234, 237-240.)
 
On demurrer, CLAFMA Defendants first
argue that the allegations are insufficient to state a claim because the
conduct alleged does not satisfy either the unlawful or unfair prong of Section
17200. Further, CLAFMA Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not alleged facts demonstrating
entitlement to restitution, as opposed to damages. 
 
The Court will address CLAFMA
Defendants’ restitution argument first. 
 
CLAFMA Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs’ TAC improperly seeks damages and not restitution. In opposition, Plaintiffs
– citing Paragraph 241 – argue that they have properly limited their requested
relief to relief recoverable under the UCL. (TAC ¶ 241.)
 
However, merely characterizing
relief as restitution in an allegation does not make it so. 
 
“
‘Restitution under [Business and Professions Code] section 17203 is confined to
restoration of any interest in “money or property, real or personal, which may
have been acquired by means of such unfair competition.” A restitution
order against a defendant thus requires both that money or property have been
lost by a plaintiff, on the one hand, and that it have been acquired by a
defendant, on the other.’ [Citation.]” (Zhang v. Superior Court (2013)
57 Cal.4th 364, 371.)
 
The UCL
claim here is based on the following conduct: (1.) CLAFMA Defendants terminated Plaintiffs
as the broker of record in order to induce the MetLife Defendants to claim that
Plaintiffs were no longer owed commissions under their agreements with
Plaintiffs due to Plaintiffs’ termination as CLAFMA’s broker of record and then
turn around and pay CLAFMA Defendants the commissions” (TAC ¶¶ 237-240), and
(2.) CLAFMA Defendants’ “decision to terminate Plaintiffs as
broker of record was illegal as the
termination was not supported by an official vote at an official meeting by
CLAFMA’s board of directors.” (TAC ¶¶ 89, 228.) As a result of this alleged
misconduct, Plaintiffs seek unpaid future commissions pursuant to the terms of
their MetLife contracts. (TAC ¶ 240.) 
 
Based on the underlying wrongful conduct,
Plaintiffs did not allege facts showing that they lost money, which was then
acquired by the Defendants, but, rather, that they were never adequately
compensated with the contractual commissions they were entitled to for the
services provided under the contract. (See e.g., Korea Supply
Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1149 [explaining that restitution
under the statute is limited to “return of money or property that was once in
[the plaintiff’s] possession” or “money or property in which ... she has a
vested interest.” ].)
 
The plaintiff in Korea Supply was not entitled
to restitution under the UCL because it “was not seeking the return of money or
property that was once in its possession,” nor did it have a “vested interest
in the money it [sought] to recover.” (Id. at 1149.) Similarly, here, Plaintiffs
seek the “damages” incurred by CLAFMA Defendants’ disruption to Plaintiffs’
contracts that MetLife, which resulted in Plaintiffs not receiving the future commissions.
That is, money Plaintiffs never received but claim they were owed. Nor has
Plaintiffs alleged facts demonstrating a vested interest in the money, where
the amounts were the failure to pay amount that later became due on the
contract. (Compare Cortez v. Purolator
Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23
Cal.4th 163, 177–178 [finding that employees can state a claim for restitution
under the UCL against their employer because they have a vested property
right in their earned but unpaid wages], with Korea Supply, 29 Cal.4th
at 1149–50 [finding that plaintiff could not seek restitution for its lost
contingent commission, because it had only an “attenuated expectancy” interest
in that amount]; see also; Vikco Ins. Servs., Inc. v. Ohio
Indem. Co. (1999) 70 Cal.App. 4th 55, 67–68 [insurance agent whose
contract had been terminated by the insurer could not use the UCL to “recover
unrealized commissions and general compensatory damages it suffered as a result
of being given less than 120 days written notice of termination”].)
 
 Plaintiffs’ allegations do not demonstrate
entitlement to restitution. Rather, they seek compensatory damages, and
“compensatory damages are not recoverable as restitution.” (Pineda v. Bank
of America, N.A. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 1389, 1402, fn. 14.) 
 
Plaintiffs do not provide a legal
analysis as to why the relief sought is restitution. Instead, Plaintiffs argue
that this demurrer improperly challenges the remedy rather than a cause of
action. 
 
            This argument
is not well taken. A requirement of alleging a claim under Section 17200 is that
the plaintiff  “suffered an injury in
fact and has lost money or property as a result of the unfair competition.”
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204.) The restitution allegation, therefore, is requirement
to alleging standing to prosecute an action under the UCL. (Amalgamated
Transit Union, Local 1756, AFL–CIO v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 993,
1000; Californians for Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39
Cal.4th 223, 228–229.) 
 
Because under Business
and Professions Code section 17200, “ ‘[p]revailing plaintiffs are generally
limited to injunctive relief and restitution,’ ’’ and here, the TAC did not
allege facts showing that Plaintiffs was entitled to restitution – Plaintiffs
have failed to allege standing to bring this claim, which is the proper basis
for a demurrer. (Zhang v. Superior Court (2013) 57 Cal.4th 364, 371; Drum
v. San Fernando Valley Bar Assn. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 247, 252.)
 
The demurrer
to the section 17200 cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 


Sixteenth Cause of Action for Conversion
 
            CLAFMA Defendants demur to the
conversion cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to state a
claim. 
 
“Conversion
is generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal
property of another. [Citation.] The basic elements of the tort are (1) the
plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) the
defendant’s disposition of the property in a manner that is inconsistent with
the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.” (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 119.)
“The tort of conversion is derived from the common law action of trover. The
gravamen of the tort is the defendant's hostile act of dominion or control over
a specific chattel to which the plaintiff has the right of immediate
possession.” (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil
& Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395.) 
 
Thus, to
establish a viable cause of action for conversion, Plaintiffs must establish an
actual interference with their ownership or right of possession of property. (Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 610.)
To do that they must have “either ownership and the right of possession or
actual possession [of the property] at the time of the alleged conversion
thereof.” (General Motors Acceptance Corp. v. Dallas (1926) 198 Cal.
365, 370.) 
 
“[A] mere
contractual right of payment, without more, will not suffice” to support a
claim for conversion. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 445, 452.) Moreover,
“[m]oney
cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion unless there is a
specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent accepts a sum of
money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment.” (Sanowicz v.
Bacal (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1042 [italics in original]; see also Vu v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 229, 235 [A “generalized claim for money [is] not actionable as
conversion.”].)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs’ claim is based on the contractual right to future payments of money,
which – after an alleged breach of contract based on its termination – was
diverted to another party. As noted above, generally, the breach of such a
contract does not entitle a party to a claim for conversion because doing so
would result in the
tort of conversion swallowing a significant category of contract claims
based on the failure to satisfy “ ‘mere contractual right[s] of payment.’
” (Sanowicz v. Bacal, supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at 1041; see Imperial
Valley L. Co. v. Globe G. & M. Co. (1921) 187 Cal. 352, 353–354.)
 
            Here,
the TAC alleges Plaintiffs were entitled to percentage of the premiums paid,
and, once these premiums were paid (TAC ¶ 180), Plaintiffs had a contractual right
to the funds that were held by MetLife Defendants but improperly paid to CLAFMA
Defendants. (TAC ¶ 187.) 
 
However,
although Plaintiffs characterize these payments to CLAFMA Defendants as Plaintiffs’
insurance commission payments, Plaintiffs’ claim is more appropriately
characterized as a debt owed by MetLife Defendants as result of breach of
contract rather than a possessory interest in a specific identifiable sum. (See
Voris v. Lampert
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1152 [citing examples of conversion for sums of money].)
Thus,
the amounts allegedly paid to CLAFMA Defendants by MetLife Defendants and/Winston do not support the
claim that the future payments that should have been made to Plaintiffs can be
traced to CLAFMA Defendants under a theory of conversion
anymore than Plaintiff can allege a conversion based on MetLife Defendants’
breach of contract claim.[1]
 
Plaintiff does not address this
claim in opposition. The demurrer to the conversion claim is sustained without
leave to amend. 
 
Seventeenth Cause of Action for Promissory
Estoppel
 
            CLAFMA Defendants contend Plaintiffs
have failed to state a claim for promissory estoppel. 
 
In demurring to this claim, CLAFMA Defendants
first argue that it “defies reality” to believe that Defendants CLAFMA, Oyler
and Schneider obligated themselves to pay commissions to Plaintiffs that they
never controlled, disbursed, or oversaw. (Dem. 18:19-21.)  
 
Whether
plausible or not, the Court is required to take the allegations as true for
pleading purposes on demurrer. (River’s
Side at Washington Square Homeowners Association v. Superior Court of Yolo
County (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1209,
1226 [“The sole issue raised by a general demurrer is whether the facts pleaded
state a valid cause of action, not whether they are true. No matter how
unlikely or improbable, plaintiff's allegations must be accepted as true for
the purpose of ruling on the demurrer.”].)
 
Second, CLAFMA Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs cannot state a claim because CLAFMA Defendants were not a
party to any contract. 
 
This argument also fails because a
contractual relationship is not an element of this cause of action. The
elements of a promissory estoppel claim are “(1) a promise clear and
unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is
made; (3) [the] reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the
party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.” (US Ecology,
Inc. v. State of California (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 887, 901; Joffe v.
City of Huntington Park (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 492, 513; see also Aceves
v. U.S. Bank N.A. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 218, 225.)
 
Finally, CLAFMA Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs have not adequately alleged reasonable, detrimental
reliance from a clear promise. The argument is well-taken. 
 
The TAC alleges that “[a]fter
Plaintiffs’ were notified that they were terminated as CLAFMA’s broker of
record, Plaintiffs were promised that they would receive 12 months’ worth of
commissions altogether for the lines of insurance provided by the MetLife
Defendants for which Plaintiffs had previously represented CLAFMA as their
broker of record . . ..” (TAC ¶ 252.) The TAC alleges these representations
were made by Defendant Oyler, Defendant Schneider, and Gappy (Winston’s West
Coast Executive). In reliance on these representations, Plaintiffs refrained
“from agreeing to a new deal proposed by Mr. Kaliher in his November 14 2019
and December 19, 2019 emails whereby Plaintiffs, would render advisory services
to Mr. Kaliher, under an Independent Contractor Agreement, in exchange for
payment and in connection with Mr. Kaliher’s advising of CLAFMA, on behalf of
Winston.” (TAC ¶ 255.)
 
            With
respect to demurring Defendants, the relevant communications were allegedly made
to Plaintiffs by Defendant Oyler and Defendant Schneider, executives of CLAFMA.
(TAC ¶¶ 11, 12.)[2] 
 
Specifically,
TAC alleges that “Mr. Oyler communicated to Ms. Rothstein that he had expressed
to MetLife and Winston that getting Plaintiffs paid was a top priority and that
if Winston and the MetLife Defendants did not end up paying Ms. Rothstein,
CLAFMA would have to rethink its relationship with Winston and the MetLife Defendants.”
(TAC ¶ 253.) “Paul Schneider also confirmed via email, that he, Mr. Kaliher,
persons from MetLife (on information and belief, on behalf of the MetLife
Defendants) and Winston were all working towards the goal of making sure
Plaintiffs would be paid 12 months’ commissions altogether.” (TAC ¶ 93.) 
 
            As a preliminary
matter, none of the representations asserted that CLAFMA Defendants would pay Plaintiffs,
nor do they assert that they would – or even could – make any other defendant
pay the commissions purportedly owed under the MetLife contracts. 
 
Generally,
reasonable detrimental reliance cannot be resolved a matter of law. However, “‘whether
a party's reliance was justified may be decided as a matter of law if
reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion based on the facts.’ ” (Alliance
Mortgage Co. v. Rothwell (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226, 1239.) Further, a “plaintiff's reliance is not reasonable when he ‘ “
‘put[s] faith in representations ... which are shown by facts within his
observation to be so patently and obviously false that he must have closed his
eyes to avoid discovery of the truth....’ [Citation.]” ’ ” (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1067.)[3]

 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege they rejected a proposal from Kaliher, on behalf of Winston, purporting
to offer a deal “ensur[ing] she received the monies or commissions promised or
owed to her.” (TAC ¶ 97.) Notably, this representation was made with the
knowledge of all other parties – MetLife Defendants, Winston, and CLAFMA – the
same parties that Plaintiffs claim made representations of payment to her that she
relied on. (TAC ¶ 98.) The TAC indicates that these parties made no objection
to this email – even though this Kaliher email apparently repudiated (to some
extent) the purported promises made to Plaintiffs by the CLAFMA to receive all
twelve months of commissions owed. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, it was unreasonable to rely on purported promises made by
CLAFMA – a party not obligated to make these contractual payments that Plaintiffs
was purportedly owed – and reject an offer made by a party that allegedly had
some contractual responsibility for the non-payment.
 
It
is also important also to consider the exact nature of CLAFMA Defendants’
promises. This is significant because a determination of whether reliance was
reasonable must consider the promise made. (See
Laks v. Coast Fed. Sav. & Loan Assn. (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 885, 893
[promissory estoppel claim failed for lack of clear and unambiguous promise and
lack of reasonable reliance where loan offer was conditional and did not
include many key terms of loan].) 
 
Here, the reasonableness of reliance
is undermined because the TAC does not allege CLAFMA Defendants clearly and
unambiguously agreed to pay Plaintiffs the alleged amounts owed by another.
Instead, the TAC alleges CLAFMA Defendants’ representations
consisted of vague promises “to work to a goal of” getting Plaintiff paid
and/or Defendant would have “rethink” its relationship with MetLife Defendants.
(TAC ¶¶ 97, 255.)
Plaintiffs
rejected Kaliher/Winston’s deal based on the ambiguous representations
of the non-contractually obligated party – CLAFMA Defendants – to try to help
Plaintiffs resolve this matter. 
 
“ ‘[A] promise is an indispensable element of the
doctrine of promissory estoppel. The cases are uniform in holding that this
doctrine cannot be invoked and must be held inapplicable in the absence of a
showing that a promise had been made upon which the complaining party relied to
his prejudice....’ [Citation.] The promise must, in addition, be ‘clear and
unambiguous in its terms.’ [Citation.]” (Garcia v. World Savings, FSB
(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1044.) For a promise to be enforceable, it need
only be “ ‘definite enough that a court can determine the scope of the duty[,]
and the limits of performance must be sufficiently defined to provide a
rational basis for the assessment of damages.’ [Citations.]” (Bustamante v.
Intuit, Inc. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 199, 209.)
 
Here, the promises are not even “ ‘definite
enough’ ” for the Court to determine “ ‘the scope of the duty’ ” imposed by
them. (Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc., supra, 141 Cal.App.4th at p. 209.) Thus, Plaintiffs’
decision to rely on these vague promises also weighs against the reasonableness
of Plaintiff’s reliance. (Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 418 [“A mere ‘hopeful expectation[ ] cannot be
equated with the necessary justifiable reliance.’ ”].)
 
The
demurrer to the seventeenth cause of action for promissory estoppel is sustained
without leave to amend.[4]
 
(2.) Metropolitan
Life Insurance Company and MetLife Legal Plans, Inc.’s
Demurrer to The Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Tenth, Eleventh,
Twelfth, Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Causes
of Action 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract
 
            Defendant
MetLaw demurs to the fifth cause of action for breach of contract on the ground
that Plaintiffs have not adequately alleged the existence of a contract. 
 
            The elements
of a cause of action for breach of contract are (1) the contract, (2)
plaintiffs' performance (or excuse for nonperformance), (3) defendant's breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff. (Coles v. Glaser (2016) 2
Cal.App.5th 384, 391.) 
 
            At
the pleading stage, a “plaintiff's failure either to attach or to set out
verbatim the terms of the contract [is] not fatal to his breach of contract
cause of action;” courts have held that “ ‘a plaintiff may plead the legal
effect of the contract rather than its precise language.’ ” (Miles v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) 
 
            The TAC
alleges that Plaintiffs and MetLaw “entered into a
written agreement, specifically the MetLaw Agreement, described in Paragraphs
53 through 56, inclusive, herein, pursuant to which [MetLaw] agreed to pay
Plaintiffs commissions based upon specified percentages of [MetLaw]’s total
annual premiums from enrollments by CLAFMA members in a supplemental insurance
plan for prepaid legal services.” (TAC ¶ 126.) In particular, the “MetLaw
Agreement recited MLP’s commitment to paying Plaintiffs 10% of MLP’s total
premiums received from CLAFMA member enrollments into the MetLaw plan.” (TAC ¶
56.) “MLP materially breached the MetLaw Agreement by failing to pay Plaintiffs
all monies owed in commissions pursuant to the MetLaw Agreement.” (TAP ¶ 128.) 
 
            Plaintiffs’
cause of action here is not materially different from the allegations in the
SAC; Plaintiffs have not alleged all the material terms of the agreement, such
as, for example, how premiums were calculated, when premiums were due, and when
commission payments were due under the agreement. As such, Plaintiffs have not
cured the defects identified by this Court in its ruling on February 9, 2023. 
 
            The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  
 
Sixth,
Seventh, Eighth, and Tenth Cause sof Action for Breach of The Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing

 
MetLife Defendants also demur to the
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing on the grounds that the TAC does not allege facts to support the claim.

 
The elements for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing are: (1) existence of a contract between plaintiff and defendant;
(2) plaintiff performed his contractual obligations or was excused from
performing them; (3) the conditions requiring defendant’s performance had
occurred; (4) the defendant unfairly interfered with the plaintiff’s right to
receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) the plaintiff was harmed by the
defendant’s conduct.
 
“In
essence, the covenant is implied as a supplement to the express contractual
covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while
not technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other
party’s rights to the benefit of the contract.” (Racine & Laramie, Ltd.
v. Dep’t of Parks and Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032.)
 
            As noted
above, Plaintiffs have failed to adequately allege the existence of a contract
between Plaintiffs and MetLaw sufficient to support a viable breach of contract
claim; this deficiency is equally fatal to stating a viable breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of action against MetLaw.
Thus, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to the tenth cause of
action. 
 
            With
respect to the remaining claims, Plaintiffs allege that
the MetLife Defendants “pressured” (TAC ¶ 134) Plaintiffs to use the services
of Defendant Winston, an insurance benefits administrator which was
“incompetent.” (TAC ¶ 80.) Plaintiffs allege that this “pressure” resulted in
Winston becoming a third-party benefits administrator for the CLAFMA program in
March 2019. (TAC ¶51-52.) However, the MetLife Agreements were not formed until
May 2019 and July 2019. (TAC ¶ 57 [Exhibit C], ¶ 58 [Exhibit D], ¶ 67 [Exhibit
E].) 
 
As
Plaintiffs concede in opposition, this allegedly wrongful conduct occurred
prior to the formation of the contract and cannot serve as a basis for the
breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
            Rather, Plaintiffs now take the
position that the breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is
based primarily on Plaintiffs’
allegations that MetLife Defendants encouraged/pressured CLAFMA to terminate
Plaintiffs as broker of record to deprive Plaintiffs of the ability to further
earn commissions under their contracts with the MetLife Defendants. (TAC ¶¶ 133,
180.) On July 24, 2019, CLAFMA terminated Plaintiffs as its broker of record,
allegedly despite CLAFMA’s satisfaction with Plaintiffs’ work. (TAC ¶¶ 88, 138,
148, 159, 180.)
 
            In reply,
MetLife Defendants argue these allegations are impermissibly vague in that they
do not “allege the nature or specifics of this
purported encouragement (when, where and how it occurred), the identities of
the persons involved, and/or their purported motive for the alleged
encouragement.” (Reply, 8:19-21.) 
 
However,
MetLife Defendants do not provide any legal support to justify this heightened pleading
level.  Absent legal authority imposing a
higher degree of specificity for a breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing claim, this argument is not well-taken.  This claim does not assert a fraudulent
representation. (See Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1028 [“For policy reasons,
some causes of action, such as fraud and negligent misrepresentation, must be
pleaded with particularity—that is, the pleading must set forth how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made.”].) 
            
The demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend as to the tenth cause of action. 
The demurrer is overruled as to the sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of
action for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing.  
 
Eleventh Cause of Action for Fraud
 
            MetLife Defendants demur on the ground that Plaintiff has
failed to allege facts to support either an intentional misrepresentation claim
or a fraudulent concealment claim. 
 
            The elements of intentional misrepresentation “are (1)
a misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance,
(4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Chapman v.
Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230–231.) Generally, “[i]n California, fraud
must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, where, to
whom, and by what means” the alleged fraud occurred. (Id.) The purpose
of the particularity requirement is to “separate meritorious and nonmeritorious
cases, if possible in advance of trial.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc.
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) 
 
            In
challenging the sufficiency of the intentional misrepresentation claim,
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs failed to allege a misrepresentation of
present fact. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs note that MetLife Defendants
focuses entirely on statements by MetLife employee Gerli, who made
representations regarding the MetLife products. Plaintiffs argue, however, that
these statements “were part of a larger effort by MetLife to fraudulently
conceal its plan to seek the termination of Plaintiffs as CLAFMA’s broker of
record after they made significant efforts to create the plans and enroll
firefighters in those plans.” (Opp. 14.) 
 
            Based on Plaintiffs’ failure to
identify a specific, false representation of fact attributable to MetLife
Defendants, Plaintiffs concede implicitly that there are no specific affirmative
statements that form the basis of any intentional misrepresentation claim
against MetLife Defendants. 
 
With
respect to the fraudulent concealment claim, Plaintiffs allege that MetLife Defendants
fraudulently concealed their intention to have Plaintiffs removed as CLAFMA’s
broker of record at the time they entered into their agreements with
Plaintiffs.
 
            To state a claim for fraudulent
inducement-concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the defendant “concealed or
suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was “under a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant “intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff,” (4) the
plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)

 
            The allegations underlying the fraudulent concealment
only allege that Defendants concealed their fraudulent intent/motive. This
allegation is inadequate. Plaintiffs have not alleged facts demonstrating a
duty to disclose their fraudulent intent. The law is clear -- “[a]lthough inferentially, everyone has a duty to
refrain from committing intentionally tortious conduct against another, it does
not follow that one who intends to commit a tort owes a duty to disclose that
intention to his or her intended victim.” (LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 338; Bank of
America Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 862, 872–873
[concluding that “that while Countrywide had a duty to refrain from committing
fraud, it had no independent duty to disclose to its borrowers its alleged
intent to defraud its investors....”].)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs cite case authority for promissory
fraud; this case law is inapplicable because a promissory fraud requires the existence
of false promise, pled with specificity. (Beckwith
v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th
1039, 1060.) This case law has no application to a fraudulent concealment
claim.  
 
            The demurrer to the eleventh cause
of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Twelfth Cause of Action for Violation
of Business and Professions Code section 17200
 
            The TAC alleges a violation of Section 17200 based on MetLife
Defendants breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing as to
each of the contracts at issue and fraud. (TAC ¶ 206.) The TAC seeks the same form
of relief as it sought in the in its fifteenth cause of action. (TAC ¶¶ 206 [“Plaintiffs
were slated to receive commissions under the agreements with the MetLife
Defendants . . . [and [o]n information and belief, the MetLife Defendants also
diverted commissions due to Plaintiffs to Defendants Winston, CLAFMA.”].) As
discussed fully in the Court’s ruling above, Plaintiffs have failed to allege
facts demonstrating entitlement to restitution. 
            
The
demurrer to the twelfth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Sixteenth Cause of Action for Conversion
 
            MetLife Defendants demur to this cause of action on the
grounds that Plaintiffs have failed to state a claim. Specifically, Plaintiffs’
allegations that MetLife Defendants diverted unpaid commissions from Plaintiffs
to other individuals are not sufficient to support a conversion claim. 
 
As
the Court notes above, these allegations are insufficient to state a claim for conversion.
The TAC further alleges that MetLife Defendants converted and misappropriated Plaintiffs’
brokerage
license and number as a means to divert the unpaid commission to other
Defendants.  
 
            The Court previously interpreted this cause of action to
mean that Defendants misappropriated Rothstein’s
brokerage license and number to improperly divert funds, resulting in the
conversion of funds rather than a conversion of her license. (Dem. 20:27-21:4.)

 
Plaintiffs
do not clarify this misappropriation allegation. Instead, they cite G.S.
Rasmussen & Assocs. v. Kalitta Flying Servs. (9th Cir. 1992) 958 F.2d
896, for the proposition that California courts have recognized that the
wrongful use of another’s license can support a conversion claim. (Id.
at 906-07.) 
 
            The Reply notes that the Court
previously did not distinguish between the conversion of the license and the
use of the license to convert funds. The Court reconsiders this analysis and
finds that the conversion of the license is itself a sufficient basis for a
cause of action.[5]
However, Plaintiffs have not alleged resulting damages. That is, the damages from the conversion are not the specific
unpaid commissions amounts sought. The conversion of the license injury must
flow from the use of the license, and the use of the license is irrelevant to
Plaintiffs’ entitlement to unpaid commissions. 
 
            The demurrer to the sixteenth cause
of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Seventeenth Cause of Action for
Promissory Estoppel
 
            In demurring
to this cause of action. MetLife Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have failed
to allege a “clear and unambiguous” promise, or reasonable reliance. 
 
            The
relevant allegations on this cause of action as it relates to MetLife
Defendants is Ms. Gerli’s promise that Plaintiffs would get two months of
commissions. (TAC ¶ 94.)[6]
The TAC also alleges there was a joint plan by MetLife Defendants, Winston, and
others to pay Plaintiffs twelve months worth of the commissions, but no
specific promise is alleged. 
 
The allegations largely rely on the same allegations
the Court addressed in sustaining the CLAFMA Defendants’ demurrer to this cause
of action. 
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiffs point to the additional reliance allegations that Plaintiffs were
damaged because they relied on Defendants’ joint promises, did not take action
against them for nearly two years, and then missed out on other commission
opportunities while they waited for Defendants to fulfill their promises. (TAC
¶¶ 97, 251, 255, 256.) 
 
As
argued in reply, this allegation is insufficient to show reasonable, detrimental
reliance. Vague allegations of taking no action and unspecified lost
opportunities are inadequate for pleading purposes. (See e.g., Mend Health, Inc. v. Carbon Health Technologies, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2022) 588 F.Supp.3d 1049, 1057.) 
 
The
demurrer to the seventeenth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
MetLife
Defendants’ Motion to Strike
 
            MetLife Defendants
also move to strike the request for punitive damages and attorney fees. 
 
            Punitive Damages:
            
Defendants
move to strike the punitive damages request on the grounds that Plaintiffs have
failed to allege facts showing malice, fraud, or oppression. The motion to
strike is well-taken.  
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than the
mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There must
be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
As a result
of the Court’s
ruling on the demurrer, the TAC no longer contains a fraud cause of action to
support a request for punitive damages. The remaining claims are breaches of
contract claim and related contract-based claims, which cannot support a
punitive damage request. Moreover, the TAC does not contain allegations demonstrating
willful, wanton or malicious conduct. 
 
The motion to strike punitive
damages allegations is granted without leave to amend. 
 
            Attorney fees: 
 
            The TAC seeks
attorney fees based on two statutes – Code of Civil Procedure section
1021.5 and Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c).
 
            Plaintiffs have not alleged
facts demonstrating that Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 applies. Section
1021.5 authorizes an award of attorney’s fees in “public interest” litigation.
Section 1021.5 provides in relevant part:
 
“Upon
motion, a court may award attorneys' fees to a successful party against one or
more opposing parties in any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an
important right affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit,
whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or
a large class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement . . . are such as to make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees
should not in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if
any.” 
 
The
basic objective of the “private attorney general” doctrine “is to encourage
suits enforcing important public policies by providing substantial attorney
fees to successful litigants in such cases.” (Maria P. v. Riles (1987)
43 Cal.3d 1281, 1289; Graham v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 553, 565.) The statute awards successful public interest litigants
with attorney’s fees where the three statutory requirements are
established. (Vasquez v. State of California (2008) 45 Cal.4th
243, 250-251.) The burden is on the fee claimant to establish each statutory
requirement, including that its litigation costs transcend its personal
interest in the litigation. (Save Open Space Santa Monica Mountains v.
Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 235, 246.) 
 
            Plaintiffs’ suit does
not raise issues of widespread public policy. (Opp. 8:1-21.) The gravamen of
the TAC seeks the enforcement of Plaintiffs’ private contractual rights to
recover damages on an insurance commission agreement between private parties.  Their pleading does not entitle them to private
attorney general fees.
 
            Plaintiffs also seek
attorney fees pursuant to Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c).
            Penal Code section
496(a) extends liability to “[e]very person who buys or receives any property
that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner
constituting theft.” Subdivision (c) of this statute allows a person to recover
attorney fees for a violation of Subdivision (a). 
Penal Code section 484, subdivision (a) describes the acts
constituting theft to include theft by false pretense, which is the consensual
but fraudulent acquisition of property from its owner. “Anything that could be
the subject of a theft can also be property under section 496.’ ” (Bell v.
Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1049.) However, “T[t]o prove theft, a plaintiff must establish
criminal intent on the part of the defendant beyond ‘mere proof of
nonperformance or actual falsity.’ [Citation.] This requirement prevents “
‘[o]rdinary commercial defaults’ ” from being transformed into a theft.” (Siry
Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour, supra, 13 Cal.5th at pp. 361-362.)
            As noted above, the TAC
essentially alleges a breach of contract and has failed to allege either fraud
or conversion. Thus, contrary to the actual theft of cash that occurred in Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2002)13 Cal.5th 333 (which was cited by Plaintiffs),
the allegations here are insufficient to entitle Plaintiffs to relief under
Penal Code section 496.  
 
The motion to strike the request for
attorney fees is also granted without leave.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant County of Los Angeles Fire Museum
Association, Paul Oyler, and Paul Schneider’s demurrer to the Fifteenth, Sixteenth, and Seventeenth Causes of Action
is sustained without leave to amend. Defendants Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company and MetLife Legal Plans, Inc.’s demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend as to the fifth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, sixteenth and
seventeenth causes of action.  Their
demurrer is overruled as to the sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action.
The motion to strike is granted in full without leave to amend.


