  Case Number:  22TRCV00181    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  B 5901 Century Owner, LLC v. Festival Management Corporation, Case No. 22TRCV00181Tentative Ruling:  Motion in limine re Los Angeles County COVID-19 Tenant Protection ResolutionThis is an action by Plaintiff 5901 Century Owner, LLC against Defendant Festival Management Corporation for alleged breach of lease.  The Plaintiff seeks to recover unpaid rent, alleged to total $673,956.32, plus interest.  By this in limine motion Plaintiff seeks to preclude the introduction of evidence or argument related to the Los Angeles County COVID-19 Tenant Protections Resolution (“Resolution”).Plaintiff contends that under the express terms of the Resolution the matter asserted by the Defendant is an affirmative defense which has not been pleaded, and is thus waived.  (The Court grants judicial notice of the January 24, 2023 Resolution of the Board of Supervisors and the June 10, 2022 Revised Guidelines to Aid in the Implementation of Los Angeles County COVID-19 Tenant Protections.)The Resolution provides an affirmative defense to Evictions (Section VI) and in the Remedies article (Section XI).Article VI.A.1. relates to evictions for nonpayment of rent.  It provides:“Nonpayment of Rent.  During the time periods set forth below, a Tenant may assert an affirmative defense to an unlawful detainer action for nonpayment of rent, late charges, interest, or any other fees accrued if the Tenant demonstrates an inability to pay rent and/or such related charges due to Financial Impacts Related to COVID-19 and the Tenant has provided notice to the Landlord within seven (7) days after the date that rent and/or such related charges were due, unless extenuating circumstances exist that the Tenant is unable to pay.  The affirmative defense provided under this Paragraph is described in Section C of Paragraph XI, below.FOR COMMERCIAL TENANTS, THERE SHALL BE NO FURTHER EVICTION PROTECTIONS AFTER JANUARY 31, 2022.”  (Bold added.) Article XI.C. states:“C.  Affirmative Defense.  Effective March 4, 2020, any Protections, including the Protection pertaining to Personal Guarantees for commercial rental debt, provided under this Resolution shall constitute an affirmative defense for a Tenant in any unlawful detainer action brought pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1161, as amended, and any other civil action seeking repossession and repayment of rental debt.  The Tenant shall have the burden to prove the basis of their affirmative defense, including the merit of any self-certification of a Financial Impact Related to COVID-19 made pursuant to this Resolution.  Said affirmative defenses shall survive the termination or expiration of these Protections.”  (Bold added.) Defendant failed to assert the Resolution as an affirmative defense at any time in this proceeding.Defendant makes a number of arguments claiming that it is entitled to introduce evidence of the Resolution created affirmative defense and related facts.First, Defendant claims that “the Central Issue of Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is the Effect of the Resolution on the Party’s Rights.”  In essence, Defendant contends that since the Second Amended Complaint alleges the existence of the City and County COVID ordinances that therefore the affirmative defense issue was tendered by Plaintiff.  The Court disagrees.  The fact that the Plaintiff alleged that Defendant remained legally obligated to pay rent, but could not be evicted for a period of time (Complaint ¶ 11) did not relieve the Defendant of an obligation to plead its Resolution based affirmative defense.  Nor does the fact that Plaintiff pleaded the existence of the March 2020 and September 2020 County resolutions (Complaint ¶ 12, 13) relieve the Defendant of an obligation to assert any claimed affirmative defense arising under either of those resolutions.  Afterall, the affirmative defense is dependent upon proving certain facts to establish the defense.  (Article VI.)  Not all commercial entities were entitled to a defense.The Court notes that paragraph 14 alleges:“Plaintiff does not know if Festival is entitled to the protections of the Resolution since it does not know if Festival was unable to pay rent incurred during the Moratorium due to “Financial Impacts Related to Covid-19” as set forth in the Resolution.  In an abundance of caution, however, Plaintiff proceeds as if Festival was entitled to such protections.”This allegation reveals that Plaintiff is not asserting facts that constitute the affirmative defense.  The mention of the resolutions did not relieve Defendant of its obligation to assert any defenses it might have, including an affirmative defense arising under the Resolution.  Indeed, the fact that Plaintiff added surplusage to the Second Amended Complaint does not relieve Defendant of its obligation to plead its Resolution based affirmative defense.Second, Defendant alleges that its general denial was sufficient to constitute the affirmative defense provided by the Resolution.  Defendant cites no case authority for such a proposition.  Nor does such a general denial of the material allegations give rise to the affirmative defense claimed by Defendant.  This is particularly true here, as the Plaintiff expressly alleged in paragraph 14 that it was not aware of whether or not Defendant was entitled to the protections of the Resolution.  Further, establishing the affirmative defense is dependent upon alleging and ultimately proving additional facts such as the financial impact of COVID-19.  Paragraph 14 made clear that it was incumbent upon the Defendant to make such claimed defense known.  Defendant did not make any assertion that the affirmative defense applied.Third, Defendant asserts that it is not required to plead the Resolution provided affirmative defense, as the Resolution “allows” a tenant to plead an affirmative defense.  (“A tenant… may assert an affirmative defense…”)  The Court disagrees with this argument.  The granting to the tenant of an affirmative defense that may be asserted does not mean that the affirmative defense need not be pleaded like every other affirmative defense – expressly and affirmatively.  The suggestion by Defendant that the affirmative defense was already in the case by virtue of Plaintiff’s description of some of the provisions of the COVID ordinances and resolutions is wrong.  (See discussion above.)Finally, Defendant suggests that the affirmative defenses it did plead were adequate to raise the issue of the Resolution affirmative defense.  The Court disagrees.The Seventh Affirmative Defense states: “As a separate and distinct affirmative defense to each of plaintiffs’ causes of action and, while denying each of the allegations contained therein, this answering defendant asserts that, by virtue of the acts or omissions of the plaintiff, it has been excused from performing under the subject matter lease.”  This cannot reasonably be understood to allege that the Resolution based defense was being asserted.Defendant claims that its Eleventh Affirmative Defense arises under the Resolution.  “As a separate and distinct affirmative defense to each of plaintiffs’ causes of action and, while denying each of the allegations contained therein, this answering defendant asserts that plaintiff’s damages, if any, should be reduced, eliminated, and/or offset by the amount of damages suffered by defendant attributable to any wrongful acts and omissions of Plaintiff.”  That also fails to give anyone notice that the affirmative defense was based on the Resolution.Defendant asserts that the Twelfth Cause of Action preserved this defense.  “As a separate and distinct affirmative defense to each of plaintiffs’ causes of action and, while denying each of the allegations contained therein, this answering defendant asserts that by virtue of plaintiff’s unlawful, immoral, careless, negligent and other wrongful conduct, plaintiff is barred from recovery from defendant under the equitable doctrines of unclean hands and of in pari delicto.”  This is not an assertion of the Resolution as an affirmative defense.The Court GRANTS the motion in limine.  No evidence of the Resolution shall be introduced.