  Case Number:  21STCV26026    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WILLIAM
  ERNESTO QUINTEROS, et al. 
  
         vs.
 
BUDDIE L.
  HORN as TRUSTEE OF THE HORN TRUST.


 Case No.:  21STCV26026
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 5, 2023



 
Petitioner Nancy Marin’s petition to approve minor’s compromise
for Ainhoa Alexis Marin is granted.  The
Court orders the funds deposited in the blocked account.  

 
Petitioner Nancy Marin (“N. Marin”), on behalf of Claimant Ainhoa Alexis
Marin (“Ainhoa”) petitions the Court to approve minors’ compromises in the
settlement of the instant action.  
 
I.                  
Background
N. Marin, individually and as guardian ad litem for Ainhoa
together with other named Plaintiffs (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed an
initial complaint against Defendant Buddie L. Horn as trustee of the Horn Trust
(“Horn”) (“Defendant”) on July 15, 2021. 
Plaintiffs filed the first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant
on September 15, 2021.  On March 9, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the operative second amended complaint (“SAC”) for (1) breach
of implied warranty of habitability, (2) breach of statutory warranty of
habitability, (3) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (4) negligence, (5)
violation of Civil Code §1942.4, and (6) private nuisance for issues at an apartment building located 1111 E. Garvey Avenue,
North West Covina, California 91790, APN 8456-023-037 (“Apartment Building”),
owned and managed by Defendant, where Plaintiffs were tenants in Units 3, 5, 6,
and 7.  (SAC ¶¶1-2.)  Pursuant
to the instant petition, Defendant has agreed to pay Plaintiffs to settle the
claims.  (Amended Petition ¶¶10,
11.)  
A settlement was reached pursuant to which Defendant agreed to pay
a total of $1,125,000.00.  (Amended Petition at Attach. 11, pg. 2.)  The eleven settling minor claimants (including
Ainhoa) will receive a gross sum of $15,000.00 each, and the eleven adult
Plaintiffs will receive $87,272.73 each. 
(Amended Petition at Attach. 11.)  The total amount of attorney’s fees for which
court approval is requested is $3,635.67, calculated as twenty-five percent of
the minor claimant’s settlement total and is based on a contingency basis, and
the total fees are $457.31, for a total of $4,092.98 in attorney’s fees and
costs per minor claimant.  (Amended
Petition ¶13; Decl. of Chapman ¶4.) 
The net balance of proceeds for each minor claimant is $10,907.02.  (Amended Petition ¶¶15, 16(f).)  All procedural requirements have been met, as
Petitioner has completed a Judicial Council form MC-350 on behalf of the minor
claimant, signed by the Petitioner, as well as Form MC-351 on the minor claimant’s
behalf.  
 
II.               
Legal Standard
Compromises of disputed claims brought by minors are governed in
part by C.C.P. §372.  The statute allows
a guardian ad litem to appear in court on behalf of a minor claimant and gives
the guardian ad litem the power to compromise the minor’s claim “with the
approval of the court in which the action or proceeding is pending.”  A petition for court approval of a compromise
must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all
information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise or
covenant.  (CRC Rule 7.950.)  CRC Rule 7.952(a) requires the attendance of
the petitioner and claimant at the hearing on the compromise of the claim
unless the court for good causes dispenses with their personal appearance.
“Neither section 372 nor the California Rules of Court (rules
7.950 & 7.952) contemplates a noticed motion and adversary hearing when
court approval of a minor’s compromise is sought. Although we need not decide
the question, it would appear that a petition to approve or disapprove a
minor’s compromise may be decided by the superior court, ex parte, in
chambers.”  (Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1337.)  
CRC Rule 7.955(a) requires the Court to use “a reasonable fee
standard” when approving and allowing the amount of attorneys’ fees payable
from money to be paid for the benefit of a person with a disability and
requires that the Court “give consideration to the terms of any representation
agreement made between the attorney and the representative of the minor . . .
and evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances existing at the
time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the representative
of the minor . . . contemplated that the attorney’s fee would be affected by
later events.”  
CRC Rule 7.955(b) sets forth fourteen nonexclusive factors the
Court may consider in determining a reasonable attorney’s fee.  CRC Rule 7.955(c) requires that a petition
requesting Court approval and allowance of an attorney’s fee under 7.955(a)
must include a declaration from the attorney that addresses the factors listed
in 7.955(b) that are applicable to the matter before the Court. 
 
III.            
 Analysis
Petitioner N. Marin seeks court approval for a settlement under
which the minor claimant would receive $10,907.02.  The amounts reflect payment amounts to the minor
claimant after deduction of attorneys’ fees representing 25% of the minor
claimant’s settlement and after deduction of costs in amounts specific
to the minor claimant.  (See Amended
Petition ¶16(f).)  
This is a habitability suit, in which the minor claimant lived in
uninhabitable conditions, including but not limited to living with cockroach,
bed bug, and rodent infestations, which caused injuries including bed bug
bites, lack of sleep, and allergies with symptoms including running nose and
cough.  (Amended Petition ¶¶5-6.)  The minor claimant has recovered completely
from these injuries with no permanent injuries. 
(Amended Petition ¶8.)  
Petitioner’s counsel, Christofer Chapman, declares that the attorney
fees requested are based on a contingency basis and attorneys’ fees are
contingent on a settlement or judgment. 
(Decl. of Chapman ¶4.)  Chapman declares
the costs advanced in this matter are $34,298.33 to date.  (Decl. of Chapman ¶4.)  Chapman declares in the course of this
litigation, his firm conducted numerous client meetings, site inspections, depositions,
mediation sessions and made court appearances.  (Decl. of Chapman ¶5.)  Chapman declares his firm propounded and responded
to written discovery relative to each plaintiff client including the minor
claimants, and his firm propounded written discovery on the defendants on
behalf of his clients.  (Decl. of Chapman
¶5.)  Chapman declares this case also involved
evaluation of complex coverage issues such as multiple policy exclusions and the
application of multiple insurance policies for multiple owners.  (Decl. of Chapman ¶5.)  Chapman declares the average amount of time
expended in the prosecution of this matter on behalf of each minor claimant was
approximately 20 hours each.  (Decl. of Chapman
¶5.)  Chapman declares the attorneys’
fees sought in this matter from the minor claimants is reasonable given the
issues, expertise, time, and experience required to bring this matter to
resolution.  (Decl. of Chapman ¶5.)  
The Amended Petition includes a copy of an agreement between
Petitioner and her counsel that are included with English translations
certified by a certified court interpreter. 
(Attachment 17(a)(2).)  The
agreement identifies the name of the individual who signed the submitted
retainer agreement on behalf of the minor client. As such, the submitted copy
of the written attorney fee arrangement agreements with the minor claimant is
sufficient and supports the attorneys’ fees request. 
Petitioner requests this Court order the disposition of the minor
claimant’s balance of the settlement, in the amount of $10,907.02, be deposited
in insured accounts in one or more financial institutions in this state,
subject to withdrawal only on authorization of the Court.  (Amended Petition ¶18(b)(2).)  Petitioner selects the following financial
institution for the disposition of the minor claimant’s balance: Pacific
Premier Bank, 4957 Katella Ave Unit B, Los Alamitos, CA 90720.  (Amended Petition at Attach. 18(b)(2).)
Given the age of the minor claimant, the Court will only require
attendance at the hearing by the Petitioner to grant the petition.  (CRC Rule 7.952.)
 
IV.           
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the petition to approve the minor’s
compromise is granted.  The Court orders
the funds deposited in the blocked account. 
The Court continues the hearing on the Order to Show Cause why the case
should not be dismissed in light of the settlement to and sets a hearing on an
Order to Show Cause as to the whereabouts of the proof of deposit into the
blocked account on October 28, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Dept. 71.  
Plaintiff is to give notice of these outcomes.  
 
Dated:  August ____, 2024
                                                                             





  