 Case Number:  22STCV34133    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Skyler Wells,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV34133




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Darryl Wong, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 25, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Sever
Moving Party: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Darryl
Wong and 3344 Rowena Avenue LLC
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      CROSS-COMPLAINANTS' MOTION TO SEVER IS
GRANTED.
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
Under CCP §1048(b), the court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.  
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants move to sever trial of the cross-complaint
from trial of Plaintiff’s complaint. In Plaintiff’s complaint, Plaintiff
asserts a claim for nuisance against Defendant Aspland, a tenant of
Defendants/Cross-Complainants. The Court previously granted
Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff’s
complaint. The cross-complaint seeks indemnity from Defendant Aspland.
Defendants/Cross-Complainants assert that the cross-complaint should be severed
because it involves distinct factual, legal, and evidentiary issues from the
complaint. 
 
The Court finds severance appropriate. The complaint and cross-complaint
contain distinct issues which need not be tried together.
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ motion is GRANTED.


 