 Case Number:  24STCV07332    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Francisco Campos,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV07332




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
V/A Enterprises LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 25, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Order Directing Service of
Summons on V/A Enterprises LLC dba Valley Xclusive
Motorsports by Delivery of
Process to Secretary of State
Moving Party: Plaintiff Francisco Campos
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No opposition has been received.
 
Corporations Code § 1702(a)
provides: “If an agent for the purpose of service of process has resigned and
has not been replaced or if the agent designated cannot with reasonable
diligence be found at the address designated for personally delivering the
process, or if no agent has been designated, and it is shown by affidavit to
the satisfaction of the court that process against a domestic corporation
cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand in
the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20
or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or upon the
corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of Section
416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the
court may make an order that the service be made upon the corporation by
delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the
Secretary of State’s office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of
the process for each defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order
authorizing such service. Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th
day after delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.”  
 
Plaintiff requests an order directing
service on the Secretary of State for Defendant V/A
Enterprises LLC dba Valley Xclusive Motorsports. Plaintiff asserts that service attempts were made at
both the address on Defendant’s Secretary of State listing and the address on
the sales contract at issue in this action. Plaintiff represents that both
addresses are now occupied by residents unassociated with Defendant. This is
sufficient to establish reasonable diligence. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.
