 Case Number:  23STLC01105    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Giselle Rodriguez,


 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STLC01105




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
 
Inails & Spa, et al.,


 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 25, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Deem Requests for Admission
Admitted;
(2) Motions to Compel Responses to
Discovery
Moving Party: Cross-Defendant Giselle Rodriguez
Responding Party: Cross-Complainant Tuyen Kim Nguyen
 
T/R:      CROSS-DEFENDANT'S MOTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, reply, and supplemental declaration.
 
If a party fails to provide a timely
response to a request for admission, the party waives any objection to the
requests.  (C.C.P. § 2033.280(a).)  Moreover, “[t]he requesting party
may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction….”  (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).)  
 
When timely responses to
interrogatories are not received, “[t]he party propounding the interrogatories
may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”  (CCP § 2030.290(b).) “If a party to whom a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it. . .  [t]he party
to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed
waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product. . . .  The
party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand.”  (CCP § 2031.300(a)–(b).)
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Giselle
Rodriguez moves compel responses to FIs and RPDs, set one, and to deem RFAs,
set one, admitted against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Tuyen Kim Nguyen.
Cross-Defendant served the subject discovery on January 5, 2024. Responses were
due on February 9, 2024. As of the filing of these motions, Cross-Defendant had
not received responses. 
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainant, who
is unrepresented by counsel, stated that she does not have knowledge of
Cross-Defendant's underlying claims (which have since been dismissed), that she
did not receive the subject discovery, and that all information in her
possession is alleged in the cross-complaint. 
 
As Cross-Complainant represented that
she did not receive the discovery requests, the Court continued the motions to
allow Cross-Complainant to serve responses. Cross-Defendant declares that
responses were served on September 16, 2024, but many responses are inadequate.
 
As responses have been served, the
motions are DENIED. The adequacy of responses is not at issue in a motion to
compel initial responses.


 