 Case Number:  23STCV13642    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendants
Hilla Group LLC, Hella-Effective LLC, Viewpoint Estates LLC, and 9270 Flicker
LLC’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint

Demurrer
Defendants Hilla Group LLC, Hella-Effective LLC, Viewpoint Estates LLC, and 9270
Flicker LLC demur to all 10 causes of action alleged by plaintiff ARTES Design
Build’s first amended complaint.  
Business &
Professions Code § 7031
            Defendants argue plaintiff’s first
through eighth causes of action fail because plaintiff seeks to recover
compensation for work as an unlicensed contractor under the Contractors State
License Law.  “[N]o person engaged in the
business or acting in the capacity of a contractor, may bring or maintain any
action … for the collection of compensation for the performance of any act or
contract where a license is required by this chapter without alleging that they
were a duly licensed contractor at all times during the performance of that act
or contract.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
7031(a).)
            It is not clear from the face of the
complaint that the work for which plaintiff seeks compensation required a
contractor’s license.  A demurrer should
be overruled when “a ‘reasonable interpretation of the agreement[s] between the
parties’ is that at least some of the work that [plaintiff] performed did not
require a license.”  (Phoenix
Mechanical Pipeline, Inc. v. Space Exploration Technologies Corp. (2017) 12
Cal.App.5th 842, 852.)  The Contractors
State License Law generally requires licensing of a “contractor” as defined
under Business & Professions Code section 7026: “ ‘Contractor’ … is
synonymous with ‘builder’ and …a contractor is any person who undertakes to or
offers to undertake to …  or does himself
or herself or by or through others, construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract
from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building, highway, road, parking
facility, railroad, excavation or other structure, project, development or
improvement.”
            Defendants’ demurrer makes only
conclusory arguments on this issue without citing the statutory definition of
“contractor” or any other authority. 
Defendants rely on the first amended complaint’s allegations that plaintiff
was hired for “construction” (¶ 71) and on the scope of work in the contract
attached to the first amended complaint. 
(Ex. A, p. 8.)  The first amended
complaint, however, also alleges the parties’ contract required plaintiff “to provide
project management, inspection, design, pre-construction, and consulting
services at various projects.”  (¶
16.)  The scope of work, meanwhile,
provides that plaintiff would perform “Construction Plan Coordination” and
“Project Management” that amount to acting as an intermediary between
defendants and professionals such as architects and engineers hired “until
plans are submitted to Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety.”  (Ex. A, p. 8.)  
At this stage in
the proceedings, one can reasonably interpret the parties’ contract as not
undertaking to construct or build any structure or project, but only facilitating
planning and design of the project before construction.  The court therefore cannot sustain
defendants’ demurrer based on Business and Professions Code section 7031.
1st to 4th Causes
of Action: Breach of Contract and Common Counts
Defendants also
demur to these causes of action on the grounds that plaintiff makes only
conclusory alter ego allegations.  Regardless
of any alter ego allegations, plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for these
causes of action against each defendant. 
The contract attached to the first amended complaint provides, “THIS
AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between ARTES Design Build .. and
Hilla Group LLC, its affiliates and subsidiaries, and on behalf of the
following wholly owned and controlled companies of Hilla Group LLC, namely
Hella-Effective LLC, Viewpoint Estates LLC, 9270 Flicker LLC, jointly and
severally.”  (FAC, Ex. A, p. 1.)  Alter ego liability is therefore not
necessary.  
5th to 8th Causes
of Action: Foreclosure of Mechanics Liens
Plaintiff does not
allege sufficient facts for these causes of action.  Civil Code section 8400 provides: “A person
that provides work authorized for a work of improvement, including, but not
limited to, the following persons, has a [mechanics] lien right under this
chapter: (a) Direct contractor.  (b) Subcontractor.  (c) Material supplier.  (d) Equipment lessor.  (e) Laborer.  (f) Design professional.”  The first amended complaint does not allege
plaintiff is any of those.  
Plaintiff’s
opposition argues only that the statute should be liberally construed and that
it performed “various services and contributed to multiple Projects.”  (Opp., p. 4, citing FAC, ¶ 16.)  The first amended complaint alleges plaintiff
“provide[d] project management, inspection, design, pre-construction, and consulting
services at various projects.”  (FAC, ¶
16.)  Plaintiff does not articulate how
those services fit any category enumerated in Civil Code section 8400.
9th Cause of
Action: Fraud
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action.  The first amended complaint
asserts a claim for promissory fraud.  “
‘Promissory fraud’ is a subspecies of the action for fraud and deceit.  A promise to do something necessarily implies
the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made without such
intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may be actionable
fraud.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  “[F]raud must be
pled specifically.”  (Id. at p.
645.)  “ ‘This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’ ”  (Ibid.)  “A plaintiff’s burden in asserting a fraud
claim against a corporate employer is even greater.  In such a case, the plaintiff must ‘allege
the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations,
their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when
it was said or written.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiff does not specifically
allege the required facts.  The first
amended complaint alleges, “The aforementioned promises were made by DEFENDANTS
in January, 2023, as it relates to the scoped work, and in the ensuing months
for change order work, and the promises were made orally and in writing by
DEFENDANTS directly to Plaintiff.”  (¶
73.)  But plaintiff is a corporation (¶
1), and the demurring defendants are limited liability companies.  Plaintiff does not allege the names of any
individuals who spoke on defendants’ behalf or their authority to speak.  Nor does plaintiff specify the name of any
individual to whom defendants made the alleged misrepresentations.    
10th Cause of
Action: Unfair Competition
Plaintiff does not
allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  The Unfair Competition Law “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract
action.”  (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration
Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) 
As discussed above, plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts for a
fraud cause of action.  Plaintiff’s 10th
cause of action itself makes only conclusory allegations based on the
paragraphs above.  Plaintiff thus alleges
no more than that defendants did not pay or its services provided under a
contract.  “A breach of contract may
form the predicate for Section 17200 claims, provided it also
constitutes conduct that is unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.”  (Puentes v. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage,
Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 638, 645, internal quotes and alterations
omitted [finding nothing unfair or fraudulent].)  
Plaintiff has alleged a mere breach of contract.  Plaintiff alleges no conduct that is
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent under Business and Professions Code section
17200.
Plaintiff also does not allege
sufficient facts for this cause of action because it does not allege a basis
for any remedy permitted under the Unfair Competition Law.  Stating a cause of action for unfair
competition requires “a viable claim for” one of the “remedies available” under
it.  (Madrid v. Perot Systems Corp.
(2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 440, 467.)  “[R]estitution is the only monetary remedy
authorized in a private action brought under the unfair competition law.”  (Clark v. Superior Court (2010)
50 Cal.4th 605, 614.)  “The word
‘restitution’ means the return of money or other property obtained through an
improper means to the person from whom the property was taken.”  (Clark v. Superior Court (2010)
50 Cal.4th 605, 614.)  “ ‘The object of
restitution is to restore the status quo by returning to the plaintiff
funds in which he or she has an ownership interest.’ ”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff
alleges the purported unfair competition caused plaintiff to “suffer[]
damages.”  (FAC, ¶ 82.)  For this cause of action, plaintiff prays for
“Actual and/or consequential damages” and “treble damages.”  (Id., p. 19.)  Plaintiff does not allege facts establishing
a viable claim for restitution or injunction or any other remedy permitted
under the Unfair Competition Law.
Motion to Strike
Defendants Hilla Group LLC, Hella-Effective LLC, Viewpoint Estates LLC, and 9270
Flicker LLC move to strike three portions of plaintiff’s first amended complaint.  Courts
may strike a “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint.”  (CCP §
431.10(b)(3).)    
Interest
Defendants move to strike the following portion
of the first amended complaint: “18% per annum as provided for in the
Agreement, plus a ‘charge’ on progress payments not timely made at 2% per month
from the date the payment should have been made until the date it was made,
pursuant to Business and Professions Code § 7108.5; and its attorneys’ fees
herein, plus a ‘charge’ on the retention under the Projects at 2% per month
since the date of completion of the work of improvement, pursuant to Civil Code
§§ 8812 and 8818.”  (FAC, ¶ 18.)  
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to
recover 18% annual interest.  Article XV,
section 1 of the California Constitution generally prohibits interest rates
over 10%.  Plaintiff’s opposition argues
only that the constitutional provision on usury does not apply because the
parties’ contract provides for 18%.  That
portion of the agreement is void.  The
California Constitution’s provision on usury expressly limits the interest rate
for which “it shall be competent for the parties” to agree.  (Cal. Const., art. XV, § 1.)  Plaintiff does not allege facts establishing
any exception to the general usury provision.
Plaintiff also does not allege sufficient
facts for 2% monthly charges under the cited statutes.  Business and Professions Code section 7108.5 applies
to money “[a] prime contractor or subcontractor” owes “to any subcontractor.”  (Id., subd. (a).)  Civil Code section 8818, meanwhile, provides
for “a penalty of 2 percent per month” (id., subd. (a)) on the amount “withheld
by an owner from a direct contractor or by a direct contractor from a
subcontractor.”  (Civ. Code, §
8810.)  Plaintiff does not allege either
party is a contractor.  
Damages for Unfair Competition
Defendants move to strike portions of the
first amended complaint regarding “damages” and “treble damages” for the 10th
cause of action for unfair competition.  “Plaintiffs
may not receive damages, much less treble damages” under the Unfair
Competition Law.  (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 179.)
Disposition
Defendants Hilla Group LLC, Hella-Effective LLC, Viewpoint Estates LLC, and 9270
Flicker LLC’s demurrers to plaintiff ARTES Design Build’s first through fourth
causes of action are overruled. 
Defendants’ demurrers to plaintiff’s fifth through 10th causes of action
are sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.
Defendants Hilla Group LLC, Hella-Effective LLC, Viewpoint Estates LLC, and 9270
Flicker LLC’s motion to strike portions of the first amended complaint is granted with 20 days’ leave to amend.
The court hereby strikes the following
portions of the first amended complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend:
(1) “18% per annum as provided for in the
Agreement, plus a ‘charge’ on progress payments not timely made at 2% per month
from the date the payment should have been made until the date it was made,
pursuant to Business and Professions Code § 7108.5; and its attorneys’ fees
herein, plus a ‘charge’ on the retention under the Projects at 2% per month
since the date of completion of the work of improvement, pursuant to Civil Code
§§ 8812 and 8818.”  (FAC, ¶ 18, p. 5,
lines 13-18.)
(2) “Plaintiff has suffered damages in an
amount to be proven at trial.”  (FAC, ¶
82, p. 15, lines 17-18.)
(3) “1. 
Actual and/or consequential damages in an amount not yet ascertained,
but in excess of the minimum jurisdictional amount of this Court.  2.  For
treble damages.”  (FAC, prayer, p. 19,
lines 4-6.)  