 Case Number:  23STCV08570    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Tracy Hark, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV08570




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Pacific Maritime Association, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 9, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motions to Strike 
Moving Party: Defendant SSA Terminals, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff Tracy Hark
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS TO STRIKE ARE
DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
Defendant asserts Plaintiff Hark cannot claim punitive damages against
Defendant because Plaintiff has failed to allege corporate ratification.
Plaintiff alleges she was subject to racial harassment, including the use of
racial slurs, at the hands of her supervisor, Defendant Lomeli. Plaintiff
alleges she reported this harassment to Defendant, who disciplined her
supervisor. However, Plaintiff also alleges Defendant knew her supervisor
previously engaged in a racially motivated attack two years prior and continued
to allow him to work with Defendant. This is sufficient to establish
entitlement to punitive damages against Defendant at the pleading stage.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED.
 


 