  Case Number:  19STCV28303    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Paul Van Kleef,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV28303




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Clean Concept, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 9, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Set Aside Order for Sanctions
Moving Party: Defendant Robert McFarlane
Responding Party: Plaintiff Paul Van Kleef
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND 
  
On September 17, 2019, Plaintiff Paul
Van Kleef filed the operative first amended complaint against
Defendants Clean Concept, LLC, the Estate of Max Azria,
Yasmine Hanane, Robert McFarlane, and Lubov Azria,
asserting twenty causes of action for issues relating to the business dealings
of Plaintiff and Defendants.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 473(b) provides, in pertinent
part, “[t]he court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.”
 
Defendant McFarlane moves to set aside
the Court’s October 2, 2023 order awarding evidence, issue, and monetary
sanctions against Defendant for failure to engage in discovery. Defendant
asserts his counsel did not receive notice of the motions for sanctions because
Plaintiff’s counsel sent the moving papers to the wrong email address and that
email address flagged Plaintiff’s emails as spam. Defendant represents that he
did not willfully fail to respond to discovery and did not willfully disobey
any Court orders. Counsel states they provided the correct email for service in
2021.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues service
of the motions was proper because the email address Plaintiff used is listed as
counsel’s email address on the firm’s website. Plaintiff requests that the
Court maintain the order for monetary sanctions because counsel’s neglect was
not excusable.
 
The Court will set aside the October 2,
2023 order in its entirety. Defendant’s counsel represents that it did not
receive notice of the motions and orders. Any neglect or mistake on counsel’s
part is excusable. Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.
