 Case Number:  23STCV16604    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Christina Ramirez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV16604




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Law Offices of Adam Zolonz, APC, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: November 9, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendants Law Offices of Adam Zolonz, APC and Adam Zolonz
Responding Party: Plaintiff Christina Ramirez
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants, asserting 15 causes of action for Labor Code and
FEHA violations.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement and Applicable Law
 
Defendants move to compel arbitration
based on the Dispute Resolution Agreement executed by Plaintiff on September 6,
2022. (Decl. Zolonz, Exh. A.) The agreement provides, “I and Law Offices of Adam Zolonz, APC ("the Firm") agree to
utilize binding individual arbitration to resolve all disputes that might arise
out of or be related in any way to my application for employment and/or
employment with the Firm.” (Id.)
The agreement states that it is governed by the FAA.
 
Defendants have met their burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is
unenforceable under the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual
Harassment Act (“EFASASHA”), which provides, “...at the election of the person
alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault
dispute, or the named representative of a class or in a collective action
alleging such conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute
joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which
is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault
dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C. § 402(a)). 
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant made
unwanted sexual advances toward her. Plaintiff claims she refused these
advances and Defendant committed the FEHA and Labor Code violations in
response. Plaintiff asserts the entire action should be exempt from arbitration
under EFASASHA. Defendant argues that only the first and fifth causes of action
for sexual harassment and retaliation in violation of FEHA are subject to the
Act.
 
No California Court of Appeal cases
address this issue; both parties cite only New York federal district court
cases in their favor. EFASASHA prohibits forced arbitration of “cases” that
“relate” to a sexual assault dispute or sexual harassment dispute. Plaintiff
alleges, 
 
Upon hiring Ms. Ramirez, Mr.
Zolonz would frequently flirt with Ms. Ramirez. Mr. Zolonz would offer Ms.
Ramirez gifts like purses, bonuses, and field side Los Angeles Rams tickets
while flirting with Ms. Ramirez. Ms. Ramirez was uncomfortable with this
behavior but was afraid to directly confront Mr. Zolonz. Instead, Ms. Ramirez
would try to politely rebuff Mr. Zolonz’s advances. Ms. Ramirez also
prominently displayed a photo of her boyfriend on her desk to further indicate
her lack of romantic interest in Mr. Zolonz. Once Mr. Zolonz caught onto Ms.
Ramirez’s rejection, he became hostile toward Ms. Ramirez and Defendants began
engaging in routine verbal abuse, including levying increased and unwarranted
criticism of Ms. Ramirez’s work to attempt to justify terminating her
employment, belittling Ms. Ramirez, refusing to honor Ms. Ramirez’s employment
contract, refusing to engage in a good faith interactive process or accommodate
Ms. Ramirez when she became disabled and needed medical attention, and
terminating her employment.
 
(FAC 13.)
 
All causes of action in the operative
complaint relate to the alleged sexual harassment of Plaintiff. Plaintiff
alleges that Mr. Zolonz treated her much differently before Plaintiff made
clear she was uninterested in him romantically. After she rejected his
advances, Mr. Zolonz allegedly became antagonistic to Plaintiff by, among other
actions, refusing her disability rights and committing Labor Code violations. Under
EFASASHA, the arbitration agreement is not enforceable as to any of Plaintiff’s
causes of action. 
 
Defendants’ motion is DENIED.


 