

 
BACKGROUND
 
This petition action seeks to
confirm the attorney-client fee arbitration award in the arbitration between
Petitioner A. Raymond Hamrick III (“Petitioner”) and Respondents Linda
Bekeredjian and Hovanes Bekeredjian (collectively, “Respondents”) that was
rendered on December 8, 2023. 
 
On June 24, 2024, Petitioner filed
proofs of service pertaining to the Respondents.
 
No opposition has been received in
connection with the instant petition. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            The
arbitration was conducted through the Beverly Hills Bar Association on December
7, 2023, and the following individuals arbitrated the matter: Leonard Steiner,
Ann Garry, and Ryan Lapidus. (Pet. at ¶¶ 4-5.) Based on the terms of the award,
Respondents are required to pay Petitioner $28,348.77, and Petitioner is
further awarded 10% interest per year starting from February 11, 2024. (Pet. ¶¶
6, 10(d); Attach. 6(c).) Thus, the award should be confirmed, and judgment be
entered according to it. (Pet. ¶ 10(a).) 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None filed
as of July 11, 2024. 
 
REPLY
 
            None filed
as of July 11, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
to Enforce Settlement
A.        Legal Standard 
“If a petition or response under this chapter is duly
served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether rendered
in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter it
corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses
the proceeding.”  Code Civ. Proc., §
1286. 
 
Confirmation of the award is
mandatory unless a response or petition to correct or vacate the award has been
timely filed.  See id.; Valsan
Partners Limited Partnership v. Calcor Space Facility, Inc. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 809, 818. 
 
“The scope of judicial review
of arbitration awards is extremely narrow. Courts may not review the merits of
the controversy, the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the award, or the
validity of the arbitrator's reasoning. . . . Indeed, with limited exceptions,
‘an arbitrator's decision is not generally reviewable for errors of fact or
law, whether or not such error appears on the face of the award and causes
substantial injustice to the parties.’”  Dept.
of Personnel Administration v. California Correctional Peace Officers
Ass'n  (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1200.
 
The contents of a petition to confirm an arbitration
award shall set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement
to arbitrate, the names of the arbitrators, and shall set forth or have
attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators.   Code
Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.
 
C.        Merits
 
            Here, Petitioner
has complied with Code of Civil Procedure § 1285.4. While a copy of the
parties’ agreement to arbitration has not been included within the Petition,
the substance of the agreement is effectively identified through the Petition.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.4(a).) Effectively, the petition arose from a fee dispute
between the parties, and the written retainer agreement possessed an
arbitration provision. (Pet., Attach. 6(c) at pg. 5.) The arbitration was
conducted by Leonard Steiner, Ann Garry, and Ryan Lapidus.. (Petition, ¶ 4.)
Also, a copy of the arbitration award and written opinion is attached to the
amended petition. (Pet. ¶ 6, Attach 6(c).)
 
Despite notice of the motion,
Respondents have not filed an opposition setting forth grounds to vacate the
award under Code of Civil Procedure § 1286.
 
Petitioners are thus entitled to
confirmation of the arbitration award.
 
 
III.       Conclusion
            
            Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s Petition to
Confirm Attorney-Client Arbitration Award is GRANTED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice of
ruling.  