  Case Number:  20STCV47744    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Prior proceedings  On  December 14, 2020, Plaintiff D. M. (“Plaintiff”), a minor by and through his guardian  ad litem Lara Moss, filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles County Unified  School District, Tamara Gullatt (“Gullatt”), Anne Lilly (“Lilly”), Shai De Los  Reyes (“Reyes”), and Does 1-50 for negligence, negligent supervision, negligent  hiring, training, retention, and supervision, negligent breach of mandatory  public entity duties, negligence per se, negligent infliction of emotional  distress, assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.  On  January 7, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to change the incorrect name  Los Angeles County Unified School District to Defendant’s true name Los Angeles  Unified School District (“District”).  On  February 16, 2021, the Court appointed Lara Moss to serve as Plaintiff’s  guardian ad litem.  On June  1, 2021, the District filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Reyes and Roes 1-10 for  total indemnity, partial indemnity, and declaratory relief.  On  July 6, 2021, Gullatt and Lilly filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.  On  October 12, 2022, the clerk entered Reyes’s default on the District’s  cross-complaint.  On October 29, 2024,  the Court set aside the default based on the parties’ stipulation.  On  October 14, 2024, Reyes filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.  On November 4, 2024, Reyes filed an answer to  the District’s cross-complaint.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 30, 2025.  A.   Motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication  On May  2, 2024, the District, Gullatt, and Lilly (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion  for summary judgment and/or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.  The motion was set for hearing on December  24, 2024.  On December 10, 2024,  Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On  December 19, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply.  On December 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  sur-reply, which the Court has not considered.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Moving  Defendants ask the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative,  summary adjudication of Plaintiff's claims against them.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  MOVING DEFENDANTS’ EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS            Overruled.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.       Summary judgment and summary  adjudication  “‘[F]rom  commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the  burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that  he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos  Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party  moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a  prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;  if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing  party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima  facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  When  the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot  establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the  plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by  showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,  needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with  evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to  interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may  ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence  that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The  defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and  cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the  plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered  nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.)  “A  motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes  of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue  of duty.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,  subd. (f)(1).)  “Supporting  and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible  evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be  excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as  hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in  supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176  Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  In  ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the  inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and  inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing  party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  B.   Public entity liability  Government  Code section 815 provides:  “Except as otherwise provided by statute:  “(a) A public entity is not liable for an injury,  whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a  public employee or any other person.  “(b) The liability of a public entity established by  this part (commencing with Section 814) is subject to any immunity of the  public entity provided by statute, including this part, and is subject to any  defenses that would be available to the public entity if it were a private  person.”  (Gov. Code, § 815.)  Government  Code section 815.2 provides:  “(a) A public entity is liable for injury proximately  caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the  scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section,  have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal  representative.  “(b) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public  entity is not liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of an  employee of the public entity where the employee is immune from liability.”  (Gov. Code, § 815.2.)            Government Code section 820 provides:  “(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute  (including Section 820.2), a public employee is liable for injury caused by his  act or omission to the same extent as a private person.  “(b) The liability of a public employee established by  this part (commencing with Section 814) is subject to any defenses that would  be available to the public employee if he were a private person.”  (Gov. Code, § 820.)            Government Code section 820.2 provides:  “Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public  employee is not liable for an injury resulting from his act or omission where  the act or omission was the result of the exercise of the discretion vested in  him, whether or not such discretion be abused.”  (Gov. Code, § 820.2.)  Government Code section 815.6 provides: “Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty  imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a  particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that  kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the public  entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the  duty.”  (Gov. Code, § 815.6.2.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The complaint  The  complaint includes the following allegations:  On  September 17, 2019, Plaintiff was a kindergarten student at Canfield Elementary  School, in Los Angeles, California.  Plaintiff’s  teacher, Lilly, left the classroom, leaving the students unsupervised.  While Lilly was outside the classroom, Reyes,  the parent of another student, entered the classroom.  Reyes struck Plaintiff’s right shoulder and  arm and screamed at him.  As a result,  Plaintiff suffered injuries.  Gullatt,  the school’s principal, and Lilly were District employees and were acting in  the course and scope of their employment with the District.  B.   Undisputed facts  Reyes  is a parent of one of Plaintiff’s classmates.  On  September 16, 2019, Plaintiff was in kindergarten at Canfield Elementary School.   During lunchtime, the lunch of Plaintiff’s  friend and classmate fell to the ground.  Plaintiff and a  few students began playing with the food.  After lunch, a supervising aide brought the  students to Gullatt, the principal. Gullatt spoke with the students.  Gullatt told Lilly about the incident, and Lilly  spoke to the students about it.  The next  day, September 17, 2019, Plaintiff came into the class and unpacked his  belongings during the breakfast in the  classroom program.  Reyes came to drop off his son for school.  Reyes entered the classroom and asked to  speak to Lilly about the incident the day before involving his son’s lunch.  Lilly explained that the school day was about to start but Reyes could go to  the main office to leave a message for her.  Plaintiff testified that he did not cry after Reyes tapped him with one finger,  he just continued working.  Plaintiff  testified that he was surprised by Reyes’s conduct.  The  following day at school, Lilly asked Plaintiff clarifying questions related to an  email about the incident which Plaintiff’s mother had sent Lilly the previous day.  Plaintiff’s  mother reported Reyes’s alleged assault of Plaintiff to the police.  Two police officers came to the school to  investigate Plaintiff’s allegations.  The  alleged assault was also reported to the Department of Children and Family Services.  By  October 17, 2019, Plaintiff had withdrawn from Canfield Elementary.  C.   Moving Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or  summary adjudication  1.    First cause of action for negligence against District,  Lillie, and Gullatt  a.    Statutory basis  Moving  Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot prevail on his first cause of action for  negligence against the District, Lillie, and Gullatt because Plaintiff has not  alleged a statutory basis for the claim.  Government  Code section 815 “ ‘abolished all common law or judicially declared forms of  liability for public entities, except for such liability as may be required by  the federal or state Constitution. Thus, in the absence of some constitutional  requirement, public entities may be liable only if a statute declares them to  be liable’ [Citation.]” (Becerra v. County of Santa Cruz (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 1450, 1457.)  Under  Government Code section 815.2, school authorities have a duty to “supervise at  all times the conduct of the children on the school grounds and to enforce  those rules and regulations necessary to their protection.” (C.A. v. William  S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 869 (C.A.).)  “The standard of care imposed upon school  personnel in carrying out this duty to supervise is identical to that required  in the performance of their other duties. This uniform standard to which they  are held is that degree of care ‘which a person of ordinary prudence, charged  with (comparable) duties, would exercise under the same circumstances.’  [Citations.] Either a total lack of supervision [citation] or ineffective  supervision [citation] may constitute a lack of ordinary care on the part of  those responsible for student supervision. Under section 815.2, subdivision (a)  of the Government Code, a school district is vicariously liable for injuries  proximately caused by such negligence.” (Dailey v. Los Angeles Unified Sch.  Dist. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 747.)  “In  addition, a school district and its employees have a special relationship with  the district's pupils, a relationship arising from the mandatory character of  school attendance and the comprehensive control over students exercised by  school personnel, ‘analogous in many ways to the relationship between parents  and their children.’ [Citations.] Because of this special relationship,  imposing obligations beyond what each person generally owes others under Civil  Code section 1714, the duty of care owed by school personnel includes the duty  to use reasonable measures to protect students from foreseeable injury at the  hands of third parties acting negligently or intentionally.” (C.A., supra,  53 Cal.4th at pp. 869-870.)  Here,  Plaintiff alleges that Moving Defendants “owed a duty of care to Plaintiff to  provide a safe and secure campus where Plaintiff could learn and attend school,  including, but not limited to, not leaving students alone in a classroom  unattended, and not leaving students alone in a classroom unattended with an  angry adult not associated with LAUSD and/or not authorized to be present who  would assault and batter Plaintiff.” (Complaint, ¶ 40.) Paragraph 37 of the  complaint incorporates the foregoing paragraphs of the complaint into the negligence  cause of action. Paragraph 35 of the complaint cites Government Code section  815.2.  The  Court finds that Moving Defendants have not carried their initial burden of  proving that Plaintiff failed to allege a statutory basis for his negligence  claim.  b.    Foreseeability  Moving  Defendants also argue that Plaintiff cannot establish negligence because Reyes’  alleged actions were unforeseeable.  When  (as here) a special relationship exists, the Court must balance the Rowland  factors to determine whether a duty should be imposed.  “The foreseeability-related factors are the  foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the  plaintiff suffered injury, [and] the closeness of the connection between the  defendant's conduct and the injury suffered. Of these three factors, whether  the injury was foreseeable is the most important in determining whether an  exception should exist to the duty to protect. Our task is not to decide  whether a particular plaintiff's injury was reasonably foreseeable in light of  a particular defendant's conduct, but rather to evaluate more generally whether  the category of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently likely to result in  the kind of harm experienced that liability may appropriately be imposed. We  do, however, evaluate the kind of third party conduct involved in light of all  the surrounding circumstances as probative in assessing generally whether the  category of [defendant's] alleged negligent conduct is sufficiently likely to  result in the kind of harm plaintiffs experienced. What is ‘sufficiently  likely’ means what is ‘likely enough in the setting of modern life that a  reasonably thoughtful [person] would take account of it in guiding practical  conduct.’” (C.I. v. San Bernardino City Unified School District (2022)  82 Cal.App.5th 974, 984, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  Moving  Defendants argue it was unforeseeable that Reyes would touch Plaintiff.  It is undisputed that, the day before the  incident, Reyes’ son’s lunch fell to the floor during lunchtime. (UMF 8.)  Plaintiff and other classmates began playing with the food. (UMF 9.) An aide informed  Gullatt, who discussed the incident with the students and with Lilly.  Lilly also spoke to the students.  (UMF 11-12.) The next day, Reyes dropped off his  son for school and asked to speak to Lilly about the incident with his son’s  lunch.  (UMF 16.) Lilly explained that Reyes  could go to the main office and leave a message for her. (UMF 17.)  In addition  to these undisputed facts, Moving Defendants have presented evidence that no  one yelled or made loud noises in the classroom after Reyes walked in and that  Reyes walked to the office and spoke with Gullatt. (UMF 19, 21.)  In opposition, Plaintiff has presented  evidence that Reyes was angry, appeared to be agitated, and was trying to talk  to Lilly.  Because  the evidence about Reyes’ demeanor and conduct is conflicting, the Court  concludes that Moving Defendants have not carried their initial burden on  summary judgment or summary adjudication of proving that it was not reasonably  foreseeable that Reyes would tap or strike Plaintiff.  Plaintiff has presented evidence showing that Reyes,  a parent whose child may have been teased or bullied, entered the classroom of  one of the students involved in the alleged teasing or bullying.  It is reasonably foreseeable that Reyes, particularly  if he was visibly agitated, might confront or even tap or strike Plaintiff  under these circumstances.  A triable  issue of fact whether Lilly breached her duty by turning away  from the students and letting Reyes pass through the classroom exists.  The  Court denies Moving Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the  negligence claim.  2.    Second cause of action for negligent supervision of  school premises against the District and Gullatt  On  the second cause of action for negligent supervision, Moving Defendants argue  that Plaintiff cannot establish causation. Viewing the evidence discussed above  in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the Court concludes that Moving Defendants  have not carried their initial burden of proving that any negligent supervision  of the classroom did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries.  The Court therefore denies Moving Defendants’  motion for summary adjudication of the second cause of action for negligent  supervision.  (The Court addressed Moving  Defendants’ foreseeability argument in Section C.1.b, above.)  3.    Third cause of action for negligent hiring, training, retention,  and/or supervision against the District and Gullatt  Incorporating  by reference their previous arguments, Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff  cannot establish the elements of this claim.   For the reasons stated above, the Court finds that Moving Defendants  have not carried their initial burden on summary judgment or summary  adjudication of proving that Plaintiff cannot present evidence supporting this  claim.  The Court therefore denies Moving  Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the third cause of action for  negligent hiring, training, retention and/or supervision.  4.     Fourth  cause of action against the District for negligent breach of mandatory public  entity duties to Plaintiff (Gov. Code, §§ 815.2, 820)  “Three  requirements must be met before governmental entity liability may be imposed  under Government Code section 815.6: (1) an enactment must impose a mandatory  duty; (2) the enactment must be meant to protect against the kind of risk of  injury suffered by the party asserting section 815.6 as a basis for liability;  and (3) breach of the mandatory duty must be a proximate cause of the injury  suffered.” (Ellerbee v. County of Los Angeles (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th  1206, 1215.)  Whether  an enactment creates a mandatory duty is a question of law. (Haggis v. City  of Los Angeles (2000) 22 Cal.4th 490, 499 (Haggis).) “[S]ection  815.6 requires the mandatory duty be ‘designed’ to protect against the  particular kind of injury the plaintiff suffered. The plaintiff must show the  injury is ‘one of the consequences which the [enacting body] sought to prevent  through imposing the alleged mandatory duty.’ [Citation.] Our inquiry in this  regard goes to the legislative purpose of imposing the duty. That the enactment  ‘confers some benefit’ on the class to which plaintiff belongs is not enough;  if the benefit is ‘incidental’ to the enactment's protective purpose, the  enactment cannot serve as a predicate for liability under section 815.6.” (Ibid.)  The  Court strictly construes the statute’s first prong, “finding a mandatory duty  only if the enactment ‘affirmatively imposes the duty and provides implementing  guidelines.’” (Guzman v. County of Monterey (2009) 46 Cal.4th 887, 898.)  The enactment’s language is the most important guide to determine legislative  intent, but “there are unquestionably instances in which other factors will  indicate that apparent obligatory language was not intended to foreclose a  governmental entity's or officer's exercise of discretion.” (Haggis, supra,  22 Cal.4th at p. 499.) “In  every case, ‘[t]he controlling question is whether the enactment at issue was  intended to impose an obligatory duty to take specified official action to  prevent particular foreseeable injuries, thereby providing an appropriate basis  for civil liability. [Citation.]’ [Citation.].” (Clausing v. San Francisco  Unified School Dist. (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1224, 1239.)  Moving  Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts establishing the  existence of a mandatory duty.  In  response, Plaintiff argues that he has identified the following statutory bases  for the claim: Government Code sections 810, 815.2, 815.2, subdivision (a),  820, 820, subdivision (a), 905, and 910 and Penal Code section 11166.  (Opposition p. 12.)  According to Plaintiff, “these statutes  create mandatory duties that the LAUSD Defendants were required to follow.”  (Opposition p. 12.)  However, Plaintiff does not explain how these  statutes impose mandatory duties for purposes of Government Code section 815.6.  Even  if Plaintiff had identified enactments that provide mandatory duties, Plaintiff  has failed to show that (1) the enactments were meant to protect against the  kind of injury Plaintiff allegedly suffered or that (2) breach of the mandatory duty  caused Plaintiff’s injury.  The  Court finds that Moving Defendants have carried their initial burden of showing  that Plaintiff cannot prevail on his claim for breach of a mandatory duty,  shifting the burden to Plaintiff.   Plaintiff has not raised an issue of material fact regarding his claim  for negligent breach of a mandatory public entity duty.  The Court grants Moving Defendants’ motion for  summary adjudication of this claim.  5.    Fifth cause of action for negligence per se (Pen.  Code, § 11166) against the District, Lillie, and Gullatt  “The  negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a  presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant  violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the  violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the  death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute,  ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering  the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of  persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was  adopted.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th  208, 218, quotation marks omitted.) “The doctrine of negligence per se is not a  separate cause of action, but creates an evidentiary presumption that affects  the standard of care in a cause of action for negligence.” (Johnson v.  Honeywell International Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555, quotation  marks and brackets omitted.)  Here,  the complaint alleges that Moving Defendants violated Penal Code section 11166,  which requires a mandated reporter to make a report “whenever the mandated  reporter, in the mandated reporter's professional capacity or within the scope  of the mandated reporter's employment, has knowledge of or observes a child  whom the mandated reporter knows or reasonably suspects has been the victim of  child abuse or neglect.” (Pen. Code, § 11166, subd. (a).)  “[I]t is objectively reasonable for a person  to entertain a suspicion, based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person  in a like position, drawing, when appropriate, on the person's training and  experience, to suspect child abuse or neglect. ‘Reasonable suspicion’ does not  require certainty that child abuse or neglect has occurred nor does it require  a specific medical indication of child abuse or neglect; any ‘reasonable  suspicion’ is sufficient.” (Pen. Code, § 11166, subd. (a)(1).)  Moving  Defendants argue they lacked a reasonable suspicion that Plaintiff was the victim  of child abuse and therefore they had no duty to report.  Moving Defendants base this argument on  evidence that:  ·       Lilly and Chavez did not hear any yelling or see Reyes  touch Plaintiff.  (UMF 161-162.)·       Plaintiff stated that he did not cry when Reyes tapped  him but instead continued working.·       Plaintiff’s mother sent Lilly an email saying Reyes had  tapped Plaintiff on the shoulder.  (UMF  178; Def. Exh. N.)·       The next day, when Lilly asked Plaintiff to demonstrate the  tap, “[h]e used 1 finger and lightly tapped my left shoulder one time.” (Def.  Exh. M, entry 9/18.)·       Plaintiff’s mother called the police, who investigated  Plaintiff’s allegations and did not find child abuse. (See UMF 184-185.)·       Gullatt saw no visible marks on Plaintiff’s shoulder.  (Gullatt Decl. ¶ 9.)  Moving  Defendants have carried their initial burden on summary judgment or summary  adjudication on the issue of whether they lacked a reasonable suspicion of  child abuse, shifting the burden to Plaintiff.  In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that it is undisputed that Reyes touched him.  Plaintiff also contends that Gullatt  testified that if a parent touches a student it would constitute child abuse.  (Opposition p. 19.)  In fact, Gullatt testified that if a parent struck  a student it would constitute child abuse.  (Exh. B, 46:14-15; 63:14-25; 64:1-3.)  Nonetheless,  the Court finds that Plaintiff has raised a triable issue regarding whether  Moving Defendants had a reasonable suspicion that Reyes had struck  Plaintiff.  Despite Plaintiff demonstrating  only a tap on the shoulder to Lilly, Plaintiff’s mother communicated to Lilly  her belief that Reyes had badly hurt Plaintiff.   Construing this evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the  Court denies summary adjudication of this claim.  6.    Sixth cause of action for negligent infliction of  emotional distress against the District, Lilly, and Gullatt  Plaintiff  appears to be asserting a “direct victim” negligent infliction of emotional  distress claim.  “ ‘ “Direct victim”  cases are cases in which the plaintiff’s claim of emotional distress is not  based upon witnessing an injury to someone else, but rather is based upon the  violation of a duty owed directly to the plaintiff. “[T]he label ‘direct  victim’ arose to distinguish cases in which damages for serious emotional  distress are sought as a result of a breach of duty owed the plaintiff that is  ‘assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or  that arises out of a relationship between the two.’ [Citation.] In these cases,  the limits [on bystander cases ...] have no direct application. [Citations.]  Rather, well-settled principles of negligence are invoked to determine whether  all elements of a cause of action, including duty, are present in a given  case.” ’ ” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th  182, 205-206, quoting Wooden v. Raveling (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1035,  1038; see Lawson v. Management Activities, Inc. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th  652, 656 [“At the outset we must remind ourselves that, however handy the  acronym, as our Supreme Court has made abundantly clear, there is no such thing  as the independent tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress”]; Potter  v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984 [“[T]here is  no independent tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress.  [Citation.] The tort is negligence, a cause  of action in which a duty to the plaintiff is an essential element”].)  Moving  Defendants again argue that the alleged incident was unforeseeable. However, as  discussed in Section C.1.b, above, Moving Defendants have not carried their initial burden on summary judgment or summary adjudication of proving that it was not reasonably foreseeable that Reyes would tap or strike Plaintiff.  The Court denies Moving Defendants’ motion for  summary adjudication of this claim.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS the motion filed by Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District, Tamara Gullatt, and Anne Lilly for summary adjudication of Plaintiff D.M.’s fourth cause of action for negligent  breach of mandatory public entity duties against Defendant Los Angeles Unified  School District.  In  all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment and/or, in  the alternative, summary adjudication filed by Defendants Los Angeles Unified  School District, Tamara Gullatt and Anne Lilly.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.