 Case Number:  22STCV22258    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  28 The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
Courts (“Eighth Amended Standing Order”) states: “PI Hub Courts will not hear
Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses . . . until the parties have
engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).”  (Eighth Amended Standing Order, ¶ E.) 
On
November 1, 2024, Plaintiff Ebony Tay (“Plaintiff”) filed (1) a motion to
compel Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (“Defendant”) to serve further
responses to special interrogatories, set two, and for sanctions and (2) a
motion to compel Defendant to serve further responses to requests for
admission, set three, and for sanctions.  The motions were
set for hearing on December 24, 2024. 
On
December 11, 2024, Defendant filed oppositions arguing, among other things,
that Plaintiff had failed to schedule or participate in IDCs on the issues raised in the motions. 
On
December 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed replies contending that the parties attended
an IDC on August 19, 2024 “on all outstanding discovery matters . . . .”  The replies also stated that the Court “granted
all parties leave to file any discovery motions which they felt necessary,
indicating that no further IDCs were necessary before the hearing of such a
motion.” 
The
Court does not recall waiving the IDC requirement, which would violate the
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order.  Although
the Court ordered Plaintiff’s counsel to file and serve a notice of outcome of
the August 19, 2024 IDC, counsel did not do so. 
In addition, the topics listed in Plaintiff’s IDC form for the August
19, 2024 IDC did not include Plaintiff’s special interrogatories, set two, or
requests for admission, set three, which are the subject of Plaintiff’s current
motions. 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses to special interrogatories,
set two, and requests for admission, set three, for failure to comply with the
IDC requirement in the Eighth Amended Standing Order.