 Case Number:  23STCV16910    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Azoulay v. Essex Property Trust
Case No. 23STCV16910
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set
Two)
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On July 19, 2023, Plaintiff Sara Azoulay (“Plaintiff”) filed
the complaint in this action against Essex Property Trust, Inc. (“Defendant”),
Stefania Ghilarducci, and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of action for general
negligence and premises liability arising out of an incident on August 2, 2021,
in which, Plaintiff alleges she was injured when she slipped and fell on a slippery
substance in a parking garage on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles.
On August 28, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the
complaint.
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal
of Defendant Ghilarducci.
On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff amended her complaint to name Essex
Portfolio, L.P. as Doe 1 and Essex Management Corporation as Doe 2.  These defendants filed an answer on July 17,
2024.
As it relates to the matter set for hearing on December 30,
2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel further discovery responses on
December 3, 2024.  Plaintiff filed an
opposition on December 12, and Defendant filed a reply on December 17.
The parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference
on November 20, 2024.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Does a defendant have a right to obtain a copy of the audio
recording of a defense medical examination made by or on behalf of the plaintiff?  That is the question that this motion raises.  There appears to be no authority on point:
neither party cites any appellate case law addressing this issue, and this
Court’s independent research has revealed none. 

On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff appeared for and submitted to a
defense medical examination by orthopedic surgeon Jeffrey Korchek, M.D.  (Muench Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff was accompanied by a chiropractor,
David Birznieks, who audio recorded the examination.  (Id., ¶ 4.)
On September 12, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with Requests
for Production (Set Two).  (Id., ¶ 6
& Exh. 4.)  There is only one request
in this set: Request No. 12, which requests production of “A full and complete
copy of the audio recording” of the physical examination performed by Dr.
Korchek on July 17, 2024.  (Id.,
Exh. 4.)
Plaintiff served objections. 
(Id., ¶ 7 & Exh. 5.)  The
parties met and conferred but were unable to resolve the dispute.  (Id., ¶¶ 8-10.)
The Court begins its analysis of this issue with the Code.  The Civil Discovery Act contains express
provisions regarding audio recordings of examinations conducted as part of litigation
discovery.
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.510, subdivision (a), which
applies to a physical examination of a plaintiff, provides as follows:
“The attorney for the examinee or for a party producing the
examinee, or that attorney’s representative, shall be permitted to attend and
observe any physical examination conducted for discovery purposes, and to
record stenographically or by audio technology any words spoken to or by the
examinee during any phase of the examination.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a),
which applies to a mental examination of a plaintiff, provides as follows:
“The examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a
mental examination by audio technology.”
The difference between these provisions is stark.  In a mental examination, both the examiner
and the plaintiff have the right to record the examination.  In a physical examination, the plaintiff’s
attorney (or the attorney’s representative) – and only the plaintiff’s attorney
(or the attorney’s representative) – has the right to record the
examination.  For a physical examination,
the examiner has no such right.
The Legislature’s intent in drawing this distinction is
unclear.  (See 2 Weil & Brown,
California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (2024) ¶ 8:1588.1.)  But draw the distinction the Legislature
did.  
The Legislature has conducted a careful balancing of the
rights and obligations of the parties throughout the Civil Discovery Act,
including but not limited to in connection with physical and mental
examinations.  Defendants can demand one
physical examination of a personal injury plaintiff as of right, and can obtain
additional physical examinations and mental examinations for good cause
shown.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2032.220,
2032.310.)  Plaintiffs must submit to
those examinations.  Plaintiffs’ counsel
can record a physical examination.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.510, subd. (a).)  The
examiner and Plaintiff can record a mental examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.530, subd. (a).)  
Reasonable minds may certainly disagree about the wisdom of some
or all of these rules.  But where the
Legislature has spoken, the role of the courts is to follow and implement the
rules established by the Legislature (with, of course, some exceptions not
applicable here).  If litigants disagree,
any request for redress must be directed to the Legislature, not to the courts.
The Court concludes that this is one of the instances in which
the Legislature has spoken.  The
discovery sought by Defendant would, if ordered, be inconsistent with the
distinction drawn by the Legislature; it would give defendants the right to obtain
audio recordings of physical examinations, when the Legislature has decided, in
the Civil Discovery Act, that defendants do not have that right.
Accordingly, the motion to compel is denied as being
inconsistent with the clear direction of the Legislature in the express
provisions of the Civil Discovery Act.
The Court need not reach, and does not reach, Plaintiff’s
other objections to the discovery.
Neither party seeks sanctions.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.