  Case Number:  22STCV09677    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Lopez v. Qozi-Habash
22STCV09677
Defendants’ Motion for Order Deeming Plaintiffs to Have Admitted the Truth of
the Matters Specified in Requests for Admission
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On March 18, 2022, Ariana Lopez, both
individually and as successor in interest to the Estate of Estela Moreno;
Gerado Lopez-Moreno; and Omar Alonso Hernandez (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed the complaint in this action against Tedmu Qozi-Habash, Daniel Kijner,
Cheridah Jones Seeley, Lakeside Community Healthcare, Regal Medical Group, and
Providence Holy Cross Medical Center, and Does 1 through 100.  Plaintiffs assert a survival claim for professional
negligence; a wrongful death claim for professional negligence, a survival
claim of negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, and a wrongful death
claim for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, all arising out of alleged
errors in the diagnosis and treatment of decedent Estela Moreno. 
On February 1, 2024, Providence Health System
Southern California dba Providence Holy Cross Medical Center (erroneously sued
as Providence Holy Cross Medical Center) (“Providence”) filed an answer.
On April 5, 2024, Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.
(erroneously sued as Tedmu Qozi-Habash) (“Qozi-Habash”), Cheridah Jones Seeley,
P.A. (“Seeley”), and Regal Medical Group, Inc. (erroneously sued as Regal
Medical Group) (“Regal”) filed an answer.
On May 20, 2024, each of Qozi-Habash, Seeley,
and Regal (collectively, “Defendants”) served discovery, including Requests for
Admission (Set One), on each of the Plaintiffs. 
(Rector Decl., ¶ 3 & Exhs. A-C.) 
Plaintiffs did not respond.  (Id.,
¶ 5.)
On November 15, 2024, Defendants filed
this motion for a deemed-admitted order.
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
A party must
respond to requests for admission within 30 days after service. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.250, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for admission are directed
does not provide a timely response, the propounding party “may move for an
order that … the truth of [the] matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) There is no time
limit for such a motion, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id.,
§ 2033.280; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement
be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) 
The court “shall”
make the order that the truth of the matters specified in the request be deemed
admitted unless the court “finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c); see St. Mary v. Super. Ct. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778-780.)
“It is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion [to deem
admitted the truth of the matters specified in the requests for admission].”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a).)
 
Discussion
On May 20, 2024, each of the
Defendants served each of the Plaintiffs with Requests for Admissions, Sets One.
(Rector Decl., ¶ 3 & Exhs. A-C.)  No
responses were served.  (Id., ¶
5.)
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Defendants need show nothing more.  The requests for admission were served, and
no response has been received.  The
motion for deemed-admitted orders is granted.
 
The
Court notes, however, that Defendants filed a single motion for what should
have been twelve motions. Combining discovery motions allows the moving party
to avoid paying the requisite filing fees. Filing fees are jurisdictional and
it is mandatory for court clerks to demand and receive them. (See Duran v.
St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) Thus, Defendants are ordered
to pay additional filing fees. This ruling will be final ad effective only upon
Defendants’ filing with the Court of proof of payment of the eleven additional
filing fees.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion
for deemed-admitted orders.
 
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff Ariana
Lopez, individually, is DEEMED TO HAVE ADMITTED THE TRUTH of the matters specified
in the Requests for Admission (Set One) served by each of Defendants Tedmur
Qozi-Habash M.D., Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A., and Regal Medical Group, Inc.
 
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff Ariana
Lopez, as successor in interest to the Estate of Estela Moreno, is DEEMED TO HAVE ADMITTED THE TRUTH of the matters specified
in the Requests for Admission (Set One) served by each of Defendants Tedmur
Qozi-Habash M.D., Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A., and Regal Medical Group, Inc.
 
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff Gerado
Lopez-Moreno is DEEMED TO HAVE ADMITTED THE TRUTH of
the matters specified in the Requests for Admission (Set One) served by each of
Defendants Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D., Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A., and
Regal Medical Group, Inc.
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Omar
Alonso Hernandez is DEEMED TO HAVE ADMITTED THE TRUTH
of the matters specified in the Requests for Admission (Set One) served by each
of Defendants Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D., Cheridah Jones Seeley, P.A., and
Regal Medical Group, Inc.
 
Moving parties are ORDERED to file the eleven additional
filing fees and to file and serve a notice of proof of payment.
 
Moving parties are ORDERED to give
notice. 
 