 Case Number:  22STCV21562    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Privado v. Aultman
22STCV21562
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Trial
Subpoenas
Ruling
The motion is granted.
The requests for sanctions are denied.
Background
On July 1, 2022, Plaintiff Kem Privado (“Plaintiff”) filed the
complaint in this action against Defendants Eric Daniel Aultman (“Defendant”)
and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence arising out of an alleged accident on July 8, 2020, at
or near 9020 South Aviation Boulevard in Inglewood, California.
On December 9, 2022, Defendant filed an answer.
On filing, the case was assigned a trial date of December 29,
2023.
In November 2023, the Court, on the stipulation of the
parties, continued the trial date to February 21, 2024; discovery, however,
remained closed.
On February 6, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of stay of
proceedings based on Defendant’s filing of a bankruptcy petition in the
Northern District of Texas.  The Court in
this action stayed the action, vacated all hearing dates, and set a status
conference for August 5, 2024.
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice that Defendant’s
bankruptcy case was closed and Defendant had received a discharge.
On August 5, 2024, the Court held a status conference and set
the matter for trial on December 4, 2024.
On December 4, Plaintiff and Defendant appeared for
trial.  No trial courtroom was
available.  Trial was continued to
January 7, 2025.
As it relates to the matter on calendar for
December 30, 2024, Defendant issued trial subpoenas to 13 medical providers on October
22, 2024.  (Hennessey Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff served objections.  (Id., ¶ 10 & Exh. A.)  On November 4, 2034, Defendant withdrew the
subpoenas but reissued subpoenas the same day to the same 13 providers.  (Id., ¶ 11 & Exh. B.)
On November 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed this
motion to quash the 13 trial subpoenas. 
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.
Defendant filed an opposition, along with his
own request for sanctions, on December 3.
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1985 provides for the issuance
of a subpoena compelling a witness to appear for a legal proceeding and, if
requested, to bring documents to the proceeding.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985, subd. (a).)  A subpoena is the only procedure for
compelling a third-party witness to attend trial and produce documents; a
subpoena may also be used for a party, as an alternative to a Notice to Appear
or Notice to Produce under Code of Civil Procedure 1987.
Subdivision (b) of section 1985 provides:
“A copy of an affidavit shall be served with a subpoena duces
tecum issues before trial, showing good cause for the production of the matters
and things described in the subpoena, specifying the exact matters or things
desired to be produced, setting forth in full detail the materiality thereof to
the issues involved in the case, and stating that the witness has the desired
matters or things in his or her possession or under his or her control.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985, subd. (b).)
Code
of Civil Procedure § 1987.1, subdivision (a), states:  
“If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  
In
ruling on a motion to quash brought under section 1987.1:
“The
court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.”
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.2, subd. (a).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff brings this motion to quash trial subpoenas issued by Defendant
to 13 medical providers.  Plaintiff
asserts two grounds for the motion.
 
First, Plaintiff argues that the trial subpoenas are untimely
because they were issued after the discovery cutoff.  (Motion, at pp. 5-6.)  This argument has no merit.  Trial subpoenas are not discovery devices and
they are not subject to the discovery cutoff set forth in the Civil Discovery
Act.  To the contrary, they are issued
shortly before trial, and commonly after the discovery cutoff.
 
Second, Plaintiff argues that the trial subpoenas are overly broad
and not drawn in accordance with the particularity requirement of Code of Civil
Procedure section 1985, subdivision (b). 
This argument requires more discussion.
 
As set above, Code of Civil Procedure section 1985, subdivision (b),
requires that a trial subpoena be accompanied by an affidavit “specifying the
exact matters or things desired to be produced.”  In a related provision, Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987, subdivision (c), governs notices to produce documents
at trial (which can be used against parties in lieu of trial subpoenas), and
that section requires that a notice “shall state the exact materials or things
desired.”
 
The 13 trial subpoenas issued by Defendant do not specify “the
exact matters or things desired to be produced.”  Instead, Defendant asks the providers to
produce broad categories of documents (including medical records, office
records, emergency room records, sign-in sheets, radiological records, medical
tests, inpatient and outpatient charts, ambulance records, paramedic records,
billing records, and records pertaining to the care, treatment, or examination of
Plaintiff), relating to Plaintiff’s legs, hip, and thoracic spine, for a period
of more than 14 years (July 8, 2010 to the present).  
 
This type of request to
produce categories of documents is generally proper in the context of pre-trial
discovery under the Civil Discovery Act, but a trial subpoena requires a
significantly higher degree of particularity. 
That test is not satisfied here.
Accordingly, the motion to
quash is granted.  
Both parties’ requests for
sanctions are denied.
Defendant’s request for
sanctions is denied as the motion to quash is granted.
Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is denied as the Court does not find that Defendant opposed the
motion in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to quash.
 
The Court QUASHES the trial subpoenas
issued by Defendant on or about November 4, 2024, to the following 13 entities:
(1) KFH/SCPMG
(Electronic & Paper Medical Records); (2) Westmed dba McCormick Ambulance;
(3) U.C.L.A. Health Systems; (4) PRN Ambulance; (5) Prosthetic & Orthotic
Group; (6) Samimi Orthopaedic Group; (7) Vantage Medical Management; (8) Kaiser
Permanente Radiology; (9) KFH/SCPMG (Billing); (10) U.C.L.A. Health Systems;
(11) U.C.L.A. Health Systems; (12) Samimi Orthopaedic Group; and (13) Samimi
Orthopaedic Group.
 
The Court DENIES both parties requests for
sanctions.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.