  Case Number:  21STCV47069    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  49 Angelina Lizarraras, et al. v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.DEFENDANT AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION MOVING PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Angelina Lizarraras and David LizarrarasSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: This is a lemon law case.  In 2018, Plaintiffs Angelina and David Lizarraras (“Plaintiffs”) purchased a 2017 Honda CR-V manufactured by Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Honda”).  Plaintiffs allege the vehicle had electrical defects. They bring Song-Beverly violations for (1) breach of express warranty and (2) breach of implied warranty.Defendant Honda now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication.  Plaintiffs opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.Defendant is ordered to file a [Proposed] Judgment consistent with this Ruling.Defendant is ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION: Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary AdjudicationI. Legal StandardThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294).  Thus, summary judgment is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)As to each claim as framed by the Complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A defendant has met its burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if it demonstrates the absence of any single essential element of plaintiff’s case or a complete defense to plaintiff’s action.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(o)(2); Bacon v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 854, 858.)  Once the defendant moving party has met the burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show via specific facts that a triable issue of material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto.  (§ 437c(o)(2).)II. Objections to EvidencePursuant to CCP § 437c(q), the Court only rules upon objections asserted against evidence which the Court deems to be material to the disposition of this motion, as follows:Plaintiffs’ objection to the Declaration of Mollie Heitzig is OVERRULED.Defendant’s objections numbered 1 through 4 are OVERRULED.III. AnalysisA. First Cause of Action for Breach of Express WarrantyDefendant Honda moves for summary judgment or adjudication of the Complaint. Defendant argues Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for violation of Express Warranty fails because Civil Code § 1793.2(d) does not apply to used vehicles. Plaintiffs purchased the 2017 Honda CR-V from Keyes Toyota with 11,134 miles. (SSUMF 1.) Honda did not distribute the vehicle to Keyes Toyota, and the dealership is not an authorized Honda dealership or service facility. (SSUMF 2, 3.) At the time of purchase, the vehicle had only the remainder of the warranty, but not the full new vehicle warranty. (SSUMF 11, 12.) Plaintiffs do not dispute these material facts. (See SSDMF.)The question therefore is whether the subject vehicle qualifies as a “new motor vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Act. As relied on by Plaintiffs, in Jensen, the plaintiff leased a dealer “demonstrator” vehicle with 7,565 miles. (Jensen v. BMW of N. Am., Inc. (1995) 35 Cal. App. 4th 112, 119.) But the dealer informed the plaintiff she would receive the “36,000-mile warranty on top of the miles already on the car.” (Id.) Once the car exhibited braking issues, the plaintiff filed an action under the Song-Beverly Act. Addressing whether the plaintiff’s vehicle qualified as a “new motor vehicle” under the Act, the Court concluded that “cars sold with a balance remaining on the manufacturer's new motor vehicle warranty are included within its definition of ‘new motor vehicle.’” (Id. at 123.) Arguing that the Song-Beverly Act does not apply to used vehicles, Defendant relies on the recent case of Rodriguez v. FCA US LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209.  In Rodriguez, the plaintiffs purchased a two-year-old Dodge truck from a used car dealership.  The truck’s limited powertrain warranty had not yet expired.  After the truck experienced electrical defects, the plaintiffs sued the manufacturer for violation of section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(2), the Song-Beverly Act's “new motor vehicle” refund-or-replace provision.  FCA moved for summary judgment, arguing the truck was not a “new motor vehicle” under the Act, and the trial judge agreed.On appeal, the Court addressed the sole issue of “whether the phrase ‘other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty’ covers sales of previously owned vehicles with some balance remaining on the manufacturer's express warranty.”  (Id. at 215.) The Court concluded based on “the statutory provision, its place within the Act as a whole, and its legislative history,” that the phrase “other motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty” refers to cars sold with a full warranty, not to previously sold cars accompanied by some balance of the original warranty. (Id. at 225.)The foregoing authorities are instructive here. In Rodriguez, the basic warranty had expired, and all that remained was an “unspecified” balance on the powertrain warranty.  (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at 216.) In Jensen, on the other hand, the demonstrator vehicle received a brand new, 36,000-mile warranty “on top of the miles already on the car.” (Jensen, supra, 35 Cal. App. 4th at 119.) The Rodriguez court noted the difference between these two types of vehicles: what makes a demonstrator vehicle “unique” is that “even though they aren't technically new, manufacturers (or their dealer-representatives) treat them as such upon sale by providing the same type of manufacturer's warranty that accompany new cars.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at 220.) Thus, Rodriguez found Jensen “easily distinguishable” because it “involved a lease by a manufacturer-affiliated dealer who issued a full new car warranty along with the lease.” (Id. at 223 [italics in original].)Here, the vehicle at issue is not a true “demonstrator” vehicle like the one in Jensen, which for all intents and purposes was treated as a new vehicle by the manufacturer-affiliated dealer. Instead, it was a “used” vehicle accompanied not with a full warranty that typically accompanies new vehicles, but rather, with some remainder of the basic and powertrain warranties. (SSUMF 12.) This was precisely the vehicle at issue in Rodriguez found not to be a new motor vehicle under the Act. It is therefore unnecessary to choose a side between Jensen and Rodriguez because the vehicles at issue in those respective cases are distinguishable. Moreover, the vehicle here resembles the one in Rodriguez—an opinion this court can and does find highly persuasive, although not binding by nature of the pending review by the state Supreme Court. (See Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456 [allowing trial courts to exercise discretion to choose between sides of a conflict in the Court of Appeal].)  [FN 1]Thus, considering the authorities and the vehicle at issue, this court concludes Plaintiffs’ vehicle was not a “new motor vehicle” under the Act.  Their First Cause of Action therefore fails.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First Cause of Action is GRANTED.B. Second Cause of Action for Breach of Implied WarrantyDefendant also moves to summarily adjudicate the second cause of action for breach of implied warranty. Defendant argues that Civil Code section 1795.5 does not apply to the manufacturer, distributor, or retail seller of new motor vehicles such as Honda—only to distributors or retail sellers of used motor vehicles. (See Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal. App. 5th at 218 [stating the Song-Beverly Act’s protections for used goods “are limited and bind the seller or distributor of the used product”].)Defendant presents evidence that it has no affiliation with Keyes Toyota, the vehicle’s seller, and does not distribute used vehicles. (SSUMF 2, 3, 6, 7.) These facts are undisputed. (See SSDMF.)Plaintiffs do not address this issue in their opposition brief, apparently conceding that the second cause of action fails.  (See Trinity Risk Management, LLC v. Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc. (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 995, 1009 [“failure to offer reasoned analysis of [an] issue constitutes a waiver”]; see also In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 830 [“[t]he absence of cogent legal argument or citation to authority allows this court to treat the contentions as waived.”])Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Second Cause of Action is GRANTED.Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.Defendant is ordered to file a [Proposed] Judgment consistent with this Ruling.Defendant is ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   February 6, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - The California Supreme Court granted the petition for review in Rodriguez v. FCA US (S274625) on July 13, 2022. The case is fully briefed as of May 12, 2023. No date for oral argument has been set. This court would consider any request to stay or defer the instant ruling until a decision in Rodriguez.  Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.