  Case Number:  21STCV05451    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
SONIA
  GRAMAJO-OLIVARRI,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV05451




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Denied
 




 
ALLIANTE
  INTERNATIONAL,
NORTHGATE
  GONZALEZ MARKET, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, CARMEN MORENO, AN INDIVIDUAL,
  AND DOES 1-10, INCLUSIVE


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              January
14, 2025
 
Moving Parties:          Plaintiff Sonia Gramajo-Olivarri
 
Responding
Party:      Defendants Alliance
International and Northgate Gonzalez Market
 
HEARING: Motion for Leave to File
Second Amended Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
 
RULING
            
            The Court denies the Motion
for Leave to Amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 10, 2024, Plaintiff Sonia Gramajo-Olivarri
filed the Complaint against Defendants Alliante International, Northgate
Gonzalez Market, Roblez, and Moreno.
 
On May 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed the First
Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants Alliante International, Northgate Gonzalez Market,
Christian Roblez, and Carmen Moreno alleging causes of action for negligence,
negligence per se, negligent hiring, supervision, or retention, false arrest,
false imprisonment, assault, battery, and IIED.
 
On December 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion for Leave to File the Second Amended Complaint.
 
            On
December 31, 2024, Defendants filed the Opposition.
 
            No
reply has been filed.
 
            Trial
is set for May 5, 2025.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The Code of Civil Procedure §473 subdivision
(a)(1) states: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars and may, upon like terms,
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”   
 
Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and therefore, the courts have held that
“there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler
v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296–297; see also Ventura
v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are
bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the
adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) “If the motion to amend is timely
made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend, and where the refusal also results in a
party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a
meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 543; see also Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“[I]t is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not
misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”] 
 
Pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court 3.1324(a), a
motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what allegations are
proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous pleading and where such
allegations are located. Cal. Rules of Court 3.1324(b) requires a separate
declaration that accompanies the motion, stating: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            The case centers on an incident at Northgate Gonzalez
Market on January 19, 2020, where Plaintiff Sonia Gramajo-Olivarri alleges she
was assaulted and falsely imprisoned by two loss prevention agents, Christian
Roblez and Carmen Moreno, employed by Defendant Alliante International. Both
agents are no longer employed by Alliante. Plaintiff initially filed the Complaint
on February 10, 2021, alleging multiple causes of action, including negligence,
false imprisonment, assault, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. The
FAC was filed on May 21, 2021, identifying Roblez and Moreno as Defendants.
Plaintiff now seeks to file a Second Amended Complaint (SAC). Plaintiff states
that she wishes to add Christian Roblez as a named Defendant. Christian Roblez
was named in the FAC but was dismissed on November 13, 2024.
 
            Plaintiff argues that the court should grant leave to
file the SAC due to new evidence and developments uncovered during the
discovery process. Initially, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants
Alliante, Northgate, Carmen Moreno, and Christian Roblez, but later dismissed
Roblez without prejudice after he voluntarily agreed to a deposition. Plaintiff
now seeks to rename Roblez and serve Moreno as Defendants based on their
involvement in the alleged incident and Defendants’ conduct during the
discovery process, which Plaintiff claims has been obstructive and delayed the
resolution of the case.
 
Plaintiff contends
that the amendment relates back to the original complaint filed on February 2,
2021, as it arises from the same set of facts and course of conduct. (Smeltzley
v. Nicholson Manufacturing Co. (1977) 18 Cal.3d 932, 939-94.) Plaintiff
further asserts that Defendants will not be prejudiced by the SAC because it
does not introduce new legal theories or require additional preparation costs.
Moreover, the trial has already been rescheduled to May 2025, allowing
sufficient time for Defendants to address the amended claims.
 
Plaintiff
highlights significant challenges in obtaining discovery, including last-minute
deposition cancellations and alleged evasive behavior by Roblez after he became
represented by defense counsel. Plaintiff argues that these actions have
delayed the trial and impeded their ability to prepare the case. 
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff's motion for leave to file the SAC should be denied due to
procedural deficiencies, lack of evidentiary support, and futility of the
amendment. Defendants assert that Plaintiff has failed to comply with the
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires the motion to identify
the specific amendments, their locations within the pleading, and the newly
discovered facts or legal theories justifying the amendment. Plaintiff’s motion
does not attach the proposed SAC and explicitly states that it is identical to
the FAC, undermining the necessity of the amendment. Defendants further highlight
that Plaintiff has not provided an adequate explanation for the timing of the
amendment or new evidence warranting the renaming of Christian Roblez as a Defendant.
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff dismissed Roblez as a Defendant on November 14, 2024, because he
was deemed unnecessary to the lawsuit and agreed to sit for a deposition.
Plaintiff’s subsequent request to reinstate Roblez as a Defendant is
unsupported by new facts and appears to be motivated by dissatisfaction with
Roblez’s deposition testimony. Defendants contend that this request is
retaliatory and indicative of gamesmanship.
 
Defendants also
emphasize that the amendment is futile because no new evidence or facts justify
Roblez’s inclusion as a necessary party to the lawsuit. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has not demonstrated good cause for the amendment, and the motion
arises from the same facts already known at the beginning of the case. (Record
v. Reason (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 472, 473.) Defendants highlights that
courts deny amendments based on untimely, unsupported, or retaliatory motives,
particularly when the trial date is approaching, and the amendment would
disrupt proceedings without adding substantive value.
“There is a strong policy in favor of liberal
allowance of amendments.” (Mesler, supra, 39 Cal.3d 290, 296–297.)
However, a motion to amend must contain the facts that led to the amendment and
when they were discovered.  (Cal. Rules
of Court 3.1324(b).) Here, however, the Plaintiff has not provided any new
facts that would require amendment. In fact, the stated reason for the
amendment is the Defendant’s counsel’s gamesmanship and Roblez’s evasiveness
during the deposition. Neither of these are facts that would lead to new causes
of action or theories of liability.
 
Therefore, the Court denies the Motion for
Leave to Amend.