 Case Number:  23STCV12206    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena 
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Adrineh Asatourian
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Maurice Maalouf
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Deposition 
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Maurice Maalouf 
Resp. Party:    Defendant Edwin Haratonians
 
        
The February 23, 2024 hearing is ADVANCED to February 21, 2024. Any
party that wishes to contest this may do so at the hearing on February 21,
2024. 
 
The Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena is GRANTED. The deposition
subpoena issued by Plaintiff and served upon JP Morgan Chase Bank, National
Association is QUASHED. Defendant Adrineh Asatourian’s Request for Sanctions is
DENIED. 
 
        The Motion to Compel Deposition is
GRANTED in part. Defendant Edwin Haratonians shall make himself available for
deposition within 30 days of the issuance of this Order. In all else, the
Motion to Compel Deposition is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On May 30, 2023,
Plaintiff Maurice Maalouf filed his Complaint against Defendants Edwin
Haratonians, Jason Boutros, Wellness Care Residence, LLC, and Adrineh
Asatourian on causes of action of dissolution of limited liability company,
violation of the federal False Claims Act, and violation of the California
False Claims Act. 
 
On October 6, 2023,
Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
On October 11, 2023,
the Court found related cases 23STCV12206 and 23STCV18039, and designated
23STCV12206 as the lead case. 
                                                                            
On January 19, 2024,
Defendant Adrineh Asatourian filed Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena. 
 
On January 26, 2024,
Defendant Adrineh Asatourian filed her Notice of Errata to Motion to Quash
Deposition Subpoena. 
 
On January 29, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his Motion to Compel Deposition. In support of his Motion to
Compel Deposition, Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1) Separate Statement; and
(2) Request for Judicial Notice. 
 
On January 30, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his Second Amended Complaint (SAC). 
 
On February 8, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his Opposition to Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena.
Plaintiff filed a Request for Judicial Notice in support of this opposition. 
 
On February 9, 2024,
Defendant Edwin Haratonians filed his Opposition to Motion to Compel Deposition
(Parts 1 and 2). 
 
On February 13, 2024,
Defendant Adrineh Asatourian filed her Reply in support of her Motion to Quash
Deposition Subpoena. 
 
On February 14, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his Reply in support of his Motion to Compel Deposition. 
 
On February 15, 2024,
Defendant Adrineh Asatourian filed her Notice of Errata regarding her Reply. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Preliminary
Issue
 
The Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena is scheduled to be heard on
February 21, 2024. However, the Motion to Compel Deposition is scheduled for
February 23, 2024. The motions consider similar issues of law and fact, and all
responses have been submitted. 
 
As these similar issues should be heard and considered at the same
time, the Court ADVANCES the February 23, 2024 hearing to February 21, 2024.
Any party that wishes to contest this may do so at the hearing on February 21,
2024. 
 
II.      
Motion
to Quash Deposition Subpoena
 
A. 
    Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial notice of its Minute
Order dated January 4, 2024. 
 
The Court DENIES as superfluous judicial
notice to this item. Any party that wishes to draw the Court’s attention to an
item filed in this action may simply cite directly to the document by execution
and filing date. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(d).)
 
B. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
 
Courts have considerable discretion in granting
and crafting protective orders. (Raymond
Handling Concepts Corp. v. Super. Ct. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.)
 
C. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
The deposition subpoena at issue requests “[a]ll bank records of
Adrineh Asatourian . . . 1/1/14 – present”. (Motion to Quash Deposition
Subpoena, Exh. A, Item 3.)
 
        Defendant Adrineh Asatourian moves the
Court to quash the deposition subpoena, arguing: (1) that the only currently
pending cause of action in this lawsuit is for involuntary dissolution; (2)
that Defendant Adrineh Asatourian is not a party to this cause of action; (3)
that discovery is not permitted as to an involuntary dissolution cause of
action; and (4) that even if discovery was proper at this time, the pending
subpoena for supposed business records of Defendant Adrineh Asatourian would be
improper in its entirety. (Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena, pp. 3:14–21,
5:12–13, 7:19–22.)
 
        Plaintiff disagrees, arguing: (1) that
Plaintiff can conduct discovery as a matter of right; (2) that privacy rights
can be protected by a protective order; (3) that Plaintiff has timely and
properly served the subpoena; and (4) that a cognizable basis to conduct discovery
does exist here. (Opposition to Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena, pp. 2:23,
3:1, 5:10–12.)
 
        In her Reply, Defendant Adrineh
Asatourian argues: (1) that Plaintiff cannot cite the tentative ruling because
it was reversed after oral argument; (2) that Plaintiff’s discussion of State
of California ex rel. Joseph McCann v. Bank of America (2011) 191
Cal.App.4th 897 is inapposite; and (3) that her privacy objection mandates
quashing the subpoena. (Reply re: Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena, pp. 2:17–19,
3:23–24, 5:8–9.)
 
D. 
    Privacy

 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
The California Constitution includes the
inalienable right to privacy. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.)
 
“The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternative that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing
considerations.” (Williams v. Super. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552, citing
Hill v. Nat’l Collegiate Athletic Ass’n (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.)  
 
The
balancing test outlined in Hill applies whenever lesser privacy
interests are at stake. (Id. at 556.) The Court only applies the higher
“compelling interest” standard to justify “an obvious invasion of an interest
fundamental to personal autonomy.” (Id.) 
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
The deposition subpoena requests all of Defendant Adrineh Asatourian’s
bank records for the last ten years. (Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena, Exh.
A, Item 3.) The subpoena is not narrowly limited and requires production of an
immensely wide range of information. The subpoena requires disclosure of the
entirety of Defendant Adrineh Asatourian’s financial life.  It is “an obvious invasion of an interest
fundamental to personal autonomy,” and thus the Court applies the “compelling
interest” standard here. 
 
Plaintiff has not met the compelling interest standard here. Plaintiff
has not sufficiently explained to the Court why a narrower subpoena would be insufficient
to meet Plaintiff’s discovery needs.
 
The Court GRANTS the Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena. The Court
QUASHES the deposition subpoena issued by Plaintiff and served upon JP Morgan
Chase Bank, National Association. 
 
        The Court need not and does not reach
the other arguments raised by the parties. 
 
E. 
    Sanctions
 
Defendant Adrineh Asatourian requests a monetary sanction against
Plaintiff. (Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena, p. 8:25–28.)
 
Plaintiff argues that it would be unjust to order Plaintiff to pay
attorney’s fees. (Opposition to Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena, p.
7:19–21.)
 
Although the Court is quashing the deposition subpoena, the Court notes
that a narrower subpoena might well be permitted. Thus, the Court does not find
that this circumstance warrants monetary sanctions. 
 
The Court DENIES Defendant Adrineh Asatourian’s Request for Sanctions. 
 
F.  
    Conclusion
 
The Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena is GRANTED. 
 
The deposition subpoena issued by Plaintiff and served upon JP Morgan
Chase Bank, National Association is QUASHED. 
 
Defendant Adrineh Asatourian’s Request for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
 
III.    
Motion
to Compel Deposition
 
A. 
    Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial notice of its Minute
Order dated January 4, 2024. 
 
The Court DENIES as superfluous judicial
notice to this item. Any party that wishes to draw the Court’s attention to an
item filed in this action may simply cite directly to the document by execution
and filing date. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(d).)
 
B. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a
party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“If a motion under
subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)
 
C. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to: (1) compel Defendant Edwin Haratonians to
appear for a deposition on March 5, 2024; (2) order Defendant Edwin Haratonians
to produce all requested writings without further objection; and (3) sign and
enter the protective order; and (4) order production as amended by Plaintiff in
his subsequent meet and confer. (Motion to Compel Deposition, p. 15:9–14.)
Monetary sanctions are not requested. 
 
Plaintiff’s Counsel declares that on December 20, 2023 he served
Defense Counsel with a deposition notice for January 9, 2024. (Motion to Compel
Deposition, Decl. Miller, ¶ 3.) The attached Notice of Deposition indicates
that it was actually sent on December 21, 2023. (Id. at Exh. 1.)
 
Defendant Edwin Haratonians opposes the Motion to Compel Deposition,
arguing: (1) that his objections were timely and proper; (2) that he was not
required to file a motion to quash regarding the deposition notice; (3) that
discovery is not permitted in an involuntary dissolution lawsuit; (4) that
discovery is not permitted regarding the qui tam and related causes of action;
(5) that he correctly objected to the requests for documents to be produced at
the deposition; and (6) that the tentative order has no effect. (Opposition to
Motion to Compel Deposition, pp. 5:8–11, 6:7–8, 6:19–20, 8:9–10, 10:20–21,
14:12–16.)
 
In his Reply, Plaintiff argues: (1) that it is proper to conduct
discovery on the second and third causes of action; and (2) that there are
limits on what expectation of privacy is “reasonable.” (Reply re: Motion to
Compel Deposition, pp. 2:21–23, 3:4.)
 
D. 
    Special
Proceedings and the Civil Discovery Act
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“Judicial
remedies are such as are administered by the Courts of justice, or by judicial
officers empowered for that purpose by the Constitution and statutes of this
State.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 20.)
 
“These remedies are divided into two classes: 1.
Actions; and, 2. Special proceedings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 21.)
 
“An action is an ordinary
proceeding in a court of justice by which one party prosecutes another for the
declaration, enforcement, or protection of a right, the redress or prevention
of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 22.)
 
“Every other remedy is a
special proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 23.)
 
“The term ‘special
procedure’ is not
generally defined by statute, but as pointed out in Bancroft's Code Practice
and Remedies, volume 1, page 141, the term does not have a well-established
meaning and includes all civil remedies in courts of justice which are not
ordinary actions, or in other words, any proceeding in a court which was not
under the common law and equity practice, either an action at law or a suit in
chancery. Special proceedings being of statutory origin, do not proceed
according to the course of the common law but give new rights and afford new
remedies.” (Boggs v. N. Am. Bond & Mortgage Co. (1937) 20 Cal.App.2d
316
 
“The first question to
be determined is whether this suit falls within the classification of an
‘action’ or whether it is a ‘special proceeding.’ As a general rule, a special
proceeding is confined to the type of case which was not, under the common law
or equity practice, either an action at law or a suit in equity.” (Tide
Water Assoc’d Oil Co. v. Super. Ct. of Los Angeles Cnty. (1955) 43 Cal.2d
815, 822, citations omitted.)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Here, Defendant Edwin Haratonians argues vociferously that “it is clear
that the involuntary dissolution cause of action of this lawsuit is a ‘special
proceeding.’” (Opposition to Motion to Compel Deposition, pp. 7:28–8:1.)
 
Perhaps. The SAC is vague on what authority Plaintiff seeks relief for
his first cause of action. (SAC, pp. 2–3.)
 
In any case, Defendant Edwin Haratonians has concluded that because the
first cause of action involves a “special proceeding,” this case “is not
subject to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, and does not provide
for depositions, other discovery, a full evidentiary hearing, or a jury trial,
but is instead a summary proceeding.” (Opposition to Motion to Compel
Deposition, p. 8:1–3.)
 
This is inaccurate. 
 
        The portion of the Code of Civil
Procedure that deals with the deposition issue at hand is called the “Civil
Discovery Act.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.010.) The Civil Discovery Act’s use of
the word “‘action’ includes a civil action and a special proceeding of a civil
nature.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.020, subd. (a).) While there are certain
types of actions and special proceedings that have limited discovery, the Civil
Discovery Act is not automatically inapplicable simply because a case involves
a special proceeding. (Ibid.)
 
“Unless otherwise
limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any
motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party
seeking discovery or of any other party to the action. Discovery may be
obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any
discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody,
condition, and location of any document, electronically stored information,
tangible thing, or land or other property.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
 
        In summary, the Opposition to the Motion
to Compel Deposition is unsupported in arguing that Plaintiff has no right to a
deposition simply because this might be a special proceeding. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2016.020, subd. (a).) Quite the opposite — Plaintiff has the right to obtain
discovery (including by deposition), subject to various limits such as
relevancy and privilege. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
 
E. 
    The
Remaining Arguments
 
The Court need not and does not delve into most of the remaining
arguments. 
 
        Plaintiff has a right to depose
Defendant Edwin Haratonians. The Complaint was filed on May 30, 2023, and
Plaintiff noticed the deposition nearly seven months later. It has been another
two months since the first notice was filed, yet Defendant Edwin Haratonians
has not made himself available for deposition. Trial is a bit less than ten
months from now. The Court has not been presented with a sufficient reason for
why Defendant Edwin Haratonians could not be deposed in the next forty-five
days. At the same time, the Court has not been presented with a sufficient
reason for why Defendant Edwin Haratonians should be prevented from objecting
to evidentiary issues at the deposition. 
 
        The Court GRANTS in part the Motion to
Compel Deposition. Defendant Edwin Haratonians shall make himself available for
deposition within 30 days of the issuance of this Order. In all else, the Court
DENIES the Motion to Compel Deposition. 
 
F.  
    Conclusion
 
        The Motion to Compel Deposition is
GRANTED in part. Defendant Edwin Haratonians shall make himself available for
deposition within 30 days of the issuance of this Order. In all else, the
Motion to Compel Deposition is DENIED. 
 
 