 Case Number:  24CHCV00906    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49¿ 




Date:
  9/18/24




Case
  Name: Kenneth M. Stern v. Voss, Cook & Thel LLP, James Damon, and Does
  1 through 50




Case No.
  24CHCV00906



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

SEPTEMBER 18, 2024
 

SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE (C.C.P.
Section 425.16)

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV00906

 
Motion
filed: 5/21/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Voss, Cook & Thel LLP and
James Damon 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Kenneth M. Stern
NOTICE: OK.¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court to strike Plaintiff’s Complaint, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from an alleged landlord-tenant dispute.
 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff Kenneth M. Stern (“Plaintiff”
or “Stern”) filed the Complaint against Defendants Voss, Cook & Thel LLP
(“VC&T”), James Damon (“Damon”) (collectively, the “Moving Defendants”),
and Does 1 through 50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Federal
Wire Fraud by Business and Professions Code § 17200, (2) California State Wire
Fraud, and (3) Declaratory Relief on Breach of Contract. Subsequently, Moving Defendants
filed their motion to strike on April 22, 2024. 
 
On May 21, 2024, Moving Defendants filed the instant Special Motion
to Strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 (the “Motion”). In response, Plaintiff filed her Opposition on September 4,
2024, to which Moving Defendants replied on September 11, 2024.
 
On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff substituted Defendant Tiffany
Taylor for Defendant Doe 1.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Special motions to strike
pursuant to the California Anti-SLAPP Statute are considered using a
two-pronged approach.  The first prong places the burden on the moving
defendant(s) to prove that the allegations arise from conduct protected by the
constitutional freedoms of speech or petition. If the first prong is
satisfied, then the second prong shifts the burden on the opposing plaintiff to
demonstrate a probability of success on the merits using credited evidence.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b).)
 
A.   
First Prong
–Defendants’ Burden to Prove All Allegations Arise from Conduct Protected by
the Constitutional Freedoms of Speech or Petition 
 
"At
the first step of the [anti-SLAPP] analysis, the defendant must make two
related showings. Comparing its statements and conduct against the statute, it
must demonstrate activity qualifying for protection. [Citation.] And comparing
that protected activity against the complaint, it must also demonstrate that
the activity supplies one or more elements of a plaintiff's claims." (Wilson
v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 887 (Wilson).)
 
Protected
activity includes service of Notices to Quit. In Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane
Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467 (Feldman), the court found
that the service of the notice to quit was protected communicative activity within
the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, reasoning that
“[s]ervice of a three-day notice to quit was a legally required prerequisite to
the filing of the unlawful detainer action…. As such, [the defendant’s] service
of the three-day notice to quit was a communication preparatory to the bringing
of the unlawful detainer action” (Feldman, supra, at p. 1480, see
also, Rohde v. Wolf (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 28, 35 [“communications
preparatory or in anticipation of brining an action or other official
proceeding are protected under section 425.16”])
 
 Conversely, California courts have held that a
cause of action against the landlord for disability discrimination in removing
its residential units from the rental market does not warrant the protection
under section 425.16, even if it involves such protected activities as filing
and serving preparatory notices to the tenants. (See DFEH v. 1105 Alta Loma
Road Apartments, LLC (2007) 154 Cal. App.4th 1273.) In DFEH, the
court denied the landlord’s Anti-SLAPP Special Motion to Strike, finding that
the communications and the actual eviction itself were not the acts attacked in
the complaint; instead, the gravamen of the complaint was for landlord’s
alleged act of failing to accommodate the tenant’s disability” (DFEH, supra,
at pp. 1284-1285.)
 
The
Court notes that in the anti-SLAPP context, the critical consideration is
whether the cause of action is based on the defendant’s protected free speech
or petitioning activity. (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89(Navellier
I).)
 
1)     
First
Cause of Action – Federal Wire Fraud
 
i)                  
The Conduct Underlying
the Allegations
 
The Complaint alleges that the
vehicle for bringing this Cause of Action, and the basis for such, is Business
and Professions Code section 17200, which states, “As used in this chapter, unfair
competition shall mean and include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business
act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising and any
act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500) of Part 3 of
Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code.” (Compl. ¶ 24b.) 
 
The Complaint alleges Moving Defendant’s unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act as the violation of the Federal Wire Fraud, which is
codified at 18 United States Code Chapter § 1343, providing that “Whoever,
having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for
obtaining ... property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be transmitted by means of
wire, ...communication in interstate ... commerce, any writings, ... sounds for
the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice” is guilty of the offense.”
(Compl. ¶ 24a.)
 
Plaintiff’s pleading further states, “On, or about, March 9,
2024, Barrister emailed, to plaintiff, the fake, false and fraudulent Notice to
Quit, dated March 9, 2024. The email, to which said Notice to Cure or Quit
was sent, was sent by means of interstate wires; in that, the servers,
which receive plaintiff’s email, are outside the State of California, then the
emails are routed back to plaintiff’s email address, plaintiff being in the
State of California.” (Compl. ¶ 25.) (Underlines added.)
 
“As such defendants, named in this cause of action,
conspired with, aided and abetted, Barrister to engage in the criminally
wrongful acts, as stated herein. That is, (1) defendants … wrongfully evict
plaintiff, including as part of that plan, using the fake Notices to Quit,
referenced herein, by use of sending the Fourth Fake Notice to Quit, by way of
interstate wires; and, (2) that defendants, agreed with their
coconspirator, and in aiding and abetting with, Barrister, intending that the
wrongful acts of trying to evict plaintiff, through interstate wires, as
set forth herein above, be committed.” (Compl. ¶ 26.) (Underlines added.)
 
Here, the gravamen of the First Cause of Action is for Moving
Defendants, acting as the attorney for the non-party landlord, allegedly
wrongfully evicted Plaintiff by using the fake Notice to Quit. Distinguishable
from the DFEH case, where the gravamen was the landlord’s disability
discrimination and not directly related to the landlord’s notices of removal of
the rental units from the market, Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action is directly
based on Moving Defendant’s conducts of providing Plaintiff multiple allegedly
fake Notices to Quit. 
 
The First Cause of Action hinges on the allegation that the
fake Notice to Quit was sent to Plaintiff’s email, the server for which is
located outside the State of California, constituting the alleged interstate
wires. (Compl. ¶¶ 25-26.)
 
More like the cause of action in Feldman, the sole
basis for liability in the First Cause of Action is the using and serving of the
Notice to Quit. Consequently, any doubt that the filing of the preparatory
notice would not be included in the wide ambit of the anti-SLAPP statute is set
to rest by Feldman line of cases. 
 
ii)                
Exception
to Anti-SLAPP Statute Protection – Conclusively Illegal Conduct
 
In the Opposition, Plaintiff
argues that the Notices to Quit were never served on Plaintiff, therefore they
could not be a good faith anticipation or prelitigation communication. (Opp’n.
at p. 4.) Additionally, Plaintiff contends that criminal conduct does not all
within the anti-SLAPP statutes. (Id. at pp. 3-4.)
 
The Court notes that the established law
is clear the moving party on an anti-SLAPP motion need not affirmatively show
that its acts were lawful, since that would improperly shift the opposing
party’s burden of proof onto the moving party and potentially import a merits
inquiry that should be examined in later proceedings. (RGC Gaslamp, LLC v.
Ehmcke Sheet Metal Co., Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 413, 429 (RGC Gaslamp),
see also Felman, supra, 160 Cal. App.4th at p. 1484 [“The claim that the eviction was ‘illegal’ ... does not transform these protected activities into something different
or independent.”])
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiff asserts that criminal conduct does not fall within the anti-SLAPP
statute, citing Flatley v. Morro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 328 (Flatley).
In Flatley, the court held that when a defendant’s communications
constituted criminal extortion as a matter law, they are unprotected by
constitutional guarantee of free speech or petition. (Id. at p. 305.)
 
However,
the present case is distinguishable from Flatley. The allegation against
Moving Defendants – that they used and serving a purportedly fake Notice to
Quit via interested wires – are not conclusively established as illegal or
criminal conduct as a matter of law. Unlike in Flatley, where the defendant’s
actions were conclusively criminal and extortionate, here the legality of Moving
Defendants’ conduct remains to be determined. 
 
Therefore,
the exception outlined in Flatley does not apply. Instead, the general legal
principal holds that the moving party on an anti-SLAPP motion need not
affirmatively demonstrate the lawfulness of their actions at this stage. As
outlined in RGC Gaslamp, supra, the burden rests on the plaintiff
to prove the illegality of the defendant’s conduct at the second prong of the
analysis.
 
            Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ alleged actions remain
within the ambit of protected activities under the anti-SLAPP statute. 
 
Therefore,
the Court finds that Moving Defendants have met their initial burden of
demonstrating that the allegations under the First Cause of Action arise from
protected activities. The Court will assess Plaintiff’s argument on the
illegality in the second step of the analysis.
 
2)     
Second Cause of Action – State
Wire Fraud
 
Plaintiff asserts that the
Second Cause of Action is brought pursuant to statute, Penal Code section 502,
which provides, “8)
“Data” means a representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
computer software, or computer programs or instructions. Data may be in any
form, in storage media, or as stored in the memory of the computer or in
transit or presented on a display device. (c) Except as provided in subdivision
(h), any person who commits any
of the
following acts is guilty of a public offense: (1) Knowingly accesses and
without permission alters, damages, deletes, destroys, or otherwise uses any
data, computer, computer
system,
or computer network in order to either (A) devise or execute any scheme or
artifice to defraud, deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully control or obtain
money, property, or data.” (Compl. ¶ 31a.)
 
            The Complaint alleges that
“defendants ... wrongfully evict plaintiff, including as part of that plan, (1)
using the fake Notices to Quit, and in particular, the fake Fourth Notice to
quit, referenced herein, by use of sending the fake Fourth Fake Notice to
Quit, by way of wire transmission; and, (2) that defendants, ... intended
that the wrongful act of trying to evict plaintiff, by use of wire
transmission, as set forth herein above, be committed.” (Compl. ¶ 31.)
(Underlines added.)
 
            As previously analyzed for the First
Cause of Action, the gravamen of the Second Cause of Action is also based solely
on Moving Defendants’ action of “using ... [and] sending the fake ... Notice to
Quit, by way of wire transmission.” 
 
            Because prelitigation and
preparatory communications in the form of Notice to Quit is a protected
activities included in the wide ambit of the anti-SLAPP statute, the Court
finds that Moving Defendants have satisfied their initial burden in the Motion
as to the Second Cause of Action.
 
3)     
Third Cause of Action –
Declaratory Relief as to Breach of Contract
 
The Complaint alleges that “[t]he Notices to Cure or Quit
... were contractual offers.” (Compl. ¶ 37.) Plaintiff seeks declaratory
relief, under Code of Civil Procedure section 1060, regarding the Notices to
Quit written by Defendants, as to whether: “(A) a legally proper Notice to Quit
must specify the conduct upon which the Notice to Quit is based; (B) a legally
proper Notice to Cure of Quit, must state the conduct which must be cured, and
how to cure such; (C) whether plaintiff, having cured any potential conduct,
which could have been the basis for the third fake Notice to Quit, could have,
thereafter, without having engaged in any acts, which would have allowed
Barrister to evict plaintiff, be evicted, pursuant to the fake Fourth Notice to
Quit; (D) whether Barrister, in conspiracy with defendants, named in this cause
of action,, and with said defendants aiding and abetting Barrister, breached
the fake Third Notice to Cure of Quit, by giving plaintiff the fake Fourth
Notice to Quit, in light of the fact; that, between the fake Third Notice to
Quit and, the fake Fourth Notice to Quit, plaintiff engaged in no conduct that
could have been a breach of his obligations, pursuant to his tenancy, nor, a
basis for the fake Fourth Notice to Quit.” (Compl. ¶ 38.) 
 
As was previously discussed, at the first prong, courts
consider whether a defendant has made a prima facie showing that activity
underlying a plaintiff’s causes of action is statutorily protected, “not
whether it has shown its acts are ultimately lawful.” (Wilson, supra,
7 Cal.5th at p. 887.) Therefore, any claimed illegitimacy of the defendant’s
acts is an issue that must be raised and supported by the plaintiff in
discharging its burden on prong two. (Id. at p. 888.) “To conclude
otherwise would effectively shift to the defendant a [merits] burden
statutorily assigned to the plaintiff.” (Ibid.)
 
In RGC Gaslamp, supra, the plaintiff’s
declaratory relief cause of action challenged the validity of defendant’s
fourth filing of duplicative mechanical liens. The Court of Appeal upheld the
trial court’s granting of the anti-SLAPP motion, finding that “the filing of a
mechanic’s lien constitutes protected activity, even if the lien was invalid
or otherwise improper.” (RGC Gaslamp, supra, 56 Cal.App.5th
at p. 421.) (Underlines added.)
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks
declaratory relief challenging the validity of the Moving Defendants’ Notice to
Quit and Notice to Cure or Quit, the underlying basis for plaintiff’s claim as
to breach of contract.
 
In alignment with the
established case law, the Court finds that Moving Defendants’ action is issuing
the Notice to Quit and Notice to Cure or Quit, which are preparatory step in
filing a judicial proceeding, was protected activity, without regard to whether
the notice itself was invalid or otherwise improper. (RGC Gaslamp, supra, 56 Cal.App.5th
at p. 421.)
 
Accordingly, the Court concludes
that Moving Defendants
have satisfied their initial burden in the Motion as to the Third Cause of
Action.  
 
B.    
Second Prong
– Plaintiff’s Burden of Demonstrating A Probability of Prevailing
 
1)      Illegality of the Notices
 
“If the court finds such a showing [Defendant’s initial burden] has been
made, it then determines whether the plaintiff [here the
Feldman cross-complainants] has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the
claim.’” (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 712.)
“Put another way, the
plaintiffs ‘must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and
supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable
judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ [Citation.]”
(Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
“[P]laintiffs' burden as to
the second prong of the anti-SLAPP test is akin to that of a party opposing a
motion for summary judgment.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 763, 768.)
“If the plaintiff fails to
carry that burden, the cause of action is “subject to be stricken under the
statute.” (Navellier I, supra, 29 Cal.4th 82, 89.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s Opposition solely asserts the
invalidity or illegality of the notices on the following grounds: (1) that
Plaintiff was never served with any of the four purported Notices to Quit
(Opp’n. at p. 4), (2) that the Notices to Quit were never intended to be used
in litigation (Id. at p. 2), (3) that the Notices to Quit do not state
acts or omission of Plaintiff. (Ibid.) 
 
However,
Plaintiff has failed to support the assertions with any evidence, besides citing
the allegations originally stated in the Complaint. 
 
            By contrast, Moving Defendants present the following
evidence. As to the service of the notices, Moving Defendants provide the
declaration of Dorthy Bright, the president and Chief Operating Officer of the
non-party landlord Barrister Executive Suites, Inc., who authenticated both
Notice to Cure or Quit and Notice to Quit, along with proof of service
demonstrating proper service by both personal service and Certified Mail.
(Bright Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) 
 
            Regarding Plaintiff’s argument that theses notices were
never intended to be used in litigation, Dorthy Bright attest that “[i]n
February of 2021, Barrister engaged attorney James Damon of Voss, Cook &
Thel, LLP to prepare an unlawful detainer complaint against Plaintiff Kenneth
M. Stern for the reasons stated in the Notice to Cure or the Notice to
Terminate. Barrister intended to go to court to pursue an unlawful detainer
action against Plaintiff.” (Bright Decl. ¶ 7.”) Additionally, “Plaintiff
vacated the Premises. Accordingly, Barrister did not need to file the unlawful
detainer complaint against Plaintiff[.]” (Id. ¶ 7.)
 
            Lastly,
Moving Defendants also point out that the served Notice to Cure or Quit,
attached as Exhibit 1 to Dorthy Bright’s declaration, states in pertinent part:
 
“(2) Section 15 at page 6 of the Lease, which provides:
“Rules and Regulations. Lessee shall observe at all times Lessor’s Rules and
Regulations, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit D.” Additionally,
Rule/Regulation 19, which provides: “Lessee shall not disturb … any occupant of
the Building and shall cooperate to prevent same.” This covenant has been
violated in that Lessor has received numerous complaints that Lessee has been
disturbing occupants of the Building. (3) Section 14 at page 5 of Exhibit D
to the Lease, which provides: “Professional Conduct. If Lessee conducts himself
or his business in such a manner that reflects unfavorably on them or the
Suite, Lessor may terminate this Lease on 15 days notice to Lessee and any rent
paid in advance will be returned to Lessee on a pro rata basis. Lessor further
reserves the right to exclude, expel from the Suite or terminate the Lease of
(on 5 days notice to Lessee) any person who, in the sole judgment of Lessor, is
abusive to Lessor’s employees, tenants or visitors to the Premises … or who
shall in any manner do any act in violation of any of these rules and
regulations or applicable laws.” This covenant has been violated in that
Lessee has published a libel that reflects unfavorably on the Suite and Lessee
has been abusive to Lessor’s employees, tenants and/or visitors to the Premises.”

 
(Bright
Decl. Ex. “1.”) (Underlines added.)
              
Similarly, the
Notice to Quit, attached as Exhibit 2 to Dorthy Bright’s declaration, states in
pertinent part: 
 
“(2) Section 15
at page 6 of the Lease, which provides: “Rules and Regulations. Lessee shall
observe at all times Lessor’s Rules and Regulations, a copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit D.” Additionally, Rule/Regulation 19, which
provides: “Lessee shall not disturb … any occupant of the Building and shall
cooperate to prevent same.” This covenant continues to be violated in that
Lessor has received additional complaints that Lessee has been disturbing
occupants of the Building. (3) Section 14 at page 5 of Exhibit D to the
Lease, which provides: “Professional Conduct. If Lessee conducts himself or his
business in such a manner that reflects unfavorably on them or the Suite,
Lessor may terminate this Lease on 15 days notice to Lessee and any rent paid in
advance will be returned to Lessee on a pro rata basis. Lessor further reserves
the right to exclude, expel from the Suite or terminate the Lease of (on 5 days
notice to Lessee) any person who, in the sole judgment of Lessor, is abusive to
Lessor’s employees, tenants or visitors to the Premises … or who shall in any
manner do any act in violation of any of these rules and regulations or
applicable laws.” This covenant continues to be violated in that Lessee
continues to publish libelous statements that reflect unfavorably on the Suite
and Lessee has been abusive to Lessor’s employees, tenants and/or visitors to
the Premises.” 
 
(Bright Decl.
Ex. “2.”) (Underlines added.)
            
            Based on the above evidence, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has failed to satisfy his burden in claiming any illegitimacy
of the Moving Defendants’ action of using and serving the notices.
 
2)     
Plaintiff’s Probability of Prevailing
 
            Furthermore, Moving Defendants argue that the Notices to
Quit were served upon Plaintiff in anticipation of unlawful detainer lawsuit,
therefore, litigation privilege under California Civil Code section 47(b)
applies. (Mot. at p. 16.) 
 
            “The litigation privilege is “relevant to the second step in the
anti-SLAPP analysis in that it may present a substantive defense a plaintiff
must overcome to demonstrate a probability of prevailing.” (Felman, supra,
160 Cal.App.4th at p. 1485.) (Underlines added.) A prelitigation
communication is privileged only when it relates to litigation that is
contemplated in good faith and under serious consideration. [Citations.]” (Action
Apartment
Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1251.)
 
“[T]he trial court must consider facts so as to
make a determination whether plaintiffs can establish a prima facie probability
of prevailing on their claims. [Citations.] Thus,
while the court does not weigh evidence, it must determine whether plaintiffs
have demonstrated evidence which, if credited, would
justify their prevailing at trial. The court also considers [the defendant's] evidence to
determine if it has defeated that submitted by plaintiffs as a matter of law.
[Citation.]” (Blanchard v. DirectTV, Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
903, 920-921.) (Italics in original)
 
            Here, Moving Defendants’ evidence establishes that they
were engaged by the landlord to prepare an unlawful detainer complaint against
Plaintiff. (Bright Decl. ¶ 6.) The Notice to Cure or Quit was served by
personal delivery and certified mail on February 19, 2021. (Bright Decl. Ex.
“1.”) The Notice to Quit was served by personal delivery and certified mail on
March 9, 2021. (Bright Decl. Ex. “2.”) Plaintiff terminated his tenancy by
moving out the premises on April 30, 2021. (Compl. ¶ 19.)  Due to Plaintiff’s vacating the premises, the
landlord “did not need to file the unlawful detainer complaint with the ...
court.” (Bright Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
            The Court finds that the notices were closely connected
to and logically related to the intended unlawful detainer action, given the
timeline and progression of events as shown by the evidence. The Court
determines that the
evidence provided by Moving Defendants, including the declaration of Dorthy
Bright, demonstrates that litigation was seriously contemplated, and only
avoided because Plaintiff vacated the premises.
 
Plaintiff’s
assertions to the contrary are unsupported by any evidence, while Moving Defendants
have effectively refuted Plaintiff’s claims with substantial proof. Because
Plaintiff cannot, as a matter of law, make a prima facie showing of his
probability of prevailing on the merits, the Court must conclude that the
litigation privilege applies, thus barring Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the Special Motion to Strike under Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16 as to Moving Defendants.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Moving Defendants’
Special Motion to Strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is
GRANTED as to Moving Defendants.
 
Moving
party to give notice.