 Case Number:  20STCV48745    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Appoint
Discovery Referee; Motion for Protective Order
 
Moving Party:                         Cross-Complainant and
Cross-Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority   
Responding Party:                   Defendants, Cross-Complainants,
and Cross-Defendants Mary Lou Dorgalli and Sam Dorgalli 
 
Tentative Ruling:                    Both motions are denied.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a motor
vehicle collision that occurred on March 12, 2019. On December 21, 2020,
Plaintiff Michael Moore (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Mary
Lou Dorgalli (“Ms. Dorgalli”), Sam Dorgalli (collectively, “Dorgalli”), and
DOES 1 to 50, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle; and
(2) General Negligence. 
            On July 16, 2021, Dorgalli filed an
Answer to the Complaint. Also, on July 16, 2021, Dorgalli filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“Metro”), Mandeed Singh Sagoo, and ROES 1 to 20,
alleging causes of action for: (1) Equitable Indemnification; (2) Comparative
Contribution, Partial Indemnification; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
            On August 6, 2021, Dorgalli filed
the operative Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) against Cross-Defendants Metro
and Mandeed Singh Sagoo and ROES 1 to 20, alleging causes of action for: (1)
Equitable Indemnification; (2) Comparative Contribution, Partial
Indemnification; and (3) Declaratory Relief.  
            On September 23, 2021, Metro filed
an Answer to the Cross-Complaint filed by Dorgalli. Also, on September 23,
2021, Metro filed a Cross-Complaint against Dorgalli alleging causes of action
for: (1) Equitable Indemnity, Partial or Comparative; (2) Declaratory Relief;
(3) Equitable Comparative Contribution; (4) Apportionment of Fault based on Comparative
Negligence and/or Comparative Fault; and (5) Property Damage. 
            On October 11, 2023, after hearing
oral argument, the Honorable Lynne M. Hobbs sitting in Department 30 at the
Spring Street Courthouse granted Dorgalli’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of
the Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) of Metro. (10/11/23 Minute Order at p. 2.) The
Court ordered that the deposition of the Metro’s PMK was to be taken within 30
days or to a date stipulated by the parties in writing. (10/11/23 Minute Order
at p. 2.) 
            On January 4, 2024, Dorgalli filed a
Motion for Terminating Sanctions against Metro on the grounds that Metro
deliberately disobeyed the Court’s orders to produce PMK witnesses to testify
on particular matters of knowledge and produce documents related to those
categories. 
            On February 2, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing on Dorgalli’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions to April
2, 2024, in order to give Metro one final opportunity to comply with the
Court’s October 11, 2023 order to produce PMK witnesses for the 5 categories
needed. (02/02/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) 
            On April 2, 2024, the Honorable
Lynne M. Hobbs, sitting in Department 30 at the Spring Street Courthouse,
issued a minute order denying Dorgalli’s motion for terminating sanctions.
(04/02/24 Minute Order.) The Court indicated that Metro “ultimately produced
two witnesses to testify” in response to the Court’s October 11, 2023 order and
those witnesses were “Shonda Breland on November 20, 2023, and Scott Connor on
November 27, 2023”; however, Dorgalli argued that Metro ignored the Court’s
order by not producing documents and not producing witnesses fully prepared to
address the categories of knowledge. (04/02/24 Minute Order at p. 3.) The Court
noted that its October 11, 2023 order did not require document production and
that “if the documents were not produced at the deposition, Dorgalli may then
move to compel Defendant to produce the documents.” (04/02/24 Minute Order at
p. 3.) The Court noted that “[i]t appears that [Metro] is attempting in good
faith to comply with the Court order, but the parties are at an impasse as to which
categories [of testimony] still need PMKs, and to what extent the PMK is to
testify.” (04/02/24 Minute Order at p. 4.) 
            On March 8, 2024, Metro filed the
following two motions: (1) a motion for protective order; and (2) a motion for
an order to appoint a discovery referee. 
            As to the motion for a protective
order, Metro seeks a protective order that Metro need not produce a PMK for
category Nos. 1, 2, 4, and 5 as set forth in Ms. Dorgalli’s Notice of
Deposition of Metro’s PMK. Metro seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of
$4,800.00 against Ms. Dorgalli and her counsel of record pursuant to the motion
for a protective order. Dorgalli filed an opposition to the motion for a
protective order on April 2, 2024, to which Metro replied on May 8, 2024. 
            As to the motion to appoint a
discovery referee, Metro moves to appoint a discovery referee to hear and
determine all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery between
Metro and Ms. Dorgalli. Dorgalli filed an opposition to the motion to appoint a
discovery referee on April 2, 2024. No reply brief has been filed concerning
the motion to appoint a discovery referee. 
            The Court will address both motions
in this one ruling. The Court will first address the motion to appoint a
discovery referee and will then address the motion for a protective order. The
Court notes that the declarations of Thomas S. Shaver submitted in support of
the respective opposition briefs are essentially substantively identical. 
            On April 26, 2024, this action was
transferred from the Honorable Lynne M. Hobbs to the Honorable Ian C. Fusselman
sitting in Department T at Alhambra Courthouse effective May 13, 2024. 
MOTION TO APPOINT
DISCOVERY REFEREE
Applicable Law 
            A court may
appoint a referee “[w]hen the court in any pending action determines that it is
necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and determine any and all
discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action and to
report findings and make a recommendation thereon.”¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 639,
subd. (a)(5).)¿¿Appointment requires a court finding of “exceptional
circumstances.”¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (d)(2).)¿¿ 
¿           Absent agreement of all parties,¿courts
may not make blanket referrals, except “in the unusual case where a majority of
factors” favor reference, including: “(1) there are multiple issues to be
resolved; (2) there are multiple motions to be heard simultaneously; (3) the
present motion is only one in a continuum of many; (4) the number of documents
to be reviewed (especially in issues based on assertions of privilege) make the
inquiry inordinately time-consuming.”¿(Taggeres v. Superior Court¿(1998)
62 Cal.App.4th¿94, 105.)¿ “Where one or more of the above factors unduly impact
the court’s time and/or limited resources, the court is clearly within its
discretion to make an appropriate reference.”¿¿(Id. at p. 106.)¿¿ 
            All appointments
of referees pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc., § 639,¿subd. (a)(5),¿must be by
written order and must¿include the following:¿¿¿ 
[1]¿the exceptional circumstances requiring the reference, which
must be specific to the circumstances of the particular case.¿[2]¿The subject
matter or matters included in the reference.¿[3]¿The name, business address,
and telephone number of the referee.¿[4]¿The maximum hourly rate the referee
may charge and, at the request of any party, the maximum number of hours for
which the referee may charge. Upon the written application of any party or the
referee, the court may, for good cause shown, modify the maximum number of
hours subject to any findings as set forth in paragraph (6)¿[of¿Code Civ.
Proc., § 639].¿[5]¿Either a finding that no party has established an economic
inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee's fee or a finding that one or
more parties has established an economic inability to pay a pro rata share of
the referee's fees and that another party has agreed voluntarily to pay that
additional share of the referee’s fee. A court shall not appoint a referee at a
cost to the parties if neither of these findings is made.¿¿ 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 639,¿subd. (d).)¿¿¿¿                         
Analysis 
A.    Evidence in Support of
the Motion
 Metro’s counsel, Eitan Yehoshua (“Yehoshua”),
declares the following: Metro produced two PMKs for their
depositions on November 13, 2023, and November 20, 2023, respectively, in
response to all five categories in Ms. Dorgalli’s Notice of Deposition.
(Yehoshua Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms. Dorgalli still seemingly argues that there were more
categories at issue. (Id., ¶ 3.) Metro is happy to produce any and all
PMK that fits the role and engaged in a lengthy meet and confer process with
Ms. Dorgalli’s counsel regarding what specific discovery is Ms. Dorgalli and
counsel referring to, while Ms. Dorgalli’s counsel refused to provide direct
answers as to what exactly they are looking for. (Id., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Ms.
Dorgalli thereafter filed a motion for terminating sanctions against Metro,
which was continued by the Court to April 2, 2024, so that the parties could
further meet and confer regarding Metro’s PMK depositions. (Id., ¶ 4;
Exh. B.) Since then, Metro’s counsel again tried to meet and confer with Ms.
Dorgalli’s counsel regarding what specific category is Ms. Dorgalli and her
counsel referring. (Id., ¶ 5; Exhs. C and D.) Metro’s counsel proposed a
PMK and even provided dates. (Id.) Ms. Dorgalli’s counsel, again,
seemingly argued that Metro’s production of PMK is somehow not sufficient, but
refused to provide direct answers as to exactly what they are looking for. (Id.)
Metro has already produced witnesses that fully filled the role of at least
four categories out of the five categories. (Id.) However, Ms. Dorgalli’s
counsel seems to demand production of Metro’s PMK to all categories all over
again. (Id., ¶ 5; Exhs. E and F.)
B.     Evidence in Opposition
to the Motion 

            In opposition to the motion, counsel for Dorgalli, Thomas
W. Shaver (“Shaver”), relevantly declares: on October 11, 2023, the Court heard
and granted Dorgalli’s motion to compel the deposition of Metro’s PMK of the
following categories: (1) bus driver training and safety at signalized
intersections; (2) bus driver passenger safety; (3) cross-defendant Mandeed
Singh Sagoo’s training to operate a bus; (4) videos taken from the bus; and (5)
all policies and procedures regarding preservation of evidence following an
incident. (Shaver Decl., ¶ 3.) The individuals Metro produced for deposition
were not prepared to testify regarding the categories for which they were
supposed to be knowledgeable. (Id., ¶ 4.) In addition, neither of the
deponents produced documents which were requested to be produced at deposition.
(Id., ¶ 5.) Due to Metro’s failure to produce persons sufficiently
knowledgeable regarding all five categories of knowledge, Dorgalli filed a
motion for terminating sanctions, which was originally set for hearing on
February 2, 2024. (Id., ¶ 6.) All parties submitted to the Court’s
February 2, 2024 tentative order. (Id., ¶ 7; Exh. A.)  Based on correspondence between the parties,
Mr. Shaver noticed the depositions of Metro’s PMK for March 18, 2024. (Id.,
¶ 12; Exh. B.) However, while coordinating the depositions, Metro’s counsel
contended that it had already fully complied with categories 1, 2, 4, and 5 and
the only category remaining for a further PMK deposition was category number 3,
i.e., Mandeed Singh Sagoo’s training to operate a bus. (Id., ¶ 13; Exh.
C.) On March 15, 2024, counsel for Metro sent an e-mail advising that it would
not produce any persons for deposition on March 14, 2024 until a discovery
referee was appointed or Dorgalli agreed to limit the scope of issues for the
depositions. (Id., ¶ 14; Exh. D.) No one on behalf of Metro appeared for
deposition on March 18, 2024, and certificates of nonappearance were issued. (Id.,
¶ 15; Exh. E.) Neither the October 11, 2023 order nor the Court’s subsequent
order of February 2, 2024 limit the number or scope of the five categories of
knowledge for which Metro was to produce corresponding PMKs for deposition. (Id.,
¶ 16.) All that is at issue is Metro’s failure to comply with the Court’s
orders. (Id., ¶ 18.) This failure does not warrant, much less
necessitate, the appointment of a discovery referee. (Id., ¶ 18.) 
C.    Appropriateness of
Appointing a Discovery Referee 
The Court finds that appointment of a discovery
referee at this time is not appropriate. The
declaration of Metro’s
counsel in support of the motion does not set forth any facts showing the
necessity of a discovery referee. There are not multiple discovery issues to be
resolved nor are there multiple motions to be heard simultaneously in this
matter. The Court does not find that the discovery disputes regarding the
categories of PMK testimony warrant the appointment of a discovery referee. There
are no exceptional circumstances currently to justify the appointment of a
discovery referee. 
            The Court therefore DENIES Metro’s motion for appointment
of a discovery referee WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
            Metro moves for a protective order that Metro need not to
produce PMK categories Nos. 1, 2, 4, and 5, as set forth in Ms. Dorgalli’s
Notice of Deposition of Metro’s PMK. Metro also requests monetary sanctions in
the amount of $4,800.00 against Ms. Dorgalli and her counsel of record at
Bradely, Gmelich & Wellerstein LLP, jointly and severally. 
Applicable Law 
            “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter,
not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
“Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or
of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.) 
“The Court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines
that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs
the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. The Court may make this determination pursuant to a motion
for protective order by a party or other affected person.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2017.020, subd. (a).) “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any
deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).) “The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires that
protects any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) Such protective order may
include a direction that the deposition be taken only on certain specified
terms and conditions or that certain matters not be inquired into. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.420, subds. (b)(5) and (b)(9).) 
“[A] party objecting to particular discovery requests, e.g., as
unduly burdensome or oppressive, may seek a protective order.” (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) “[T]he burden is on
the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is
sought.” (Ibid.) “In law and motion practice, factual evidence is
supplied to the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor Space Facility, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) The trial court has
discretion to grant or deny a motion for protective order. (Greyhound Corp.
v. Superior Court In and For Merced County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 378-79.)
            “When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has
been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other
party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party . . . from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b).) A protective order issued under Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2031.060(a) “may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following
directions: (1) That all or some of the items or categories of items in the
demand need not be produced or made available at all.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.060, subd. (b)(1).)
Analysis
            The Court references its recitation of the parties’
declarations in support of and in opposition to the motion for appointment of
discovery referee and incorporates such recitation herein. The parties’
respective declarations as to both of the instant motions are essentially
substantively identical. However, Mr. Shaver states in opposition to the motion
for a protective order that there is no basis for the issuance of a protective
order as Dorgalli has not engaged in any unwarranted discovery. (Shaver Decl.
in Opposition to Motion for Protective Order at ¶ 18.)  
¿           The Court finds that Metro has not
shown good cause for the issuance of a protective order. The declaration of
Metro’s counsel in support of the motion for protective order does not indicate
that the categories of testimony in Ms. Dorgalli’s notice of deposition are
unduly burdensome, oppressive, or would subject Metro to annoyance or
embarrassment. In fact, the declaration of Metro’s counsel does not state any
reason why a protective order should issue. Metro has not met its burden under Fairmont
Ins. Co., supra, 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.
            The Court therefore DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Metro’s Motion
for Protective Order. It follows that Metro’s request for monetary sanctions
pursuant to such motion is also DENIED.CONCLUSION
The Motion for an Order Appointing
Discovery Referee filed by Cross-Defendant and Cross-Complainant Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
The Motion for Protective Order filed by
Cross-Defendant and Cross-Complainant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority to give notice. 