  Case Number:  20STCV30782    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  T MOTION TO COMPEL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF BY A NEUROSURGEON
MOVING PARTY:           Defendant
Guy F. Atkinson Construction, LLC 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Kamal
McHantaf
Tentative Ruling:  Denied I.          INTRODUCTION
On August 13,
2020, Plaintiffs Kamal McHantaf and Dani McHantaf filed a complaint against
Defendant State of California. 
On January 14,
2021, Plaintiffs filed the operative second amended complaint (SAC), against
Defendant Guy F. Atkinson Construction, LLC (Atkinson), and State of California
Department of Transportation (Caltrans), alleging causes of action for
negligence (against Atkinson), statutory liability/dangerous condition of
public property (against Caltrans), and loss of consortium. 
The SAC alleges
that on February 11, 2020, Plaintiff Kamal, a 58-year-old man was sitting in
his parked work truck, on the West SR-60 Freeway, in the number four lane when
a vehicle traveled across the number 2, 3, 4, and 5 lanes after a collision and
hit Plaintiff’s truck. Plaintiff was working for a contractor hired by Atkinson
and Caltrans. 
On March 22, 2024,
Defendant Atkinson filed this motion to compel Plaintiff to attend a medical
examination by neurosurgeon Paul Kaloostian, MD. On April 29, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. Atkinson replied on May 7, 2024. 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
Mental examinations may
be obtained of a party whose mental condition is placed in controversy. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.020(a).) 
A demand for a mental
examination shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any,
of the physician who will perform the examination. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.220(c).)
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.230 provides that a plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical
examination is directed shall respond within 20 days after service with a
written statement that she will comply with the demand as stated, comply with
the demand as specifically modified by her, or refuse, for reasons specified in
the response, to submit to the demanded examination. The response must be
served on the defendant making the demand and all other parties who have
appeared in the action.
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.240 further provides:
(a) If a plaintiff to
whom a demand for a physical examination under this article is directed fails
to serve a timely response to it, that plaintiff waives any objection to the
demand. The court, on motion, may relieve that plaintiff from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The plaintiff has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Section
2032.230.
(2) The plaintiff’s
failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.
(b) The defendant may
move for an order compelling response and compliance with a demand for a
physical examination.
(c) The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
A motion for a mental
examination should only be granted for good cause shown. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.320(a).) An order granting a mental examination shall specify the person
or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner,
diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320(d).)
III.      REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Defendant
Atkinson requests judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 451, 452 and
453, of the following documents:
1.     
Exhibit
“A” – 2022/02
Central New York Brain & Spine Neurosurgery Internet article entitled “What Can A Neurosurgeon Do vs An Orthopedic Surgeon [https://cnybrainandspine.com]
2.     
Exhibit “B” – In the Matter of
Chem Carriers Towing,
LLC, 2022 WL 1702507
3.     
Exhibit “C” – Orlando Orthopedic
Center Internet article entitled “What Is the
Difference Between
a Referral from an Orthopedic Spine Surgeon Versus a Neurosurgeon for Spine Surgery?” [https://www.orlandoortho.com]
Evidence
Code § 452 provides that records of any court in the United States is
judicially noticeable. Accordingly, the court takes judicial notice of the
court order in In the Matter of Chem Carriers Towing. There is no basis
in the Evidence Code for the judicial notice of internet articles published by
private actors. The court denies judicial notice of the documents attached as
Exhibits A and C in the request. 
IV.       DISCUSSION
Atkinson argues that good
cause exists to have Plaintiff submit to a defense medical examination before a
neurosurgeon because Plaintiff placed his spinal injury and neurosurgical
condition in controversy. Atkinson contends that the examination is necessary
for discovery purposes. 
Notably, Plaintiff has
already undergone three medical examinations. On February 11, 2022, Plaintiff
submitted to a physical examination by neurologist Barry Ludwig, MD. (Scott
Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff submitted to a mental examination by Roger Light, PhD.
(Id.) Plaintiff submitted to a physical examination by orthopedic surgeon
Ronald Kvitne, MD on March 18, 2022. (Id., ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff opposes this
motion on the ground that Dr. Kvitne has already evaluated Plaintiff’s spine
and recorded his observations and opinions in a 28-page report. (Scott Decl.,
Exh. 2.) Plaintiff draws special attention to Dr. Kvitne’s opinion that Plaintiff
suffered from “soft tissues sprain/strain injuries to his cervical, thoracic
and lumbosacral spine”. (Id. at p. 27.) Plaintiff contends that Atkinson fails
to address how an examination by Atkinson’s retained neurosurgeon, Dr.
Kaloostian, would be different from Dr. Ludwig’s examination as a neurologist
or Dr. Kvitne’s examination as an orthopedic surgeon. 
In reply, Atkinson argues
that, while Dr. Kvitne’s orthopedic examination of Plaintiff’s spine focused on
evaluating the musculoskeletal aspects of Plaintiff’s claimed injuries, it did
not address the effects that the alleged injuries may have had on Plaintiff’s
spinal cord and what treatment (if any) is needed to address those effects. To
address the spinal cord aspects of the alleged spinal injury, an examination by
a neurosurgeon is warranted. Whereas an orthopedic surgeon focuses on
musculoskeletal conditions, a neurosurgeon focuses on the brain, nerves and
spinal cord. Conspicuously missing from Atkinson’s argument is how an
examination by a neurosurgeon would be different from an examination by a
neurologist. As discussed above, Plaintiff has examined by Dr. Ludwig, a
neurologist, a fact that Atkinson does not deny.
Atkinson has not shown
good cause to compel Plaintiff to submit to a third physical medical
examination.
IV.       CONCLUSION
            Defendant Atkinsons’
motion to compel the mental examination of Plaintiff Kamal McHantaf is DENIED. 