 Case Number:  22STCV39928    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 



douglas a. bagby,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
JOSEPH DANIEL DAVIS, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV39928




Hearing Date:


May 31, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR AN ORDER COMPELLING DEFENDANT JOSEPH D. DAVIS TO PRODUCE DOCUMENTS
  AND FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST SAID DEFENDANT AND HIS ATTORNEYS OF RECORD; 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR AN ORDER COMPELLING DEFENDANT HILARY DAVIS TO PRODUCE DOCUMENTS
  AND FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST SAID DEFENDANT AND HER ATTORNEYS OF RECORD 
 



 
 
 
Background
Plaintiff
Douglas A. Bagby (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December 22, 2022 against
defendant Joseph Daniel Davis (“Joseph Davis”).  
Plaintiff
filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on February 26, 2024
against Defendants Joseph Davis and Hilary Davis (jointly, “Defendants”). The
TAC alleges four causes of action. 
Plaintiff
indicates that on August 31, 2023, he served a Request for Production of
Documents, Set No. One, to Joseph Davis. (Bagby Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. A.) Plaintiff also
indicates that on August 31, 2023, he served a Request for Production of
Documents, Set No. One, to Hilary Davis. (Bagby Decl., ¶ 1, Ex. A.) Plaintiff
states that “[o]n October 2, 2023…in lieu of providing any
records, Mr. Davis and Hilary Davis served objections to all of the requests
for production of documents served August 31, 2022 [sic].” (Bagby Decl., ¶
8; Bagby Decl., ¶ 5.) 
On
March 22, 2024, an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was held in this
matter. The Court’s March 22, 2024 minute order provides, inter
alia, that “[t]he matter is called for hearing…In open court, the Informal
Discovery Conference is held. The parties have fulfilled their Informal
Discovery Conference requirement regarding any motion to compel or compel
further re: set one of the requests for production served by Plaintiff on
August 31, 2024 [sic]. Any such motion may be filed within 45 days of today’s
date.” 
In his supporting declarations, Plaintiff states that “I granted
Defendants until April 3, 2024, to ‘provide amended responses and produce the documents
requested from your clients.’ On April 4, 2024, after the deadline had passed,
I received amended responses on behalf of Defendants in which they purport to
amend and add to the objections they submitted on October 2, 2023, after I
denied their request for an extension of time to amend their objections.”
(Bagby Decl., ¶ 19.; Bagby Decl., ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff
now moves for an order “requiring defendant, Joseph D. Davis, to
produce the documents sought in the pending motion and the Separate Statement
filed concurrently herewith,” as well as an order requiring “Joseph D. Davis
and his attorneys of record to pay sanctions to Plaintiff in the sum of $90
such [sic] other amount as the Court may deem appropriate for whatever time
Plaintiff’s co-counsel may invest in the pending motion.” Joseph Davis
opposes. 
Plaintiff also moves for “an order requiring defendant, Hilary Davis,
to produce the documents sought in the pending motion and the Separate
Statement filed concurrently herewith,” as well as an order requiring “Hilary
Davis and her attorneys of record to pay sanctions to Plaintiff in the sum of
$90 plus such other amount as the Court may deem appropriate for whatever time
Plaintiff’s co-counsel may invest in the pending motion.” Hilary Davis opposes.

Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310,
subdivision (a) permits a propounding party to move for an order compelling
a further response to a demand for inspection if the propounding party deems
that a statement of compliance is incomplete, a representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or an objection is without merit
or too general. ((Id.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).) A motion to compel further responses to a demand
for inspection must set forth specific facts showing good cause for the
discovery sought and must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b).)
Discussion
As set forth above, Plaintiff moves for orders compelling Defendants
to “produce the documents sought” in the instant motions. 
It appears Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set No. One to Defendants. In his
declaration in support of the motion pertaining to Joseph Davis, Plaintiff
states, inter alia, that he “make[s] this declaration in support of
[his] motion to compel Defendant, Joseph D. Davis…to produce what [he]
contend[s] to be properly discoverable documents sought in the Request For
Production served August 31, 2023…” (Bagby Decl., ¶ 1.) Similarly, in his
declaration in support of the motion pertaining to Hilary Davis, Plaintiff
states, inter alia, that he “make[s] this declaration in support of
[his] motion to compel Defendant, Hilary Davis to produce what [he] contend[s]
to be properly discoverable documents sought in the Request For Production
served August 31, 2023…” (Bagby Decl., ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff
asserts that good cause exists for the production of the records requested. 
As an initial matter, Defendants assert in their oppositions that the
instant motions are moot. Defendants indicate that on April 3, 2024, Defendants
served Amended Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One. (Niedbalski Decls., ¶¶ 7, Exs. 4.) Defendants’ counsel states that
“Plaintiff did not meet and confer on Defendant’s April 3, 2024 amended
responses to the Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.” (Niedbalski
Decls., ¶¶ 9.) Defendants also note that “no informal discovery conference was
held as to the alleged deficiency of the April 3, 2024 responses.” (Joseph
Davis Opp’n at p. 2:9-10; Hilary Davis Opp’n at p. 2:7-8.) 
As set forth above, Plaintiff appears to acknowledge that Defendants
served amended responses to the discovery requests at issue. (See Bagby
Decl., ¶ 19.; Bagby Decl., ¶ 11, “I received amended responses on behalf of
Defendants in which they purport to amend and add to the objections they
submitted on October 2, 2023…”) The
Court notes that if Plaintiff contends that Defendants’ Amended
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One are deficient, a further IDC on this
issue will be necessary. As Defendants served amended responses to the subject
discovery requests, the Court agrees with Defendants that Plaintiff’s instant
motions are moot. 
Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions against both Defendants.
Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (h), which provides that “[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” As an initial matter, the Court does not
find that Defendants unsuccessfully opposed the instant motions. 
Moreover, Plaintiff cites to Kravitz v.
Superior Court (2001)
91 Cal.App.4th 1015, 1017, where the Court of Appeal found that “[a]
pro se litigant cannot recover attorney’s fees as a discovery sanction, but he
can recover the ‘reasonable expenses’ he has ‘incurred,’ including
photocopying, computer-assisted legal research, and other identifiable and
allocable costs.” Plaintiff acknowledges that he is “not permitted to
request sanctions for the time spent by Plaintiff in drafting the subject
motion[s],” but asserts that “Plaintiffs co-counsel may become involved in the
pending motion if [Mr. Davis and Hilary Davis] files opposition [sic] to the
motion and Plaintiff will request sanctions for any time his co-counsel invests
in the matter through the hearing on the subject motion.” (Mots. at p. 6:25-26;
7:1-3.) Plaintiff does not appear to provide any evidence in connection with
the motions or replies concerning purported time Plaintiff’s co-counsel spent
on this matter.
In light of the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s requests for
sanctions.
Lastly, Defendants seek monetary sanctions against “Bagby and his
attorney” in connection with their oppositions to the instant motions.
Defendants note that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not
limited to, the following:…(h) Making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery. (i) Failing to confer in person, by telephone, or
by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith
attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section
governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration
stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (h)-(i).) Defendants
cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030,
subdivision (a), which provides, inter alia, that “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.”  
Defendants assert that “[i]nstead of…meeting and conferring in good
faith, Bagby disregarded [Mr. Davis’ and Ms. Davis’] amended responses and
filed this motion.” (Joseph Davis Opp’n at pp. 5:27-6:1; Hilary Davis Opp’n at
p. 5:2-3.) Defendants assert that accordingly, the Court “should award
sanctions against Bagby and his attorney in the amount of $1,000.00.” (Joseph
Davis Opp’n at p. 6:3; Hilary Davis Opp’n at p. 5:5.) In his “reply
declarations” in support of the motions, Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he amended
responses on behalf of Defendants received April 4, 2024, purport to amend and
add to the objections they submitted on October 2, 2023, after I denied their
request for an extension of time to amend their objections. They did not
respond timely and they added objections after I specifically denied their
request for an extension of time to do so. Thus, I did not believe I was
required to conduct a meaningless meet and confer with counsel for the
defendants.” (Bagby Reply Decls., ¶ 2.) 
Based on a consideration of the arguments and evidence of the parties,
the Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated that Plaintiff
engaged in a “misuse of the discovery process” such that sanctions are
warranted under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.010 and 2023.030. Thus, the Court denies
Defendants’ requests for sanctions. 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motions
for orders compelling Joseph Davis and Hilary Davis to produce documents are
denied. The parties’ requests for sanctions are denied.  
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  May 31, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 