 Case Number:  24TRCV02982    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SRI
  PANCHAMUKHA HANUMAN TEMPLE AND RELIGIOUS ACADEMY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02982




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CHARLES
  THACKER, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 21,
2025
 
Moving Parties:                      (1) Plaintiff Sri
Panchamukha Hanuman Temple and Religious Academy; (2) defendants Charles
Thacker and Diana Thacker
Responding Party:                  (2) Defendants Charles Thacker
and Diana Thacker; (2) plaintiff Sri Panchamukha Hanuman Temple and Religious
Academy
(1)  
Motion
for Order Setting Aside Dismissal
(2)  
Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs as the Prevailing Parties
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The motion to vacate dismissal is
GRANTED.  The dismissal entered on December
17, 2024 is VACATED.  
Plaintiff’s attorney of record
Stephen B. Goldberg is directed to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees to
defense counsel Ishimatsu Law Group, P.C. in the amount of $1200.
The motion for attorneys’ fees and
costs is MOOT.
BACKGROUND
On September 6, 2024, plaintiff Sri
Panchamukha Hanuman Temple and Religious Academy filed an unlawful detainer
complaint against Charles Thacker and Diana Thacker based on a three-day notice
to pay rent or quit as to a commercial property at 23805 Hawthorne Blvd., Suite
A, Torrance.
On November 12, 2024, the case was
called for trial. Testimony was given. 
The parties stipulated to allow the Court to conduct settlement
conference.  A settlement conference was
conducted, and a settlement agreement was reached.  Pursuant to oral stipulation, the trial was
continued to December 17, 2024.
On December 17, 2024, there was no
appearance by plaintiff or plaintiff’s attorney.  Defense counsel indicated that there was a
settlement but there had been a breakdown in communication with the other
party.  The Court placed the matter on
second call to give defense counsel an opportunity to call plaintiff’s
counsel.  On second call, defense counsel
indicated that he was unable to make contact.  The Court granted defendant’s oral request for
the case to be dismissed for failure to show to trial.  The case was dismissed without prejudice.
On December 18, 2024, defendants
filed a motion for attorney’s fees and costs as the prevailing parties.
On December 24, 2024, plaintiff
filed a motion for order setting aside dismissal.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §473(b) states, in relevant
part:  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a . . .
dismissal . . . taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the . . . dismissal . . . . was
taken. . . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.  The court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties. . . .” 
“[T]he policy of the law is to have
every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a
party, who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of
the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167
Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal quotations omitted).
DISCUSSION

            Motion to Vacate Dismissal
Under CCP §473(b), plaintiff
requests an order relieving plaintiff from the December 17, 2024 order of
dismissal based on plaintiff’s attorney’s affidavit of fault. 
            Plaintiff argues that it is entitled
to mandatory relief due to mistake and neglect of its attorney.  Plaintiff’s counsel states in his declaration
that after the November 12, 2024 hearing, he failed to calendar the Court’s
continued trial date. As he had failed to calendar the new date, he failed to
appear on December 17, 2024.  He states
also that defense counsel had attempted to reach him by calling his cell phone
that morning, but he was in conference with a client and was unable to take the
call.  After he finished the client
meeting, he attempted to return defense counsel’s call but did not reach
him.  Plaintiff’s counsel then called the
Court and learned that the Court had dismissed the action without prejudice due
to his failure to appear.  Plaintiff also
asserts that the case should be decided on the merits.
            In opposition, defendants argue that
relief is not mandatory, and that plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration does not
establish cognizable “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”
            In reply, plaintiff reiterates the
law that relief is mandatory, and that plaintiff’s counsel neglected to put the
date on his calendar.  Plaintiff also
acknowledges that defense counsel is entitled to be compensated for his
reasonable legal fees for appearing at the hearing on December 17, 2024 in the
amount of $1,200, as shown in Exhibit B of defense counsel’s declaration, but
that he is not entitled to recover all of his attorneys’ fees for the entire
case.
            The Court finds that relief from
dismissal is warranted and is mandatory based on attorney mistake and neglect.  Further, defense counsel is entitled to his reasonable
compensatory legal fees in the amount of $1,200.
            The motion is therefore GRANTED.
 
            Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and
Costs
            Defendants request an order awarding
them their reasonable prevailing-party attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount
of $13,159.61, pursuant to Civil Code §1717, Rules of Court 3.1702, and section
31 of the lease agreement.
            Defendants argue that they are the
prevailing parties in this action, having obtained the dismissal of the
complaint.
            Based on the ruling on plaintiff’s
motion to vacate the dismissal, the motion is MOOT.
 
ORDER

            The motion for order setting aside
dismissal is GRANTED.  
The dismissal entered on December
17, 2024 is VACATED.
Plaintiff’s attorney of record
Stephen B. Goldberg (SBN 125166) is directed to pay reasonable compensatory
legal fees to defense counsel Ishimatsu Law Group, P.C. in the amount of $1,200.
The motion for attorneys’ fees and
costs is MOOT.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling.