 Case Number:  23STCV25955    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WAQAR HASHIM,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
FARADAY & FUTURE, INC., a California corporation; and DOES
  1-100, inclusive
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV25955
 Hearing Date:   October
  2, 2024
 Trial Date:        February
  11, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Reconvene the Deposition of Nan “Yoyo” Yang [RES ID # 4865]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Waqar Hashim (Hashim) sues
Defendants Faraday & Future, Inc. (Faraday) and Does 1- 100 pursuant to an
October 24, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of (1) Failure to Pay Wages in
Violation of Cal. Labor Code § 201, et seq., (2) Unfair Business Practices in
Violation of Cal. Business & Professions Code § 17200, and (3) Wrongful
Constructive Discharge in Violation of Public Policy. 
The claims arise from the following
allegations. Defendants, appearing to operate as an electric vehicle company, enticed
Plaintiff Hashim to leave his employment with an established auto manufacturer
in the State of Michigan by offering Hashim employment as Faraday’s VP of
Program Management. Faraday would pay Hashim an annual salary of $400,000, plus
a $500,000 signing bonus and stock options in a holding company. Within two
weeks of starting his employment in September 2018, Faraday reduced Hashim’s
salary by half. By the end of Hashim’s employment in March 2023, Faraday had
failed to pay Hashim a salary for several months. In March 2023, Hashim quit
his employment at Faraday, which the pleadings characterize as a constructive
discharge based on nonpayment of salary.
B. Motion Before the Court
On April 29, 2024, Hashim filed the
instant motion to reconvene the deposition of Nan “Yoyo” Yang.
On July 10, 2024, Faraday opposed
the motion. 
On July 16, 2024, Hashim replied. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
If, [1] after service of a
deposition notice, [2] a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, [3] without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, [4] fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with
it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, [5] the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a) [Arabic numerals
added for clarity].) 
“The court, for good cause shown,
may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or
other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subd. (b).)
B. Analysis
On March 29, 2024, Hashim’s counsel
deposed Faraday’s Vice President of HR,
Nan “Yoyo” Yang. During the deposition, Ms. Yang testified to seeing some
paperwork regarding a leave of absence Hashim took in February 2020. (Skibbe
Decl., Ex. 1, Yang Depo 48:2–3.) Hashim’s counsel stated that he had not received
that paperwork. (Skibbe Decl., Ex. 1, Yang Depo 48:4–5.). 
On April 11, 2024, Faraday sent the paperwork to Hashim’s counsel.
(Byrnes Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) Hashim requested that they reconvene Ms. Yang’s
deposition, limiting the questioning to those documents and “anything
reasonably related to them”. (Byrnes Decl., Ex. 3.)
The parties have been unable to
agree on the duration of Ms. Yang’s second deposition or on who should bear the
associated costs. (Skibbe Decl. ¶¶ 4-6, Exs. 4-6.) Faraday argues that Ms. Yang
has already been deposed for five hours, and quotes Plaintiff’s counsel as
requesting two hours, plus an additional two because of the Mandarin interpreter.
(Opp., pp. 2-4.) While Faraday opposes the motion, in the alternative they
request that the deposition be limited to one hour.
Here, the documents in question are
responsive to Hashim’s discovery request (Byrnes Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Ex. 1-2.) Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure, section 2025.450, subdivision (a), Hashim is
entitled to depose Ms. Yang about these documents. Given that the documents are
only eight pages long and not particularly complex, and even including
potential delays from using an interpreter, two hours should be sufficient for
the deposition.
To support his argument that Faraday
should bear the cost of the second deposition, Hashim references Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.420 subdivision (b). After reviewing the arguments and
declarations of both parties, including the fact that the documents should have
been produced prior to the deposition but were not, but that there is no argument
that Defendant acted in bad faith, that plaintiff had to file this motion in order
to get any agreement to have additional deposition time, and the fact that the
witness was previously deposed for approximately 5 hours, the Court concludes
that the best resolution is to order up to an additional two hours of the
deposition to be limited to questioning reasonably related to the documents, to
be paid for by Defendants. To the extent that the two hours are insufficient,
Plaintiff shall thereafter pay for any additional time that is expended.
Thus, Hashim’s motion to reconvene
the deposition of Ms. Yang is GRANTED. The deposition shall be paid for by
Defendants up to two hours, confined to questions reasonably related to the newly
produced documents. Any additional time, not to exceed four hours, shall be paid
for by Plaintiff.
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Waqar Hashim’s Motion
to Reconvene the Deposition of Nan “Yoyo” Yang is GRANTED, as set forth above.