  Case Number:  19VECV01611    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  W almas &
son, llc v. nai capital, inc.
 
DEMURRER to
the second amended complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        April
11, 2024                         Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        19VECV01611
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Patrick
Ortiz and Nai Capital Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Almas & Sons LLC    
Meet and Confer:      Attempted.
(McGarrigle Decl. ¶¶6.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Almas & Son, LLC alleges
it entered into an agreement with Defendants Nai Capital, Inc. and Patrick
Ortiz where Defendants were to find Plaintiff a suitable tenant for their
commercial building. Plaintiff alleges Defendants represented to Plaintiff they
found a tenant who would run a legal smoke shop and ran a background check on
the tenant; however, these representations were false. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
did not run a background check and the tenant operated a cannabis shop in
violation of the agreement and as prohibited by the Department of Cannabis
Regulation. 
 
On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint alleging: 1) Breach of Contract; 2) Fraud and Deceit;
3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 4) Violation of Business and Professions Code
17200; and 5) Negligence.  On December
19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint. 
 
On February 7, 2020, Defendant NAI
Capital, Inc. filed Notice of Bankruptcy and Automatic Stay with the court. Matter
is only stayed as to Defendant NAI Capital, Inc. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED, in part, OVERRULED, in
part. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Patrick Ortiz, joined by Nai
Capital, Inc. demurs to the Second Amended Complaint on the grounds the
complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Wilson v. Transit Authority of City
of Sacramento (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21.)¿In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) However,
“[i]f facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts in
the exhibits take precedence. (Mead v. Samoa Bank California (Mead)
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 561, 567-568.) Before filing a demurrer, demurring party
is also required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading
demurred to for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (See CCP§ 430.41.) 
 
Express Terms of the Lease Agreement
 
Defendants demur to the SAC on the
grounds Plaintiff’s allegations are expressly contradicted by the terms of the
Lease entered into by Plaintiff. 
 
Defendants first argue the Lease expressly
contradicts Plaintiff’s allegations regarding any alleged pre-Lease statements
of Defendant regarding the Tenant’s nature, quality, character and financial
condition, use and future performance. (See SAC, Exh. 3, ¶¶22, 25, 28, 46.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues they
have sufficiently alleged Defendant’s breach of the Lease agreement when
Plaintiff specifically asked Ortiz to run a background check, Ortiz informed
Plaintiff he followed standard protocol, Plaintiff had communicated to
Defendant that it wished the premises to be operated as a legal smoke shop only
with proper and required license, and Defendants violated statutory obligations
imposed by Civil Code section 2079.2, Business and Professions Code section
10176, Business and Professions Code section 10080, Civil Code section 2079(b),
and Business and Professions Code section 10010.5(a)(l) and (2). (See SAC
¶¶11-14, 23.) Plaintiff further argues any attempt to exculpate the agent from
liability would be unenforceable and Defendants’ violation of statutory duties
cannot be the subject of advance release or waiver. 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged a breach of contract claim. What Plaintiff cites as
breaches are not express terms of the Lease agreement. Moreover, Plaintiff has
not sufficiently alleged consideration for either breach of express contract or
implied contract. Plaintiff has not shown how Defendants’ representation they
ran a background check or did a site inspection is a bargained-for exchange.
The Lease does refer to the agreed use as a ‘Smoke Shop (tenant not to sell
medical marijuana or CBD Products).” However, Plaintiff does not explain how
that is Defendants’ breach. Moreover, as noted by Defendants, the Lease
provides “The Lease contains all agreements between the Parties with respect to
any matter mentioned herein, and no other prior or contemporaneous agreement or
understanding shall be effective.” (Lease ¶ 22.) All alleged breaches were
apparently made prior to or after the agreement was made. 
 
As for Defendants’ contention that the
other provisions of the Lease prohibit Plaintiff’s fraud, breach of fiduciary
duty, violation of Business Code and Professions section 17200, or negligence
claim, the court disagrees. The portions cited to by Defendants in the Lease
agreement do not waive or release nor under Civil Code section 1668 could it
waive and release Plaintiff’s fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, or violation of
Section 17200 claims. The court notes In Bank of America v. Vannini (1956)
140 Cal.App.2d 120, 129 held where there is duty to investigate, plaintiff may
be charged with knowledge of facts which would have been disclosed by an
investigation. However, “[a] defrauded person … is not barred from maintaining
an action merely because he commenced an investigation if it was incomplete or
abandoned before discovery of the falsity, particularly if the defendant has a
superior knowledge of the facts, or if it is difficult for the plaintiff to
ascertain all the facts or he is not competent to judge the facts without
expert assistance.” (Hobart v. Hobart Estate Co. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 412,
435.) Although Paragraph 22 provides “Lessor … represents and warrants to the
Brokers that it has made, and is relying solely upon, its own Investigation as
to the nature, quality, character and financial responsibility of the other
Party to this Lease and as to the use, nature, quality
and character of the Premises”, a jury may find running the background check
and criminal check are something Defendants would have superior knowledge of. 
 
Defendants also argue beyond the
Lease’s express prohibition of Plaintiff’s claims, Mr. Ortiz is not liable for
any opinions (cast by Plaintiff as representations) regarding the future
performance, suitability and viability of the tenant under the Lease. The court
finds the allegations are not opinions about quality, value, profit and future
events are not actionable as a matter of law. Instead, they are representations
that the tenant had a 700 credit score, passed the background check, and
personally inspected the site. 
 
Defendants next argue Plaintiff cannot
establish the required element of justifiable reliance or causation with regard
to any of its claims and moreover, Plaintiff’s shotgun listing of statutes does
not change the result or cure the defects. As noted above, Plaintiff has
alleged justifiable reliance as running background checks and credit scores
were something within Defendants’ superior knowledge. The court has also
previously found the allegations sufficiently alleged causation/damages for the
purposes of a demurrer. (See November 16, 2023 Minute Order.) 
 
Breach of Contract
 
Defendants separately demur to the
breach of contract claim. As noted above, the court agrees Plaintiff has not
alleged facts sufficient to support a breach of contract claim against
Defendants. Plaintiff has not shown a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the first
cause of action is SUSATINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. The demurrer to the
remainder causes of action is OVERRULED. 