 Case Number:  22VECV00777    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  W VEDRES FAMILY
INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP, LP v. PAYAM MAROUNI MD, INC.
 
Cross-Defendant Vedres Family
Investment Partnership, LP’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        April
11, 2024                                     Trial Date:       None
Set
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV00777
 
Moving Party:             Cross-Defendant Vedres Family
Investment Partnership, LP
Responding Party:     Cross-Complainant
Payam Marouni MD, Inc.  
Meet and Confer:      Yes.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 8, 2022, Plaintiff Vedres
Family Investment Partnership, LP filed an unlawful detainer action against
Defendant Payam Marouni MD, Inc. Plaintiff’s request for entry of default was
entered against All Unknown Occupants in Possession on August 3, 2022.
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint naming Defendant Payam Marouni on
October 31, 2022; however, Defendant Marouni was dismissed on February 22,
2023. 
 
On November 15, 2023, Defendant Payam
Marouni MD, Inc. filed a second amended cross-complaint against Vedres Family
Investment Partnership, LP and Quest Screen for (1) Conspiracy to Interfere
with Prospective Economic Advantage (2) Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations and (3) Negligent Interference with Contractual Relations.

 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Cross-Defendant
Vedres Family Investment Partnership, L.P.’s Demurrer to the Second Amended
Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Cross-Defendant
Vedres Family Investment Partnership, L.P. demurs to the Second Amended
Cross-Complaint of Payam Marouni, M.D., Inc. on the grounds the complaint fails
to allege facts sufficient to support a cause of action. 
 
First
Cause of Action
 
Cross-Defendant
argues the first cause of action fails for two reasons: Cross-Complainant has
failed to allege an economic relationship with a cognizable third party that
Cross-Defendant interfered with; and Cross-Complainant has failed to allege an
independent wrong. 
 
“To
prevail on a cause of action for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage in California, a plaintiff must plead and prove (1) an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's
knowledge of the relationship; (3) the defendant's intentional acts designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the defendant's acts.” (Reeves
v. Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1152 fn.6, italics added.)  
 
Cross-Defendant claims
Cross-Complainant’s allegations fail to assert a tangible, existing
relationship with ascertainable third parties beyond a general class of
consumers who might be interested in such tests. Moreover, Cross-Defendant
argues Cross-Complainant fails to allege why or how leasing a space it owned to
an adjacent tenant is an independent legal wrong. 
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainant argues
the SACC sufficiently identifies the relationship between Cross-Complainant,
Cross-Defendant and Quest. Cross-Complainant asserts Cross-Defendants sought to
conspire together to hurt Cross-Complainant by allowing Quest to perform
COVID-19 testing in the same vicinity as Cross-Complainant who was already, and
visibly, performing such services by allowing Quest to erect a tent using the
same signage and information from Cross-Complainant’s tent in the parking lot
behind the Subject Property to confuse Cross-Complainant’s patients. 
 
Civil conspiracy is not an independent
tort. (See City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
191, 211.) As previously noted, allegations of conspiracy must be activated by
the commission of an actual tort. (Favila v. Katten Muchin Rosenmann LLP
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 189, 206.) As such, Plaintiff needs to allege more than the
formation and operation of a conspiracy. Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage. Intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage requires a relationship between Cross-Complainant and some third
party. Allegations regarding interference with potential customers are
insufficient to state a cause of action for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage. (See Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin
Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1164 (stating that the tort of intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage “‘protects the expectation
that the relationship eventually will yield the desired benefit, not
necessarily the more speculative expectation that a potentially beneficial
relationship will arise” (quoting Westside Center Associates v. Safeway
Stores 23, Inc. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 507, 524); Roth v. Rhodes
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 530, 546 (finding that an allegation that the defendant
interfered with relations with future customers is insufficient to show an
existing relationship).)   Moreover, intentional interference
with prospective economic advantage requires an independent wrong – one that is
unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard. (Korea Supply
Co., supra, 29 Cal.4th at 1159.) Cross-Complainant has not shown
leasing a space is an independent wrong. Even if leasing to another was a
breach of the agreement between Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant, “an
actor's breach of contract, without more, is not ‘wrongful conduct’ capable of
supporting a tort[.]” (Drink Tank Ventures LLC v. Real Soda in Real Bottles,
Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 528, 533.) 
 
Cross-Complainant
has not demonstrated they can there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Second
Cause of Action
 
Cross-Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action fails because Cross-Complainant has not
alleged an economic relationship with a third party or wrongful act committed
by a third party. 
 
“[T]he
tort of interference with contract is merely a species of the broader tort of
interference with prospective economic advantage. [Citations.]” (Buckaloo v.
Johnson (1975) 14 Cal.3d 815, 823.) To the extent they are distinct, the
former refers to disruption of an existing contract, while the latter refers to
disruption of a possible future relationship. (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor
Sales, U.S.A. Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 392.) “[B]oth … torts protect the
public interest in stable economic relationships and both share the same intent
requirement.” (Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1152.) 
 
Cross-Defendant
argues the only contract alleged in the cross-complaint is the lease between
the Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant. Accordingly, the cross-complaint omits
the most critical element of a claim for contractual interference: a contract
which the Cross-Defendant interfered.
 
The
court agrees. Intentional interference with contractual relations requires the
existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and a third party. Cross-Complainant
has only alleged a contractual relation with the Cross-Defendant. 
 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Third
Cause of Action
 
Defendant
demurs to the third cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional
distress on the grounds no cause of action exists in California. As previously
noted, “[i]n California there is no cause of action for negligent interference
with contractual relations. While there exists a cause of action for negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage (J'Aire Corp. v. Gregory (1979)
24 Cal.3d 799, 157 Cal.Rptr. 407, 598 P.2d 60), the California Supreme Court in
Fifield Manor v. Finston (1960) 54 Cal.2d 632, 7 Cal.Rptr. 377, 354 P.2d
1073, has rejected a cause of action for negligent interference with contract.”
(Davis v. Nadrich (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1, 9.) 
 
If
Cross-Complainant wishes to add a negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage, Cross-Complainant must seek leave to do so. 