

Hearing Date:             September
28, 2023
Case Name:                Angel
v. Monster Energy Company
Case No.:                    19STCV28457
Matter:                        Motion for Summary
Adjudication 
Moving Party:             Defendants Promote Mexico, LLC and Roger Norman


Responding Party:      Defendant Monster Energy Company 

 

Tentative Ruling:      The Motion for Summary Adjudication is denied.   
 

 
            This
action arises out of injuries sustained by Plaintiff Magna Angel (Plaintiff)
during the 2018 Baja 1000 Race in Ensenada, Mexico (Race). The Race was owned
and operated by Defendant Promote Mexico, LLC dba Score International (Promote
Mexico). On October 30, 2018, Plaintiff entered into an agreement as an
independent contractor with Defendant Monster Energy Company (Monster Energy)
to attend the Race. At the Race, a race truck driven by Defendant Morgan
Langley (Langley) and owed by COPS Racing, LLC (COPS Racing) and Langley
Productions, Inc. (Langley Productions) struck and injured Plaintiff. On August
12, 2019, Plaintiff filed her original Complaint against Defendants Monster
Energy, Langley Productions, COPS Racing, and Langley based on claims of
negligence. On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint adding
claims for Negligence, and Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention against
Promote Mexico (as Score International), Roger Norman (Norman), Score-SRL, COPS
Racing, Langley, and Monster Energy.
 
            On
October 28, 2019, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Monster Energy filed a Cross-Complaint
against Cross-Defendants Promote Mexico (as Score International), Morgan
Langley, Langley Productions, Inc., and COPS Racing, LLC, alleging causes of
action for (1) express indemnity; (2) breach of contract; (3) implied equitable
indemnity; (4) comparative indemnity; (5) contribution; (6) apportionment; and
(7) declaratory relief. On April 21, 2021, Monster Energy filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint adding two new parties, Roger Norman and Score International, S
de RL de CV (Score-Mexico).
 
            On
January 7, 2020, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Promote Mexico
filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant Tempt Media, LLC alleging
causes of action for (1) implied equitable indemnity, (2) contribution and
indemnity; (3) declaratory relief, (4) express indemnity, (5) breach of
contract, and (6) breach of contract. On April 9, 2020, Promote Mexico filed a
First Amended Cross-Complaint that added Cross-Defendants Monster Energy,
Langley, Langley Productions, and COPS Racing as cross-defendants. 
 
            On
January 13, 2020, Defendant/Cross-Complaints COPS Racing and Langley filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Promote Mexico, Norman, and Monster
Energy for (1) express indemnity; (2) breach of contract; (3) implied
indemnity; (4) comparative indemnity; (5) contribution; (6) apportionment; and
(7) declaratory relief. On September 21, 2021, COPS Racing filed a First-Amened
Cross-Complaint adding alter ego allegations. 
 
On January 5,
2023, Monster Energy filed a motion for summary adjudication of the duty to
defend against Promote Mexico. On March 21, 2023, the Court granted this motion,
finding that Promote Mexico owed Monster Energy a duty to defend based on
Section 6.01(a) of the January 1, 2016 Television Sponsorship Agreement between
the parties. 
 
On May 18, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Promote Mexico moved
for summary adjudication on the duty to defend against Monster Energy. On
September 1, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant Monster Energy filed an opposition
to the motion for summary adjudication. On September 12, 2023, Monster Energy
filed a supplemental opposition, arguing the Television Sponsorship Agreement
is void on its face because the signature of Promote Mexico’s owner and
Manager, Defendant Roger Norman, on the contract was forged. Promote Mexico
filed a reply. 
 
            Promote
Mexico’s motion for summary adjudication is denied. 
 
Evidentiary Issues
 
            Promote
Mexico’s objections to Monster Energy’s evidence is ruled as follows: No. 1 is overruled,[1] No. 2
is sustained, No. 3 is sustained, No. 4 is sustained, and No. 5 is overruled.  
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The party moving for summary judgment
bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue of
material fact exists if the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,
467; Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
 
            Promote
Mexico contends that Monster Energy owes Promote Mexico a duty to defend based
on Section 6.01, subdivision (b), of the Television Sponsorship Agreement
between Promote Mexico and Monster Energy.
 
            In
support of its motion for summary adjudication, Promote Mexico submits evidence
that on January 1, 2016, Promote Mexico and Monster Energy entered into a
Television Sponsorship Agreement (TV Sponsorship Agreement). (XCSS 1.) The TV
Sponsorship Agreement was subsequently extended through 2018. (XCSS 2.) 
 
            Pursuant
to Section 6.01, subdivision (b), of the TV Sponsorship Agreement, Monster Energy
expressly agreed to “indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless [Promote
Mexico]…from and against any and all claims…arising from or connected with…any
grossly negligent act or omission to act of [Monster Energy], its employees,
servants and agents….” (XCSS 3.)
 
            Based
on this TV Sponsorship Agreement, Promote Mexico argues that Monster Energy owes
Promote Mexico a duty to defend it against Plaintiff’s claim. 
 
“[T]he
determination whether an insurer owes a duty to defend usually is made in the
first instance by comparing the allegations of the complaint with the terms of
the policy. Facts extrinsic to the complaint give rise to a duty to defend when
they reveal a possibility that the claim may be covered by the policy.” (Waller
v. Truck Ins. Exchange, Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1, 19.) “If any facts stated
or fairly inferable in the complaint, or otherwise known or discovered by the
insurer, suggest a claim potentially covered by the policy, the insurer's duty
to defend arises and is not extinguished until the insurer negates all facts
suggesting potential coverage. On the other hand, if, as a matter of law,
neither the complaint nor the known extrinsic facts indicate any basis for
potential coverage, the duty to defend does not arise in the first instance.” (Scottsdale
Ins. Co. v. MV Transportation (2005) 36 Cal.4th 643, 655.)
 
            Here,
Promote Mexico argues that Plaintiff’s injuries were the result, in part, of Monster
Energy’s negligent conduct, and this conduct raises potential liability under a
gross-negligence claim. (XCSS 4.) Thus, Promote Mexico argues the claims
against it from Plaintiff’s Complaint arise from and are connected with Monster
Energy’s potentially grossly negligent acts and omissions. As such, it avers,
Monster Energy’s defense obligation has been triggered. Monster Energy has
refused to defend Promote Mexico in this action. (XCSS 7.)
 
            In
opposition, Monster Energy raises three counter arguments. First, Monster
Energy argues that the TV Sponsorship Agreement does not apply to events
occurring at the Race. Second, assuming the TV Sponsorship Agreement applies, the
duty to defend in the TV Sponsorship Agreement was not triggered because there
are no gross negligence allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint. Third, Monster
Energy refutes Promote Mexico’s attempts to apply the doctrine of judicial
estoppel arising from arguments made in Monster Energy’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
based on the TV Sponsorship Agreement.
 
            In
a supplemental opposition, Monster Energy now argues that the TV Sponsorship
Agreement is void because it contains a “forged” signature.    
 
            The
Court will first address Monster Energy’s contention that the TV Sponsorship
Agreement does not apply to the facts here.
 
            In
opposition, Monster Energy contends that the TV Sponsorship Agreement is
inapplicable because it dealt only with Monster Energy's sponsorship of CBS
Sports Network television broadcasts of Promote Mexico’s World Desert
Championship off-road race series – but not to the subject Race itself. Instead,
Monster Energy argues the Race Sponsorship Agreement governs the facts and
circumstances arising out of the Race underlying Plaintiff’s claims. Monster Energy
characterizes the two agreements as follows: “the Race Sponsorship Agreement
governs Monster and Promote Mexico’s mutual ‘participation in, attendance at,
and the overall quality of’ Promote Mexico’s events, including the Baja 1000
Race. Whereas the Television Sponsorship Agreement governs the parties’ rights
concerning five CBS Sports Network broadcasts and the use of intellectual
property.” (Opp. 6:17-21.)
 
            In
support of this argument, Monster Energy points to the TV Sponsorship Agreements
recital, which states:
            
“WHEREAS
[Monster] wishes to sponsor television broadcasts of the Events, and [Promote
Mexico] is willing to accept [Monster] as a sponsor, each according to the
terms and conditions in this agreement.” (XDAF 11.) 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, the Court – in ruling on Monster Energy’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication – determined that both the Race Sponsorship Agreement and
the TV Sponsorship Agreement contained identical defense and indemnity
provision regarding Promote Mexico’s duties owed to Monster Energy. (XDAF 8, 13;
Court’s 3/21/23 Ruling, p. 3.) Further, the Court determined that these
“agreements were functionally one agreement split into two.” (Court’s 3/21/23
Ruling, p. 3, fn. 1.) 
 
            Also
importantly, Monster Energy successfully argued to this Court that the term
“Events” in the TV Sponsorship Agreement’s defense and indemnity provision
(Section 6.01(a)) applied to a death or injury related to a Promote Mexico’s “Events,”
which includes the “Event” or Race where Plaintiff was injured. (Monster Energy’s
MSA, p. 6:20-28.) 
 
             Monster Energy’s attempt to narrow the entire scope
of the TV Sponsorship Agreement is unpersuasive. First, it runs directly
counter to the arguments raised by Monster Energy’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication, wherein the Court found a duty to defend arose from the TV
Sponsorship Agreement against Promote Mexico based on allegations in the
Complaint arising from the Race. Monster Energy does not identify any specific
contractual language that would support the finding that the TV Sponsorship
Agreement as a whole could not apply to the Race. 
 
            In
fact, as Promote Mexico argues, the TV Sponsorship Agreement states Promote
Mexico “will use its best efforts to depict [Monster Energy]’s products, and
[Monster Energy’s] involvement at [Promote Mexico] races/event during the
Broadcasts in a manner consistent with [Monster Energy’s brand strategy . . ..”
(Response to XDAF 12 [Ex. B, § 1.01(f)].) “Events” is defined as Promote
Mexico’s World Desert Championship off-road race series and related events. (Ex.
B, Recitals) 
 
            While the indemnity provisions
between the two parties differ – (compare section 6.01(a), with section
6.01(b)) – the TV Sponsorship Agreement does not contain a wholesale exclusion
from the indemnity provisions of any incident arising from the Race. Given
Monster Energy’s reliance on the TV Sponsorship Agreement to assert that
Promote Mexico owed it a duty to defend, and the Court’s prior ruling on
Monster Energy’s Motion for Summary Adjudication, Monster Energy’s blanket claim
that the TV Sponsorship Agreement does not apply to Promote Mexico and Monster
Energy’s involvement in the Race is disingenuous and illogical.
 
            Rather,
the more appropriate question relates to Monster Energy’s second argument:  whether the indemnity obligation in section
6.01, subdivision (b) encompasses Plaintiff’s claims against Monster Energy.
 
            Section
6.01, subdivision (b), of the TV Sponsorship Agreement states that Monster Energy
agrees to “indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless [Promote Mexico] . . . from
and against any and all claims . . . arising from or connected with…any grossly
negligent act or omission to act of [Monster], its employees, servants and
agents . . ..” (XCSS 3.)
 
            The
TV Sponsorship Agreement’s indemnify and defend provisions at Section 6.01 contain
similar but not identical “negligent act or omission” provisions at 6.01(a)(ii)
– specifying Promote Mexico’s duty – and 6.01(b)(ii) – specifying Monster
Energy’s duty. The difference is that Monster Energy’s duty arising under
Section 6.01(b) requires that its negligent act or omission be “gross.” 
 
There is another
important difference between the two indemnity clauses. As the Court previously
found, Promote Mexico owed a duty to defend Monster Energy based on the
following provision: “[Promote Mexico] shall indemnify . . . defend . . .
[Monster Energy] from and against any and all claims . . . arising from or connected
with . . . “any death or injury to any person or damage to any property related
to the Event by actions of [Promote Mexico] . . .” (Ex. B, § 6.01(a)(iii); see
generally 3/21/23 Court’s Ruling on Monster Energy’s MSA.) 
 
Critically, the TV
Sponsorship Agreement’s indemnity provision as it relates to Monster Energy’s duties
to indemnify and defend Promote Mexico does not contain a similar “death or
injury” clause. As Monster Energy notes, its duty to defend and indemnify
Promote Mexico is limited to three circumstances: (1) Monster's breach of the
Television Sponsorship Agreement, (2) "any grossly negligent act or
omission to act of [Monster]," and (3) Promote Mexico's use of Monster's
intellectual property. 
 
              Civil Code section 1641 instructs that “[t]he
whole of a contract is to be taken together, so as to give effect to every
part, if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.”             “However broad may be the terms of a
contract, it extends only to those things ... which it appears that the parties
intended to contract.’ [Citation.]” (Hess v. Ford Motor Co. (2002) 27
Cal.4th 516, 524.) 
 
            Here,
based on accepted principles of contract interpretation, the TV Sponsorship
Agreement’s inclusion of the provision to defend for injuries and death
occurring at “Events” must be interpreted to intentionally omit such coverage from
Promote Mexico’s similar duty to defend provision.
 
 Interpreting the agreement otherwise would render
subsection (iii) in Section 6.01(a) superfluous. That is, subsection (iii) in
Section 6.01(a) would not have been necessary and arguably been duplicative if
subsection (ii) of Section 6.01(a) could have been read so broadly to include
conduct specified in subsection (iii). Thus, the inclusion of subsection (iii)
in Section 6.01(a) reflects the intent of the parties.  They intended that the conduct that triggers
Promote Mexico’s duty to defend Monster Energy be different from what triggers
Monster Energy’s defense duty to Promote Mexico.
 
            This
interpretation is consistent with general rules on contract interpretation. (See,
e.g., Sharpe v. Arabian American Oil Co. (1952) 111 Cal.App.2d
99, 103 [“matters which were intentionally omitted may not be added
under the guise of interpretation”]; Stockton Dry Goods Co. v. Girsh (1951)
36 Cal.2d 677, 681 [“A condition cannot be read into a contract as to which the
parties might well be deemed to have remained intentionally silent.”]; see
also California R. Co. v. Producers R. Corp. (1938) 25
Cal.App.2d 104, 109, [reciting the general rule that a trial court cannot add a
contractual term where the omission of that term might have been intentional on
the part of the original contracting parties].)
 
Based on the foregoing,
the TV Sponsorship Agreement cannot be read to impose on Monster Energy a duty
to defend for claims arising out of “any death or injury to any person . . .
related to the Event by actions.”
 
            Monster
Energy’s third argument disputes Promote Mexico’s contention that Monster
Energy’s opposition is barred by judicial estoppel.
 
            As
Promote Mexico notes, there are five requisite elements to apply the
discretionary doctrine: (1) The same party has taken two positions in (2)
judicial or quasi-judicial administrative proceedings; (3) the party succeeded
in asserting the first position (that is, the tribunal adopted the position or
accepted it as true); (4) the two positions are totally inconsistent; and (5)
the party did not take the first position as a result of ignorance, fraud, or
mistake. (DotConnectAfrica Trust v. Internet Corp. for Assigned Names &
Numbers (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 1141, 1158.)
 
            Here,
Monster Energy sought to enforce a duty to defend under Section 6.01(a)(iii). In
contrast, Promote Mexico seeks to impose a duty to defend on Monster Energy
based on Section 6.01(b)(ii). As discussed in the analysis above, the two
provisions contain different language such that Monster Energy’s opposition
does not take a “totally inconsistent” position from its own motion for summary
adjudication.           
 
The Court does not
address Monster Energy’s contention that the Television Sponsorship Agreement
is void, and does not consider its claim of forgery.  It appears that
Monster Energy has insufficiently thought through the implications of this
recent assertion. In
any case, the Court need not decide whether the TV Sponsorship Agreement is
void because the Court concludes that Promote
Mexico is not entitled to a defense provided by Monster Energy under
this agreement.
 
Conclusion
 
            Promote Mexico’s
motion for summary adjudication is denied.


