

Hearing
Date:             September 28, 2023
Case
Name:                Smith v. Longwood
Manor Convalescent Hospital
Case
No.:                    22STCV37518
Matter:                        (1.) Motion to Compel
Arbitration
                                    (2.) Motion
to Stay 
Moving Party:             (1.) Defendants Longwood
Enterprises, Inc. dba Longwood Manor Convalescent Hospital, and Longwood
Management Corp.

                                    (1.)
Defendants Longwood Enterprises, Inc. dba Longwood Manor Convalescent Hospital,
and Longwood Management Corp.

Responding
Party:      (1.) None
                                    (2.) None

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted in part and denied in part; the Motion to stay is
granted. 

 
This lawsuit involves the quality of
care that decedent Isaac Smith (Decedent) received during his residency at Defendant
Longwood Manor Convalescent Hospital, a skilled nursing facility. On November
30, 2022, Plaintiffs David Smith, Isaac Smith, Jr., and
Joseph Smith --Decedent’s family members, filed a Complaint, alleging causes of
action for (1) wrongful death; (2) physical dependent adult abuse; (3) neglect;
(4) unfair business practices; (5) survival; (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; and (7) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            On
August 16, 2023, Defendants
Longwood Enterprises, Inc. dba Longwood Manor Convalescent Hospital, and
Longwood Management Corp. (Defendants) filed a motion to compel arbitration
pursuant to an arbitration agreement. Defendants seek an order compelling Plaintiffs
to submit their entire Complaint, including each and every cause of action, to
binding arbitration. 
 
In addition, Defendants request that
this Court stay this action pending completion of the arbitration proceeding pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4. 
 
Both motions are unopposed. 
 
            The Court grants
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration in part and denies it in part. The
motion to compel arbitration is granted as to Plaintiffs’ claims brought on
behalf of Decedent:  the second, third,
and fifth causes of action.  The motion
is denied as to Plaintiffs’ individual claims: the first, fourth, sixth, and seventh
causes of action. The unopposed motion to stay the non-arbitrable claims is
granted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4.
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that the
parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            In moving
for arbitration, Defendants request a court order compelling Plaintiffs to arbitrate
all claims arising out of the Complaint based on the grounds that Decedent executed
an Arbitration Agreement, which subjects these disputes to binding arbitration.

 
Existence of a Valid Agreement
 
In ruling on
a petition to compel arbitration, a court must determine two threshold matters:
first, whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists; and second, whether that
agreement encompasses the dispute at issue. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)   
 
            By way of
background, on May 26, 2021, Decedent signed an
Arbitration Agreement prior to becoming a resident at the Longwood Manor; he
was a resident at the Longwood Manor from May 25, 2021 to October 25, 2021.
(Carlos Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
 
            The Arbitration Agreement provides
in relevant part:
 
“Article
1. It is understood that any dispute as to medical malpractice, that is as to
whether any medical services rendered under this contract were unnecessary or
unauthorized or were improperly, negligently or incompetently rendered, will be
determined by submission to arbitration as provided by California law, and not
by a lawsuit or resort to court process except as California law provides for
judicial review of arbitration proceedings . . .
[¶]
Article
2. It is further understood that any dispute between Resident and Longwood
Manor (Facility Name), its owners, operators, officers, directors,
administrators, staff, employees, agents, and Longwood Management Corp. and any
and all predecessors, successors in interest, and assigns (collectively
referred to herein as “Facility”), including any action for injury or death
arising from negligence, intentional tort, and/or statutory causes of action
(including all California Welfare and Institutions Code sections), will be
determined by submission to arbitration as provided by California law, and not
by a lawsuit or resort to court process except as California law provides for
judicial review of arbitration proceedings.” (Carlos Decl., Ex. A [Articles 1 and
2].)  
 
            Further,
by signing the Arbitration Agreement, Decedent agreed that the Agreement also
bound his “representatives, executors, family members, and heirs.” (Calros Decl.,
Ex. A [Article 3].) 
 
            In failing to oppose this motion, Plaintiffs
do not dispute the existence and validity of this Arbitration Agreement. Defendants
have carried their burden of demonstrating the existence of a binding
arbitration agreement.
 
            However, Defendants have only demonstrated
that some of Plaintiffs’ claims fall within the scope of the Arbitration
Agreement. 
 
            Here, the Complaint contains causes
of action for (1) wrongful death; (2) physical dependent adult abuse; (3)
neglect; (4) unfair business practices; (5) survival; (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; and (7) negligent infliction of emotional
distress. 
 
The
causes of action that are entirely survival claims – one’s that belonged to
Decedent but survive him – are the second cause of action for physical abuse,
the third cause of action for neglect, and the fifth cause of action for “survival.”
 These all fall within the scope of the
arbitration agreement.  These claims are
based on Decedent’s admission to Longwood Manor and on the allegedly improper
neglectful care that Decedent received during his residency at that facility. Accordingly,
these claims are subject to the Arbitration Agreement signed by Decedent. The
Court will compel these claims to arbitration.[1]
 
 
In contrast,
the first cause of action for wrongful death is held by Plaintiffs in their individual
capacity. (Wilson v. John Crane, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 847,
860–861, [explaining that cause of action “for wrongful death belongs ‘not to
the decedent or prospective decedent, but to the persons specified’ by statute];
Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1263 [The “purpose
[of a wrongful death claim] is to compensate specified persons—heirs—for the
loss of companionship and for other losses suffered as a result of a decedent's
death.”].) This cause of action arises on the death of the decedent and it is
vested in the decedent's heirs. (Grant v. McAuliffe
(1953) 41 Cal.2d 859, 864.) 
 
Generally, a
plaintiff's “wrongful death claim is personal to her and lies independent of
... survivor claims,” and that “[a]s a general rule, a party cannot be
compelled to arbitrate a dispute that he or she has not agreed to resolve by
arbitration.” (Daniels v. Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 674, 680.) Nonetheless, Defendants argue that this claim is also
subject to arbitration. In support, Defendant cites Ruiz v. Podolsky
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 838.
 
In Ruiz
v. Podolsky, our Supreme Court held “that all wrongful death claimants are
bound by arbitration agreements entered into pursuant to [Code of Civil
Procedure] section 1295, at least when . . . the language of the agreement
manifests an intent to bind these claimants.” (50 Cal.4th at p. 841.) Section
1295 governs agreements to arbitrate professional negligence claims in medical
services contracts with health care providers. “The purpose of section 1295 is
to encourage and facilitate arbitration of medical malpractice disputes,”
because the arbitration of these disputes “furthers MICRA’s goal of reducing
costs in the resolution of malpractice claims and therefore malpractice
insurance premiums.” (Id. at pp. 843–844.) Ruiz is inapplicable.
 
Here,
however, Plaintiffs’ wrongful death claims are based on elder abuse/neglect
allegations and not allegations of medical malpractice. (Compl., ¶¶ 32-37; see
also Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 396, 406–408.) As explained by the court in Daniels v.
Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 674, “Ruiz is
based squarely on section 1295, which governs agreements to arbitrate
professional negligence or medical malpractice claims” and “disagree[d]
that Ruiz should be extended to arbitration agreements not
governed by section 1295, or that are entered into with a person other
than a health care provider for claims other than medical malpractice.” (Id. at
pp. 682–683; Avila v. Southern California Specialty Care, Inc. (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 835, 842.)
The court then went on to reject the defendants’ contention that a residential
care facility was “ ‘an extension of a health care facility’” and thus subject
to Section 1295. (Id. at pp. 683–684.)

            Similarly, Plaintiffs’ remaining
individual claims – the fourth cause of action for unfair business practices,
the sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
the seventh cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress – involve
conduct directed at Plaintiffs.  (Compl.,
¶¶ 60, 76, 80.)  It is true that these
causes of action also appear to allege harm to Decedent himself. The Court
declines to compel arbitration of these arguably “mixed” claims.  Because Plaintiffs are not signatories to the
arbitration agreement, they cannot be bound by its terms to arbitrate these
claims.[2]
 And the Court also declines to bifurcate
these causes of action, sending the “survival” aspects of these causes of
action to arbitration and keeping in court the aspects of these causes of
action directed at Plaintiffs themselves. Such a procedure would result in
inefficiency and potentially conflicting results.
 
Defendants
argue that even if the Court determines these claims are not subject to the Arbitration
Agreement because of Plaintiffs’ status as non-signatories, the Court should
compel them to arbitration based on the doctrine of equitable estoppel. 
 
The estoppel exception applies when
a non-signatory to a contract containing an arbitration clause “accepts the
benefits under the contract” or “when the causes of
action against the non-signatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’
with the underlying contract obligations.” (Boucher
v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th
262, 271-272.)
 
But Defendants have not shown that Plaintiffs
have accepted any benefits under the contract. Certainly, Decedent accepted the
benefits and received services under the contract, but Plaintiffs did not directly
receive any benefit under the contract. It is not enough to simply suggest that
they benefited because a family member – Decedent – received care and other
services under this agreement. 
 
Nor can Defendants show that the
causes of action of the non-signatory Plaintiffs are “intimately founded in and
intertwined” with the contract obligations. As noted above, Plaintiffs’ claims
all arise from tort allegations related to Defendants’ misconduct in the care
and treatment of Decedent. While there is overlap in the law and facts of some
of these claims, Plaintiffs claims do not arise from the contract. That is,
Plaintiffs do not seek to rely on or enforce any contractual agreement with Defendants.
(Jensen v.
U-Haul Co. of California (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 306 [“ ‘[E]ven if a
plaintiff's claims “touch matters” relating to the arbitration agreement, “the
claims are not arbitrable unless the plaintiff relies on the agreement to
establish its cause of action.’ ” ”]; Pillar Project AG v. Payward Ventures,
Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 671, 678 [nonsignatory plaintiff's causes of
action for negligence and false advertising did not rely on or refer to an
agreement between the defendant and a third party and were not inextricably
intertwined with that agreement].) Equitable estoppel does not apply. 
            
             Based on the foregoing,
Defendants have carried their burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid,
binding arbitration agreement and that at least some of Plaintiffs’
claims fall within the scope of the Arbitration Agreement. Because the motion is unopposed and
no unconscionability issues have been raised, the Court’s analysis on the
motion to compel arbitration ends here with Defendants having met their burden.
(OTO, L.L.C.
v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126 [“The burden of proving unconscionability
rests upon the party asserting it.”].)
            
CONCLUSION
 
            The
Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration in part and denies it in
part. The motion to compel arbitration is granted as to Plaintiffs’ claims
brought on behalf of Decedent:  the
second, third, and fifth causes of action. 
The motion is denied as to Plaintiffs’ individual claims: the first,
fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action. The unopposed motion to stay the
non-arbitrable claims is granted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.4.[3]


