  Case Number:  21STCV12000    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  T Maria
Martinez vs Oportun, Inc., et al.
Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
Moving Party:                         Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant
Oportun, Inc.
Responding Party:                   Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant
1234 Madison Avenue, LLC
Tentative Ruling:                    Deny
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of an incident where Plaintiff Maria Martinez
(“Plaintiff”) was allegedly injured by a falling sign face for Oportun, Inc.
(“Oportun”) while sitting
at a restaurant in a strip mall owned by 1234 Madison Avenue, LLC (“Madison”). 
 
Plaintiff filed her complaint against, among others, Madison (substituted
for Doe 2) and Oportun. Oportun filed a cross complaint against Madison
(substituted for Roe 1). 
 
On August 30, 2024, Madison filed its operative first amended
cross-complaint (“FAXC”) against, among others, Oportun. Relevant to this
motion, the fourth and fifth causes of action in the FAXC are for express
indemnity and breach of contract. On December 6, 2024, the Court overruled
Oportun’s demurrer to these causes of action. (See Min. Order, 12/6/24.)
 
Oportun now moves to compel arbitration on the
fourth and fifth causes of action in Madison’s FAXC. Oportun also seeks an
order severing and staying these causes of action until arbitration is
completed. 
 
Madison opposes and Oportun
replies. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
            Oportun
moves to compel arbitration, arguing that paragraph 59 of the lease agreement
(“Lease”) between Madison and Oportun contains a mandatory arbitration
provision which falls within the scope of Madison’s express indemnity and breach of
contract causes of action. 
 
            Oportun
argues it did not waive its right to compel arbitration because no issue within
the lease was raised until Madison added the fourth and fifth causes of action
to its cross-complaint. The FAXC was not filed until August 30, 2024, after
Madison was granted leave to amend. (See Min. Order, 8/27/24.) 
 
OPPOSITION
 
Madison contends that the arbitration provision expressly only applies to
issues arising under the Lease, which does not include the underlying injury in
this case. Next, Madison argues that Oportun waived its right to arbitration. Lastly,
Madison asserts that allowing arbitration could lead to conflicting rulings
since the proposed arbitration and this action contain common issues of law and
fact. 
 
REPLY
 
            Oportun argues that when
interpreting the Lease as a whole, arbitration must be compelled. Because
Madison’s express indemnity and breach of contract causes of action are based
in the Lease, the arbitration provision applies. 
 
            Oportun also contends it did not
waive its right to arbitrate because Madison’s contract-based causes of action
were only recently brought. 
 
            Finally, Oportun argues an
arbitration will not create the possibility of conflicting rulings because the
issue of indemnity will not involve the underlying liability issues in this
case.        
            
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Legal
Standard
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a
dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to
arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or
controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) “The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿ 
  
“If a court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)¿¿  
 
II.        Judicial Notice
 
Oportun improperly requests judicial notice through the
Declaration of James F.B. Sawyer, and not through a separate document as
required in the California Rules of Court. (Sawyer Decl. ¶ 3; see Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1113(l).) Nevertheless, the Court takes judicial notice of
Madison’s original cross-complaint filed August 17, 2023, and the FAXC filed
August 30, 2024. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
 
III.      Discussion 
A.               
Existence
of a Valid Agreement  
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that
exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions
Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to
compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration
agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually
done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the court. “A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) The moving party must also
establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2.) The filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a
controversy clearly within the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively
establishes the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Hyundai
Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.) 
            Here, in the Lease, Madison is the
“Lessor” and Oportun is the “Lessee”. Paragraph 59, subparagraph A of the Lease,
states the following: 
“Except as provided
in Paragraph B below, the Parties agree to resolve any and all claims, disputes
or disagreements arising under this Lease, including, but not limited to any
matter relating to Lessor’s failure to approve an assignment, sublease or other
transfer of Lessee’s interest in the Lease under Paragraph 12 of this Lease,
any other defaults by Lessor, or any defaults by Lessee by and through
arbitration as provided below and irrevocably waive any and all rights to the
contrary. The Parties agree to at all times conduct themselves in strict, full,
complete and timely accordance with the terms hereof and that any attempt to
circumvent the terms of this Arbitration Agreement shall be absolutely null and
void and of no force or effect whatsoever.” 
(Camacho Decl., Exh.
A, ¶ 59A.) 
Here, the parties do not appear to dispute the existence of this
arbitration provision within the Lease. The main issue is whether Madison’s
fourth and fifth causes of action are within the scope of the agreement. 
B.                
Scope
of Agreement
In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must first
determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and
general principles of California contract law help guide the court in making
this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) Arbitration is a matter of contract and a party
cannot be required to arbitrate a dispute he has not agreed to submit. (Villacreses
v. Molinari (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1223, 1230.) “The party opposing
arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot
be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.” (Rice v. Downs (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 175, 185.)
 
“In determining the
scope of an arbitration clause, ‘[t]he court should attempt to give effect to
the parties’ intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made
[citation].’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he terms of the specific arbitration clause under
consideration must reasonably cover the dispute as to which arbitration is
requested.’ [Citation.]” (Rice, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at 185.) 
 
“[C]lauses requiring
arbitration of a claim, dispute, or controversy ‘arising from’ or ‘arising out
of’ an agreement, i.e., excluding language such as ‘relating to this agreement’
or ‘in connection with this agreement,’ are ‘generally considered to be more
limited in scope than would be, for example, a clause agreeing to arbitrate “any
controversy . . . arising out of or relating to this agreement,” which might
thus cover misconduct arising out of the agreement as well as contractual
issues.’ [Citation.]” (Rice, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at 186-87.) 
 
Here, Madison’s
fourth and fifth causes of action are premised on the indemnity clause within
the Lease. (See FAXC ¶¶ 13, 21.) The clause states:
 
“Except
for Lessor's negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct, Lessee shall
Indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless the Premises, Lessor and Its
agents, Lessor's master or ground lessor, partners and Lenders, from and
against any and all claims, loss of rents and/or damages, liens, judgments,
penalties, attorneys' and consultants' fees, expenses and/or liabilities
directly and solely arising out of, involving, or in connection with, the use
and/or occupancy of the Premises by Lessee. If any action or proceeding is
brought against Lessor by reason of any of the foregoing matters, Lessee shall
upon notice defend the same at Lessee's expense by counsel reasonably
satisfactory to Lessee and Lessor shall cooperate with Lessee in such defense.
Lessor need not have first paid any such claim In order to be defended or
indemnified.”
 
(Camacho Decl., Exh.
A, ¶ 8.7.) 
However, the arbitration provision in the Lease expressly covers “any
and all claims, disputes or disagreements arising under this Lease.” (Camacho
Decl., Exh. A, ¶ 59A.) The Court finds that this language limits the scope of
the agreement. Furthermore, Madison points to paragraph 13.1 and 13.2 of the
Lease, which defines a “default” and “breach” under the Lease and the remedies
that are available. In pertinent part, a “breach” is defined as the occurrence
of one of more of enumerated “defaults” and “the failure of Lessee to cure such
Default within any applicable grace period.” (Id. ¶ 13.1.) One of the
enumerated definitions of a “default” is “[a] Default by Lessee as to the
terms, covenants, conditions or provisions of this Lease.” (Id. ¶
13.1(e).) 
Turning to the remedies for the breach, the Lease provides: 
“In the event of a
Breach, Lessor may, with or without further notice or demand, and without
limiting Lessor in the exercise of any right or remedy which Lessor may have by
reason of such Breach: . . . (c) Pursue any other remedy now or hereafter
available under the laws or judicial decisions of the state wherein the
Premises are located. The expiration or termination of this Lease and/or the
termination of Lessee's right to possession shall not relieve Lessee from
liability under any indemnity provisions of this Lease as to matters occurring
or accruing during the term hereof or by reason of Lessee's occupancy of the
Premises.” 
(Camacho Decl., Exh.
A, ¶ 13.2(c).) 
Paragraph 59B of the Lease also excludes
certain disputes from arbitration, in relevant part: “1. Disputes for which a
different resolution determination is specifically set forth in this Lease.” Madison
argues that the provision allowing the pursuit of “any other remedy now or
hereafter available under the laws or judicial decisions of the state” gives it
authority to enforce the indemnity provision in court. 
However, even if this creates an exception to
the arbitration agreement, the Court finds that the Lease is ambiguous on what claims
“aris[e] under [the] Lease.” (Camacho Decl., Exh. A, ¶ 59A.) Finding that this
language is generally limiting and noting that Plaintiff’s action and the
underlying injury are not subject to the arbitration agreement, the Court finds
that the indemnity causes of action asserted by Madison, while relating to the
Lease, are sufficiently beyond the scope of the agreement.  
However, even if Madison’s causes of action
were within the scope of the agreement, the Court finds that Oportun has waived
its right to arbitrate. 
C.               
Waiver

 “To establish waiver, there is no
requirement that the party opposing enforcement of the contractual right
demonstrate prejudice or otherwise show harm resulting from the waiving party’s
conduct.”  (Campbell v. Sunshine Behavioral Health, LLC (2024) 105
Cal.App.5th 419, 426-27.)  Rather, the waiver inquiry is exclusively
focused on the waiving party’s words or conduct.  (Quach v. California
Commerce Club, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 562, 585.) “To establish waiver
under generally applicable contract law, the party opposing enforcement of a
contractual agreement must prove by clear and convincing evidence that the
waiving party knew of the contractual right and intentionally relinquished or
abandoned it.” (Id. at p. 584.)
 
In Quach, the
California Supreme Court abrogated the law that imposed a heavier burden to
show waiver for arbitration contracts than all other contracts, including the
requirement that the party opposing arbitration show prejudice in order to find
waiver by the party moving to compel arbitration.  (Quach, 16
Cal.5th at p. 582 [“Because the state law arbitration-specific prejudice
requirement finds no support in statutory language or legislative history, we
now abrogate it.”].) 
 
Under the applicable
waiver standard, a party waives arbitration where it acts inconsistently with
the intent to arbitrate or has unreasonably delayed in enforcing the right to
arbitrate.  (Campbell, 105 Cal.App.5th 419 [holding the defendant
waived its right to arbitrate by “engaging in negotiations over the joint
stipulation [to mediate] and representing to the court that it intended to
mediate” during the five months it delayed before moving to compel
arbitration); Semprini v. Wedbush Securities Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th
518, 527 [“It is well established that a four-to six-month delay in enforcing
the right to arbitrate may result in a finding of waiver if the party acted
inconsistently with the intent to arbitrate during that window.”].) 
 
            Here,
the underlying complaint was filed on March 29, 2021. Oportun was a named
defendant and answered on April 26, 2021, and filed its own cross-complaint
against Roe 1 to 10. Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint and added
Madison as Doe 2 on November 24, 2021. Madison filed its first cross complaint
for indemnification against Moes 1 to 50 on August 17, 2023. On October 7,
2023, Madison filed an amendment to the complaint adding Oportun as Moe 1.
Oportun filed an answer on October 23, 2023, and substituted Madison as Roe 1
in its cross-complaint. Oportun filed this motion to compel arbitration on
December 17, 2024. 
 
            Based
on Oportun’s conduct continuing to litigate Madison’s claims for indemnity by filing
an answer and adding Madison as a cross-defendant, the Court finds that
arbitration has been waived. Though Oportun argues the specific cause of action
for express indemnity under the Lease was only added in August 2024, the Lease
is dated August 2016. Therefore, Oportun should have known of the arbitration
provision, and could have moved to compel arbitration sooner. Oportun showed an
intent to abandon the contractual right by continuing to litigate with Madison.

 
            Accordingly,
the motion to compel arbitration is denied. As a result, the Court declines to
address Madison’s argument on the common issues of law and fact. 
RULING
Oportun,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action is DENIED. 