 Case Number:  21STCV24281    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  T Julianne
Lattner vs Danielle Zammit, et al.
Motion
to Deem Requests for Admission, Set One as Admitted
Moving Party:                         Defendant
Danielle Zammit
Responding Party:                   None
Tentative Ruling:                    Grant
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This is a negligence action related
to an alleged motor vehicle accident. 
 
            On November 11, 2024, Defendant Danielle
Zammit (“Defendant”) served Requests for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff
Julianne Lattner (“Plaintiff”). (Miller Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A, B.) Responses were
due December 13, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3.) As of the filing of this motion, no
responses have been served. (Id. ¶ 7.)
 
            As a result, Defendant now moves to
deem the Request for Admissions, Set One as admitted against Plaintiff, and
requests monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
            According
to Defendant, Plaintiff has not timely responded to Requests for Admissions,
Set One, and therefore, the admissions must be deemed admitted, and monetary
sanctions must be awarded. Defendant seeks $1,290 in monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
No opposition was filed. 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply was filed.        
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Legal
Standard
Where there has been no timely response to a request for admission under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction.¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed
to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that
party relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has
subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the
party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The
court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless
it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed
has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the
requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section
2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
Where a party fails
to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that
the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
II.        Discussion 
            Here,
because Plaintiff did not serve timely responses to the Request for Admissions,
Set One, the motion to deem admitted is granted. 
 
            Defendant
seeks $1,290 against Plaintiff representing a $205 hourly rate and the $60
filing fee. (Miller Decl. ¶ 9.) The Court finds that monetary sanctions are
mandatory, but the amount requested is excessive given the lack of opposition
and reply. Therefore, the Court awards $880.00 in monetary sanctions (4 hours
of attorney time to file and appear, plus the filing fee). 
 
RULING
Defendant Danielle Zammit’s Motion
to Deem Requests for Admission, Set One as Admitted is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $880.00. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel
for Defendant within 30 days.  
 