  Case Number:  21STCV09278    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 1-31-24
Case # 21STCV09278
Trial Date: 3-18-24
 
MOTIONS TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, Greek Orthodox metropolis of San
Franciso, and Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response filed
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants have
requested that three attorneys be admitted pro hac vice.
 
RULING: Denied
for procedural defects
 
Defendants’
California counsel, Catherine Naltsas, has filed three applications for pro hac
vice status for Texas attorney Karina Sanchez-Peralta, Texas attorney Justin
Kenney, and Texas attorney John Zavitsanos. The declarations of these attorneys
filed in support of their applications for pro hac vice status mostly comply
with the requirements of Cal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40.  
 
Rule 9.40
states that an applicant’s application “must” state (1) the applicant’s
residence and office address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) a statement that the
applicant has not applied to appear pro hac vice in any other California
actions in the past two years; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number
of the active licensees of the State Bar of California who are the attorneys of
record for the case. (See Cal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40(d).)
 
One issue with
the attorney’s applications is that there appears to be a mix up with the
Exhibit A’s attached to the declarations of Mr. Kenney and Mr. Zavitsanos. Exhibit
A is purported  to show the courts in
which the attorneys are members in good standing. However, the Exhibit A attached
to Mr. Kenney’s and Mr. Zavitsanos’s declarations are the exact same as one
another.
 
Another issue
is that Exhibit A attached to Ms. Sanchez-Peralta’s application does not state
her date of admission to the Texas Bar. 
 
Finally, the
proposed orders for Mr. Kenney’s and Ms. Sanchez-Peralta’s applications were
rejected by the Clerk because they were incorrectly titled. The Clerk indicated
that the proposed orders should be resubmitted. That has not been done.
 
The attorneys
applications to be admitted pro hac vice are denied without prejudice.
 
Moving party to
give notice.