 Case Number:  23SMCV03457    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03457




MOTION


Motion to Bifurcate




MOVING PARTY


Defendant 11649 Mayfield, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiff Christine Medrick



 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiff Christine Medrick (“Plaintiff”)
filed the instant lawsuit on July 27, 2023, stemming from a June 16, 2021
incident where a defective murphy bed allegedly fell on Plaintiff in her
apartment.  Plaintiff’s operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges two causes of action against Defendant 11649
Mayfield, LLC (“Defendant”) for (1) premises liability and (2) general
negligence.  
 
            Defendant now moves to bifurcate the
matter, including discovery, to address the statute of limitations issues (equitable
tolling and equitable estoppel) before the substance of the factual
claims.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and
Defendant replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 598 provides:
 
The court may, when the convenience of witnesses,
the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation
would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make
an order, no later than the close of pretrial conference in cases in which such
pretrial conference is to be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30 days
before the trial date, that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall
precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case, except
for special defenses which may be tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and
597.5. The court, on its own motion, may make such an order at any time.

Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048 provides:
 
(a) When actions involving a common question of
law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial
of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.
 
(b) The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant moves to bifurcate the
statute of limitations issues, involving equitable estoppel and equitable
tolling, from the substantive factual issues. 
Specifically, Defendant requests that discovery be limited to these
equitable issues and decided by the Court prior to any jury trial on the
merits.  In support, Defendant cites to Nwosu
v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1237-1238, which provides that although
a jury trial is a matter of right in a civil action at law, a jury trial is not
a matter of right in civil actions in equity, and where a matter involves both
legal and equitable issues, “the equitable issues, ordinarily, are tried first,
for this may obviate the necessity for a subsequent trial of the legal issues.”  Defendant also cites to Hopkins v.
Kedzierski (2014) 255 Cal.App.4th 736, 745, which provides equitable
tolling “is an equitable issue for court resolution.”  
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that the same witnesses will be called to testify on both the equitable
defenses and the issues of liability and damages, and therefore, bifurcation
would be inefficient.
 
            Defendant contends in reply that because
the equitable defenses are limited to discussions that occurred during the time
period after the incident occurred, whereas the allegedly negligent conduct
that gave rise to the murphy bed incident would have all occurred prior to that
incident, making bifurcation of the evidence and issues simpler.
 
            Ultimately, the Court cannot
determine, at this early stage of the litigation, that judicial economy will be
best served by bifurcating discovery and/or trial.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, at this early stage of the litigation, the Court denies without
prejudice Defendant’s motion to bifurcate discovery and trial.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  September 25, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 