  Case Number:  20SMCV01202    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20SMCV01202




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Answer to Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Cross-Defendant Desarrollos Inmobilarios CUGA, S.A.P.I. de
  CV




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross-Complainants Landec Corporation and Curation Foods,
  Inc.



 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 2, 2020, Plaintiff Ardeshir Haerizadeh (“Haerizadeh”), the
founder of Yucatan Foods, brought suit against Defendants Landec Corporation
and Apio Inc. (collectively, “Landec” or “Defendants”), who acquired Yucatan
Foods, alleging four causes of action for (1) breach of employment contract;
(2) breach of holdback agreement; (3) declaratory relief (as to whether the
non-compete provisions in the Employment Agreement are enforceable in light of
Plaintiff’s termination without cause); and (4) accounting.  
 
On November 3, 2020, Landec brought a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Haerizadeh, Dan Walton, Warren Schlichting, Robert Hall,
Sepand Riahi, Allen Lance McInnes, John Barber, Michael F. Baxter, Doug Harmon,
George H. Davis Jr., Adam Cardenas, Kevin Gay, Aaron Morris, J.F. Shea Co.,
Inc. as Nominee 1996-1, and Desarrollos Inmobiliarios Cuga, S.A.P.I. de C.V.
(“CUGA”) alleging seven causes of action for (1) fraud; (2) fraudulent
inducement; (3) civil conspiracy; (4) contractual indemnity; (5) breach of
contract; (6) equitable indemnity; and (7) unjust enrichment.
 
CUGA answered the cross-complaint on January 4, 2023.  CUGA now moves for leave to amend its answer
to the cross-complaint to add a fifteenth affirmative defense for in pari delicto.  Landec opposes the motion and CUGA replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶
6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil & Brown,
supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court may cause
the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing
for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            In support of the motion, CUGA has
provided both redlined and clean copies of the proposed amended answer, as well
as the Declaration of Emil W. Herich, which indicates that CUGA learned during
the depositions of Albert Bolles on April 27, 2023, of John Morger on November
17, 2023, and of Manuel Perez on May 28, 2024, and upon subsequent review of
those depositions in preparation for trial, that Landec continued to engage in
the same alleged violations of environmental and anti-government corruption
laws it alleges CUGA (and the other cross-defendants) violated, giving rise to
a defense of in pari delecto.  (Herich
Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.)  The declaration further
provides:
 
7. The effect of the amendment—The effect of the
proposed amendment is to add to CUGA’s answer a single additional affirmative
defense that of “in pari delicto.” A copy of the proposed amended answer is
attached to this motion as Exhibit “A.” A redlined copy of the proposed amended
answer highlighting the affirmative defense to be added by the proposed
amendment is attached to this motion as Exhibit “B.” 
 
8. Why the amendment is necessary and proper—The
proposed amendment is necessary and proper because, as explained in CUGA’s
moving papers, discovery has demonstrated that Landec itself engaged in the
same acts of violation(s) of environmental and antigovernment corruption laws
that it alleges in its cross-complaint were committed by Cross Defendants and
which have allegedly resulting in Landec incurring damages. Landec has also
admitted that it cannot distinguish between the damages it incurred on account
of the preacquisition and post-acquisition violations of law. For this reason,
CUGA has a viable affirmative defense of in pari delicto which will bar Landec
from recovering damages on its cross-complaint against CUGA. 
 
9. When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered—The facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered by CUGA during discovery in this case including at depositions
taken between April 2023 and May 2024. 
 
10. The reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier—The undersigned became aware of the need for the proposed
amendment only after beginning trial preparation earlier this month which
included the need to designate deposition testimony and, in the course of doing
so, realized that CUGA’s answer which had been prepared prior to the taking of
the depositions referenced herein, did not include the in pari delicto
affirmative defense.
 
(Herich
Decl. ¶¶ 7-10.)
 
            Landec opposes the request on the
grounds that CUGA unreasonably delayed, CUGA will be prejudiced by the
amendment, and the defense is invalid in any event.
 
            Whether CUGA’s delay in moving for
leave to amend the answer warrants the denial of the motion turns on whether the
purported delay prejudiced Landec. 
Regarding prejudice, Landec contends that written discovery closed on
November 30, 2023, and the percipient witness deposition deadline expired on
June 7, 2024.  Thus, Landec contends it will
be prejudiced by not being able to conduct discovery regarding the new defense.
 
            CUGA points out on reply that
evidence of Landec’s own environmental and anti-government corruption law
violations is all necessarily within Landec’s knowledge and control, and
therefore, there is no discovery Landec would have needed to conduct regarding
the new in pari delecto defense.  
 
            The Court agrees that Landec has not
demonstrated any prejudice to warrant denial of the motion, notwithstanding the
motion was filed after discovery is closed .
 
            With respect to Landec’s arguments
regarding the substance of the proposed amendment, the Court will generally not
consider the merits of the proposed amendment in determining whether to grant
leave to amend.  (See Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“the preferable
practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its
legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other
appropriate proceedings”].)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court grants CUGA’s
motion for leave to amend the answer. 
CUGA shall file and serve the proposed amended answer on or before
October 2, 2024.  
 
            Further, the Court orders CUGA to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  September 25, 2024                       ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 