Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV35364
Plaintiff's Name: Patrick Croghan
Defendant's Name: Torrance Hotel Venture, LLC
People-Names: Patrick Croghan, Decedent's former spouse
Company-Names: Torrance Hotel Venture, LLC
Places: 4111 Pacific Coast Highway, Torrance, CA 90505
Dates: September 24, 2021, October 11, 2019, January 26, 2023, September 29, 2023
Events: Decedent bent down to place his luggage in the closet when the safe door hit the top of his head
Money: Not specified
Intentions: Defendant seeks judgment on the pleadings, arguing that Plaintiff's complaint is deficient due to the lack of a personal representative or successor-in-interest
Facts: Decedent filed the complaint against Defendant on September 24, 2021, alleging negligence and premises liability. Decedent passed away on January 26, 2023.
Disputes: Defendant argues that Plaintiff's complaint is deficient due to the lack of a personal representative or successor-in-interest
Acts: Decedent's death, filing of the complaint, Defendant's motion for judgment on the pleadings
Agreements: None
Laws: CCP ยง 438, CCP ยง 377.21, Sacks v. FSR Brokerage, Inc., Sellery v. Cressey
Case Citations: Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson, Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp., Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly, Schabarum v. California Legislature
Statutes: CCP ยง 438, CCP ยง 377.21
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff's counsel, Defendant's counsel
Significant Statements: The Court will set an OSC Re: substitution of Plaintiff's successor in interest, and Plaintiff's counsel is expected to file a motion to substitute Decedent with the successor in interest in a timely manner. Failure to do so may result in dismissal of the action.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge denied Defendant's motion for judgment on the pleadings, which argued that the complaint was deficient due to the lack of a personal representative or successor-in-interest. The judge found that the complaint alleged sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for general negligence and premises liability against Defendant. The judge noted that a pending action does not abate by the death of a party, and that Plaintiff's counsel has located the next of kin as the successor in interest. The judge expects Plaintiff's counsel to file a motion to substitute Decedent with the successor in interest in a timely manner, and warned that failure to do so may result in dismissal of the action. The judge set a hearing to consider the substitution of the successor in interest and ordered Defendant to give notice.