Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23BBCV01418
Plaintiff's Name: Lisa Stroway
Defendant's Name: West Palms Event Management (MP), Archie Cox, Cha Cha Jago, Chad Mahaffey
People-Names: Lisa Stroway, Archie Cox, Cha Cha Jago, Chad Mahaffey
Company-Names: West Palms Event Management
Places: Los Angeles, Burbank, Desert International Horse Park
Dates: February 2022, March 29, 2024
Events: Horse show, contraction of EVH-1, euthanization of Amazing T
Money: Not specified
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to hold West Palms responsible for the death of her horse due to their alleged negligence
Facts: Plaintiff's horse Amazing T contracted EVH-1 at a horse show hosted by West Palms, despite a ban on horses from Desert International; Plaintiff alleges West Palms failed to enforce the ban and that this failure caused the contraction of the disease
Disputes: Whether West Palms owed a duty to Plaintiff and whether their failure to enforce the ban was a breach of that duty
Acts: West Palms hosted a horse show, implemented a ban on horses from Desert International, and failed to enforce the ban; Plaintiff inquired about the safety of the show and was informed of the ban
Agreements: None
Laws: California Civil Procedure Code (C.C.P.) ยง 438(c)(1)(B), Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601
Case Citations: McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671, Pamela L. v. Farmer (1980) 112 Cal.App.3d 206, 209, Tarasoff v. Regents of University of California (1976) 17 Cal.3d 425, 435
Statutes: California Civil Procedure Code (C.C.P.) ยง 452, California Code of Civil Procedure (C.C.P.) ยง 438(c)(1)(B)
Roles: Judge F.M. Tavelman, Plaintiff Lisa Stroway, Defendant West Palms Event Management
Significant Statements: "The Court finds that West Palms' ban, and its subsequent advertisement, can support the existence of a duty. ... The Court agrees that ordinarily West Palms would have no duty to protect Plaintiff's horse simply by holding an open invitation to its February show. However, West Palms is alleged to have affirmatively implemented a ban on horses from Desert International and to have made that ban public knowledge."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has denied the motion for judgment on the pleadings brought by West Palms Event Management. The motion argued that the complaint fails to state a cause of action for negligence against West Palms. The judge finds that the complaint adequately alleges that West Palms owed a duty to the plaintiff by virtue of the ban on horses from Desert International, and that West Palms breached that duty by failing to enforce the ban. The judge also finds that the plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that this breach caused the contraction of EVH-1 in her horse, Amazing T. The motion is denied, and the case will proceed to further proceedings.