 Case Number:  23BBCV01985    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 29, 2024

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE/VACATE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01985

 



MP:  


Leon Krous Drilling, Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


Creditors Adjustment Bureau
  (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Creditors Adjustment
Bureau (Plaintiff) brings this action against Leon Krous Drilling, Inc. (Defendant).
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant owes sums of $30,853.51 and $42,093.65 in
connection with an alleged breach of an insurance agreement with Plaintiff’s
Assignor. 
 
On December 1, 2023,
default was entered against Defendant. On January 19, 2024, the Court entered a
default judgment in favor of Plaintiff. 
 
Defendant now moves
this court to vacate the default judgment and set aside the default. Plaintiff
opposes the motion. Defendant has not replied. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Plaintiff
seeks relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b). Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory
relief provision. (Jackson supra, 32 Cal. App. 5th 166, at 173.)  The discretionary provision of Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b), in pertinent part, reads as follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) reads, in pertinent
part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) is to
promote the determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no
more than six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit
of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the
moving party or its attorney. (C.C.P., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Service 
 
Although
Defendant does not cite C.C.P. § 473.5 as grounds for this motion, they do make
arguments speaking to the statute. Defendant argues that Marcus Kraus (Marcus),
as president and registered agent for Defendant, was never served and never
received notice of the lawsuit. (Kraus Decl. ¶¶ 1, 3.) Defendant’s argument
that they were not properly served speaks to relief under C.C.P. § 473.5 and
not C.C.P. § 473(b). 
 
C.C.P. §
473.5 provides relief from default where a party has shown that service did not
result in “actual notice” of the suit. “[A]ctual notice in section 473.5 means
genuine knowledge of the party litigant…[A]ctual knowledge has been strictly
construed, with the aim of implementing the policy of liberally granting relief
so that cases may be resolved on their merits.’” (Ellard v. Conway
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 547 [Citations Omitted].) 
 
“[A]
party can make a motion showing a lack of actual notice not caused by avoidance
of service or inexcusable neglect . . .” (Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 175, 180.) “‘[I]t does not require a showing that plaintiff did
anything improper…[T]he defaulting defendant simply asserts that he or she did
not have actual notice’.” (Id.) “[I]f the court has acquired
jurisdiction, i.e., summons has been served, but service of summons has not
resulted in actual notice to a defendant, although the defendant has acquired
actual knowledge of the action from another source, this does not preclude a
defendant from seeking relief under section 473.5.” (Ellard supra,
94 Cal.App.4th at 548.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff asserts that service was proper and resulted in actual notice. The
proof of service shows that service was effectuated on October 19, 2023. The
process server states that they served a Wayne Francis “Person in Charge”
(Francis) at 9300 Borden Ave. Sun Valley, CA 91352. The proof of service also
states that Marcus Lee Krous is the registered agent for service of process for
Kraus Drilling. Plaintiff’s opposition explains that Francis is the Responsible
Managing Officer for Krous Drilling. (Rogers Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff argues
that service on Francis is proper service on the corporation and constitutes
actual notice to the corporation. 
 
The Court
agrees that service on Francis was sufficient to provide actual notice within
the meaning of C.C.P. § 473.5. While imputed notice is not actual notice to an
individual defendant, it can be actual notice to a corporate defendant. (Pulte
Homes Corp. v. Williams Mechanical. Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 267, 274.) As
a corporation can only act in its affairs through its natural person agents, a
corporation can have actual notice only through an agent who has the
appropriate authority. (Id.) “Presumably notice to the board of
directors or to the president of a corporation would be sufficient to
constitute actual notice; indeed, in the case of a functioning corporation, it
is arguable that it is necessary.” (Id.) 
 
Here,
Defendant has not disputed that Francis was authorized to accept service of
process. Given Francis’ position as Responsible Managing Officer for the
corporation, it is reasonable to conclude that service upon him constituted
actual notice to the corporation. That Marcus, as president, was not made aware
of the suit by Francis does not negate the notice to the corporation. As such,
relief is not available to Defendant under C.C.P. § 473.5
 
Mistake,
Inadvertence, or Excusable Neglect 
 
Plaintiff
argues that none of the conditions for granting discretionary relief under
C.C.P. § 473(b) have been shown by Defendant. Plaintiff argues that Defendant
has only alleged lack of notice and not mistake, therefore cannot seek relief
under C.C.P. § 473(b). The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. While
Defendant’s moving argument is scant and at times unclear, the declaration of
Marcus contains facts which speak to a claim of excusable neglect. 
 
“The
definition of excusable neglect is defined as neglect that might have been the
act or omission of a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances.” (Department of Water & Power v. Superior Court (2000)
82 Cal.App.4th 1288, 1293 [internal citation and quotation marks omitted].)
“There must be more than the mere failure to discover a fact; the party seeking
relief must establish the failure to discover the fact in the exercise of
reasonable diligence.” (Id.) 
 
Marcus’
statement that he, as president of the corporation, was not made aware of the
suit could speak to excusable neglect. To the extent that Francis failed to
direct the summons and complaint to Marcus, it could be argued that such
failure was the result of excusable neglect. Regardless, the Court finds
Defendant’s showings are insufficient to support such a conclusion. “A party
seeking relief under section 473 on the grounds of excusable neglect bears the
burden of demonstrating that the neglect was excusable in order to secure
relief.” (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1128.) Here,
the Court finds Defendant has not shown that their neglect was excusable. 
 
It is
undisputed that Francis received the Summons and Complaint and that he serves
as the Responsible Managing Officer for Defendant. Without further information
from Defendant, the Court cannot determine that Francis’ actions constitute
excusable neglect. Defendant does not submit a declaration from Francis to
explain what was done with the documents when he received them or why he did
not alert Marcus to the suit. Further, Marcus’ declaration is silent as to
Francis entirely. Marcus makes no representation about Francis’ authority or
his position at the company. Without further information the Court is unable to
determine whether Francis had the capacity or authority to arrange a defense
for the corporation. 
 
In short,
the undisputed facts show that Francis received notice of the suit. Any
subsequent failure by Defendant to respond would necessarily be the result of
neglect. It is Defendant’s burden as the party seeking relief to demonstrate that
their neglect was excusable within the meaning of C.C.P. § 473(b). Defendant
has not done so in this motion, though they very well may be able to do so in
the future. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to vacate default judgment and set aside default is DENIED without
prejudice.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Leon Krous Drilling,
Inc.’s Motion to Vacate and Motion to Quash came on
regularly for hearing on March 29, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT/SET ASIDE
DEFAULT IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
DATE: 
March 29, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles