 Case Number:  23BBCV00959    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 29, 2024

MOTION
TO VACATE/SET ASIDE & MOTION TO QUASH

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00959

 



MP:  


Stephanie Wu (Defendant)




RP:  


Sean Santoyo (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Sean Santoyo
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Stephanie Wu (Defendant). Plaintiff
suffered serious injury after Defendant struck him with her vehicle. This
occurred while Plaintiff was working as a valet and that Plaintiff subsequently
suffered serious injury. 
 
On January 4, 2024,
default was entered against Defendant, and on March 4, 2024, The Court entered
default judgment in favor of Plaintiff. 
 
Defendant now moves
to vacate the default judgment and set aside the default arguing that she did
not receive actual notice of the lawsuit. Defendant also moves to quash service
of the summons in the event relief from default is granted. Plaintiff opposes
the motion and Defendant replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Vacate Default Judgment 
 
There are three basic avenues of relief
for a defendant against whom a default judgment has been entered: first, the
party can obtain relief under C.C.P. §473 and 473.5; second, the party can show
that extrinsic fraud or mistake exists; and third, the party can show that the
default judgment was facially void.  (Trackman
v. Kenney (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 175, 181.)
 
CCP §
473.5(a) provides that a party who has not received timely actual notice may
file a notice of motion to set aside the default judgment: “When service of a
summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in
the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the
default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.” 
 
A
defendant seeking relief under § 473.5 must submit “an affidavit showing under
oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.” (CCP §
473.5; Anastos v. Lee (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1314, 1319; Khourie,
Crew & Jaeger v. Sabek, Inc. (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1009, 1013.) A
motion seeking relief under CCP § 473.5 must be served and filed within a
reasonable time but in no event later than two years after the entry of default
judgment or 180 days after service of written notice that default or default
judgment has been entered, whichever is earlier. (CCP § 473.5(c).) 
 
The party
seeking relief bears the burden of proof in establishing a right to relief. (Hearn
v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1205.) Because it is the policy of
the law to favor a hearing on the merits, very slight evidence is required to
justify a trial court’s order setting aside a default. (Ramos v. Homeward
Residential, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1434, 1444.) 
 
Motion to
Quash Service 
 
“Service
of process, under longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is
fundamental to any procedural imposition on a named defendant.”  (AO
Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21¿Cal.App.5th 189, 202 [internal quotations
marks and citation omitted].)  “To establish personal jurisdiction,
compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is
essential.”  (Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358,
371.)  Defendant’s knowledge of the action does not dispense with
statutory requirements for service of summons.  (Kappel v. Bartlett
(1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.) 
 
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow” may move “to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her” that results from lack of proper service.  (C.C.P. §
418.10(a)(1).)  A defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons
to file a responsive pleading.  (C.C.P. § 412.20(a)(3).)  
 
“When a
defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403,
413.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request for Judicial Notice

 
Defendant requests judicial
notice be taken of (1) the proof of service in this matter, (2) the case
information as acquired on March 4, 2024, and (3) the request for entry of default
dated January 4, 2024. Defendant asserts that judicial notice of these
documents is proper pursuant to Evidence Code § 452, which permits judicial
notice of court records. The request is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff also requests
judicial notice of the proof of service and the request for entry of default
dated January 4, 2024. These requests are GRANTED. Plaintiff further requests
judicial notice of Cal. Code Regs. Tit. 1, § 1008, which is DENIED.  The Cal. Code of Regs. Applies to
administrative hearing and not to the Constitutional Courts of California.
 
Lastly, Plaintiff requests
judicial notice of a letter sent from his counsel to Defendant’s insurance
company. Plaintiff does not brief why this document should be judicially
noticed. Plaintiff simply states all the documents of which he requests notices
are “court documents that are official
documents of the California Secretary of State or file in this case.” The Court
is unsure what is meant by this statement, though it is clear that the letter
from plaintiff’s counsel is not an official court document. Accordingly,
judicial notice of the letter is DENIED. 
 
Objections 
 
Plaintiff objects to “Plaintiff's
Exhibits Pages: 18-37, Pages 38-41, pages 42-66, Pages 67-81; Pages 82-87;
Pages 88-95; Pages 96-100 on the basis of relevancy regarding the Motion to Set
Aside the Default and default judgement…” 
 
The Court finds the page numbers cited
as objectionable do not track with page numbers of Defendant’s exhibits in
support of her motion. Further, although Defendant has labeled her exhibits,
Plaintiff’s objection makes no reference to these labels. As stated, the Court
is unable to ascertain to what material Plaintiff is objecting. Accordingly,
the objections are OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Vacate/Set Aside
 
The proof of service in
this matter shows substitute service was effectuated on June 11, 2023. The process
server’s affidavit reflects that the Summons and Complaint were left with co-occupant
Travis Doe, described as a white male around 45 years of age with black hair
and standing 5’10’. The address of service, purported to be Defendant’s usual
place of abode, was 10639 Woodbridge St. Apt. 104 North Hollywood, CA 91602. The
affidavit attests that notice was thereafter mailed to the same address. 
 
Defendant states the
grounds for her motion are pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(d), arguing that the
default is void by virtue of being obtained by extrinsic fraud. While it may be
that Defendant is entitled to relief under C.C.P. § 473(d), the Court finds an
extrinsic fraud analysis is unnecessary. This is because Defendant’s primary
argument, that she did not receive notice by virtue of defective service,
speaks more to relief under C.C.P. § 473.5 than to extrinsic fraud. 
 
Defendant offers her own
declaration in support of this motion. Defendant states that she used to reside
at the Woodbridge address and that this address appeared on the vehicle
registration she exchanged with Plaintiff at the time of the accident. (Wu
Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendant states that she never received the Complaint in this
matter. (Wu Decl. ¶ 9.) Defendant admits that she is married to a man
named Travis, but states that his physical description does not match the proof
of service. (Wu Decl. ¶ 9.) Specifically, Defendant states that her
husband has light hair not black hair and that he is 35 and not 45. (Wu Decl.
¶ 9.) Defendant further states that she never received notice of the suit
by mail, despite her checking the mail regularly. (Wu Decl. ¶ 10.) Defendant
states she has not attempted to evade service, as indicated by providing her insurance
information to Plaintiff at the time of the accident. (Wu Decl. ¶ 11, Exh.
A.)  
 
Defendant also states that
she has since moved from the Woodbridge location. (Wu Decl. ¶ 12.) Defendant
states she became aware of this suit because the new residents received a
notice in the mail on January 16, 2024. (Wu Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. B.) Defendant
states she never received mail related to the suit forwarded to her new address.
(Wu Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
Defendant also submits the
declaration of Travis Barner (Barner). Barner states that he lived at the
Woodbridge address at the time of alleged service. (Barner Decl. ¶ 2.)
Barner states that he has never spoken with or come into contact with a process
server for any reason. (Barner Decl. ¶ 2.) Barner also reiterates that he
does not fit the description on the proof of service. (Barner Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
The Court acknowledges the affidavit
of Plaintiff’s process server creates a rebuttable presumption that service was
valid. (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199¿Cal.App.4th
383, 390 [internal citation omitted]; Evid. Code § 647.) However, the Court
also finds that Defendant has provided adequate evidence in rebuttal of this
presumption. Defendant submits the sworn testimony of both herself and her
husband that neither of them ever received notice of this suit. 
 
“[A]ctual
notice in section 473.5 means genuine knowledge of the party litigant…[A]ctual
knowledge has been strictly construed, with the aim of implementing the policy
of liberally granting relief so that cases may be resolved on their merits.’” (Ellard
v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 547 [Citations Omitted].) Here,
Defendant has provided evidence indicating that she did not have actual
knowledge of the suit until default was already entered in the matter. 


While the
Court finds Defendant’s declarations persuasive, it is worth noting that even
weak evidentiary showings are entitled to relief under C.C.P. § 473.5. “It is
the policy of the law to favor, whenever possible, a hearing on the merits.
Appellate courts are much more disposed to affirm an order when the result is
to compel a trial on the merits than when the default judgment is allowed to
stand. Therefore, when a party in default moves promptly to seek relief, very
slight evidence is required to justify a trial court's order setting aside a
default…. Even in a case where the showing ... is not strong, or where there is
any doubt as to setting aside of a default, such doubt should be resolved in
favor of the application.” (Ramos supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 1444
[internal citation and quotation marks omitted].) 
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s arguments in opposition to be unpersuasive. Plaintiff asserts
in his opposition that Defendant was clearly evading service because she did
not provide documentation as to her forwarding address with her moving papers. Plaintiff
also suggests that “[Defendant] makes no comment” as to whether she set up mail
forwarding when she moved from the Woodbridge address. The Court notes
Defendant explicitly mentions mail being forwarded to her new address “I never
received any mail relating to this case forwarded to my Westlake address.” (Wu
Decl. ¶ 12.) Plaintiff also argues that Defendant must have received notice
because she received subsequent notice from her counsel. Again, Defendant
clearly addresses that she was sent the subsequent correspondence by the new
resident of the Woodbridge address. (See Wu Decl. Exh. B.) 
 
Lastly, the
Court finds Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant obviously attempted to evade
service because it would raise her insurance premiums to be based purely on
conjecture. Plaintiff’s argument is based on a premise for which Plaintiff has
offered no evidentiary facts. 
 
In short, the Court finds
Defendant has sufficiently shown that she lacked actual notice of this suit.
Accordingly, the motion to vacate default judgment and set aside default is
GRANTED. Any relief sought on the grounds of extrinsic fraud is MOOT. 
 
Motion to Quash 
 
Having granted the motion
to vacate, the Court must now decide Defendant’s motion to quash. 
 
On a motion to quash
service of summons, the plaintiff has the burden of establishing by a
preponderance of the evidence the prima facie facts entitling the court to
assume jurisdiction, including whether service was in compliance with statutory
requirements. (Lebel v Mai (2012) 210 CA4th 1154, 1160.) A court may
rely upon the verified declarations of the parties and other competent
witnesses. (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 CA4th 1353, 1362.) Authenticated
documentary evidence may also constitute competent evidence. (Paneno v
Centres for Academic Programmes Abroad, Ltd. (2004) 118 CA4th 1447, 1454.)
 
As
previously discussed, the Court finds the presumption of valid service created
by the process server to have been adequately rebutted. Further, the Court does
not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated substantial compliance such that
jurisdiction has been conferred. “It is axiomatic that strict compliance with
the code's provisions for service of process is not required. (Ramos supra,
223 Cal.App.4th at 1443.) “[I]n deciding whether service was valid, the
statutory provisions regarding service of process should be liberally construed
to effectuate service and uphold the jurisdiction of the court if actual notice
has been received by the defendant.” (Gibble v. Car-Lene Research, Inc.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 295, 313.) In essence, substantial compliance with the
code’s requirements for service of process is sufficient. (Id.) As already
established, Plaintiff’s service was not sufficient to provide actual notice to
Defendant. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to quash service is GRANTED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Stephanie Wu’s Motion
to Vacate and Motion to Quash came on regularly for
hearing on March 29, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT/SET ASIDE
DEFAULT IS GRANTED. 
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS
GRANTED. 
 
AN ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: PROOF OF SERVICE AND A CASE MANAGEMENT
CONFERENCE ARE SCHEDULED FOR AUGUST 1, 2024 AT 9:00 AM
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 29, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 