 Case Number:  23BBCV02786    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 29, 2024

APPLICATION
FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02786

 



MP:  


Centra Funding, LLC (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Plaintiff Centra
Funding, LLC (Plaintiff)
filed suit against Anko Services and Andrii Bunk (collectively Defendants)
alleging Defendants entered an Equipment Finance Agreement (Agreement) with Plaintiff for the use of a UTP160-P3
Silent Diesel Generator,
but subsequently defaulted pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants remain in possession of the generator.   
 
Plaintiff
now applies for a writ of possession to reclaim the Generator. Defendant has
rendered no opposition. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) § 512.010 requires that the application for writ of
possession be executed under oath and include affidavits showing the
following: 
 
(1) A
showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's
claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be
attached. 
 
(2) A
showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, the manner
in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to
the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for
the detention. 
 
(3) A
particular description of the property and a statement of its value. 
 
(4) A
statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part
of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take
possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there. 
 
(5) A
statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine,
pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure. 
 
Before
the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the defendant must be served with (1) a
copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and
(3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (C.C.P. § 512.030.)
 
C.C.P. §
512.060 permits the Court to issue a writ of possession when the Court finds
the following: 
 
(1) the
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the plaintiff's claim to
possession of the property; and 
 
(2) the
undertaking requirements of C.C.P. § 515.010 are satisfied. 
 
C.C.P. §
515.010 provides: “The undertaking shall be in an amount not less than twice
the value of¿the¿defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount.”
 
“Before
issuance of a writ of attachment … the plaintiff shall file an undertaking to
pay the defendant any amount the defendant may recover for any wrongful
attachment by the plaintiff in the action.” (C.C.P. § 489.210.) But when a
defendant does not have any interest in the property, C.C.P. § 515.010(b)
permits the Court to waive the requirement of the plaintiff's undertaking and
set an undertaking for the defendant to keep possession or regain
possession. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff has not shown proof of service of this Application as per C.C.P. §
512.060. Plaintiff does not attach proof of service showing that Defendants
have been served with a copy of the Summons and Complaint or the Notice of
Application and Hearing. From the Court’s review of the record, it appears that
no proof of service has ever been filed in regard to this matter. Nor is any
proof of service attached to Plaintiff’s declaration in support of the
Application and filed Notice. 
 
The Court also notes that
the application does not contain a copy of the Equipment Finance Agreement.
Plaintiff is required to attach a copy of a written instrument which is the
basis for their application as per C.C.P. § 512.010(1). 
 
Accordingly, the
Application for Writ of Possession is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
---
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Centra Funding, LLC’s
Application for Writ of Possession came on regularly
for hearing on March 29, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE APPLICATION
FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 29, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 