 Case Number:  23BBCV01418    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 29, 2024

MOTION FOR
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01418

 



MP:  


West
  Palms Event Management (Defendant) 




RP:  


Lisa
  Stroway (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:

 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Lisa Stroway
(Plaintiff) brings this action against West Palms Event Management (West Palms),
Archie Cox (Cox), Cha Cha Jago (Jago), and Chad Mahaffey (Mahaffey)
(collectively Defendants). Plaintiff claims that her horse contracted an
infectious disease and ultimately died as the result of Defendants’ negligence.
The Complaint states causes of action for (1) Negligence (as against all Defendants),
(2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (as against Cox, Jago, and
Mahaffey), and (3) Defamation (as against Mahaffey). 
 
Before the Court is a
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings brought by West Palms. West Palms argues
that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to state a cause of action for Negligence
against them. Plaintiff opposes the motion. West Palms has not replied. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A
defendant may bring a statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings where the
court has no jurisdiction over the subject of the cause of action alleged in
the complaint or the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (C.C.P. § 438(c)(1)(B).) A
non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made any time before
or during trial. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.) “Such
motion may be made on the same ground as those supporting a general demurrer, i.e.,
that the pleading at issue fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
legally cognizable claim or defense.” (Id.)
 
“In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (C.C.P. § 452; see also Stevens v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “When a court evaluates a complaint, the
plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts pled.” (Duval
v. Board of Tr. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.) “In deciding or reviewing
a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts are deemed to
be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those
expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) 
 
“In the
case of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to
amend should be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action.” (Gami v. Mullikin Medical Ctr.
(1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff’s
action stems from the contraction of an airborne equestrian disease (EVH-1) by
her horse Amazing T, ultimately resulting in death. (Compl. ¶¶ 12-13, 19.)
Plaintiff alleges she entered Amazing T into a show hosted by West Palms in
February of 2022. (Compl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff also alleges that prior to this show,
the California Department of Food & Agriculture had identified several
positive cases of EVH-1 in horses located at Desert International Horse Park
(Desert International). (Compl. ¶ 14.) 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that West Palms implemented a ban on any horses from Desert
International in response to the EVH-1 outbreak. (Compl. ¶ 17.) Plaintiff
further alleges that despite this ban, West Palms failed to prevent horses from
Desert International from entering the February Show. (Id.) Plaintiff
alleges that she inquired with West Palms as to the safety of the February show
and was told West Palms had implemented a ban on Desert International horses.
(Compl. ¶ 18.) Plaintiff restates this allegation in paragraph 23, where
she alleges that West Palms informed her that its February show would be safe
and that it had implemented a ban on horses from Desert International. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Cox, Jago, and Mahaffey brought horses from Desert International
to West Palms’ February show. (Compl. ¶ 25.) Plaintiff alleges that two
days after the February show, Amazing T began to exhibit symptoms of EVH-1.
(Compl. ¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges that Amazing T’s condition did not improve
despite treatment, and he ultimately needed to be euthanized. (Compl.
¶ 19.) 
 
Discussion
 
In order
to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate
cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
The crux
of West Palms’ argument is that the Complaint does not allege a duty owed to
Plaintiff. West Palms posits that they were not required to follow the United
States Equestrian Federation recommendations concerning EVH-1, and that their
failure to implement those measures cannot give rise to a duty. The Court finds
this argument unpersuasive, as it omits West Palm’s creation of a ban on horses
from Desert International. The Court finds that West Palms’ ban, and its
subsequent advertisement, can support the existence of a duty. 
 
Generally,
a person has no duty to control the conduct of a third person, nor to warn
those endangered by such conduct, in the absence of a “special relationship”
either to the third person or to the victim. (Pamela L. v. Farmer (1980)
112 Cal.App.3d 206, 209 citing Tarasoff v. Regents of University of
California (1976) 17 Cal.3d 425, 435.) “However, this rule is based on the
concept that a person should not be liable for nonfeasance in failing to act as
a good Samaritan. It has no application where the defendant, through his or her
own action (misfeasance) has made the plaintiff’s position worse and has
created a foreseeable risk of harm from the third person. In such cases the
question of duty is governed by the standards of ordinary care.” (Id. at
210 citing Weirum v. RKO General, Inc. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 40, 49 [internal
quotation marks omitted].) 
 
“In
determining whether one has a duty to prevent injury that is the result of
third party conduct, the touchstone of the analysis is the foreseeability of
that intervening conduct.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1148.)  Where there is a logical causal connection
between the defendant’s negligent conduct and the intervening negligence of a
third party, making the intervening negligence foreseeable, courts have found
both a duty and liability. (Id. at 149.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged an act by West Palms which made Plaintiff’s
position worse, and which was foreseeable. The Court agrees that ordinarily
West Palms would have no duty to protect Plaintiff’s horse simply by holding an
open invitation to its February show. However, West Palms is alleged to have
affirmatively implemented a ban on horses from Desert International and to have
made that ban public knowledge. Further, Plaintiff alleges that she inquired
with West Palms about the safety of the show and was informed of the ban in
response. Taking these allegations as true, as the Court must do on this
motion, the Court finds the implementation and advertisement of the ban created
a duty. It is entirely foreseeable that a person who had been informed of the
ban would conclude that the February show was safe and decide to attend the
show. It is also entirely foreseeable that a subsequent failure to enforce that
ban would result in the infection of healthy horses. 
 
West
Palms argues that “Plaintiff has indicated that Amazing T did not contract
EVH-1 until ‘two days after leaving the LA February Show.’” (MJOP p. 5.) This
is a misstatement of the Complaint. Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that Amazing
T became sick two days after the show, not that Amazing T contracted the virus
two days after the show. (Compl. ¶ 19.) 
 
West
Palms also argues that it could not possibly be expected to prevent the
contraction of an airborne disease. Although West Palms does not state as much,
the Court construes this argument as speaking to the element of breach. It
appears West Palms is arguing that, even if they had a duty, the failure to
prevent the disease is not a breach of that duty. The Court finds this argument
misstates the nature of the alleged breach. The Complaint does not allege
breach by way of failing to prevent EVH-1, it alleges breach by virtue of
failure to enforce the ban which West Palms self-imposed. 
 
Lastly,
the Court finds West Palms’ argument that the failure to enforce the ban cannot
be a “substantial factor” in Plaintiff’s injury to be outside the scope of this
motion. A motion for judgment on the pleadings is concerned with the
sufficiency of the pleadings, not the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s proof
regarding causation. Whether Plaintiff has alleged causation and whether
Plaintiff has proved causation are two entirely separate matters. It may be
that a trier of fact would not find West Palms’ conduct to be a substantial
factor, but such a possibility is irrelevant to the determination of this
motion. 
 
In short,
the Court finds the Plaintiff has adequately alleged West Palms owed her a duty
by virtue of the ban on horses from Desert International. The Court also finds
that Plaintiff has alleged breach by virtue of West Palms’ failure to enforce
that ban. Lastly, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged this
breach caused Amazing T to contract EVH-1. 
 
Accordingly,
the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
West Palms Event
Management’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings came on regularly for hearing on March 29, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, WEST PALMS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 29, 2024                                 _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 