 Case Number:  23BBCP00117    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 29, 2024

MOTION
TO QUASH SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCP00117

 



MP:  


David Minkin (Claimant)




RP:  


United Financial Casualty Company
  (Respondent)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
After
being struck by an uninsured motorist on April 17, 2018, David Minkin (Claimant)
brings this uninsured motorist action against his insurer United Financial Casualty Company (Respondent).
 
Claimant now moves to
quash 11 of Respondent’s subpoenas requesting his medical records. Claimant
argues that the subpoenas are facially overbroad and outside the scope previously
agreed to by counsel. Respondent opposes the motion, arguing they are entitled
to medical records from a broader time period.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure (C.C.P.) § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a
subpoena when necessary.  C.C.P. 1987.1 states, “If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”   
 
The party
asserting the right of privacy, bears the initial burden of demonstrating (1) a
“legally protected privacy interest”; (2) an “objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances”; and (3) a “threatened
intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 552.) If the asserting party meets this standard, responding party must
then show that the requested documents are “directly relevant” to the
litigation. (Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1387,
citing Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 858-859.)
 
In
considering whether good cause has been shown to quash or enforce a subpoena,
the California Supreme Court in the recent case of Facebook, Inc. v.
Superior Court of San Diego County (2020) 10 Cal.5th 329, 345-346, provided
a list of seven factors to be considered: (1) Whether the party seeking
production has met its burden of showing a “plausible justification” for
obtaining the documents from a third party witness; (2) whether the material
sought is adequately described and not overly broad; (3) whether the material
is “reasonably available” to the person from which the records are sought and
not readily available to the person seeking production; (4) whether production
would violate the “confidentiality or privacy rights” of a third party; (5) the
timeliness of the request; (6) whether the time required to produce the
requested information would unreasonably delay trial; (7) whether production of
the requested information places an unreasonable burden on the third party.
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Subpoenas 
 
Respondent issued the 11
subpoenas in question on February 5, 2024 and February 9, 2024. (Selame Decl.
¶ 3-4.) These subpoenas follow a series of prior subpoenas issued and
retracted after the parties met and conferred. (Kim Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) 
 
Subpoenas No. 1-11 are
directed to various healthcare providers and pharmacies utilized by Claimant after
the collision. Each subpoena requests “all documents” relevant to Claimant
which are in the provider’s control. The time frame in which these documents are
sought is listed as “from the first date to, and including, the present”. Essentially
the subpoenas request the provider turn over all documents in their possession regarding
Claimant from the time he began utilizing them.
 
Claimant argues that each
of these subpoenas is overly broad in both scope and time. Claimant states that
the parties previously stipulated to limit the subpoenas to the body areas
injured in the underlying incident. (Kim Decl. ¶ 5.) The areas in question
are Claimant’s upper right back, cervical spine/neck, lumbar spine/low back,
head, and ventral (abdominal) hernia. (Kim Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Claimant also argues that
the parties previously agreed to a five-year time frame for the records
requested, which would be from the time of the incident forward. (Kim Decl. ¶
5.) Claimant states that this agreement was reached after extensive meet and
confer following the initial subpoenas. (Id.) Claimant states that Respondent’s
counsel agreed to retract the previous subpoenas and issue new ones more
limited in scope. (Kim Decl. ¶¶ 5, 6.) 
 
Respondent agrees that the
parties stipulated to limit the requests to the relevant body parts but
disagrees that they reached an agreement on the time frame. (Salame Decl.
¶ 5.) In declining to limit the temporal scope of the February subpoenas, Respondent’s
counsel informed Claimant’s counsel “We have reason to believe that your client
treated with the named facilities prior to the accident and failed to disclose
[sic] same in his deposition or discovery responses. Further, 5 years is too
narrow a period of time considering the information we have received regarding
these facilities” (Kim Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. E.) 
 
Claimant counters that
Respondent’s counsel never enumerated a reason for their belief that Claimant
had treated with the providers prior to the incident. Claimant states that they
agreed to broaden the scope of the subpoenas if such information was provided,
but Respondent’s counsel never stated their reasoning. (Kim Decl. ¶ 12,
Exh. E.) 
 
Discussion 
 
The Court first notes that
the parties appear to agree that any order of this Court regarding the
subpoenas should limit the requests to documents which concern Plaintiff’s upper
right back, cervical spine/neck, lumbar spine/low back, head, and ventral
(abdominal) hernia. Respondent’s counsel does not dispute that they agreed to
such a limitation in meet and confer efforts and their opposition presents no
argument as to why the scope of “all documents” is appropriate. 
 
Secondarily, the Court
finds that Claimant has adequately demonstrated a privacy interest in his
medical records. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally
protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. (Williams
supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552 [internal citations omitted].) The general rule
is that medical records are protected by the right of privacy. (John B. v.
Superior Court (Bridget B.) (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 119.) Here, Plaintiff
has appropriately asserted that his medical records are subject to privacy
protection. 
 
The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures which would diminish the invasion of privacy. A court must then
balance these competing considerations.” (Williams supra, 3
Cal.5th at 552 [internal citations omitted].) Here, Respondent and Claimant
appear to agree that some countervailing interest exists by virtue of Claimant
putting his medical condition into issue. 
 
The parties essential
disagreement is one over the temporal scope of requests. Claimant is adamant
that the documents should be limited to the past five years, while Respondent
is adamant that the period should be ten years.
 
“[P]laintiffs are ‘not
obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific [physical,]
mental or emotional injury’; while they may not withhold information which
relates to any physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by
bringing [a] lawsuit, …they are entitled to retain the confidentiality of all
unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they may have undergone in the
past.” (Britt supra, 20 Cal.3d at 864 [citation and footnote omitted].)
However, “... privacy interests may have to give way to [an] opponent’s right
to a fair trial. Thus, courts must balance the right of civil litigants to
discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons subject to
discovery.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)
 
Here, the Court finds that
Respondent has not shown that a time period of ten years is necessary for the
discovery of relevant facts in this case. While Claimant’s medical history for
the past five years appears to be indisputably relevant to the instant case,
Respondent’s reasoning for the necessity of a ten-year time frame is
unsupported. Respondent informed Claimant that they were unwilling to accept
the five-year time frame because they had reason to believe Plaintiff treated
with the providers prior to the accident. When asked what their belief was
based on, Respondent replied that they were not willing to divulge the source
of their information. (Moreton Decl. ¶ 3.) Respondent does not include any
exhibits or declarations in their opposition further supporting their belief.
 
While the Court understands
the need for strategy in litigation, the fact remains that Respondent bears the
burden of showing a countervailing interest to Claimant’s privacy right. If
Respondent desires disclosure over a longer period than appears facially
relevant, it is incumbent upon Respondent to justify that interest. The Court
does not find the mere belief that Claimant treated with the providers prior to
the accident establishes such an interest. Without supporting facts, it does
not appear that Claimant’s treatment with any of these providers prior to the
accident is relevant to this litigation. 
 
In short,
the Court finds the subpoenas to be overbroad in both time and scope. Accordingly,
the motion to quash the 11 subpoenas is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The court
may, in its discretion, order the losing party to pay the prevailing party’s
expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, incurred on the motion to quash,
if it finds that the motion was “made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (C.C.P. § 1987.2(a).) Here, the Court finds that the
motions were not made or opposed in bad faith. Nor does the Court find
Respondent’s opposition was without substantial justification. Although
Respondent ultimately failed to demonstrate that a wider time frame was
appropriate, it does not follow that their arguments were entirely without
merit. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
David Minkin’s Motion
to Quash Subpoena came on regularly for hearing on March
29, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH IS GRANTED.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 29, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 