 Case Number:  23BBCP00045    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 29, 2024

PETITION
TO ENFORCE ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCP00045

 



MP:  


Corinne Gerard (Petitioner) 




RP:  


Progressive United Financial Casualty
  Company (No Opposition Filed)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Before the Court is a
petition filed by Corinne Gerard (Petitioner). Petitioner seeks to compel Progressive
United Financial Casualty Company (Progressive) to arbitrate Petitioner’s
underinsured motorist claim. Petitioner claims that her insurance policy with
Progressive includes a provision requiring disputes over underinsured motorist
claims be arbitrated. Progressive has filed no response to this petition. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to
compel arbitration if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists.” (Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc.
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59, [quotations omitted].) Accordingly, “when
presented with a petition to compel arbitration, the court’s first task is to
determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.” (Id.)
A petition to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel
specific performance of a contract. (Id. at 71.) 
 
As with
any other specific performance claim, “a party seeking to enforce an
arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s terms are sufficiently definite
to enable the court to know what it is to enforce.” (Id. [internal
citations omitted].) “Only the valid and binding agreement of the parties,
including all material terms well-defined and clearly expressed, may be ordered
specifically performed.” (Id.) An arbitration agreement “must be so
interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it
existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and
lawful.” (Civ. Code § 1636.) 
 
The
language of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and
explicit. (Civ. Code § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a
contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the
uncertainty to exist.” (Civ. Code § 1654.)
 
The party
seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would
then be responding party’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition. (See Id.)
“In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.)
 
Further,
C.C.P. § 1281.2 requires a party seeking to compel arbitration “to plead and
prove a prior demand for arbitration under the parties' arbitration agreement
and a refusal to arbitrate under the agreement.” (Mansouri v. Superior Court
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-41 [“...if proof of a demand and refusal to
arbitrate under the agreement is a necessary prerequisite to a petition to
compel arbitration under section 1281.2, the failure to prove such demand and
refusal is a failure to state a cause of action—a fundamental error that
permits us to review the issue despite a party's failure to raise the theory in
the trial court.”].)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court has concerns with
the proof of service submitted with this petition. The proof of service states
that Petitioner’s counsel served the notice of hearing via email on Lily Nhan (Nhan)
and Teresa Pagan (Pagan). It appears from email exchanges attached to the
petitioner that Nhan and Pagan are attorney’s which represent Progressive. (See
Petition Exh. H.) It also appears that a copy of the petition was served in the
same way. (See Petition p. 99.) 
 
C.C.P. § 1290.4. states “A
copy of the petition and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof
and any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be served in the
manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition
and notice.”  
 
C.C.P. § 1290.4(b) states “If
the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service
shall be made and the person upon whom service is to be made has not previously
appeared in the proceeding and has not previously been served in accordance
with this subdivision.” C.C.P. § 1290.4(b)(1) elaborates that “Service within
this State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the service of
summons in an action.”
 
In summary, if the
arbitration agreement provides for a method of service then that method must be
followed on a petition to compel arbitration. If the arbitration agreement does
not provide a method, the petitioner must serve the petition/notice in the same
manner as a summons. 
 
It is unclear whether the Petitioner’s
Exhibit G is a full copy of the arbitration provision in her insurance
agreement. The provision reads: 
 
If we and an insured person cannot agree on: 
 
1. the legal liability of the operator or owner of an uninsured
motor vehicle or underinsured motor vehicle; or 
 
2. the amount of the damages sustained by the insured person; this
will be determined by arbitration. If the accident involves an uninsured motor
vehicle, any demand for arbitration must be made within two years of the date
of the accident. If the accident involves an underinsured motor vehicle, the
demand must be made after all applicable bodily injury liability bonds or
policies have been exhausted by payment of judgments or settlements and prior
to the expiration of the bodily injury statute of limitations in the state in
which the accident occurred. An insured person demanding arbitration must send
written notice to us, or our agent for process, by certified mail, return
receipt requested. 
 
In the event of arbitration, arbitration shall be conducted by a
single neutral arbitrator. The costs and fees of the arbitrator will be shared
equally. 
 
Unless both parties agree otherwise, arbitration will take place
in the county in which the insured person resides. 
 
Local rules of procedure and evidence will apply. A decision by
the arbitrator will be binding with respect to a determination of: 
 
1. the legal liability of the operator or owner of an uninsured
motor vehicle or underinsured motor vehicle; and 
 
2. the amount of the damages sustained by the insured person. The
arbitrator will have no authority to award an amount in excess of the limit of
liability.
 
It is not
clear from this excerpt whether the language “Local rules of procedure and
evidence will apply” is meant to extend to methods of service. If so, then it
appears service is defective. Electronic service on an attorney purporting to
represent a corporation is not a statutorily authorized method for service of
process on a corporation. (See C.C.P. § 416.10.) It may be that Nhan or Pagan consented
to electronic service of the petition/notice, but there is no communication attached
to Petitioner’s papers indicating this is the case. 
 
Alternatively,
if the arbitration agreement has not been produced in full it may be the case
that email service was authorized by a section of the agreement which was not
produced. The Court has no way of determining whether this is the case given
the documents produced. 
 
In either
case, the Court finds that Petitioner has not shown service of the
petition/notice pursuant to C.C.P. § 1290.4. Accordingly, the petition is
DENIED without prejudice. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Corinne Gerard’s Petition
to Enforce Arbitration came on regularly for hearing
on March 29, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order
for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then
and there rule as follows: 
 
THE PETITION TO ENFORCE ARBITRATION IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
THE COURT SETS A STATUS CONFERENCE RE
ARBITRATION FOR AUGUST 1, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 29, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 