 Case Number:  23BBCV01670    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 29,
2023

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01670

 



MP:  


Burbank Holdings 2000 LLC (Defendant)




RP:  


Deijae Malik Johnson (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Deijae Malik Johnson
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Cloud 9 Hookah Lounge, Inc. (Cloud9), Burbank
Holdings 2000 LLC (Burbank Holdings), 17 & Christian Doe (collectively
Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that he was assaulted on Cloud9’s premises by a
club promoter, Christian Doe. Plaintiff alleges he sustained serious injuries
from the altercation. 
 
Burbank Holdings now
demurrers to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (FAC); specifically Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for Negligence, fifth cause of action for Premises
Liability, and sixth cause of action for Negligent Hiring, Training,
Supervision, and Retention of Employee. Burbank Holdings first demurs on
grounds that the pleadings are fatally uncertain. In the alternative, Burbank Holdings
demurs on grounds that each cause of action fails to allege sufficient facts.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a
demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable
matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311,
318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes
the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how
unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not
include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a
complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or
that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse
of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer &
Objections 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet
and confer requirements were met. (Kobi Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 
Plaintiff argues
Burbank Holdings unfairly deleted Plaintiff’s response to the meet and confer
correspondence in their Exhibit A. The Court finds the correspondence attached
was sufficient to establish that a good faith meet and confer effort was made,
which is what the correspondence was offered to show. 
 
Further, Plaintiff’s
objections to the exhibits attached to the meet and confer declaration are OVERRULED.
Plaintiff objects to each of these on grounds of “Improper Judicial Notice” The
Court is unaware of any statute or court rule which necessitates that meet and
confer efforts be supported by judicially noticed facts. It is routine practice
that meet and confer efforts are shown through attorney declaration and
supporting exhibits. 
 
The FAC Allegations 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Burbank Holdings was the owner of
the premises at the time of the attack. (FAC ¶ 5.) Plaintiff further alleges
that Christian Doe was a club promoter. (FAC ¶ 6.) Plaintiff does not
allege that Christian Doe was an employee of Burbank Holdings at any point. 
 
Plaintiff allegations through the FAC group each defendant
together in their allegedly tortious actions. Plaintiff alleges that all
Defendants, including Burbank Holdings, had knowledge of the altercation and
did nothing to help Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges each
Defendant allowed Christian Doe to remain on the premises, and that each defendant
failed to provide reasonable security for the premises. (FAC ¶¶ 12, 13.) 
 
Demurrer for Uncertainty 
 
A demurrer to a
pleading lies where the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible.
(C.C.P. § 430.10 (f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where a complaint is
sufficient to state a cause of action and to apprise defendant of issues he is
to meet, it is not properly subject to a special demurrer for uncertainty. (See
Id.; see also Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643
[“A special demurrer [for uncertainty] should be overruled where the
allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of
the issues which he is to meet”].)
 
Burbank Holdings argues Plaintiff’s failure to separate the
allegations as to each defendant constitutes a fatally uncertain pleading. The
Court does not find this argument persuasive. While the Court understands that
Plaintiff’s grouping of the Defendants has created considerable ambiguity in
the FAC, it does not render the FAC so unintelligible that Burbank Holdings
cannot respond. A demurrer for uncertainty is appropriate where the pleading is
so poorly written that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. (C.C.P. §
430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616. A demurrer for uncertainty is a disfavored ground for sustaining a
demurrer. (Id.) 
 
Burbank Holding’s argument as to why each cause of action
is uncertain is that Plaintiff does not specify the duty owed by Burbank
Holdings. Whether Plaintiff has adequately asserted a duty owed by Burbank
Holdings is an argument which speaks to the sufficiency of the allegations and
not a demurrer for uncertainty. Plaintiff has asserted that Burbank Holdings
owed him a duty not to negligently cause him harm and injury, to call law
enforcement prior to the matter escalating, and to take reasonable care in
hiring, training, supervising and retaining their employees and agents at the
subject premises. (FAC ¶¶ 29, 37, 43.) Whether Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
facts supporting these duties will be addressed below, but the question is not
one of uncertainty. 
 
Fourth COA – Negligence – Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
In order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must
allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach
of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Burbank Holdings owed him a duty not
to negligently cause him harm and injury. (FAC ¶ 29.) Plaintiff further alleges
that Burbank Holdings breached that duty by failing to provide reasonable
security measures which would have prevented the attack. (Id.) Although
Plaintiff alleges that Burbank Holdings owed him a duty not to cause him harm,
Plaintiff does not allege that Burbank Holdings directly caused him harm.
Instead, Plaintiff’s allegations of negligence speak to Burbank Holding’s
alleged failure to stop the assault committed by Chrisitan Doe.
 
“Landowners under California law are required to maintain
land in their possession and control in a reasonably safe condition.” (Williams
v. Fremont Corners, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663, citing Ann M.
v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674.) “One
well-established limit is that there is no duty to act to protect others from
the conduct of third parties.” (Williams supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at 663
[internal quotation marks omitted].) 
 
There exists an exception to this limit where a party has
shown a special relationship between the injured party and the landowner. (Melton
v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 531.) “Courts have found such
a special relationship in cases involving the relationship between business
proprietors such as shopping centers, restaurants, and bars, and their tenants,
patrons, or invitees. In addition, such “special relationships triggering a
duty to protect another from foreseeable injury caused by a third party have
been found in other contexts, including those of (i) common carriers and
passengers, (ii) innkeepers and their guests, and (iii) mental health
professionals and their patients.” (Id. [internal quotation marks and
citations omitted].) 
 
Liability for nonfeasance is limited to situations in which
there is a special relationship that creates a duty to act. (Seo v.
All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1202.) In determining
the scope of property owner’s duty to protect from third-party harm the Court
looks at “…the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty
that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Ann M. supra, 6
Cal.4th 666 at 675.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to hold Burbank Holdings liable for
the tortious act Christian Doe. The FAC does not allege that Burbank Holdings
employed Doe. Nor does the FAC allege a special relationship existed between
Burbank Holdings and Plaintiff. The only facts pled in the FAC as to Burbank
Holdings specifically indicate that it was merely the landowner of the subject
premises rented by Cloud9. The FAC does not allege that Burbank Holdings held
the property out to the public or acted in any way that would create a special
relationship between themselves and Plaintiff. As such, Plaintiff has pled no
facts which support his allegation that Burbank Holdings owed him a duty to
protect from the assault by Christian Doe. 
 
Further, Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled facts as to
the foreseeability of the event. The FAC contains no factual allegations
supporting the conclusory allegation that Burbank Holding had knowledge of the
altercation. Nor does the FAC contain any allegations as to Burbank Holding’s
knowledge of any prior incidents of third-party criminal conduct. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of action is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Fifth COA – Premises Liability – Sustained with Leave to
Amend 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for premises liability
are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises liability is grounded in the possession of the
premises and the attendant right to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Plaintiff’s allegations here as to duty and breach are
identical to those in his cause of action for negligence. As Plaintiff has not
pleaded allegations sufficient to support his claim that Burbank Holdings owed
him a duty, his cause of action for Premises Liability is also subject to
demurrer on these grounds. 
 
As with the previous cause of action, the demurrer to this
cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Sixth COA – Negligent Hiring etc. – Sustained with Leave to
Amend 
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring,
retention, or supervision are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or
supervising an employee; (2) the employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the
employer had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the
employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F.
v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)
 
Here, the FAC is completely silent as to whether Burbank
Holdings employed Christian Doe. Plaintiff only makes general aversions to Christian
Doe’s “hiring and involvement” at Cloud9 Hookah Lounge. At no point does the
FAC allege that Burbank Holdings was Christian Doe’s employer. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of action is
SUSTAINED leave to amend. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Burbank Holdings 2000
LLC’s Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on March
29, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FOURTH, FIFTH, AND SIXTH
CAUSES OF ACTION FOR FAILURE TO ALLEGE SUFFICIENT FACTS IS SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, BURBANK
HOLDINGS TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 29, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 