  Case Number:  23BBCV00248    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 6, 2023

MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00248

 
MP:     Playas de Nayarit, LLC (Defendant)
RP:     MAAS,
Inc. (Plaintiff)
 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter. 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to
appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative
Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or
by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
MAAS, Inc. (“MAAS”) brings this
action against Playas de Nayarit, LLC (“Playas”) alleging Playas failed to pay
for various deliveries of seafood in breach of contract. Playas is a restaurant
with two locations and MAAS is a seafood distributor. MAAS alleges that over
the course of several years they provided seafood to one of Playas’ locations
but never received compensation. 
 
MAAS’s Complaint contains causes
of action for (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Breach of the Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing. 
 
Playas now moves for summary judgment. Playas argues the undisputed
material facts show the company never formed a contract with MAAS. MAAS opposes
the motion and also moves for summary judgement. MAAS argues the undisputed
material facts show a contract was formed and breached. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: 
 
Playas’ evidentiary objections to the declaration of Antonio Monje are OVERRULED.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)¿ 
¿ 
As to
each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf v.
D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
¿ 
Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Facts 
 
MAAS is a seafood distributor. (Mot.
Exh. A.) Playas is a restaurant specializing in Mexican seafood. (Wejebe Decl.
¶ 3.) Playas was originally a single location restaurant located in El
Monte, California and run by Ernesto Hernandez Sr (“Ernesto”). (Wejebe Decl.
¶¶ 4-5.) The restaurant was transferred to the sole ownership of Martha
Wejebe in 2004. (Wejebe Decl. ¶ 6.) Wejebe formed the LLC in 2007 at which time
it took full possession of the restaurant. (Wejebe Decl. ¶ 7.) Playas is a
manager-managed LLC. (Wejebe Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.) Wejebe is the only manager of the
LLC and Ernesto was never a manager. (Wejebe Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
Playas opened a second location
in Fontana, California in 2016. (Wejebe Decl. ¶ 8.) Ernesto was the supervisor
for this location. (Wejebe Dec. ¶ 9.) From a period of April 2018 to May 2020, MAAS
issued a total of 22 separate invoices to Playas, reflecting a total amount of
$81,354.71. (Playas Compendium, Exh. A.) These invoices reflect that they were
billed and shipped to “Playas de Nayarit Restaurant 9817 Garvey Ave. El Monte,
CA 91733”. (Id.) Not all of the invoices are signed, but those that are appeared
to be signed for by “Ernesto”. (Id.) There are two invoices which
reflect they were directed to NayMex rather than Playas. (Id. at pgs.
29, 31.) NayMex was a seafood distribution warehouse maintained by Ernesto
independently of the restaurant. (Wejebe Decl. ¶ 25.) Ernesto passed away in
2019 and his son Ernesto Hernandez Jr. (“Ernie”) took over his position at the
Fontana location. (Wejebe Decl. ¶ 19.) 
 
It is unclear how the
relationship between MAAS and Ernesto began. MAAS originally stated in their
declaration and discovery that Playas contacted them initially in 2018 to place
an order. (Monje Decl. ¶ 3; Playas Compendium Exh. C., SPROG No. 3.) However,
MAAS’s supplemental responses to discovery state that they were contacted
explicitly by Ernesto. (Playas Compendium Exh. B., SPROG No. 3.) MAAS states
this relationship continued to 2020, whereby individuals from Playas would
contact them to place orders. (Monje Decl. ¶ 4.) MAAS states all deliveries
were all made to the El Monte location. (Monje Decl. ¶ 5.) MAAS states
they mailed a copy of each invoice to the El Monte location after delivery and
that Playas never contacted them disputing delivery. (Monje Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) MAAS
states the only payment they ever received was from an employee of Playas on
May 21, 2020. (Monje Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
Playas states that MAAS only ever
dealt with Ernesto and Ernie, who were not authorized to contract on Playas’
behalf. (Playas Compendium Exh. B., SPROG No. 3.) Playas further states that MAAS
was unable to identify the individuals who formed these contracts on Playas’
behalf in discovery. (Id.) Playas states MAAS’s discovery responses also
indicated some of the shipments were delivered and others were picked up. (Playas
Compendium Exh. C., SPROG No. 6.) Playas disputes that it ever received any
invoices from MAAS in the mail and was only made aware of the invoices in 2021,
when Ernie informed MAAS that the restaurant was owned by Wejebe. (Playas Compendium
Exh. B., SPROG No. 3.) MAAS was given this information after the Fontana
location closed. (Id.) 
 
A letter was sent to Playas from
Magic Income Tax Services on March 31, 2021 detailing the outstanding invoices.
(MAAS Compendium Exh. 3.) MAAS sent a similar letter to Playas on July 7, 2021.
(MAAS Compendium Exh. 4.) Playas states Wejebe was unaware of the outstanding
invoices until 2022, when MAAS sent a large man to her residence and the El
Monte location demanding payment. (Wejebe Decl. ¶ 22.) Wejebe states she
engaged in preliminary negotiations regarding the debt with MAAS, but never agreed
to pay MAAS. (Wejebe Decl. ¶ 23.) 
 
Breach of Contract 
 
Playas first argues that no issue
of fact exists as to whether a contract exists between the parties. Playas
argues that by function of California Corporation Code (“Cal. Corp. Code”) §
17703.01(b), they cannot be found to have contracted with MAAS. Playas is
correct that Cal. Corp. Code § 177703.01(b) does limit the authority of an LLC
to enter into contracts to only managers of the company. However, the Court
disagrees that the evidence Playas has produced indicates there is no triable
issue of fact as to whether Playas can be held liable for the contract. 
 
Playas states that Martha Wejebe
is the only manager of Playas, as evidenced by its articles of incorporation.
(Wejebe Decl., Exh. 1.) Playas further states that MAAS never contracted with
Wejebe for the delivery of seafood. Playas argues that MAAS’s supplemental
response to Special Interrogatory No. 3 reveals that the persons from Playas
alleged to have contracted with MAAS were Ernesto and Ernie. (Playas Compendium
Exh. B.) MAAS stated in its response that Ernesto initially contacted them to
order food, or the restaurant and Ernie continued this relationship after
Ernesto passed. (Id.) 
 
Playas argues that because
neither Ernesto nor Ernie were managers of the LLC, they did not have the
authority to bind Playas to the contract. Playas further argues that the facts
do not support that Ernesto or Ernie were ostensible agents of Playas. 
 
Ostensible agency (alternatively
referred to agency by estoppel) occurs when the principal intentionally, or by
want of ordinary care, causes a third person to believe another to be his agent
who is not really employed by him. (Cal. Civ. Code § 2300.) “The ostensible
authority of an agent cannot be based solely upon the agent's conduct.” (Kaplan
v. Coldwell Banker Residential Affiliates, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
741, 747.) 
 
Here, the facts clearly indicate
that Wejebe, as the only legal manager of Playas, never made any
representations to MAAS because she never had contact with them. MAAS does not
dispute this in their opposition. However, MAAS argues that agency may still be
found by virtue of ratification. 
 
Agency by ratification results
from acceptance by the principal of the benefits of the acts of the purported
agent. (Cal. Civ. Code § 2310.) A principal may ratify an agent’s act through
either confirmatory conduct or conduct inconsistent with disapproval. (Dickinson v. Cosby (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1138, 1159 citing Gates v. Bank of America
(1953) 120 Cal.App.2d 571, 576.) Here, the argument would be that Wejebe
ratified the conduct of Ernesto through acceptance of the deliveries over a
period of years without dispute. 
 
The Court finds the evidence
presented by both sides shows a triable issue of material fact as to whether
Wejebe ratified the conduct of Ernesto. The evidence is disputed as to Wejebe’s
knowledge of Ernesto’s activities at the Fontana location and Playa’s receipt
of the invoices sent from MAAS. Further, no evidence is presented by Playas as
to the extent of Ernesto’s supervisory role and what oversight Wejebe had over
the location. 
 
The parties evidence as to where these orders were delivered
is at odds. Playas claims that the discovery responses indicate some of these orders
were delivered while others were picked up. (Playas Compendium Exh. C., SPROG
No. 5.) Playas asserts that MAAS’s statement that the invoices were signed for
by the person that picked up the product creates uncertainty as to whether all
the invoices reflected deliveries to the El Monte location as asserted by MAAS.
(See Monje Decl. ¶ 5.) All of the invoices show a delivery to the El Monte
location; however, MAAS admits they were contacted exclusively by Ernesto in
2018 and the evidence shows at that time Ernesto was operating out of the
Fontana location. The evidence is clear that Ernesto was placing orders on
behalf of Playas but is disputed as to the acceptance and use by Playas. 
 
From the evidence presented, it
cannot be determined which location the deliveries from MAAS were made from and
where the product in those deliveries was used. MAAS’s evidence indicates
delivery to the El Monte location, which was supervised by Wejebe. If this is
correct, El Monte would receive each delivery from MAAS and Wejebe would
certainly be aware of the invoices. The Court notes this does not explain the
presence of Ernesto’s signature on the invoices, as he was purportedly located
at the Fontana location at the time of the orders.  
 
On the other hand, Playas has
presented no affirmative evidence that Ernesto did not place orders for the El
Monte location or did not handle the ordering for that location. Playas states
Ernesto was not a managing member bars his ability to legally bind Playas, but
this does not defeat MAAS’s evidence that Ernesto was placing orders on behalf
of Playas. 
 
Further, the evidence is also
disputed as to whether Playas was receiving mailed copies of these invoices.
MAAS states it sent a copy of each invoice after delivery to Playas at the El
Monte location, while Wejebe claims to have never received these letters. It
also appears the parties engaged in some type of negotiations, though they
dispute the veracity of the promises made by Wejebe to pay for the invoices. 
 
In short, the evidence presented
presents an incomplete picture of the relationship between MAAS and Playas such
that summary judgement would be inappropriate. It appears many disputed
material facts exist as to the delivery, receipt, and acknowledgement of these
orders. As such, it remains possible that MAAS could show a contract was formed
between the two by virtue of ratification. Whether MAAS will be able to prove
Wejebe’s knowledge of Ernesto’s activity remains to be seen, but the evidence
does not concretely establish her ignorance, nor does it concretely establish
the existence of a contract. As such, both Playas and MAAS’s motions for
summary judgment are DENIED.  Playas
motion for summary adjudication as to this cause of action is similarly
DENIED.  
 
Breach of Covenant of Good
Faith 
 
As Playas notes in their motion,
an action for breach of this covenant is reliant upon the existence of a valid
contract. (McClain v. Octagon Plaza, LLC (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 784,
799.) Playas presents no argument for summary adjudication aside from the lack
of a valid contract. 
 
As the Court has determined a
triable issue of fact as to the existence of a contract, it finds summary
adjudication of this cause of action would be inappropriate. Accordingly,
summary adjudication as to this cause of action is DENIED. 
 
Affirmative Defense of Statute
of Limitations 
 
“The burden on a defendant moving
for summary judgment based upon the assertion of an affirmative defense is
different than the burden to show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's
cause of action cannot be established. Instead of merely submitting evidence to
negate a single element of the plaintiff's cause of action or offering evidence
such as vague or insufficient discovery responses that the plaintiff does not
have evidence to create an issue of fact as to one or more elements of his or
her case, the defendant has the initial burden to show that undisputed facts
support each element of the affirmative defense. If the defendant does not meet
this burden, the motion must be denied.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)
 
Playas’ argument for summary
adjudication of this affirmative defense is unclear. Playas argues that, to the
extent a contract exists, it was an oral contract limited by a statute of
limitations of two years. Given the presentation of written invoices signed by
Ernesto, the Court finds there exists a triable issue of material fact as to
whether the contract was written or oral. Accordingly, the motion for summary
judgment on this ground is DENIED. 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
Playas de Nayarit, LLC’s Motion for Summary
Judgment came on regularly for hearing on December 6, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
PLAYAS
DE NAYARIT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED. 
 
PLAYAS
DE NAYARIT’S MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION ARE DENIED. 
 
MAAS,
INC.’S CROSS-MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAYAS TO GIVE
NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  December
6, 2023                               
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 