 Case Number:  23STLC04893    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  26   
Romex Textiles, Inc. v. Promises, Promises, Inc., et
al.DEMURRER;
MOTION TO STRIKE
(CCP §§ 430.31,
et seq., 435, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants
Promises, Promises, Inc. and Eugene Michael Hardy’s Demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED AS TO DEFENDANT PROMISES, PROMISES, INC. AND SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO DEFENDANT EUGENE MICHAEL HARDY. DEFENDANT
PROMISES, PROMISES, INC. IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE SECOND AMENDED
COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
Defendants
Promises, Promises, Inc. and Eugene Michael Hardy’s Motion to Strike Portions
of the Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Romex
Textiles, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action for breach of contract
and common counts against Defendants Promises, Promises, Inc. (“Defendant PPI”)
and Eugene Michael Hardy (“Defendant Hardy”) on August 3, 2023. The First
Amended Complaint was filed on October 23, 2023. On January 25, 2024, the Court
sustained Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint with leave to
amend. (Minute Order, 01/25/24.) The Motion to Strike was accordingly deemed
moot. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff filed
the Second Amended Complaint on February 13, 2024. On April 16, 2024,
Defendants filed the instant Demurrer to, and Motion to Strike Portions of, the
Second Amended Complaint. On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition and
Defendants replied on May 7, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration that
substantially complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer,
Hardy Decl., ¶¶2-4.) Defendants demur to the Second Amended Complaint for
failure to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Citing Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
 
The Second Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of
contract; (2) open book account; (3) account stated; and (4) quantum valent. The
allegations in support of the causes of action are as follows. Defendant PPI is
a California corporation. (SAC, ¶2.) Defendant Hardy is the owner, CEO,
sole director of, and joint venturer with, Defendant PPI. (Id. at ¶3.)
At all relevant times, Defendant Hardy dominated, controlled, and influenced,
Defendant PPI’s business operations, business decisions, property, finances,
and accounts as if his own, and without adherence to corporate formalities. (Id.
at ¶7A.) Defendant PPI is a mere shell for the conduct of Defendant Hardy’s
personal business and/or property affairs and Defendant Hardy has commingled
personal funds/property of their own with the accounts and assets of Defendant PPI;
transferred Defendant PPI assets for non-corporate purposes; taken personal
possession of funds and property rightfully belonging to said Defendant PPI;
and caused said Defendants to become undercapitalized to adequately meet their
operating expenses and overhead. (Id. at ¶7B.) Prior to November 2019,
Defendant Hardy approached Plaintiff to open an account and a line of business
credit to permit said Defendants to make purchases on credit of fabric goods
from Plaintiff. (Id. at ¶8.) As a result, an account was established
with Plaintiff for Defendants jointly, and which Defendant Hardy personally,
expressly promised financial responsibility for any and all debt on the
account. (Ibid.) 
 
From November 2019 to August 2022, the
parties entered into written agreements created by written purchase
orders transmitted by said Defendants to Plaintiff and accepted by Plaintiff,
wherein Defendants agreed to purchase fabric goods from Plaintiff. (Id.
at ¶10.) The date of each agreement, fabric to be purchased, price, and payment
due date are detailed in the purchase orders. (Ibid.) Further terms of
the agreements, including late and partial shipment of goods, and what
constitutes a breach of contract, are set forth in the purchase orders. (Ibid.)
From November 2019 to August 22, Defendants took possession of the fabric
specified in the agreements but only made partial payments, leaving an unpaid
balance of $9,658.19. (Id. at ¶11.) Plaintiff performed all its
obligations under the agreements, except those excused by the breaches of
Defendants. (Id. at ¶13.) Defendants breached the agreements by failing
to pay $9,658.19 or to return the unpaid-for goods, despite Plaintiff’s demand.
(Id. at ¶14.) 
 
            First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of action
for failure to sufficiently allege the terms of the parties’ agreement. “To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, it is absolutely essential to
plead the terms of the contract either in haec verba or according to legal
effect.” (Twaite v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 239, 252.)
The Second Amended Complaint alleges that the parties entered into a series of
written contracts pursuant to which Defendant PPI agreed to purchase fabric
goods from Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶10.) The fabric goods and purchase price are set
forth in the purchase orders that are detailed in the Second Amended Complaint,
with the other terms detailed thereafter. (Id. at ¶¶10-11.) 
 
Defendants argue
that these allegations contradict the allegations in the First Amended
Complaint such that the Second Amended Complaint should be deemed a “sham
pleading.” 
 
Under
the sham pleading doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints
to omit harmful allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to
avoid attacks raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment. (See Hendy
v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742–743, 1 Cal.Rptr.2d 543, 819 P.2d 1
[affirming an order sustaining defendants' demurrer without leave to amend when
the plaintiff filed an amended complaint omitting harmful allegations from the
original unverified complaint]; see also Colapinto v. County of Riverside
(1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 147, 151, 281 Cal.Rptr. 191 (Colapinto) [“If a party
files an amended complaint and attempts to avoid the defects of the original
complaint by either omitting facts which made the previous complaint defective
or by adding facts inconsistent with those of previous pleadings, the court may
take judicial notice of prior pleadings and may disregard any inconsistent
allegations.”].)
 
(Deveny v.
Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425.) Defendants’ contention
that Plaintiff cannot omit the allegation that the contract was formed by the
purchase invoices is without merit. The Court expressly provided leave to
Plaintiff to omit the allegations that the purchase invoices formed the parties’
contract upon its ruling on the Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint that
these allegations were insufficient to allege the existence of a contract. The
omission of these allegations, therefore, is not “without explanation.”
Furthermore, the allegation that the contract was set forth in the purchase
orders, as opposed to the invoices, does not contradict the earlier allegation
that the contract was set forth in the invoices. It is simply an argument in
the alternative to the earlier allegation that the invoices formed the
contract. Factually, that both the invoices and purchase orders constitute the
parties’ agreement is not inconsistent. It is only as a matter of law that
invoices cannot constitute a contract. 
 
Nor have Defendants
shown that the allegations regarding the existence of the agreement in the
purchase orders are insufficient. The Demurrer only reiterates its contention
that the invoices fail to demonstrate the existence of a contract. (Demurrer,
pp, 8:4-9:8.) Nor are the allegations regarding the parties, their obligations,
and the duration of the agreements uncertain. The Second Amended Complaint
alleges that Defendants PPI and Hardy entered into four agreements with
Plaintiff for the purchase of specific fabric goods in exchange for a specific
amount of money. (SAC, ¶10.) The dates of payment are also set forth. (Ibid.)

 
Regarding the
action for breach of contract action Defendant Hardy, Defendants demur on the
grounds that Plaintiffs are attempting to allege an oral guarantee of a
corporate debt, which must be in writing and signed by the surety. In support,
the Demurrer cites Civil Code section 2783, which provides “Except as
prescribed by the next section, a suretyship obligation must be in writing, and
signed by the surety; but the writing need not express a consideration.” (Civ.
Code, § 2783.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant Hardy cannot
overcome liability based on the suretyship argument where there are other
grounds for individual liability, such as alter ego status. Defendants also demur
that the alter ego allegations are insufficient, however. “To recover on an
alter ego theory, a plaintiff need not use the words ‘alter ego,’ but must
allege sufficient facts to show a unity of interest and ownership, and an
unjust result if the corporation is treated as the sole actor.” (A.J. Fistes
Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 696 [citing Leek
v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415].) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant Hardy dominated, controlled, and influenced Defendant PPI’s business
operations, business decisions, property, finances, and accounts as if his own,
and without adherence to corporate formalities. (SAC at ¶7A.) Plaintiff also
alleges that Defendant PPI is a mere shell for the conduct of Defendant Hardy’s
personal business and/or property affairs and Defendant Hardy has commingled
personal funds/property of their own with the accounts and assets of Defendant
PPI; transferred Defendant PPI assets for non-corporate purposes; taken
personal possession of funds and property rightfully belonging to said
Defendant PPI; and caused said Defendants to become undercapitalized to
adequately meet their operating expenses and overhead. (Id. at ¶7B.)
This is sufficient to show a unity of interest and ownership between
Defendants. The Second Amended Complaint, however, does not allege an unjust
result if the corporation is treated as the sole actor. Therefore, the
allegations in the Second Amended Complaint are insufficient to support a claim
of individual liability against Defendant Hardy. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is overruled as to
Defendant PPI and sustained as to Defendant Hardy. 
 
            Second, Third, and Fourth Causes
of Action for Common Counts
 
Defendants demur to
the remaining causes of action for common counts on the grounds that they are
derivative of the breach of contract cause of action and must also fail. “When
a common count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery demanded
in a specific cause of action, and is based on the same facts, the common count
is demurrable if the cause of action is demurrable.” (McBride v. Boughton
(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394.) The common counts are based on the same facts
as the breach of contract claim, specifically, Defendants’ alleged failure to
pay for the fabric goods delivered by Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶¶17-26.) 
 
Therefore, the Demurrer
to the second, third, and fourth causes of action is also sustained as to
Defendant Hardy, but overruled as to Defendant PPI.  

 
Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint
 
Defendants move to strike the portion of the Second Amended Complaint in
which Plaintiff asks for attorney’s fees. The Motion is brought pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 436, on the grounds that the Court may “strike
out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) As with the Demurrer, Defendants have filed the
required meet and confer declaration required by Code of Civil Procedure
section 435.5. (Motion, Hardy Decl., ¶2.) 
 
The request for attorney’s fees is made in connection with the second
cause of action for open book account pursuant to Civil Code section 1717.5.
(SAC, ¶19.) Defendants first move to strike the request on the grounds that the
second cause of action is insufficient as demonstrated by the Demurrer. The
Demurrer, however, was overruled as to Defendant PPI. Second, Defendants move
to strike the request for attorney’s fees on the grounds that Plaintiff has not
alleged an attorney’s fees provision in the parties’ agreements. Civil Code
section 1717.5 states in relevant part: “Except as otherwise provided by law or
where waived by the parties to an agreement, in any action on a contract based on a book account, as defined in Section 337a of the Code of
Civil Procedure, entered into on or after January 1, 1987, which does not
provide for attorney's fees and costs, as provided in Section 1717, the party who is determined to be the
party prevailing on the contract shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's
fees, as provided below, in
addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717.5, subd. (a) [emphasis added].)
Below, the statute continues: “If there is a written agreement between the
parties signed by the person to be charged, the fees provided by this section
may not be imposed unless that agreement contains a statement that the
prevailing party in any action between the parties is entitled to the fees
provided by this section.” (Civ. Code, § 1717.5, subd. (a).) The statute,
therefore, requires the agreement to contain an attorney’s fees provision,
which is not alleged in the Second Amended Complaint. 
 
The Motion to Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint, therefore,
is granted. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment, however, the
burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Plaintiff
requests leave to amend should the Demurrer be sustained or the Motion to
Strike be granted. This is Plaintiff’s third pleading attempt and the
opposition does not explain what additional facts can be added to overcome the
Demurrer as to Defendant Hardy, or to demonstrate its entitlement to attorney’s
fees. The request for leave to amend is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants
Promises, Promises, Inc. and Eugene Michael Hardy’s Demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED AS TO DEFENDANT PROMISES, PROMISES, INC. AND SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO DEFENDANT EUGENE MICHAEL HARDY. DEFENDANT
PROMISES, PROMISES, INC. IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE SECOND AMENDED
COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
Defendants Promises, Promises,
Inc. and Eugene Michael Hardy’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Second Amended
Complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 