..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23SMCV01245
Plaintiff's Name: None
Defendant's Name: Josh Golcheh, 8216 SG Capital LLC, 7601 Fig LLC, Euclid Hazard Capital LLC, Carson Belshire Capital LLC, Shoshana Capital LLC, Garey Capital LLC, Lakewood Capital LLC, 3521 MSB Capital LLC, 2150 MSB Capital LLC, 6432 MSB Capital LLC, Mazal Shel Beracha LLC, 118 Capital LLC, Holt Dudley Capital LLC, E&B Real Estate Inc., Mission White Capital LLC, and Golcheh Developments and Investments, LLC
People-Names: Thorey M. Bauer, Josh Golcheh, Michael E. Whitaker
Company-Names: Scheppach Bauer PC, 8216 SG Capital LLC, 7601 Fig LLC, Euclid Hazard Capital LLC, Carson Belshire Capital LLC, Shoshana Capital LLC, Garey Capital LLC, Lakewood Capital LLC, 3521 MSB Capital LLC, 2150 MSB Capital LLC, 6432 MSB Capital LLC, Mazal Shel Beracha LLC, 118 Capital LLC, Holt Dudley Capital LLC, E&B Real Estate Inc., Mission White Capital LLC, Golcheh Developments and Investments, LLC
Places: California
Dates: October 15, 2024
Events: Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, Breakdown of attorney-client relationship
Money: None
Intentions: Counsel's intention to withdraw from representation due to breakdown of attorney-client relationship
Facts: Counsel filed forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053; The attorney declaration (MC-052) indicates that the motion was filed instead of filing a consent because of breakdown of communication in attorney-client relationship and non-compliance with terms of engagement letter.
Disputes: None
Acts: Counsel moved to be relieved as counsel; The Court denied the motion as procedurally defective
Agreements: Terms of engagement letter
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure section 284, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a), Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b)
Case Citations: None
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure section 284
Roles:
  - Counsel: Thorey M. Bauer, Scheppach Bauer PC
  - Judge: Michael E. Whitaker, Superior Court
Significant Statements:
  - "Counsel has filed forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053."
  - "The attorney declaration (MC-052) indicates that the motion was filed instead of filing a consent because: Circumstances and conduct have rendered it unreasonably difficult to carry out representation effectively; breakdown of communication in attorney-client relationship; non-compliance with terms of engagement letter."
  - "The Court finds that the motion complies with the Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4)."
  - "However, Counsel has not provided a proof of service indicating that the motion was served on the clients or on the Plaintiff."
  - "Therefore, the motion is procedurally improper."
  - "For the foregoing reasons, the Court denies without prejudice the motion to be relieved as counsel as procedurally defective."
```

And here is the summary in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on a motion filed by Counsel, Thorey M. Bauer, to be relieved as counsel for the defendants in a case. The motion was filed due to a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship and non-compliance with the terms of the engagement letter. However, the motion was denied as procedurally defective because Counsel failed to provide proof of service indicating that the motion was served on the clients or the plaintiff. The judge found that the motion complies with the Rules of Professional Conduct, but the procedural defects render the motion defective. The judge ordered Counsel to provide notice of the ruling and file a proof of service.
