 Case Number:  23SMCV02239    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02239




MOTION


Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant City of Santa Monica




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff Arezou Mary Alipourfereshteh (“Plaintiff”),
a self-represented litigant, filed the instant personal injury lawsuit against
Defendant City of Santa Monica (“Defendant” or “City”), alleging “slip and fall
public street sidewalk[.]”  (Complaint ¶ 11.)  On March 12, the Court sustained Defendant’s
demurrer on the grounds of uncertainty, but granted Plaintiff leave to
amend.  
 
Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on June 17, 2024,
but failed to check any of the boxes under paragraph 5, effectively alleging
the City of Santa Monica is a natural person, failed to check any of the boxes
under paragraph 8 as to why this court is the proper court, and failed to check
any boxes under paragraph 10, making it unclear what causes of action Plaintiff
sought to allege, nor did Plaintiff attach any statements describing the
general facts and nature of the lawsuit. 
As such, the Court again sustained Defendant’s demurrer on the grounds
of uncertainty and granted Plaintiff leave to amend.
 
On August 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”), alleging two causes of action for (1) general negligence; and (2)
premises liability.  Defendant now demurs
to the complaint for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action pursuant to Code Civ. Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) on the
grounds that (1) Plaintiff failed to submit a claim to the City prior to filing
suit as required by Government Code sections 911.2 and 945.4 and is time barred
from filing a late claim; and (2) the SAC fails to cite a statutory basis for
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant. 
The demurrer is unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD – DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
            Further, “Providing access to justice for
self-represented litigants is a priority for California courts.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 10.960(b).)  “[A] pro se complaint, however in artfully
pleaded, must be held to less stringent standards than formal pleadings drafted
by lawyers and can only be dismissed for failure to state a claim if it appears
beyond doubt that the plaintiff can prove no set of facts in support of his
claim which would entitle him to relief.” 
(Estelle v. Gamble (1976) 429 U.S. 97, 106, internal quotations
omitted.)  Thus, “when a litigant is
self-represented, a judge has the discretion to take reasonable steps,
appropriate under the circumstances and consistent with the law and the canons,
to enable the litigant to be heard.  The
canons and commentary thus provide a path to ensure a self-represented litigant
can be fairly heard on the merits while the court maintains its impartiality
and does not assume (or appear to assume) the role of advocate or partisan.”  (Holloway v. Quetel (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 1425, 1434.)
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, judicial notice may be taken of the following:
 
(a) The decisional, constitutional, and statutory
law of any state of the United States and the resolutions and private acts of
the Congress of the United States and of the Legislature of this state.
 
(b) Regulations and legislative enactments issued by
or under the authority of the United States or any public entity in the United
States.
 
(c) Official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.
 
(d) Records of (1) any court of this state or (2)
any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United States.
 
(e) Rules of court of (1) any court of this state or
(2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United
States.
 
(f) The law of an organization of nations and of
foreign nations and public entities in foreign nations.
 
(g) Facts and propositions that are of such common
knowledge within the territorial jurisdiction of the court that they cannot
reasonably be the subject of dispute.
 
(h) Facts and propositions that are not reasonably
subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.
 
Defendant
requests judicial notice of the fact that the City’s records do not show
Plaintiff ever submitted a claim for monetary damages, as indicated by the
Declaration of Michael Mack.  In support
of the request, Defendant cites to Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 363, 376 (hereafter Gong), citing Fowler v. Howell (1996)
42 Cal.App.4th 1746, 1752 (hereafter Fowler).)
 
            In Gong, prior to filing
suit, the plaintiff had submitted a government claim to City of Rosemead, of which
the court took judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code 452, subdivision (c),
as an “official act.”  Although the
complaint generally alleged compliance with the prefiling claim, the appellate court
determined that the complaint encompassed causes of action that the prefiling government
claim did not “fairly reflect” upon close scrutiny.  (Gong, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th
at p. 376.)  
 
            Similarly, in Fowler, the court
took judicial notice of the State Board of Control’s records as “official acts”
under subdivision (c), and of the fact that the records did not contain any government
claim by the plaintiff concerning the complaint’s allegations of false
accusations.  In Fowler, the
plaintiff had also argued, in part, that he was excused from submitting a government
claim as to that cause of action on the grounds that plaintiff was not acting
within the scope of his employment.  (Fowler,
supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1752.)
 
            By contrast, the City asks the Court
to take judicial notice of the absence of any records.  Although the City’s rejection of a prefiling
claim would constitute an “official act” of which the Court could properly take
judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c), the purported
absence of any such record in the City’s files does not constitute any such
“official act” by the City.  Rather, the
City argues that it took no such official act because it did not receive any government
claim.  
 
            Therefore, the Court denies
Defendant’s request for judicial notice.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
Government
Claim
 
Per the Government Claims Act (“GCA”), also known as the Tort Claims
Act, (Gov. Code, 810 et seq.), a party with a claim for money or damages
against a public entity must present a written claim directly with that public
entity. (Gov. Code, § 905.) And under Government Code section 945.4, “no suit
for money or damages may be brought against a public entity on a cause of
action for which a claim is required to be presented in accordance with Section
910 until a written claim therefore has been presented to the public entity and
has been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by
the board.” (Stockett v. Association of Cal. Water Agencies Joint Powers
Ins. Authority (2004) 34 Cal.4th 441, 445 [cleaned up]; see also Munoz
v. State of Cal. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1767.) In sum, “compliance with the
claims provisions is mandatory. Fulfilling the requirements of the tort claims presentation
procedure is a condition precedent to filing suit; it is not an affirmative
defense.” (Castaneda v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation
(2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1061 [cleaned up].)
 
“[F]ailure to allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with
the claim presentation requirements subjects a claim against a public entity to
a demurrer for failure to state a cause of action.” (State of California v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239.) “Moreover, a plaintiff need
not allege strict compliance with the statutory claim presentation requirement.
Courts have long recognized that a claim that fails to substantially comply
with sections 910 and 910.2, may still be considered a ‘claim as presented’ if
it puts the public entity on notice both that the claimant is attempting to
file a valid claim and that litigation will result if the matter is not
resolved.” (Id. at p.1245 [cleaned up].)
 
Further, under Government Code section 945.6, “any suit brought
against a public entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to
be presented…must be commenced…[i]f written notice is given in accordance with
Section 913, not later than six months after the date such notice is personally
delivered or deposited in the mail.” (Gov. Code., § 945.6, subd. (a)(1).)
 
The SAC alleges “Plaintiff is required to comply with a claims statute
and has complied with applicable claims statutes[.]”  (SAC ¶ 9.) 
Notwithstanding, Defendant contends that its records demonstrate that
Plaintiff did not in fact submit a government claim to the City prior to filing
suit and requests the Court take judicial notice of the fact that the City’s
records do not show Plaintiff submitted a government claim.
 
As discussed above, the Court declines to take judicial notice of the
fact that the City’s records do not reflect a government claim submitted by Plaintiff.  
 
2.    
Statutory
Basis for Relief
             
Government Code section 815, subdivision (a) provides, “Except as
otherwise provided by statute, a public entity is not liable for an injury,
whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a
public employee or any other person.”  
 
Defendant demurs to the SAC on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to
allege the statutory basis for general negligence and premises liability causes
of action.  According to Defendant,
merely checking the boxes for general negligence and premises liability is
insufficient.  Further, Defendant contends
that no statutory basis exists to assert a general negligence claim against a
public entity.  Defendant cites in support
of its contentions to Quigley v. Garden Valley Protection Dist. (2019) 7
Cal.5th 798 (hereafter Quigley).  
 
However, Quigley does not stand for the proposition that the
complaint must explicitly specify the statute under which a plaintiff seeks
relief from a public entity.  Rather, Quigley
stands for the general proposition that “there is no such thing as common law
tort liability for public entities[.]”  (Quigley,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at pp. 803-804.)   
 
            Regarding the first cause of action,
the Court agrees that there is no statute creating direct liability on the part
of a public entity for general negligence. 
But as Defendant concedes, it could be liable under a theory of
vicarious liability for the negligent acts or omissions of its employees acting
within the scope of their employment.  
 
            As to the first cause of action, the
SAC alleges against the City and Does 1 to 100:
 
Defendants own the public sidewalk on Lipton
Street near its intersection with Standford, in the city of Santa Monica, CA 
 
On or about December 24, 2022, defendants, and
each of them, had a duty to maintain the subject property in safe condition.
Defendants, and each of them, knew, or through the exercise of reasonable care,
should have known of the existence of the uneven, torn-up and improperly
designed sidewalk, and that said condition created an unreasonable risk of harm
to plaintiff. However, defendants, and each of them failed to properly maintain
and repair the unsafe condition, protect against harm from the unsafe conditions,
or give adequate warning of the unsafe condition. 
 
Defendants, and each of them, so negligently
caused, failed to warn, managed, maintained, their subject property so as to
allow unsafe condition to exist causing plaintiff to slip, trip and /or fall
from the uneven, torn-up and improperly designed sidewalk which existed on the
ground, on defendant's public property, proximately causing disabling and
serious personal injuries to plaintiff.
 
(SAC
at ¶ GN-1.)
 
As for the second cause of action for premises liability, Government
Code section 835 provides:
 
Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either:
 
(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an
employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the
dangerous condition; or
 
(b) The public entity had actual or constructive
notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior
to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous
condition.
 
            As
to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for premises liability, the SAC alleges:
 
Defendants own the public sidewalk on Lipton
Street near its intersection with Standford. in the city of Santa Monica, CA On
or about December 24, 2022, defendants and each of them, had a duty to maintain
the subject property in safe condition. Defendants, and each of them, knew, or
through the exercise of reasonable care, should have known of the existence of
the uneven, tom-up and improperly designed sidewalk, and that said condition
created an unreasonable risk of harm to plaintiff. However, defendants, and
each of them failed to properly maintain and repair the unsafe condition,
protect against harm from the unsafe conditions, or give adequate warning of
the unsafe condition. 
 
Defendants, and each of them, so negligently
caused, failed to warn, managed, maintained, their subject property so as to
allow unsafe condition to exist causing plaintiff to slip, trip and /or fall
from the uneven, torn-up and improperly designed sidewalk which existed on the
ground, on defendant’s public property, proximately causing disabling and
serious personal injuries to plaintiff.
 
(SAC
at ¶ Prem. L-1.)
            
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Reasonably construing the allegations of the SAC in the
light most favorable to Plaintiff, as the Court must do on a demurrer, and
taking into account Plaintiff’s self-represented status, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has adequately alleged a cause of action for general negligence
against the City for the negligent maintenance of the sidewalk by its Doe
defendant employee(s), as authorized by Government Code section 815.2, and for
premises liability against the City, as authorized by Government Code section
835.
 
            For those reasons stated, the Court overrules
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint.  Defendant shall file and serve an answer to
the Second Amended Complaint on or before October 29, 2024.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  October 15, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court