 Case Number:  24SMCV01978    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


August 14, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV01978




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Tanya N. Saban




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Elizabeth Ellison



 
MOTIONS
 
On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff Elizabeth Ellison (“Plaintiff”) filed
suit against Defendant Tanya N. Saban, alleging six causes of action for (1)
breach of contract; (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(3) violation of Civil Code section 1102; (4) fraud and concealment; (5)
negligent misrepresentation; and (6) negligence.  
 
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of action for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and uncertainty, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), respectively.  Defendant also moves to strike punitive
damages from the Complaint.  Plaintiff
opposes both motions and Defendant replies. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Here, although Defendant argues that the Complaint is uncertain,
Defendant’s argument rests on the premise that Plaintiff did not specify with
requisite particularity what was misrepresented, who made the
misrepresentation, and how the misrepresentation/concealment impacted
Plaintiff.  These arguments are relevant
to whether Plaintiff has stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for fraud, not uncertainty.  
 
Further, Defendant does not demonstrate that any portions of the
Complaint are so bad that Defendant cannot reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against Defendant.  
 
Therefore, the Court declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer on the
basis of uncertainty.
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Fraud and
Concealment
 
“The required elements for
fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2)
by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” 
(Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)
 
“There are four circumstances
in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311 (hereafter Bigler-Engler).)  In the absence of a fiduciary duty, “[a] duty
to disclose facts arises only when the parties are in a relationship that gives
rise to the duty, such as seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee,
doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual
arrangement.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Complaint alleges as
follows:
 
9. Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon
alleges that TNS was formed in the State of Delaware and registered to do
business in the State of California by or at the direction of Saban, who
Plaintiff alleges that at all relevant times was its sole member and manager. 
 
10. Plaintiff is further informed and believes,
and thereon alleges that in said capacities, Saban elected to have TNS hold the
ownership of the property located at 4228 No. Los Nietos Drive, Los Angeles, CA
90027 (“Subject Property”) when it was purchased in 2019. 
 
11. TNS was the “Seller” of the Subject Property
to Plaintiff, pursuant to a written Purchase and Sale Agreement executed by
Saban (as Manager of TNS) and Plaintiff on or about April 14, 2022 (“PSA”). 
 
12. Plaintiff is informed and believes and
thereon alleges that shortly after the sale of the Subject Property to
Plaintiff and on or before November 17, 2022, Saban distributed all of the
proceeds from the sale of the Subject Property to herself and/or other entities
that she owned and controlled, and thereafter, TNS ceased to function as a
going concern, thereby completing, at minimum, a de facto dissolution under the
holding in CB Richard Ellis, Inc. v. Terra Nostra Consultants (2014),
230 Cal.App.4th 405, 415, 178 Cal.Rptr.3d 640 (“CB Richard Ellis”). 
 
13. After Plaintiff started to discover and
complain about defects in the Property, Saban, on November 17, 2022, signed and
caused to be filed a certificate of cancellation for TNS with the California
Secretary of State, and on December 5, 2022 Saban caused TNS to file a
voluntarily dissolution of the LLC with the State of Delaware, thereby formally
dissolving TNS. According to the records of the Secretaries of State in
California and Delaware, as of the filing of this Complaint, TNS is shown in
said records as cancelled and dissolved.
 
14. Plaintiff contends that by operation of law,
and pursuant to California Corporations Code §§ 17703.03.04(b), 17703.03.04(c)
and 17707.07(a)(1)(B) Saban is both personally liable for her own tortious
conduct, as an alter ego of TNS, and directly liable for the obligations of TNS
to Plaintiff to the extent of all assets distributed by TNS to her, or
distributed to her or her agents and representatives upon the dissolution of
TNS, and also as a successor in interest to any liability of TNS to Plaintiff,
and Plaintiff names Saban as a Defendant in this action pursuant to said code
sections and the common law.
 
[…]
 
19. Plaintiff is informed and believes and
thereon alleges that notwithstanding any dissolution of TNS, prior to said
dissolution, there existed, and at all times herein mentioned prior to said
dissolution, there existed, a unity of interest and ownership between Defendant
Saban and TNS such that any separateness between the individual Defendant Saban
and TNS ceased to exist and Saban is and has been throughout the LLC’s limited
existence the alter ego of TNS in that: 
 
A. TNS was a mere sham and shell without capital,
assets, or independent members and was used, conceived and intended by
Defendant Saban as a device to avoid individual liability for the purpose of
substituting a financially insolvent limited liability company in the place of
Defendant Saban; 
 
B. TNS was so inadequately capitalized that
compared to the business undertaken to be done by it and the requirements of
the contracts in issue and services to be provided by it and the risk of loss
attendant thereon, its capitalization was illusory; 
 
C. The individual Defendant Saban used the assets
of TNS for her own personal uses, caused assets of TNS to be transferred
without adequate consideration, and withdrew funds from the TNS bank accounts
for her own personal use; 
 
D. Defendant Saban controlled, dominated, managed
and operated TNS and intermingled the assets, debts and obligations with her
own, all to suit her personal convenience; and 
 
E. TSN was the instrumentality and conduit
through which Saban carried on her business activities as a limited liability
company, exactly as she had conducted her business prior to the formation of
it, exercising complete control and dominance of such business to the extent
that any individuality or separateness does not and did not exist, at any time
herein mentioned.
 
20. Adherence to the fiction of the separate
existence of TNS as an entity distinct from Saban would permit an abuse of the
limited liability associated with the operation of a limited liability company
and would sanction fraud and promote injustice.
 
21. The PSA for the Subject Property was based on
a California Association of Realtors form, fully executed by both Plaintiff and
seller TNS. A copy of the PSA, and its various addenda, is attached to this
Complaint as Exhibit “1” and is incorporated herein by this reference. 
 
22. Concurrent with the execution of the PSA, and
prior to the closing of the purchase of the Subject Property, a number of
subsidiary documents were exchanged, including but not limited to a Transfer
Disclosure Statement (“TDS”). A Copy of the TDS is attached to this Complaint
as Exhibit “2,” and is incorporated herein by this reference. Similarly,
Defendants provided to Plaintiff the Sellers Subject Property Questionnaire
(“SPQ”) which is attached to this Complaint as Exhibit “3.” Plaintiff was also
provided with a Seller’s Drainage Report (“SDR”). In addition, there were
disclosures showing that Compass Realty represented both buyer and seller in
the sale of the Subject Property. 
 
23. None of the Seller provided documents
indicated that here was any problem with the drainage, roof or waterproofing in
the Subject Property. To the contrary, in the TDS, the only disclosed problem
was that “insulation in the downstairs bedroom was installed backwards.” In the
SPQ, representations were made that extensive repairs and replacements were
made to the Subject Property, including
“HVAC/Electrical/Plumbing/roof/gutters/foundation/added sump pump/added
drainage (see plan) -new retaining wall – interior doors-windows-walls-floors-appliances-ceilings”
Under Water-Related and Mold Issues it was represented that “A-water intrusion
at lower level in 2019 prior to drainage repairs by Farnsworth Builders was
addressed and repaired in full.” No other conditions about the Subject Property
were disclosed in the SPQ. 
 
24. Prior to the close of escrow, the agents for
both buyer and seller and Defendants represented the Subject Property as a
full, premium first-class renovation of the Subject Property well worth the top
dollar price demanded by the Seller. In reliance on these representations and
on the disclosures, and representations set forth in the SPQ and TDS, Plaintiff
proceeded to purchase the Subject Property for $4.100 mm. 
 
25. Almost immediately after purchase of the
Subject Property in June, 2022 and continuing during the remainder of the year,
Plaintiff began to suffer numerous water intrusion events at the Subject
Property. These intrusions included leaks from the roof in numerous places,
leaks from the windows and doors, and particularly leaks into the lower level
of the Subject Property. These intrusion events continued throughout the rainy
season and no repairs were undertaken by the Seller despite repeated demands therefor
by Plaintiff and the giving of specific notice of said demands to Compass
Realty, and despite Defendants having complained that the roof was brand new
and under warranty. Despite the above set forth repeated demands that Seller,
or Seller’s roofer repair the leaks, no roofer appeared to stand behind the
ostensibly brand new roof. At considerable expense, Plaintiff has had to have
the roof repaired by her own contractors. 
 
26. On the lower level, moisture and liquid water
came into the habitable space along almost the entire rear and side walls.
These intrusions severely damaged the walls, the framing, and the hardwood
floor. Because of the continued nature of the moisture intrusions, significant
mold growth began on the affected areas. All of the above rendered the entire
Subject Property uninhabitable. 
 
27. In addition, and despite the claim that a new
drainage plan had been installed, surface run off came down the side of the
house into the new pool, and into the crawl space under the house and the newly
added rear stairs, damaging the framing and creating unacceptably high moisture
levels under the house, that was inadequately ventilated and subject to
accelerated mold growth and water damage to the house 
 
28. Despite plans showing the installation of new
retaining walls at the rear of the lower level, inspections in the wake of the
water intrusion events have revealed absolutely no drainage or waterproofing
behind these new walls or the pre-existing walls. Moreover, these inspections
show that the ostensible upgrading of the lower level from an unapproved
basement, into additional living space consisted only of the addition of new
surface finishes and nominal improvements to the pre-existing stem walls – none
of which included the installation of drainage and waterproofing necessary to
render the lower-level habitable space. 
 
29. Following the repeated water intrusions,
further more invasive inspections were made, which revealed that no effort was
made to control sub-terranean water in the lower level, even though the finish
floor level on three of the four sides of the lower level is somewhere between
1-5 feet below the immediately adjacent grade. 
 
30. Moreover, it is clear from the SPQ, that
Defendants knew that water had previously intruded into the lower level, and,
consequently, it is axiomatic that the Seller knew or should have known that
the lower level was not adequately waterproofed for human habitation and was
susceptible to unacceptable water intrusion. Furthermore, as evidenced by the
initial and sustained water intrusion into the lower level after the purchase
of the Subject Property, Seller’s representation that “water intrusion at lower
level . . . was addressed and repaired in full” was completely false. 
 
31. Finally, said further invasive inspections of
the condition of the original retaining walls in the lower level (all of which
were concealed behind new finishes installed by Seller, but exposed when
damaged interior finishes were removed for repair) have revealed that these
walls were obviously completely unsuitable for below grade habitable space, in
that they almost certainly part of the original construction, were poorly
constructed in the first instance, consisted of low strength, low density, obviously
high porosity concrete with significant exposed aggregate. 
 
32. Plaintiff contends and alleges that any
marginally competent builder would know that walls of this nature and condition
present essentially no impediment to vapor or liquid water intrusion and
subterranean moisture. Moreover, the portion of these walls along the exterior
of the residence were directly subject to rainfall and absolutely no surface
moisture control was installed on the West side of the Subject Property, which
was also subject to run off from the upper-level front yard.
 
33. In addition, removal of the newly installed,
but now water damaged, hardwood floor on the lower level, revealed that it was
installed directly on the existing slab, has no waterproofing or moisture
membrane and is a completely inadequate installation for any slab on grade
condition, let alone a below grade situation. Already, significant portions of
the floor have been damaged and because of color matching concerns, the entire
floor may need to be replaced. It has also come to light that the actually installed
drainage deviates substantially from the approved plans and has contributed to
all of the above. 
 
34. Because the lower level is now fully built
out, it will be extremely difficult and expensive to access the soil side of
the existing below grade concrete retaining walls and install the drainage and
waterproofing necessary to make the lower level of the Subject Property
actually habitable and not subject to further water intrusion. Because many of
these walls are structural, it will almost certainly be necessary to shore up
the structure while excavation around these walls is undertaken. 
 
35. Because of the poor condition of the existing
walls, some may need to be replaced, and that will damage the stucco on the
exterior. Because the house has a smooth Santa Barbara Mission finish, it will
not be possible to color match and blend these repairs, necessitating full
refinishing of substantial portions of the exterior. 36. In the wake of the
appearance of all of the above alleged construction defects, an investigation
of the building records for the Subject Property was undertaken and have showed
that essentially all of the building permits for the renovation were pulled by
Saban under the “Owner-Builder” exception. Saban used said exception, even
though, at all times since the purchase of the Subject Property, it was her
intention to renovate it and put it up for sale. As such, the exception was not
properly invoked by her. 
 
37. Plaintiff contends that as the Owner-Builder,
Saban was obligated, in the renovation of the Subject Property, to comply with
all applicable building standards and codes, as if she were a licensed
contractor. Moreover, Saban as Owner-Builder accepted liability for defective
design and construction, in order to obtain the permits to renovate the Subject
Property.  Specifically, Saban represented that
she was the owner of the property. In her applications for permits to renovate
the Subject Property, she stated, either directly, or through her authorized
agents, in part that “I understand as an Owner-Builder if I sell the property
for which this permit is issued, I may be held liable for any financial or
personal injuries sustained by any subsequent owner(s) that result from any
latent construction defects in the workmanship or materials.” 
 
38. As Sellers, the Defendants well know,
Plaintiff paid nearly $2,000 per square foot for the Subject Property. Repairs
consistent with this price point are very costly and must be consistent with
the interior and exterior finish in place at the time of purchase. Furthermore,
all of the above alleged damage and the necessary repairs must be disclosed by
Plaintiff to any future buyer, and will substantially reduce the market value
of the Subject Property, causing her to suffer yet further damage. 
 
39. Plaintiff further alleges that when she
purchased the Subject Property, it was her intention to move her family into
the house and sell her existing home. However, because of all of the above
alleged damage, the continuing water intrusion, the continuing leaks from the
poorly installed roof, the need to demolish damaged interior finishes and the
disruption from all these efforts at repair, Plaintiff has been unable to use
or occupy the Subject Property at all, to lease it to others on favorable terms,
or get any beneficial use of the Subject Property at all. As a result,
Plaintiff did not receive the bargained for consideration in purchasing the
Subject Property. 
 
40. As a direct and proximate result of her
inability to move into the Subject Property, she has been unable to sell the
residence she had intended to sell, is suffering the cost of maintaining the
Subject Property, paying taxes on the Subject Property, paying the costs
associated with trying to repair the Subject Property and has lost the
beneficial use of the funds dedicated to the purchase of the Subject Property –
all to her damage. 
 
41. Further investigation is likely to reveal yet
further problems with the Subject Property. 
 
42. On or about July 23, 2023, and in light of
Defendants’ breaches of contract, fraudulent misrepresentations and
concealments, Plaintiff made formal demand upon Defendants for Rescission of
the purchase of the Subject Property. Said demand for rescission has been
formally rejected by Defendants. Notwithstanding said formal rejection, in this
proceeding, Plaintiff continues to pursue rescission as a remedy for
Defendants’ breaches of contract, and fraudulent misrepresentations and
concealments that have denied her the bargained for consideration sought by
entering into the PSA.
 
[…]
 
67. Defendants, and each of them, actively
misrepresented and deliberately concealed the true facts regarding the
condition, habitability and defective nature of the construction at the Subject
Property from Plaintiff and they deliberately misrepresented and concealed the
true facts known to them or failed to make any reasonable investigation to
determine the true facts from which representations were made as to the
condition of the Subject Property to determine whether they were true or false,
and without having any sufficient basis on which to make any representations,
knowingly made false representations, concealing the true condition of the
Subject Property as set forth in her Complaint. 
 
68. Defendants, and each of them, misrepresented
and concealed the facts when they each knew the true and correct facts regard
the Subject Property. 
 
69. The misrepresentations and concealment of the
true facts from Plaintiff was done with the intent to induce Plaintiff to enter
into the PSA. 
 
70. Plaintiff’s reliance on statements made by
the Defendants, and each of them, was justified in that Defendants had owned
the Subject Property since 2019 and were responsible for the demolition and
construction of the completely renovated residence sold to Plaintiff and which
Defendants – as the Owner-Builder - had actual and personal knowledge of the
condition of the Subject Property and the specific construction undertaken. 
 
71. As a proximate result of the fraud and deceit
alleged herein, Plaintiff was fraudulently induced to purchase the
substantially defective Subject Property, and as a result, Plaintiff has been
damaged in that Plaintiff has been forced to incur certain costs and expenses
of correcting the defects and problems at the Subject Property and has not
received the benefit of her bargain with Defendants pursuant to the PSA.
Plaintiff is informed and believes that it will cost in excess of $500,000 to
correct the defective condition of the Subject Property and as such the
purchase price of $4,100,000 was substantially in excess of the actual value of
the Subject Property and caused substantial damage to Plaintiff as a result of
said fraudulent misrepresentations. Prior to the filing of this Complaint, and
as a result of these fraudulent misrepresentations and concealments, Plaintiff
has formally demanded rescission of the PSA in issue as well as all
consequential damages, and Defendants have formally rejected said demand. In
this proceeding and as a remedy for Defendants’ fraudulent misrepresentations
and concealments as herein alleged, Plaintiff continues to demand that the
Defendants rescind the PSA and compensate her for all damages recoverable in
addition to said rescission. In the alternative, or in the event that the
remedy of rescission is not awarded to her, Plaintiff seeks all damages
otherwise recoverable from Defendants for their fraudulent misrepresentations
and concealments, including, but not limited to all damages for both the
out-pocket-costs she has or will have incurred to resolve the above referred to
repairs and defects as well as the diminution in the fair market value of the
Subject Property and her loss of its beneficial use. 
 
72. In doing the acts alleged in her Complaint
for fraud, Defendants, and each of them, acted with oppression, fraud, and
malice as defined in Civil Code § 3294, and Plaintiff is entitled to punitive
damages. The proceedings and conduct of the Defendants, and each of them, as
indicated above were willful, wanton and done with malice with a conscious
disregard for the rights of Plaintiff, and were intended to oppress and cause
her to suffer severe emotional distress and injury.
 
(Complaint at ¶¶ 9-14, 19-42, 67-72.)  Thus, the Court determines that the complaint
adequately alleges specific facts that:
 
·       Defendant is responsible as the alter ego of
TNS, the seller. (Complaint ¶¶ 9-20.) 
 
·       As the seller and owner-builder, Defendant
had a legal obligation to disclose all facts material to the condition of the
property and is legally liable for future injuries caused by latent
construction defects. (Complaint ¶¶ 36-38.)
 
·       Defendant knew about the water intrusion
issues, by virtue of its disclosure in the SPQ that “A-water intrusion
at lower level in 2019 prior to drainage repairs by Farnsworth Builders was
addressed and repaired in full.” (Complaint ¶ 23.)  Defendant also had personal
knowledge of these issues, because Defendant obtained permits for the
renovation work under the owner-builder exception. (Complaint ¶ 36.)
 
·       Defendant’s representation that the water
intrusion into the lower level was addressed and repaired in full was false
when made, as Defendant’s repairs actually concealed the extent of the water
intrusion problems, instead of repairing them. 
(Complaint ¶¶ 27-33.)
 
·       Plaintiff relied on these
misrepresentations/concealment of the extensive water intrusion and the
representation that “a full, premium first-class renovation” had been made to
the property in paying the “top dollar price” of $4.1 million to purchase the
property. (Complaint ¶ 24.)
 
·       Plaintiff has been damaged because the home
is uninhabitable, preventing her from living there, from renting it out to
others, or from selling it.  Meanwhile,
Plaintiff has to bear the extensive repair costs.  (Complaint ¶¶ 38-40; 56)
 
·       Plaintiff would not have purchased the
property had she known about the issues, and in fact Plaintiff attempted to
rescind the purchase contract upon discovering the extent of the water
intrusion issues.  (Complaint ¶ 42.)
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
            Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff
has adequately alleged facts with requisite specificity to state a claim for
fraud against Defendant.  Moreover, the
Complaint alleges specific facts about Defendant’s personal involvement with
creating (and then dissolving) TNS, about Defendant’s comingling of funds with
TNS, and Defendant’s personal knowledge and involvement in the renovations, by
virtue of the fact that Defendant pulled the “owner-builder” permits to do the
construction work.  As such, the Court
finds the allegations adequately support a claim for punitive damages against
Defendant.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Fourth Cause of Action, and denies Defendant’s motion to strike punitive
damages from the Complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file and serve an answer to the
Complaint on or before September 4, 2024. 

 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from August 27, 2024 to October 29, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  All parties shall comply
with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and
Further Case Management Conferences.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724)
and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule
3.725).  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  August 14, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court