  Case Number:  24SMCV01623    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


August
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV01623




MOTION


Petition
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Lucid Group USA, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Issa Diab



 
MOTION
 
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff Issa Diab (“Plaintiff”) filed the
Complaint against Defendant Lucid Group UA, Inc. (“Defendant”), alleging
violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  
 
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration and to
stay the proceedings in this action. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant replies.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION – LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            “[T]he advantages of arbitration
include a presumptively less costly, more expeditious manner of resolving
disputes.  It follows a party to a valid
arbitration agreement has a contractual right to have its dispute with another
party to the contract resolved quickly and inexpensively.”  (Henry v. Alcove Investment, Inc.
(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94, 99–100 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “on petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also 
EFund
Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1320 [the language
in section 1281.2 compelling arbitration is mandatory].) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)    
 
            “On a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court must first determine whether an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists. 
Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.  The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
respondent's signature.”  (Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544 [cleaned
up].)  The party seeking to compel arbitration must also “plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration and a refusal to arbitrate under the
agreement.”  (Mansouri v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-641.) 

 
            And while the moving party on a
motion to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, [a] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [cleaned
up]; see also Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability”].)  
 
2.    
ENFORCEABLE ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff entered into a written purchase agreement
with Defendant for the purchase of the subject vehicle, which contained an
arbitration provision that “any dispute or claim between you or us relating in
any way to this Agreement will be resolved by binding arbitration, rather than
in court.”  (Ex. A to Hupman Decl.)  The Agreement also provides:
 
Opt-Out: You may opt-out of the
Arbitration Agreement, within 60 days from the date you accept this Agreement,
by sending an email to Optout@LucidMotors.com from the email associated with
your order with “Arbitration Opt-Out” in the subject line and indicating your
request to opt-out of the arbitration provision in the body of the email.
 
(Ibid.)  The agreement was signed effective March 9,
2023.  (Ibid.)  Thus, Plaintiff’s deadline to opt out of the
arbitration provision was 60 days later, or May 8, 2023.  Defendant has no record of Plaintiff opting
out of the arbitration provision. 
(Hupman Decl. ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff
filed the instant lawsuit on April 5, 2024.
 
Plaintiff does not deny signing the purchase agreement on March 9,
2023, or that the purchase agreement contains an arbitration provision that
applies to the claims at issue in this lawsuit, from which Plaintiff did not
timely opt out.  Rather, Plaintiff argues
the arbitration provision is unconscionable.
 
a.     
DELEGATION
 
As an initial matter, the parties have delegated the threshold issue
of arbitrability to the arbitrator.  Under
the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), parties may delegate the initial question
of arbitrability to the arbitrator, so long as the delegation is “clear and
unmistakable” and the delegation clause itself is not unenforceable due to
fraud, duress, unconscionability, etc. 
(See Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63,
69.)   Here, the arbitration clause provides:
 
Claims arising out of or relating to the
validity, application, scope, enforceability, or interpretation of this
provision (the “Arbitration Agreement”) shall also be decided by an arbitrator
and will be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C § 1 et seq.
(“FAA”).
 
(Ex.
A to Hupman Decl.)
 
            Therefore, the clause contains a
clear and unmistakable delegation clause, delegating the initial question of
arbitrability to the arbitrator.
 
b.    
UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
            Neither the arbitration provision
generally nor the delegation clause specifically contained therein are
unconscionable.
 
“Unconscionability is ultimately a question of law for the
court.”  (Flores v. Transamerica
Homefirst, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 851.)  “However, numerous factual issues may bear on
that question.” (Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77,
89.)  As such, Plaintiff must show two
elements to establish the unconscionability defense: (1) procedural
unconscionability, which focuses on the manner in which the contract was
negotiated, and (2) substantive unconscionability, which concerns whether the
contract’s terms are unreasonably one-sided. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113-115 (hereafter Armendariz).)

 
            “The prevailing view is that
procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for
a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause
under the doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present in the
same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the
regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates
the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the
substantive terms themselves.  In other
words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” 
(Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114 [cleaned up].)  
 
                                                             
i.     PROCEDURAL
UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
Procedural unconscionability examines the “oppression
that arises from unequal bargaining power and the surprise to the weaker party
that results from hidden terms or the lack of informed choice.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)  Preprinted
forms buried within a volume of documents offered on a “take or leave it basis”
evidence a high degree of procedural unconscionability.  (See Dougherty v. Roseville Heritage
Partners (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 93, 102-104.)  Most consumer contracts are adhesive and
therefore present some procedural unconscionability. (Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 915.)  “[A] finding of procedural unconscionability
does not mean that a contract will not be enforced, but rather that courts will
scrutinize the substantive terms of the contract to ensure they are not
manifestly unfair or one-sided.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiff argues that the “arbitration clause is a procedurally
unconscionable contract of adhesion” wherein “Plaintiff had no bargaining power
and no ability to negotiate” and consumers like Plaintiff “cannot purchase a
Lucid vehicle without signing the contract that contains the arbitration
provision.”  
 
The court disagrees.  Although
consumers must sign the purchase agreement that contains the arbitration
provision (and delegation clause) in order to purchase a vehicle from
Defendant, pursuant to the plain language of that arbitration clause itself,
Plaintiff had the right and ability to opt out of the arbitration agreement
within 60 days of signing the purchase agreement by simply emailing an opt-out
request to Defendant.  As such, Plaintiff’s
arguments that the arbitration agreement was a contract of adhesion and that
Plaintiff had no bargaining power ring hollow. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that neither the arbitration agreement nor
the delegation clause contained therein to be procedurally unconscionable.[1]
 
CONCLUSION
 
            As such, Defendant has met its
burden to compel arbitration, and the Court specifically finds that the
Arbitration Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant is valid and
enforceable.  Therefore, the Court grants
Defendant’s petition to compel arbitration. 
Further, the Court stays the proceedings in this action pending resolution
of the arbitration.  
            Further, in light of the Court’s
ruling on the motion to compel arbitration, the Court vacates the Case
Management Conference, and sets a Status Conference re Arbitration on March 18,
2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  The
parties shall file a Joint Report on the status of the arbitration no later
than 5 court days before the Status Conference. 

 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  August 14, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


