  Case Number:  22TRCV00880    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Monday, October 23, 2023 
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 8  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rosa
De Luna, et al. v. CM Motor Company, LLC, et al.   
22TRCV00880

1.     
CN Motor Company,
LLC’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

CN Motor Company, LLC’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is granted with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Background 
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on October 4, 2022. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs alleges that their 2019 Ford Explorer suffers
from electrical, engine, suspension, and exterior defects. Plaintiffs set forth
two causes of action under the Song-Beverly Act, against only Ford Motor
Company, as well as a cause of action for Negligent Repair alleged only against
moving Defendant.  
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant filed a meet and confer declaration in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 439.  (Decl.,
Ravi K. Lally, ¶¶ 2-3.)

Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same
function as a general demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has
expired.  Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).  Except as provided by
statute, the rules governing demurrers apply.  Civic Partners Stockton,
LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1012.  “Judgment on the
pleadings is proper when the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against the defendant.”  Rolfe v. Cal.
Transp. Comm’n (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 239, 242; see also Code Civ. Proc., §
438, subd. (c)(3)(B)(ii).  “Like a demurrer, the grounds for the motion
[for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.”  Civic Partners Stockton, LLC, supra, 218
Cal.App.4th at p. 1013.  In ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon which judicial
notice may be taken are assumed to be true.”  Rippon v. Bowen
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.
 
Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings as to
the third cause of action for Negligent Repair. 
Third Cause of Action for Negligent Repair 
            Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the third cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail to state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action. 
            “To
state a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the
defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that
duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the plaintiff's damages or
injuries.” Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 49, 62
            “[T]he
economic loss rule provides: [W]here a purchaser's expectations in a sale are
frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is
said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic’ losses. This
doctrine hinges on a distinction drawn between transactions involving the sale
of goods for commercial purposes where economic expectations are protected by
commercial and contract law, and those involving the sale of defective products
to individual consumers who are injured in a manner which has traditionally
been remedied by resort to the law of torts. The economic loss rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise. Quite simply, the economic loss rule prevent[s] the law of
contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other.” Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (internal
citations and quotations omitted). “[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract
becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract
arising from principles of tort law. An omission to perform a contract
obligation is never a tort, unless that omission is also an omission of a legal
duty.” Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551 (internal citations
and quotations omitted).
            However,
the California courts recognize an exception to the economic loss rule where
the contract is for services and not goods. N. Am. Chem. Co. v. Superior
Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 781.  A negligent failure to perform a contractual
duty may support both a breach of contract and a tort. Id. “[T]he
critical issue to be determined before allowing recovery of an economic loss is
the foreseeability of the risk of that loss flowing from a defendant's
negligent conduct. In cases involving the negligent performance of services, it
would seem to matter little whether that foreseeability is established, at
least in part, by a contractual relationship. It is the foreseeability of the
economic loss resulting from the defendant's conduct, not the plaintiff's
inability to contractually anticipate and provide for such loss, which serves
as the foundation for imposition of liability.” Id. at 784.
 
Defendant first argues that the
cause of action cannot be stated because no contractual relationship has been
alleged between Plaintiffs and Defendant. The Court notes that the first and
second causes of action against Ford Motor Company are premised upon a
contractual relationship. However, no such contractual relationship is alleged
in the third cause of action which is only alleged against moving Defendant. 
Thus, Plaintiffs have not
alleged facts to demonstrate a duty of care that was owed by Defendant to
Plaintiffs. If the duty of care was based on a contractual duty, then, Plaintiffs
have failed to articulate the existence of a duty of care stemming from the
contract. As noted above, in this situation, the economic loss rule may not
necessarily bar this cause of action since the premise of the claim is based on
negligent performance of services. However, if a duty of care existed separate
and apart from any contract, then, Plaintiffs must allege facts to demonstrate
how such a duty arose. In this scenario, Plaintiffs have not articulated a duty
of care owed to them by Defendant that would have been separate and apart from a
contractual duty. 
In addition, Plaintiffs have
merely set forth a conclusion with respect to damages as the Complaint does not
allege or reveal that Plaintiffs have any economic damages since Plaintiffs
have specifically alleged the existence of a warranty. While negligence
generally does not require specific pleading, here, more than a simple
conclusion is warranted since the first two causes of action appear to
demonstrate the existence of a warranty that may perhaps show that Plaintiffs
did not suffer economic damages.
            Thus,
Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the third cause of
action is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.