 Case Number:  22TRCV01637    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Monday,
October 23, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 11
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Walters
Wholesale Electric Co. v. Rye Electric Inc., et al.  
22TRCV01637
1.      TPG RE Finance 24, Ltd.’s Motion to Consolidate 
2.      KCS West, Inc.’s Joinder to Motion to Consolidate
3.      Jenna E. Ross’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro
Hac Vice    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            TPG RE Finance 24, Ltd.’s Motion to
Consolidate and KCS West, Inc.’s Joinder to Motion to Consolidate are granted. 
 
            Jenna E. Ross’s Application to
Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice is granted.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on December
30, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. The action stems from a
commercial real estate project. Silicon Beach is the owner of real property
located at 6733 South Sepulveda Blvd., Los Angeles, California. The property was
the subject of the development of a commercial real estate project known as the
Silicon Beach Live project (“Project”). KC West, Inc. was the general
contractor for the Project. TPG RE Finance 24 provided financing for the
Project, as did their predecessor, Pacific West Bank (“PWB”). TPG 24 holds a
deed of trust against the Property as security for the financing. Plaintiff Walters
supplied materials on the project. Plaintiff asserts a claim for judicial
foreclosure of an alleged mechanic’s lien, as well as other causes of action relating
to the Property.
 
Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant
part:
 
“(d) The application must state:
(1) The applicant's residence and office address;
(2) The courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3) That the applicant is a licensee in good standing
in those courts;
(4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court;
(5) The title of each court and cause in which the
applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this
state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or
not it was granted; and
(6) The name, address, and telephone number of the
active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
(e) An applicant for permission to appear as counsel
pro hac vice under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the
State Bar of California with the copy of the application and the notice of
hearing that is served on the State Bar.”
 
The applicant has met all the requirements mandated in
Rule 9.40. The application to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice is therefore
granted. 
 
Jenna E. Ross is admitted as counsel pro hac vice in
the pending matter.
 
            Motion to Consolidate
 
The trial court has discretion to consolidate actions
involving common questions of law or fact. 
Code Civ. Proc., §1048.  The
purpose of consolidation is “to promote trial convenience and economy by
avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common
to both actions.”  Estate of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485.
 
The court generally considers the following: (1)
timeliness of the motion, i.e., whether granting consolidation would delay the
trial of any of the cases involved; (2) complexity, i.e., whether joining the
actions involved would make the trial too confusing or complex for a jury; and
(3) prejudice, i.e, whether consolidation would adversely affect the rights of
any party.  State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d
428, 430–31; Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon
Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-79.
 
Defendant moves for an order
to consolidate the instant action with the numerous related cases set forth in
the notice of motion because all actions involve fundamental common issues of law and fact, and the resolution of which
would effectively resolve all actions. The
Court finds that convenience and economy will be fostered by consolidation of
the cases. Consolidation will avoid duplication of resources and the evidence
that will be required to prove or disprove the claims in all cases are common
to all actions. The Court finds
that the purpose of consolidation - to promote trial convenience and economy by
avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common
to all actions – is present in the actions. 
 
Thus, the motion for
consolidation is granted. The Court orders the cases set forth in the Notice of
Related cases as deemed related. The Court orders the related cases
consolidated and the instant case shall be deemed the lead case. 
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
 