 Case Number:  23STCV09308    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  57 The motion of Plaintiff/Cross Defendant 1340 Broadway, LLC to expunge the lis pendens that Defendant/Cross-Complaint Sunrise NPL, LLC recorded against certain properties located in Los Angeles is predicated on the proposition that Sunrise cannot establish the probable validity of any of its claims related to those properties as a result of a settlement agreement between Sunrise's predecessor, Defendant Churchill MRA Funding I, LLC, and Cross-Defendant Easy Financial, LLC.   Sunrise disputes that the settlement agreement extinguishes its claims against Churchill and the other Cross-Defendants related to the subject properties.Sunrise alleges in its Cross-Complaint that 1340 Broadway,  Easy Financial, and fellow Cross-Defendant Benjamin Donel, a member of both 1340 Broadway and Easy Financial, are alter egos of one another, and that they all have engaged in a fraudulent scheme that sought to deprive Sunrise of its interest in, and rights  to, the subject properties.  Furthermore, Sunrise argues that in separate litigation between Easy Financial and Churchill/Sunrise over the scope of the settlement agreement on which 1340 Broadway's motion to expunge the lis pendens rests, Easy Financial has taken the position that those disputes should be resolved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, where an action between Easy Financial and Sunrise/Churchill is pending.  The properties that are subject of the lis pendens in this case are caught up in that New York action.  Sunrise says that this Court should defer to the determination of the federal court in the New York action regarding the scope of the settlement agreement between Easy Financial and Churchill/Sunrise, just as Easy Financial itself has urged, and therefore deny the expungement motion.The Court agrees with Sunrise.  To be sure, 1340 Broadway, which is the party that has moved to expunge the lis pendens on the subject properties, is not a party to the settlement agreement on which its motion rests.  In the Court's view, however, 1340 Broadway cannot claim that the lis pendens should be expunged by dint of the settlement agreement, the scope of which Sunrise disputes, but then at the same time distance itself from what its alleged affiliate and alter ego Easy Financial has urged as to where disputes over the scope of the settlement agreement should be resolved – namely, in New York, not here in this Court.  The Court's resolution of 1340 Broadway's motion to expunge the lis pendens will require the Court, based on 1340 Broadway's arguments in support of the motion and Sunrise's opposition thereto, to determine the scope of the settlement agreement between Easy Financial and Sunrise/Churchill.   The Court is declining at this time to make that determination, and is deferring to the court in the New York action.  1340 Broadway's motion to expunge the lis pendens is denied without prejudice.