  Case Number:  19STCV31055    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  47 19Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 18, 2024             TRIAL DATE: August
6, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Olanna Taskey v. Benjamin Boston, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV31055            
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants/Cross-Complainants Benjamin Boston,
Lexington Plaza LLC, Roxbury Lane, L.P., Kathy Small d/b/a L.A. Residence, and
Elliot Hyland
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Olenna Taskey
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a tort action, filed on September 3, 2019, alleging claims for
battery, trespass, and negligence. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Hyland was
employed by the other Defendants as a property manager, and, while so employed,
sexually harassed and physically attacked Plaintiff, who was a tenant at a
property owned by Defendants.
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment or summary adjudication of all causes of action. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment or summary adjudication of all causes of action. 
 
In bringing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the supporting papers must include “a
separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that
the moving party contends are undisputed.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(1).) “The
requirement of a separate statement from the moving party and a responding
statement from the party opposing summary judgment serves two functions: to
give the parties notice of the material facts at issue in the motion and to
permit the trial court to focus on whether those facts are truly undisputed.” (Parkview
Villas Assn., Inc. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2005) 133
Cal.App.4th 1197, 1210.) On a motion which seeks summary adjudication, whether
separately or in the alternative, “the specific cause of action,
affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically
in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate
statement of undisputed material facts. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1350(b)
[emphasis added].) Subsection (h) of Rule 3.1350 sets forth the format required
for a Separate Statement, including a requirement that the theory on which
summary adjudication of an issue is sought be set forth as a header for the
two-column table. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1350(b).) 
 
Defendants’ motion complies with
none of these requirements. The notice of motion does not separately set forth
the specific causes of action on which summary adjudication is sought, and,
consequently, there is no reproduction of those issues verbatim in the separate
statement. Further, the separate statement lists a series of 51 facts that are
untethered to any cause of action or summary adjudication issue, does not identify
the causes of action by number, does not set forth the issues to be adjudicated
separately ahead of each section of the Separate Statement, and does not state
the theory under which summary adjudication is sought, as is required in the
format described in the Rules of Court. Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in
Opposition illustrates the consequences of Defendants’ failure: rather than addressing
each cause of action and identifying material facts which Plaintiff claims are
disputed, Plaintiff has selected a smattering of facts to which she has
prepared a response. Thus, it appears to the Court that Plaintiff was not given
fair notice of the material facts at issue in the motion, and, therefore, that
the Separate Statement has not served one of its essential purposes. 
 
The failure to provide a separate
statement is, in the Court’s discretion, grounds for denial of the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(1).) Moreover, appellate precedent has consistently encouraged
trial courts to require strict compliance with the requirements for separate
statements. (United Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
327, 335 [superseded by statute on other grounds]; North Coast Business Park
v. Nielsen Construction Co. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 22, 30-32.) As the Court
of Appeal for the Fourth District bluntly stated this past December, “[t]rial
courts should not hesitate to deny summary judgment motions when the moving
party fails to draft a compliant separate statement.” (Beltran v. Hard Rock
Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 876.) The Court will heed
that exhortation.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 18, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 