 Case Number:  20STCV03704    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 18, 2024             TRIAL DATE: SUSPENDED
                                                           
CASE:                         Ryan Suavet, et al. v. DRNK Coffee + Tea
Franchising, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV03704            
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL (x3) 

 
 
MOVING PARTY:               Attorney Barak Lurie of Lurie & Kramer, Counsel
for Defendants (1) 110 Sunshine Smoothies, Inc; (2) Fariba Atighehchi, and (3)
Gholam Atighehchi
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants (1) 110
Sunshine Smoothies, Inc.; (2) Fariba Atighehchi; and (3) Gholam Atighehchi 
 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/29/20: Complaint filed.
·        
03/20/20: Cross-Complaint filed by DRNK Coffee +
Tea; 110 Sunshine Smoothies, Inc.; and Thomas Nariman
·        
12/10/20: First Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
06/11/21: Cross-Complaint filed by 110 Sunshine
Smoothies, Inc., Fariba Atighehchi, and Gholam Atighehchi
·        
07/20/21: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by
110 Sunshine Smoothies, Inc., Fariba Atighehchi, and Gholam Atighehchi
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants breached a franchise agreement with Plaintiffs to open a coffee
shop. 
 
Attorney
Barak Lurie, Attorney Brent A. Kramer, and their firm, Lurie & Kramer, move
to be relieved as counsel for Defendants 110 Sunshine Smoothies, Inc., Fariba
Atighehchi, and Gholam Atighehchi.
            
//
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            The Motion of Attorney Barak Lurie, Attorney Brent A. Kramer, and their firm,
Lurie & Kramer, to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant
110 Sunshine Smoothies, Inc. is GRANTED.
 
            The
Motion of Attorney Barak Lurie, Attorney Brent A. Kramer, and
their firm, Lurie & Kramer, to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Gholam Atighehchi is
GRANTED.
 
            The Motion of Attorney Barak Lurie, Attorney
Brent A. Kramer, and their firm, Lurie & Kramer, to be Relieved as Counsel for
Defendant Fariba Atighehchi is GRANTED.
 
            The
Court, on its own motion, schedules an Order to Show Cause Re: Defendants 110
Sunshine Smoothies, Gholam Atighehchi, and Fariba Atighehchi’s Retention of New
Counsel and Order to Show Cause why the Answer of 110 Sunshine Smoothies should
not be stricken for 9:00 AM on August 7, 2024. 
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on Moving Counsel serving notice of this ruling on all
parties within 10 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Attorney Barak Lurie, Attorney
Brent A. Kramer, and their firm, Lurie & Kramer, move to be relieved as
counsel for Defendants 110 Sunshine Smoothies, Inc., Fariba Atighehchi, and
Gholam Atighehchi.
            
Moving counsel filed all three required forms (MC-051,
-052, and -053) as to all Defendants, and included a proof of service as
required by California Rules of Court rule 3.1362(d).  Moving
counsel’s declaration states that Defendants were served by mail at their last
known address, and that their address was confirmed by Lurie & Kramer’s
billing records, where the most recent statement had been sent within the past
30 days and for which receipt had been acknowledged by the client. (MC-052 ¶ 3.)

 
In general, an attorney may withdraw with
or without cause so long as the withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice
to the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in
the litigation, because that would prejudice client, but can withdraw
otherwise. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904,
915.) The court has discretion to deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where
the withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding,
but the court’s discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (Mandell
v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)   
 
Here, Phase I of trial in this matter
commenced on January 2, 2024, and temporarily adjourned on January 17, 2024.
(See January 2, 2024 Minute Order; January 17, 2024 Minute Order.) The
resumption of trial is not yet scheduled because of the withdrawal of counsel
for the other Defendants in this action. (See MC-052 ¶ 6b.) The risk of
prejudice to Defendants is therefore reduced, as an opportunity for Defendants
to retain substitute counsel can be budgeted for when setting the date for
resumption of trial. Moving Counsel states that “one or more of the factual
circumstances described in Cal. Rule Prof. Conduct 1.16(b) exist, such that
withdrawal is appropriate.” (MC-052 ¶ 2.) This rule permits an attorney
to withdraw from representation of a client, subject to approval by the Court,
if:
 
(1) the client insists upon presenting a
claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a position or making a demand in a
non-litigation matter, that is not warranted under existing law and cannot be
supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or reversal of
existing law;
(2) the client either seeks to pursue a
criminal or fraudulent* course of conduct or has used the lawyer’s services to
advance a course of conduct that the lawyer reasonably believes* was a crime or
fraud;
 
(3) the client insists that the lawyer
pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or fraudulent;*
 
(4) the client by other conduct renders it
unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation
effectively;
 
(5) the client breaches a material term of
an agreement with, or obligation, to the lawyer relating to the representation,
and the lawyer has given the client a reasonable* warning after the breach that
the lawyer will withdraw unless the client fulfills the agreement or performs
the obligation;
 
(6) the client knowingly* and freely
assents to termination of the representation; (7) the inability to work with
co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the client likely will be
served by withdrawal;
 
(8) the lawyer’s mental or physical
condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation
effectively; 
 
(9) a continuation of the
representation is likely to result in a violation of these rules or the State
Bar Act; or 
 
(10) the lawyer believes in good faith,
in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will find the
existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
 
(Cal.
R. Prof. Conduct Rule 1.16(b).) As this recitation demonstrates, Rule 1.16(b) describes
a broad array of circumstances which permit an attorney to withdraw from
representation. Moving Counsel elaborates that there has been an irreparable
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship that makes continuation of
representation unreasonably difficult, that counsel is unable to meaningfully
communicate with the client, and the client has not been complying with the
terms of the legal services agreement. (Id.) Moving Counsel states that
further specifics of the matter are privileged and confidential. (Id.)
 
Defendants, having retained temporary
counsel to oppose these motions, argue that the motions should be denied
because there is no actual breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. This
argument is plainly belied by the mere existence of these motions; if the
attorney-client relationship were healthy, Moving Counsel and Defendants would
not be in this position. Moreover, as the Court of Appeal
expressly stated in Aceves v. Superior Court, “where the court accept[s]
the good faith of counsel’s representations, the court should find the conflict
sufficiently established and permit withdrawal.” (Aceves v. Superior Court
(1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 584, 592, citing Uhl v. Municipal Court (1974) 37
Cal.App.3d 526, 527-28 and Leversen v. Superior Court (1983) 34 Cal.3d
530, 539.) Uhl likewise affirmed withdrawal by a public defender before
trial based on a conflict between the defendant and another client represented
by the public defender where no further details were provided. (Uhl, supra, 37
Cal.App.3d at 535.) Further, in Leversen, our Supreme Court permitted a
public defender to withdraw mid-trial when information acquired during
representation created a conflict of interest concerning one of the defendants
and a defense witness who was identified as an uncharged co-defendant. (Leversen,
supra, 23 Cal.3d at 539-540.) Leversen is
particularly instructive in its observation that the defendant “was entitled to
‘the undivided loyalty and untrammeled assistance of counsel of his own
choice,’ free of any reservations or irresolution” arising from a conflict of
interest, in spite of the risk of prejudice stemming from the loss of counsel
mid-trial. (Id. at 540.) That logic is no less sound in the civil
context than it is in a criminal proceeding.  
 
Moving Counsel have given the Court no
reason to doubt the sincerity or good faith of their representations regarding
the breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. In light of the reduced risk
to Defendants from the current posture of these proceedings, the Court finds
that Moving Counsel have demonstrated good cause to permit withdrawal. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
the Motion of Attorney Barak Lurie, Attorney Brent A. Kramer, and their firm,
Lurie & Kramer, to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant
110 Sunshine Smoothies, Inc. is GRANTED.
 
            The
Motion of Attorney Barak Lurie, Attorney Brent A. Kramer, and
their firm, Lurie & Kramer, to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Gholam Atighehchi
is GRANTED.
 
            The Motion of Attorney Barak Lurie, Attorney
Brent A. Kramer, and their firm, Lurie & Kramer, to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Fariba Atighehchi
is GRANTED.
 
            The
Court, on its own motion, schedules an Order to Show Cause Re: Defendants 110
Sunshine Smoothies, Gholam Atighehchi, and Fariba Atighehchi’s Retention of New
Counsel and Order to Show Cause why the Answer of 110 Sunshine Smoothies should
not be stricken for 9:00 AM on August 7, 2024. 
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on Moving Counsel serving notice of this ruling on all
parties within 10 days of this order. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: June 18, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 