 Case Number:  23STLC00138    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  86 APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION
 
Date:               4/16/24 (1:30 PM) 
Case:               Arturo Fausto v. Rigoberto Tejada Jimenez (23STLC00138) 
  
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Plaintiff Arturo Fausto’s Application for Writ of Possession
is DENIED. 
 
Under CCP § 512.010(b)(3), an application for writ of
possession must contain a statement of the value of the subject vehicle.
Although plaintiff provides a statement of the vehicle, plaintiff does not
provide a statement of its value. 
 
Further, under CCP § 512.060, plaintiff mush establish the
probable validity of his claim before a writ of possession shall issue. “A
claim has "probable validity" where it is more likely than not that
the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”  (CCP § 511.090.)
 
According to plaintiff, he is the owner of a 1972 Chevy
Z-10. (Certificate of Title and Registration attached to Application.)
Plaintiff’s brother stored the vehicle in the home of defendant Rigoberto
Tejada Jimenez without plaintiff’s consent. (App. ¶ 3.) Defendant refuses to
give plaintiff his vehicle. (Ibid.)
 
According to defendant, plaintiff’s brother, Angel Fausto,
is the actual owner of the subject vehicle. (Jimenez Decl. ¶ 2.) In November
2020, Angel and defendant entered into an oral agreement to purchase the
subject vehicle for $10,000. (Jimenez Decl. ¶ 2.) At the time of the purchase
of the vehicle, plaintiff and his brother represented that the vehicle was
titled in Angel’s name because Angel had legal issues with child support. (Jimenez
Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant made a down payment of $3,000, after which plaintiff gave
defendant the Certificate of Title. (Jimenez Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5.) Plaintiff agreed
to release title to defendant once defendant completed all installment payments
to Angel. (Jimenez Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff assisted defendant in physically
loading the vehicle onto defendant’s trailer for towing to defendant’s
residence. (Jimenez Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendant has made all payments, but
plaintiff has not signed over title to defendant. (Jimenez Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
On this record, this Court cannot find it more likely than
not that plaintiff will obtain a judgment in his favor against defendant.  While that may ultimately come to pass, with
respect to the instant application, plaintiff fails in his burden to
demonstrate that would be the likely result.
 
For the foregoing reasons, the application is DENIED. 
 