 Case Number:  23STCP01229    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
GARY JOSEPH SUGGETT,  


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP01229




vs.
 
 
STEVE GORDON, DIRECTOR, OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
  MOTOR VEHICLES OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT
  OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 82 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Gary Joseph Suggett petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondent Steve
Gordon, Director of the Department of Motor Vehicles of the State of
California, to set aside an order suspending petitioner’s driving privileges. 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
            On January 25, 2022, Officers Do and
Davis observed petitioner driving westbound on Washington Boulevard approaching
Pacific Avenue in Los Angeles at 12:23 a.m. (AR 13.) Petitioner turned right
against a red light despite a “No Turn on Red” sign. (AR 13.) Petitioner then
nearly hit a vehicle in front of him, accelerating quickly and conducting a
hard stop. (AR 13.) The officers pulled petitioner over. (AR 13.) 
 
When
the officers approached petitioner, Officer Do could smell alcohol from petitioner’s
vehicle. (AR 13.) Petitioner also had watery/glossed eyes. (AR 13.) When petitioner
stepped out of his car onto the sidewalk, Officer Do observed petitioner stopping
twice, walking slowly, and appearing to sway. (AR 13.) Petitioner denied having
drunk any alcohol. (AR 13.) However, the passenger in petitioner’s car informed
Officer Davis that the two had been at Hinano Café and that he personally
observed petitioner drink at least two alcoholic beverages. (AR 13.) Petitioner
declined to participate in any field sobriety tests and was arrested for
suspicion of DUI. (AR 13.)
 
Officers
Do and Davis transported petitioner to the Pacific Station at about 1:00 a.m. (AR
13.) After having transported petitioner, Officer Do asked petitioner: “You
said you didn’t want to a breath or blood test right?” (AR Ex. 3 [body worn
video], Transcript (“Tr.”), at 14:2-3.) Petitioner responded: “[O]n the side of
the road, no.” (Tr. at 14:4.) When Officer Do clarified with “Oh, I mean here,”
petitioner responded: “I’d prefer not to.” (Tr. at 14:5-8.) Officer Do then
read to petitioner the chemical test admonition, as follows:
 
You
are required by State Law to submit to a chemical test to determine the alcohol
and drug content of your blood. You have the choice of taking a blood or breath
test when applicable. If you refuse to submit to or fail to complete a test,
your driving privilege will be administratively suspended for one year or
administrative revoked for two or three years.
 
A
two-year administrative revocation will result if the refusal occurred within
10 years of a separate violation of driving under the influence and/or such a
charge reduced to reckless driving or vehicular manslaughter, which resulted in
a conviction of administrative determination that you refused testing or were
driving in an excessive concentration of alcohol on a separate occasion. A
three-year administrative revocation will result if you had more than one of
these violations or administrative determinations within the last 10 year.
[sic]
 
Your
refusal or failure to complete a test may be used against you in court. Refusal
or failure to complete breath or urine testing will result in a fine and
mandatory imprisonment if you are convicted of a violation of the California
Vehicle Sections 23152 or 23153. You do not have the right to talk to an
attorney or have an attorney present before stating whether you submit to a
test, before deciding which test to take or during the test. If you cannot
complete the test you choose, you must submit to and complete the remaining
test.
 
(Tr. at
14:13-15:14.) Officer Do read the admonition verbatim and without any
interruptions. (See ibid.)  
 
After
reading petitioner the admonition, Officer Do asked petitioner: “So again, you
don’t want to do any tests, right?” (Tr. at 15:15.) Petitioner did not give any
verbal response. (Ibid.) It is unclear from the video of the body worn
camera whether petitioner gave any non-verbal response, such as by shaking his
head “no.” (See AR Ex. 3 [body worn video] at timestamp 23:52-23:55.)
Officer Davis then stated: “And let me just explain, by you refusing,
automatically your license is being taken away.” (Tr. at 15:16-17.) 
 
Officer
Davis then asked petitioner whether he would still refuse a chemical test once
he was checked into the station. (Tr. at 16:5-6.) Petitioner responded by
stating: “I’d rather do it now.” (Tr. at 16:7.) Officer Davis replied with “okay,”
but reminded petitioner that, by refusing, “your driver’s license is gonna
automatically be taken away.” (Tr. at 16:8-14.) Petitioner responded: “I’m well
aware of California law.” (Tr. at 16:16.) 
 
Officer
Do asked petitioner: “So do you still not want to do it, correct? Or do you
want to do it?” (Tr. at 16:21-22.) Petitioner responded: “I’ll do the, can I do
breath?” (Tr. at 16:23.) Officer Do responded: “Breath? So if you’re going to
the breath….” What Officer Do said next was not clearly captured by the body
worn camera. (See AR Ex. 3 [body worn video] at timestamp 25:21-25:24.)
Officer Do then said: “Right? So you’re gonna have to do the other test.” (Tr.
at 16:25-17:2.) Petitioner responded, “I don’t think so.” (Tr. at 17:2.) 
 
The
following conversation then ensued:
 
OFFICER
DO: Okay, so you don’t want to do the Field Sobriety Test?
 
GARY
SUGGETT: I feel there’s two things being mixed up here.
 
OFFICER
DO: Okay. So the Field Sobriety Test and then there’s also a chemical test.
 
GARY
SUGGETT: Mm-hmm. 
 
OFFICER
DO: Okay? You refuse to do the Field Sobriety Test?
 
GARY
SUGGETT: I do.
 
OFFICER
DO: Okay. Are you refusing to do the chemical testing?
 
GARY
SUGGETT: I am not.
 
OFFICER
DO: So you want to do the chemical testing?
 
GARY
SUGGETT: I have to by California law.
 
OFFICER
DO: You do not have to. It is your right to choose whether you do or you don't.
And always in court, you can tell them you weren't drunk, you were just driving
home, whichever.
 
GARY
SUGGETT: Well, there won’t be any of that, but I understand that you guys can
just get a warrant for my blood at this point if I refuse, so.
 
OFFICER
DO: No, we will not force to get blood from you. And I’m telling you that and
that’s a promise for me.
 
GARY
SUGGETT: I'm not saying anything else.
 
OFFICER
DO: So are you refusing to take the chemical test? I'm giving you my word we're
not gonna get a warrant to take your blood if you refuse, okay? It’s completely
up to you. I’m not pressuring you to do anything. I just want you to be
completely comfortable with yourself and your decisions on what you want to do.
 
GARY
SUGGETT: I also understand that you can say that and then you can go back on
that.
 
OFFICER
DO: Well, no, I’m telling you now that I am not going to take your blood. And
you have my word. And it’s all on camera.
 
GARY
SUGGETT: I’m not worried about that. I’m not worried about that.
 
OFFICER
DO: And it’s all on camera that I’m telling you this.
 
GARY
SUGGETT: Okay.
 
OFFICER
DO: All right?
 
OFFICER
DAVIS: Like I said, it’s not like you killed three kids in a crosswalk.
 
GARY
SUGGETT: I was picking up my friend.
 
OFFICER
DAVIS: No, let me explain to you, okay?
 
GARY
SUGGETT: Mm-hmm.
 
OFFICER
DAVIS: It’s not the crime of the century. We're not saying you killed three
people. And yes, a warrant can be issued for your blood and it depends on the
circumstances. It’s not saying that that’s always what happens.
 
GARY
SUGGETT: At this point, I’d like to say no more.
 
OFFICER
DO: Okay. So you’re refusing? That’s a yes or no?
 
GARY
SUGGETT: [SHAKES HEAD NO]
 
OFFICER
DO: No? Okay. So you said no and I'm still not gonna get a warrant for your
blood, okay? So just relax, okay? I'm not gonna take it. Okay.
 
(Tr. at
17:3-19:10.) Officers Davis and Do then directed petitioner to the inside of
the police station. (Tr. at 19:11-22.) Petitioner’s license was suspended for
one year for refusing to submit to a chemical test. (AR 11.) 
 
Petitioner
appealed his suspension. The administrative per se (“APS”) hearing[1] was conducted November 22, 2022 in front of Driver
Safety Hearing Officer Funes. (AR 23.) The sole issues at the hearing were: (1)
whether the peace officers had probable cause to believe that petitioner was
driving under the influence; (2) whether the peace officers lawfully arrested petitioner;
(3) whether the peace officers properly admonished petitioner that his license
would be suspended if he refused chemical testing; and (4) whether petitioner
actually refused chemical testing. (AR 26:23-27:16.) 
 
Petitioner
presented an opening statement in which he conceded the first three issues and
contested only whether he had actually refused chemical testing. (AR 27:19-23.)
Petitioner argued that the peace officer improperly admonished him and that petitioner
did not refuse a chemical test because he offered to take a breath test. (AR
27:19-29:2.) Petitioner invited Hearing Officer Funes to view the peace
officer’s body worn footage, which Hearing Officer Funes agreed to do. (AR 28:17-29:16.)

 
Hearing
Officer Funes introduced the following exhibits “on behalf of the Department”:
 
·        
Exhibit
1, the applicable peace officer’s statement (Form DS-367) by Officer Davis,
which notes petitioner’s refusal;
·        
Exhibit
2, petitioner’s arrest report, by Officer Do;
·        
Exhibit
3, officer body worn footage; and
·        
Exhibit
4, petitioner’s driving history record. (AR 30:7-32:18.)
 
Petitioner
objected to Exhibits 1-4 on the ground that the evidence is “incorrect,” arguing
that Exhibit 3 (the body worn footage) demonstrates that petitioner did not
refuse a chemical test. (AR 32:22-33:14.) Petitioner requested that Hearing
Officer Funes watch the video during the hearing before admitting the evidence,
which Hearing Officer Funes agreed to do. (AR 33:17-35:7.) After technical
difficulties, Hearing Officer Funes informed petitioner that she would view the
video in its entirety after the hearing concluded and give the evidence proper
weight. (AR 35:8-36:2.) 
 
Hearing
Officer Funes asked petitioner again whether his objection was “a general
objection to all the exhibits.” (AR 36:8-10.) Petitioner responded, “yes,” and
stated that his objection is that the evidence is “just not accurate.” (AR
36:13.) Hearing Officer Funes overruled the objection and admitted Exhibits
1-4. (AR 37:3-8.) 
 
After
admitting the evidence, Hearing Officer Funes allowed petitioner to present his
case. (AR 37:10-15.) Petitioner testified during the hearing. (AR 37:16-40:1.)
Hearing Officer Funes did not object to any questions asked by petitioner’s
attorney. (AR 37:16-40:1.) Petitioner did not present any other witnesses or
request any additional exhibits be admitted to the record. (AR 23-51.) Petitioner’s
attorney informed Hearing Officer Funes that he was done asking questions and
that Hearing Officer Funes should now ask petitioner questions. (AR 40:2-3 [“I
have no further questions. Go ahead, Officer.”].) 
 
            Hearing Officer Funes asked
petitioner whether he was informed why he was pulled over. (AR 41:4-7.) Petitioner
responded that he was told that he made a right turn at an intersection that
had a no right turn on red. (AR 41:8-13.) Counsel for petitioner responded that
there is no issue of probable cause. (AR 41:14-20.) Hearing Officer Funes responded
that she had “the right to go ahead and make any questions that [she] ha[s] –
that [she] can with regards to this.” (AR 41:21-24.) Petitioner’s attorney did
not further object to any of Hearing Officer Funes’ questions. (AR 40:8-46:21.)
After Hearing Officer Funes finished asking questions, petitioner’s counsel
provided his closing argument in which he objected to the Hearing Officer acting
as prosecutor and judge. (AR 46:22-49:7.) Hearing Officer Funes overruled
counsel’s objection. (AR 49:13-25.)
 
On
December 2, 2022, Hearing Officer Funes found that petitioner’s license had
been appropriately suspended for refusing to take a chemical test. (AR 3.)
Regarding refusal, Hearing Officer Funes considered petitioner’s testimony at
the administrative hearing that he had been improperly admonished and denied
the opportunity to take a chemical breath test. (AR 4.) However, Hearing
Officer Funes gave greater weight to the body worn video, which demonstrated petitioner’s
interactions with the peace officers in real time. (AR 4.) Hearing Officer
Funes found that the body worn footage demonstrated that “Respondent was
properly admonished” regarding his obligation “to choose and submit to a
chemical test.” (AR 4.) In the Hearing Officer’s view, petitioner was not
confused and instead repeatedly and calmly stated: “I am well aware of my
rights.” (AR 4.) Finding that petitioner nonetheless refused to take a chemical
test multiple times, Hearing Officer Funes concluded that petitioner’s license
suspension was appropriate. (AR 4-5.) 
 
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
April 18, 2023, petitioner Gary Joseph Suggett filed a Verified Petition for Writ
of Mandate. On August 15, 2023, respondent Steve Gordon, Director of the
Department of Motor Vehicles of the State of California filed an Answer. 
 
            On
May 16, 2023, the Court granted petitioner’s ex parte application to stay the
suspension of petitioner’s driver license pending entry of judgment in the
instant matter. 
 
            On
January 22, 2024, petitioner filed an opening brief. On March 6, 2024,
petitioner filed a reply.  
 
            The
writ petition was scheduled to be heard on March 21, 2024, but, prior to the
hearing, no opposition or administrative record had been lodged. (3/21/24
Minute Order at 1.) In addition, petitioner’s reply brief referred to a certified
audio transcript of video evidence that was purportedly filed with the reply,
but no transcript had been filed with the reply or prior to the hearing. (3/21/24
Minute Order at 2.) The Court thus continued the hearing and ordered the
respective parties to file the opposition and transcript and lodge the
administrative record. (3/21/24 Minute Order at 2.) 
 
On March 21, 2024, respondent filed an opposition. On
March 22, 2024, petitioner filed the transcript of a body-worn camera video.  
 
            The
Court has received the administrative record lodged by petitioner, including
three compact discs. 
 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
Petitioner seeks writ
relief under both CCP § 1085 and 1094.5.
 
A.          
CCP § 1085
 
CCP
§ 1085(a) provides: “A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.”
 
“There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of a traditional writ of
mandate: (1) a clear, present and usually ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty.” (California Assn. for Health
Services at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where…the claim is that an
agency has failed to act as required by law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
“When
a party seeks review of an administrative decision pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085, judicial review is limited to examining the agency
proceedings to ascertain whether the agency’s action has been arbitrary,
capricious or lacking entirely in evidentiary support, or whether the agency
failed to follow the proper procedure and give notices required by law. And,
where the case involves the interpretation of a statute or ordinance, our
review of the trial court’s decision is de novo.” (Ideal Boat & Camper
Storage v. County of Alameda (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 301, 311, citing Pomona
Police Officers' Assn. v. City of Pomona (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 584.)
In independently reviewing legal questions, “[a]n administrative agency’s
interpretation does not bind judicial review but it is entitled to
consideration and respect.” (Housing Partners I, Inc. v. Duncan (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 1335, 1343.) 
 
An
agency is presumed to have regularly performed its official duties. (Evid. Code
§ 664.) In a CCP § 1085 writ petition, the petitioner generally bears the
burden of proof. (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. State
Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)         
 
B.          
CCP § 1094.5
 
Under CCP § 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are
whether the respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a
fair trial, and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse
of discretion is established if the agency has not proceeded in the manner
required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or the findings
are not supported by the evidence. (CCP § 1094.5(b).) “[T]he party challenging
the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing the court that the
administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the evidence.” (Fukuda
v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 817; see also Bixby v.
Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 139.)
 
When a driver petitions for a writ of mandate
following an order suspending his or her driver’s license, the trial court is
required to determine, based on its independent judgment, whether the weight of
the evidence supports the administrative decision. (Lake v. Reed (1997)
16 Cal.4th 448, 456.) Under the
independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.” (Bixby, 4 Cal.3d at 143.) The court must draw its own reasonable
inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility determinations. (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 860, 868.)  However, “[i]n exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.” (Fukuda, 20 Cal.4th at
817, internal quotations omitted.)
 
 
IV.     Analysis
 
            Petitioner
seeks to set aside the administrative decision of the DMV to suspend his
driving privileges. Petitioner asserts two arguments: (1) petitioner was not
properly admonished and did not refuse to submit to a chemical test (Pet. ¶¶ 9-11);
and (2) the Hearing Officer improperly acted as both advocate and adjudicator
in handling the case (Pet. ¶¶ 16, 17).[2]

 
A.   Admonition and Refusal to Submit
to Chemical Test
 
            When
a person is lawfully arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol, they
are deemed to have consented to the chemical testing of their blood or breath
to determine their blood alcohol content. (Veh. Code § 23612(a)(1)(A).)
Refusing to submit to, or failing to complete, a chemical test offered under
Section 23612 is punishable by the suspension of the person’s driving
privileges, among other sanctions. (Veh. Code § 13353(a)(1).) The officer must
tell the arrestee that failure to submit to, or complete, the chemical test
will result in a fine and suspension or revocation of driving privileges. (Veh.
Code § 23612(a)(1)(D).)
 
            “If
the driver refuses to complete [a chemical test], his driving privilege is subject
to suspension. There is a strong public policy against the nightmare of drunk
driving. Thus, the implied consent law should be liberally construed to effect
its purpose, which is to swiftly and accurately identify drunk drivers. (Carrey
v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 1265, 1270.) “Consent
which is not clear and unambiguous may be deemed a refusal. The determinative
factor as to whether there is a refusal is not the arrestee’s subjective state
of mind, but rather the objective, fair meaning to be distilled from his words
and conduct.” (Ibid.)
 
 
 
1.    Admonition
 
Petitioner
contends that the officers illegally conditioned his taking a breath test on
undergoing field sobriety tests. (Tr. at 16:23-17:6.) However, Officer Do
properly admonished petitioner on the consequences of refusing to complete a
chemical test. (Transcript at 14:13-15:14.) 
 
Petitioner
argues that Officer Do told petitioner that he would “have to do the other
test,” to which petitioner responded, “I don’t think so.” (Transcript at
16:25-17:2.) The parties dispute whether the “other test” refers to a blood
test or a field sobriety test (“FST”). Petitioner argues that Officer Do did
not mention any blood test and thus impermissibly told petitioner that he would
have to complete FSTs if petitioner did not submit to a breath test.  In support of this view, petitioner points
out that Officer Do’s next statement to petitioner was “Okay, so you don’t want
to do the Field Sobriety Test?” (Tr. at 17:3:4.) However, during the admonition,
Officer Do had told petitioner that petitioner had “the choice of taking a
blood or breath test when applicable.” (Tr. at 14:15-16.)  Indeed, the only available chemical test
other than a breath test was a blood test. (See Veh. Code §
23612(a)(1)(A) [chemical test includes blood or breath].) 
 
It
is true that, when petitioner asked whether he could complete the breath test,
Officer Do’s camera did not capture what Officer Do said with respect to the
availability of the breath test. (Tr. at 16:23-25.) However, considering that
Officer Do had earlier admonished petitioner that he had the choice to take a
blood or breath test, it would not make sense for Officer Do to have
characterized an FST as the “other test.” Under Evidence Code § 664, “It is
presumed that official duty has been regularly performed.” (Evid. Code § 664.)
A police officer has an official duty to make accurate statements. (Fisk v.
Department of Motor Vehicles (1981) 127 Cal.App.3d 72, 79.) Officer Do’s
request for petitioner to confirm that he didn’t want to do the FST does not
mean that Officer Do sought to force petitioner to complete FSTs. Rather, the
request is explained by petitioner’s previous refusal to complete the FST,
which had occurred before Officer Do admonished petitioner with respect to the
chemical test. (Tr. at 5:20-6:2.) Petitioner does not sufficiently demonstrate
that Officer Do required petitioner to complete field sobriety tests. 
 
In
any event, irrespective of whether “other test” referred to a chemical test or
an FST, “[i]n determining whether an arrestee's refusal is the result of
confusion, the crucial factor is not the state of the arrestee's mind; it is
the fair meaning to be given his response to the demand that he submit to the
chemical test.” (Cahall v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1971) 16
Cal.App.3d 491, 497.) Petitioner gave no indication that he was under the impression
that he had to complete FSTs as the result of Officer Do’s statements. Instead,
when Officer Do asked petitioner whether he did not want to do the FST,
petitioner responded: “I feel there’s two things being mixed up here.” (Tr. at 17:3-6.)
Officer Do then stated that there was an FST and a chemical test. (Tr. at
17:7-8.) Officer Do then asked whether petitioner refused to do the FST, to
which petitioner stated that he was refusing. (Tr. at 17:10-12.) Officer Do
then asked petitioner whether he was refusing to do the chemical testing. (Tr. at
17:13-15.) When petitioner responded that he was not refusing, Officer then
asked affirmatively whether petitioner wanted to do the chemical testing, to
which petitioner responded: “I have to by California law.” (Tr. at 17:15-17; see
also Tr. at 16:16-18 [in response to Officer Davis stating consequence of
refusing chemical testing, petitioner responded “I’m well aware of California
law”].) Accordingly, there was no confusion on the part of petitioner as to
whether he was required to complete a chemical test. 
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the weight of the evidence supports the Hearing
Officer’s finding that petitioner was properly admonished on the consequences
of refusing a chemical test. 
 
2.    Refusal to Complete Chemical
Test
 
            Petitioner
also contends that he never refused a chemical test. Respondent contends that
petitioner refused a chemical test three times: (1) when petitioner purportedly
shook his head in response to Officer Do’s question, “So again, you don’t want
to do any tests, right?” (Opp. at 13:5-13); (2) when petitioner stated, “I
don’t think so,” when Officer Do stated, “So if you’re gonna do the
breath…right? So you’re gonna have to do the other test?” (Opp. at 13:14-23);
and (3) when petitioner shook his head “no” in response to Officer Do’s
question, “So you’re refusing? That's a yes or no?” (Opp. at 13:24-14:5.)
 
            As
stated in the Factual Background above, the purported first refusal is not clear
from the body-worn camera. The Court is unable to discern whether petitioner
shook his head “no” when Officer Do asked petitioner if he did not want to do
any tests. (See AR Ex. 3 [body worn video] at timestamp 23:52-23:55.) The
fact that Officer Davis followed Officer Do’s question by stating: “And let me
just explain, by you refusing, automatically your license is being taken away,”
does not necessarily serve as a confirmation that petitioner refused any
chemical test. (See Tr. at 15:16-17.) Rather, Officer Davis could have
determined that petitioner did not respond to Officer Do and decided to attempt
to persuade petitioner to submit to a chemical test. 
 
            Nevertheless, having reviewed the
transcript and the video footage from Officer Do’s body-worn camera, the Court
finds that petitioner refused to complete a chemical test. With respect to
petitioner’s purported second refusal, Officer Do told petitioner that he would
“have to do the other test,” to which petitioner responded, “I don’t think so.”
(Tr. at 16:25-17:2.) Because a blood test was the only option given to
petitioner, as discussed above, petitioner had to complete the blood test. (Tr.
at 16:24-17:1; Espinoza v. Shiomoto (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 85, 114–115 [“Under
the implied consent law, when either a blood test or a breath test is
unavailable for whatever reason, the motorist must submit to and complete the
available test….”].)
 
Further,
the Court need not solely rely on petitioner’s second refusal, as characterized
by respondent, to find that the weight of the evidence supports a finding that
petitioner refused a chemical test. After petitioner confirmed that he refused
to do the field sobriety test, Officer Do asked petitioner whether he refused
to do the chemical testing. (Tr. at 17:13-14.) Petitioner responded that he was
not refusing. (Tr. at 17:16.) Officer Do then asked petitioner whether he
wanted to do the testing. (Tr. at
17:16.) Petitioner responded that he had to by California law. (Tr. at 17:17.) In
response, Officer Do told petitioner that he had the right to choose the
chemical testing or not. (Tr. at 17:18-19.) Petitioner did not believe Officer
Do, stating: “[Y]ou guys can just get a warrant for [his] blood at this point
if [he] refuse[s]….” (Tr. at 17:22-24.) Officer Do told petitioner that they
would not “force to get blood from” petitioner, after which petitioner stated:
“I’m not saying anything else.” (Tr. at 17:25-18:2.) Officer Do then attempted
to assure petitioner that they would not get a warrant for petitioner’s blood
if he refused. (Tr. at 18:3-8.) Petitioner responded: “I also understand that
you can say that and then you can go back on that.” (Tr. at 18:9-10.) Officer
Davis then explained: “And yes, a warrant can be issued for your blood and it
depends on the circumstances. It’s not saying that’s always what happens.” (Tr.
at 19:1-3.) Petitioner responded: “At this point, I’d like to say no more.” (Tr.
at 19:4.) Officer Do then asked petitioner: “So you’re refusing? That’s a yes
or no?” (Tr. at 19:5-6.) Petitioner then shook his head no. (Tr. at 19:7; AR Ex.
3 [body worn video] at timestamp 27:26
.) 
 
            Because
Officer Do asked petitioner whether he was refusing a chemical test, petitioner’s
head shake arguably could be viewed as petitioner indicating that he was not
refusing. However, the context of the peace officers’ conversation does not
support this view. In response to petitioner’s head shake, Officer Do said: “So
you said no and I’m still not gonna get a warrant for your blood, okay?” (Tr. at
19:8-9.) Officer Do thus indicated his understanding that petitioner was
refusing a chemical test, specifically a blood test. Petitioner did not correct
Officer Do by stating that he would complete a blood test. Petitioner’s failure
to correct Officer Do in his understanding that petitioner was refusing a blood
test is an acknowledgement of and agreement with Officer Do’s understanding
that petitioner refused. (Cf. Buchanan v. Department of
Motor Vehicles (1979) 100 Cal.App.3d 293, 299 [“A motorist’s
silence in the face of a police officer’s repeated requests that he submit to a
chemical test and that he choose a test to determine the alcohol content of his
blood, constitutes a refusal to submit to a chemical test.”]
 
            Further,
in connection with the officers’ efforts to assure petitioner that they would
not seek a warrant to obtain his blood, petitioner responded, “I’m not saying
anything else” and “At this point, I’d like to say no more.” (Id. at 18:2,
19:4.) Despite petitioner’s earlier denial that he was refusing chemical
testing (id.
at 17:16), petitioner’s lack of
affirmative consent to a blood is properly deemed a refusal to submit to
chemical testing. (Carrey, 183 Cal.App.3d at 1271 [“Consent which is
not clear and unambiguous may be deemed a refusal”].) 
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the weight of the evidence supports the Hearing
Officer’s finding that petitioner refused to complete a chemical test. 
 
B.          
Hearing
Officer’s Role During Administrative Per Se Hearing
 
Petitioner
contends that the Hearing Officer acted as advocate and adjudicator, in
contravention of the Court of Appeal’s holding in California DUI Lawyers
Assn. v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 517 (CDLA II).[3]
In CDLA II, the Court of Appeal held that “combining the roles of
advocate and adjudicator in a single person employed by the DMV violates due
process under the Fourteenth Amendment and the California constitution Article
I, section 7.” (CDLA II, 77 Cal.App.5th at 532.)
 
            The Court of Appeal in CDLA II
found that a hearing officer cannot serve as both advocate for the DMV and
decision maker in the same proceeding because it creates an unacceptable risk
of bias. “Although procedural fairness does not prohibit the combination of the
advocacy and adjudicatory functions within a single administrative agency,
tasking the same individual with both roles violates the minimum constitutional
standards of due process.” (CDLA II, 77 Cal.App.5th at 532.) Thus, in CDLA
II, the Court of Appeal ordered that the DMV be “permanently enjoined and
restrained from having its APS hearing officers function as advocates for the
position of the DMV in addition to being finders of fact in the same
adversarial proceeding.” (Id. at 538.)
 
            Respondent
maintains that the Hearing Officer may collect and develop evidence, as well as
render a final decision. (Today’s Fresh Start, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Office of Education (2013) 57 Cal.4th 197, 220 (Today’s Fresh Start)
[“[A] legislature may adopt an administrative procedure in which the same
individual or entity is charged both with developing the facts and rendering a
final decision”]; Knudsen v. Department of Motor Vehicles (Cal. Ct.
App., Apr. 4, 2024, No. F085992) 2024 WL 1453228, at *9 [“[A]s recognized by [CDLA
II] itself, the same agency employee may collect and develop evidence and
act as the adjudicator in a single case without offending due process”].) While
this may be true, the Court of Appeal has determined that a DMV hearing officer
must refrain from advocating on behalf of the DMV, including by presenting the
DMV’s case. (CDLA II, 77 Cal.App.5th at 533, fn. 5.)
 
            During
the APS hearing, the Hearing Officer introduced exhibits, including the DS-367 Officer’s
Statement, arrest report, and the body work video, “on behalf of the
Department.” (AR 30:8-10.) Similarly, in CDLA II, the DMV conceded that,
“as ‘trier of fact’ at the APS hearings, the hearing officer rules on the
admissibility of the documentation he or she offers as evidence as ‘advocate
for the [DMV]’ in support of the DMV's position at the APS hearing.” (CDLA
II, 77 Cal.App.5th at 527, emphasis added.) By introducing the evidence in
the case against petitioner on behalf of the DMV, the Hearing Officer acted not
as the proponent of evidence but as advocate on behalf of the DMV. 
 
            Further,
the Hearing Officer asked petitioner questions which exceeded the scope of questions
asked of petitioner by his counsel. Counsel for petitioner asked petitioner
what he learned from the officer having read the admonition about the necessity
to take a chemical test. (AR 37:25-38:6.) Petitioner asserted that the officer
said that he had to take the field sobriety test before taking a breath test.
(AR 38:15-17, 39:12-14.) Counsel for petitioner also asked petitioner why he
didn’t take the field sobriety test and why he didn’t want to do the blood
test. (AR 38:18-39:6.)
 
            After
counsel finished his questioning of petitioner, the Hearing Officer asked
questions that further developed the evidence at the hearing. In particular, the
Hearing Officer asked petitioner whether the admonishment was confusing. (AR
45:7-9.) Petitioner responded: “They interpreted back the words and it was
confusing to me.” (AR 45:10-11.) The Hearing Officer then asked petitioner if
he asked for clarification. (AR 45:12-13, 45:16-18.) Petitioner responded: “I
said I would take the breath test and that I didn’t have to take field
sobriety.” (AR 45:19-20.) The Hearing Officer then asked: “What part did you
find confusing?” (AR 45:22-23.) Petitioner responded: “That the officer kept
telling me that I had to take a field sobriety test.” (AR 45:24-46:1.) The
Hearing Officer then asked: “At any time that the admonition was read to you,
did the—did the term have to take a field sobriety test appear in that
admonition?” (AR 46:2-5.) Petitioner responded: “It appeared in their explanation
when they were (inaudible) things to me, telling me things.” (AR 46:6-8.) 
 
            By
asking petitioner whether he asked for clarification and whether the field
sobriety test appeared in the admonition, the Hearing Officer developed the
evidentiary record beyond what petitioner’s counsel had elicited with respect
to petitioner’s understanding of what the officers told him. Instead, the
Hearing Officer sought to elicit that petitioner was not confused with respect
to his obligation to complete chemical testing. Given petitioner’s consistent
position during the hearing that the officer conditioned a breath test on field
sobriety tests, the Hearing Officer appears to have sought to undermine
petitioner’s position through questioning. (Knudsen, 2024 WL 1453228, at
*12 [“Given the clarity of Moore's testimony, the question does not appear to
be legitimately developing Moore's testimony. Instead, by pointing out
something that Moore did not do, it appears to be an attempt to undermine Moore
and cast doubt on his opinion”].) 
 
            Because
the Hearing Officer introduced evidence on behalf of the DMV and sought to
elicit evidence that petitioner was properly admonished, the Hearing Officer
acted as an advocate. The Hearing Officer therefore could not also act as
adjudicator by ruling on the evidentiary objections and deciding to suspend
petitioner’s driver license. (AR 36:8-37:8.)
 
            Respondent
argues that, even if the Hearing Officer’s dual role presented a possibility of
bias, petitioner is required to show that actual bias existed. (See Southern
Cal. Underground, 108 Cal.App.4th at 549 [“[B]ias in an administrative
hearing context can never be implied, and the mere suggestion or appearance of
bias is not sufficient”].) Respondent also argues that petitioner is required
to show prejudice resulting from a procedural due process violation. “[P]rocedural
due process violations, even if proved, are subject to a harmless error
analysis,” i.e., a different outcome would have resulted in the absence
of the violation. (Hinrichs v. County of Orange (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th
921, 928.)
 
            While it may be true that ordinarily
a petitioner must demonstrate prejudice or harm to prevail on a due process
claim, the Court of Appeal in CDLA II determined that tasking the hearing
officer with advocacy and fact finding duties creates an unacceptable risk of
bias and renders any presumption of impartiality irrelevant. (CDLA II, 77
Cal.App.5th at 532.) Simply put, the Hearing Officer’s dual role at the subject
APS hearing “violate[d] the minimum constitutional standards of due process.” (Ibid.;
see also Knudsen, 2024 WL 1453228, at *9 [“California and federal cases
either expressly recognize or appear to assume that the violation of the due
process right to an impartial adjudicator, be it through a showing of actual
bias or through a showing that a constitutionally intolerable probability/risk
of bias exists, is deemed a structural error that requires reversal without
regard to the sufficiency of the evidence or the possibility of a harmless
error analysis”].) 
 
As
of July 20, 2022 at the latest, when the California Supreme Court deemed CDLA
II final, the DMV knew it would be permanently enjoined from having its
hearing officers act as advocates and adjudicators. (CDLA II, 77
Cal.App.5th at 538.) Despite the injunction, the DMV still conducted the APS
hearing in the instant matter with the Hearing Officer acting as advocate for
the DMV and finder of fact in the hearing. 
 
            For the foregoing reasons,
petitioner is entitled to a new hearing. (See Nightlife Partners v. City of
Beverly Hills (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 81, 98.) 
 
 
V.      Conclusion
 
The petition for writ of mandate is GRANTED.
Pursuant to Local Rule 3.231(n), petitioner shall prepare, serve, and
ultimately file a proposed judgment and proposed writ of mandate.
 
            Petitioner requests attorney fees
pursuant to Government Code § 800. Under the statute, complainants who
demonstrate that findings in an administrative proceeding were the result of
arbitrary or capricious action by a public entity may collect reasonable attorney’s
fees not exceeding $7,500. Petitioner may seek fees in a post-judgment motion.


