  Case Number:  23PSCV01906    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling   Demurrer  to Complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant, Dalia Martinez is to file an answer within 5  days of this order.    Background   This is an  unlawful detainer (UD) action.    On June 20,  2023, Plaintiff Covina College Street, LLC filed suit against Defendants Dalia  Martinez, David Felipe Martinez, Felipe Jesus Martinez, and Mariana Martinez  for past-due rent in the amount of $27,300.00.    On August 31,  2023, Defendants (pro per) filed the instant demurrer.    On October 4,  2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition.    Discussion   Defendants  bring forth “[t]his demurrer [] pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §1170 on  the grounds that the three-day notice served on Defendant is defective as it  does not contain the information required by Code of Civil Procedure §1161(2),  and further that the three-day notice overstates the amount due, thus it is  fatally defective and will not support an unlawful detainer action.” (Demurrer  p. 1: 21-25.)   Here, the  demurrer fails because purported improper service (the main grounds for the  demurrer) is not a reason assessed by demurrers. Rather, a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the  pleadings (i.e., it raises issues of law, not fact).[1] (See generally Rutter  Group, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 7(I)-A.) Lack of personal jurisdiction over defendant is not ground  for demurrer. (Ibid.) Instead, “an  unlawful detainer defendant may properly file a motion to quash to contest  a summons.” (Stancil v. Superior court (2021) 11 Cal.5th 381,  400-401.) However, since defendant instead of filing a motion to quash filed  a demurrer, it constitutes a general appearance, thus waiving any defect in  personal jurisdiction.   To the extent  that Defendants demur on the grounds that the three-day notice was served but  is otherwise defective as it “does not contain the information required by Code  of Civil Procedure §1161(2),” there is no explanation of facts or information  is otherwise missing. (Demurrer p. 3: 16-18 [“(e) The pleading does not  state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Here, Plaintiff’s  Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. As  such, demurrer is proper.”].) Therefore,  this argument is deemed waived and will not be considered. (See also Opp. p. 3:  4-6 [“Because Defendants failed to provide any arguments in support of  this ground, the Court should deny Defendants’ demurrer on this ground.”].)    Conclusion  Based on the  foregoing—as Defendants have not explained how the complaint and/or three-day  notice fails to plead sufficient facts to support a UD action—the demurrer is  OVERRULED. Defendants are to file their answer within 5 days of this order.      