 Case Number:  24STCV10724    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration
 
Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration is granted. 
                                                                                                                                        
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Mathew Noto
filed this lemon law action against Tesla, Inc.
(Defendant), alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Protection Act. 
 
Defendant filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. Plaintiff filed
an Opposition. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” Code Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2. “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012)
55 Cal.4th 223, 236.
“‘In determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to
a specific dispute, the court may examine only the agreement itself and the
complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration ….’” Rice v. Downs
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 185 (Rice) (quoting Weeks v. Crow
(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353). “The ordinary rules of contract interpretation
apply to arbitration agreements.” Ibid.
“‘The fundamental goal of contractual interpretation is to
give effect to the mutual intention of the parties.’ ‘Such intent is to be
inferred, if possible, solely from the written provisions of the  contract.” ‘If contractual language is clear
and explicit, it governs.’ ‘“The ‘clear and explicit’ meaning of these
provisions, interpreted in their ‘ordinary and popular sense,’ unless ‘used by
the parties in a technical sense or a special meaning is given to them by usage’
controls judicial interpretation.”‘” State of California v. Continental Ins.
Co. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 186, 195 (citations omitted). “‘The whole of a
contract is to be taken together, so as to give effect to every part, if
reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other. ‘“A
court must view the language in light of the instrument as a whole and not use
a ‘disjointed, single-paragraph, strict construction approach.’”‘ An
interpretation that leaves part of a contract as surplusage is to be avoided.” Rice,
supra, 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186. 
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration
in accordance with their arbitration agreement.
I. Valid Arbitration Agreement
Defendant provides the following evidence in support of the
motion. Plaintiff ordered a  2017 Tesla
Model from Defendant on November 3, 2020. Kim Decl., ¶ 3. In placing that
order, Plaintiff executed the Order Agreement, thereby agreeing to be bound by
its terms and conditions, which included an agreement to arbitrate. Id.,
Ex. 1. Plaintiff does not dispute that he signed the Order Agreement, or that
it contains a binding arbitration provision. Opp. at p. 3: 4-5, 23-25. Plaintiff
instead argues the agreement contains an unenforceable limitation of liability.

II. Limitation of Liability
Plaintiff argues that the limitation of liability improperly
waives his rights under the Song-Beverly Act because it limits his remedies to
the reimbursement of the order payment. Opp. at pp. 5:25-6:4 (“California Civil
Code § 1790.1 states that “[a]ny waiver by the buyer of consumer goods of the provisions
of this chapter, except as expressly provided in this chapter, shall be deemed
contrary to public policy and shall be unenforceable and void.”)
The “Limitation of Liability” provision states, “We are not
liable for any incidental, special or consequential damages arising out of this
Agreement. Your sole and exclusive remedy under this Agreement will be limited
to reimbursement of your Order Fee, Order Deposit, and Transportation Fee.” Kim
Decl., Ex. 1 at p. 11. 
By its plain language, the liability limitation clause only
applies to “damages arising out of this Agreement.” In contrast, the terms of
the “Agreement to Arbitrate” provision apply to “any dispute arising out of or
relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla…. This
includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as claims related to
statements about our products.” Viewing these adjacent provisions together, it
seems clear the parties intended to limit liability only to a narrow range of
issues, i.e., incidental, special, or consequential damages arising out of the
agreement, while arbitrating a much broader range of claims, i.e., any claim
arising out of or relating to any aspect of Plaintiff’s relationship with
Tesla. Cf. Rice, supra 248 Cal.App.4th at p.188 (Contrasting an
arbitration agreement’s narrowly worded arbitration clause with the preceding
expansively worded jurisdiction clause). While the former category necessarily
falls into the latter, more inclusive category, the agreement does not limit
Defendant’s liability to the full range of arbitrable issues. 
Plaintiff reads the limitation of liability provision as
extending to the purchase of the vehicle and his rights under the Song-Beverly
Act. Opp. at p. 5:13-15. Alternatively, Defendant advocates a narrow reading of
the provision, that is limited to the act of ordering the vehicle, as
distinguished from purchasing it. Reply at p. 21. Reading the agreement as a
whole, the Court concludes that Defendant’s interpretation is persuasive. The
disclaimer of “incidental, special, or consequential damages,” implies that
Plaintiff is not disclaiming his general or direct damages. Thus, the following
sentence must be read as confirming that general damages for breach of the
Order Agreement consist of the “Order Fee, Order Deposit, and Transportation
Fee.” Those would have been Plaintiff’s general damages if Defendant had failed
to deliver the vehicle. As Defendant persuasively argues, in that scenario, the
limitation of liability means Defendant would not be liable for expenses
Plaintiff incurred renting another vehicle while waiting. Reply at p. 2:23-27. 
The Court also notes that Defendant’s interpretation creates
a symmetry between Defendant’s liability for breach of the Order Agreement
being limited to “Order Fee, Order Deposit, and Transportation Fee,” and the
liquidated damages provision, permitting Defendant to retain those same funds
if Plaintiff canceled his order. Kim Decl., Ex. 1 at p. 9. Thus, either party’s
failure to complete the purchase would result in the forfeiture of those funds
to the other. 
Therefore, the language cited by Plaintiff limiting
Defendant’s liability for damages arising out of “this Agreement,” does not
apply to its liability under the Song-Beverly Act. The Court agrees with
Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff’s claims in this case are limited to its
alleged violations of the Song-Beverly Act. Because the Limitation of Liability
provision has no applicability in this case and does not violate the
Song-Beverly Act, the Court need not address Plaintiff’s arguments regarding
severability. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.

 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. 

