  Case Number:  23CHCV01357    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  F51 
FEBRUARY 29,
2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Request for
Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV01357

 
Motion
filed: 10/10/23
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
Freddy Alvarez; and Kathy Alvarez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order striking Defendant’s objections and
compelling
further responses, within 10 days, to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production of
Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, Nos. 1, 3, 7, 17, 23–25, 37–45, 50–53, 58–59, 68,
76, 78–79, 86, and 91–94. Plaintiffs also request monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $3,160.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is granted. Defendant to provide further code-compliant responses to
Plaintiffs’ first set of RFPs, Request Nos. 1, 3, 7, 17, 23–25, 37–45, 50–53,
58–59, 68, 76, 78–79, 86, and 91–94 within 30 days. The Court imposes sanctions
against Defendant in the amount of $790.00.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS: Plaintiffs’
evidentiary objections are overruled.
 
Plaintiffs are reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended
General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing
documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set
forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First
Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly
bookmarking declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply
with these requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected,
matters being placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be
resubmitted in compliance with these requirements, documents not being
considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs bring this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle they purchased on or
around 3/23/21, which was manufactured and distributed by Defendant. (Compl. ¶¶
4, 6.) Plaintiff alleges that “defects and nonconformities to warranty
manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including
but not limited to, engine defects; suspension defects; transmission defects;
among other defects and non-conformities,” but “Defendant GM has failed to
either promptly replace the Subject Vehicle or to promptly make restitution in
accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.” (Id. at ¶¶ 11, 15.)
 
On 5/9/23, Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging
against Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Civil Code
Section 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(b); (3) Violation
of Civil Code Section 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability; and (5) Violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. On 6/9/23,
Defendant filed its answer.
 
On 6/29/23, Plaintiffs served their Requests for Production
of Documents, Set One, on Defendant. (Decl. of Rosario Stoliker, ¶ 18.) On 7/28/23,
Defendant served its responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 20.) On 9/15/23, the
parties entered into a Stipulated Protective Order regarding documents
designated as confidential.
 
On 10/10/23, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel further
responses to their Requests for Production, Set One. On 2/16/24, Defendant
filed its opposition. On 2/26/24, Plaintiffs filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard 
 
California law requires a responding party to respond to
each request for production of documents with either a statement of compliance,
a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply, or an objection to
the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210, subd. (a).) 
 
If the response includes an objection to the demand in
part, it must also include a statement of compliance or noncompliance as set
forth above. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (a).) Additionally, the
response must (1) identify the particular
document that falls within the category of the
request to which the objection is being made, and (2) expressly set forth the
extent of, and specific ground for, the objection. (Id., subd. (b).) A propounding party may move
for an order compelling further response to a discovery request if it decides
that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete”; “(2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive”;
or “(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek to compel additional responses to their
first set of RFPs, specifically to request Nos. 1, 3, 7, 17, 23–25,
37–45, 50–53, 58–59, 68, 76, 78–79, 86, and 91–94,
which relate to “Defendant’s internal investigation and analysis of the
Defects plaguing Plaintiffs’ vehicle.” (Pl.’s Not., 1:22–23.) Plaintiffs
argue that the motion is warranted because Defendant unjustifiably failed to
respond to the requests as written and made meritless, boilerplate objections
thereto.
//
//
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel further discovery responses must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that beginning on 6/29/23,
she began meeting and conferring with Defendant’s counsel regarding raising the
issues in the instant motion. (Stoliker Decl., ¶ 26.) The parties further discussed these issues
on 7/6/23, 9/14/23, 10/4/23, 10/9/23, and 10/10/23, but were unable to come to
an informal resolution. (Id. at ¶¶ 27–33.) While the parties each
dispute the good-faith nature of opposing counsel’s meet and confer efforts,
the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer
requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.    
Defendant’s
Objections
 
Here, Plaintiffs argue, in part, that Defendant’s
objections to their first set of RFPs are without merit. (Pl.’s Mot. 10:15–17; Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) Defendant objected to each request at issue
as follows: 
“GM
objects to this Request on grounds it is overbroad, unduly burdensome,
oppressive, and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the
issues in this action. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it seeks
confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further objects this
Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the attorney-client
privilege and/or work-product doctrine.”
(Exhibit 6 to Stoliker Decl.) 
 
a.                  
Scope/Relevance 
 
Plaintiffs further argue that Defendant’s objections to the
subject RFPs on the basis that they seek irrelevant matter are meritless
because “the information and documents sought show whether and the
extent to which the Subject Vehicle failed to conform to the applicable
warranties and whether Defendant knew or should have known of the alleged
defects and its inability to repair them.” (Pl.’s Mot. 2:8–10.) Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or
“appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here,
the RFPs at issue seek “whether: (1) the Subject Vehicle suffered from a
defect; (2) its internal testing and investigation GM could repair it to
conform to warranty within a reasonable number of opportunities; (3) GM
provided its repair facilities with sufficient literature and parts to complete
repairs during the warranty period; (4) GM knew it could not repair the Subject
Vehicle but refused to repurchase it nonetheless; and (5) GM knew prior to
Plaintiffs’ acquisition of the Subject Vehicle that the vehicle and its
Transmission as well as its component parts are defective and susceptible to
sudden, premature, and catastrophic failure.” (Pl.’s Mot. 5:15–21.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that “the requested documents are
relevant to the issues related to GM’s good faith compliance with the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, including the breach of the implied
warranty of merchantability.” (Pl.’s Mot. 13:17–19.) “Plaintiffs’
requests here are targeted to elicit admissible evidence of similar prior
instances of prohibited conduct,” and “seek documents relating to GM’s internal
investigation and analysis of the Transmission Defects plaguing the Subject
Vehicle, establishing that GM previously knew of such Defects but nevertheless
refused to repurchase the Subject Vehicle.” (Id. at 14:2–4, 15:5–7.)
 
Defendant
argues in opposition that “documents about other vehicles or the design of the
Camaro are irrelevant to the pending claims.” (Def.’s Opp. 7:4–5.) “This breach
of warranty case is about Plaintiffs’ Camaro and repairs to that Camaro
under warranty. GM will produce all of the documents relevant to Plaintiffs’
breach of warranty claims. GM maintains its objections that documents about other
vehicles, complaints from or by other consumers, or the design of
specific component systems or parts are not relevant to Plaintiffs’
claim that GM failed to repair their Camaro within a reasonable number of
attempts.” (Id. at 5:25–6:2 [emphasis in original].) Defendant maintains
that the RFPs which seek documents pertaining to vehicles other than
Plaintiff’s “go well-beyond the handling of Plaintiffs’ specific claims and are
not specifically-tailored to the claims and defenses at issue in this
individual case.” (Id. at 8:20–21.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs have provided sufficient facts to
establish the requisite good cause for production of the subject documents.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) In order to obtain civil penalties
under the Song-Beverly Act, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant’s
failure to comply was willful, which may be based on the defendant’s knowledge
of a certain defect. (Civ. Code § 1794, subd. (c).) Information regarding
vehicles other than Plaintiffs’ is relevant to the subject matter of this
action as it could assist Plaintiffs in proving Defendant’s willful violation
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Documents responsive to these
requests may reasonably lead to the discovery of information as to the nature
and duration of the defects, Defendant’s knowledge of the defects, and
Defendant’s inability to repair the defects. While the cases relied on by
Plaintiff (i.e., Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138; Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967) may not involve the
exact circumstance before this Court, they are sufficient to show that the
requested information could itself be admissible or lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence in this case.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant’s relevance
objections to the subject RFPs are without merit.
 
b.                 
 Undue
Burden
 
Plaintiffs further argue that Defendant’s objections to their
first set of RFPs on the basis that they are unduly burdensome and oppressive
are meritless without any additional showing of any such undue burden or
oppression. (Pl.’s Mot., 11:2–7.) The party
objecting to a discovery request on this basis bears the burden of supplying
evidence of “the quantum of work required.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 549.) 
 
“If
a party objects to the discovery of electronically stored information on the
grounds that it is from a source that is not reasonably accessible because of
undue burden or expense and that the responding party will not search the
source in the absence of an agreement with the demanding party or court order, the
responding party shall identify in its response the types or categories of
sources of electronically stored information that it asserts are not reasonably
accessible. By objecting and identifying information of a type or category
of source or sources that are not reasonably accessible, the responding party
preserves any objections it may have relating to that electronically stored
information.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210, subd. (d) [emphasis added].)
 
In opposition, Defendant observes that Plaintiffs have
propounded 308 discovery requests, and Defendant has already produced various
requested documents in response to Plaintiff’s first set of RFPs. (Def.’s Opp.
1:4–22.) However, the Court notes that Defendant has not supplied evidence to
show the “quantum of work required” to respond in full to Plaintiffs’ first set
of RFPs, nor has Defendant stated the categories of sources of ESI that are not
reasonably accessible. Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant’s objections
to the requests to the extent that they are unduly burdensome or oppressive are
without adequate support and agrees with Plaintiffs that Defendant has waived
any objections it may assert relating to ESI.
 
c.                  
Trade Secrets 
 
Defendant objected to the subject RFPs to the extent that
each request “seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information.”
(Ex. 6 to Stoliker Decl.) Evidence Code § 1060 provides that the owner
of a trade secret has a privilege to refuse to disclose the secret and to
prevent others from disclosing it, unless allowing the privilege will conceal
fraud or result in injustice. A party that is claiming the trade secret
privilege has the burden of proving the party's entitlement to that privilege. (Amgen
Inc. v California Correctional Health Care Servs. (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th
716, 733.)
 
“‘Trade
secret’ means information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program,
device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) Derives independent economic
value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to
other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2)
Is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to
maintain its secrecy.” (Civ. Code § 3426.1, subd. (d).)
 
Here,
Defendant argues that “the documents Plaintiffs seek may relate to and contain
confidential communications between GM employees and GM’s suppliers and/or
sub-suppliers concerning technical, mechanical, and commercial issues and
analyses.” (Def.’s Opp. 10:15–17.) “Because the wholesale disclosure of GM’s
internal, confidential materials would cause GM competitive harm, GM should not
be compelled to produce any additional documents without Plaintiffs having
satisfied his heightened burden to show why he needs the documents in this
breach of warranty case, which Plaintiffs have not done.” (Id. at 11:7–10.)
 
In
support of its argument, Defendant offers the sworn declaration of Huizhen Lu,
a Senior Manager/Technical Consultant of Engineering Analysis employed with
Defendant, attesting that the documents sought may include, “design
specifications, evaluations, and performance analysis relative to
specifications, material selection, cost, and quality. Such information is not
generally available to the public. GM LLC derives value from this information’s
confidentiality and would be harmed by the loss of confidentiality.
Consequently, GM LLC makes considerable effort to keep this information
confidential.” (Ex. A to Decl. of Ryan Kay, ¶ 11.)
 
The
Court notes that the parties have already stipulated to a protective order, which
would protect against the disclosure of any claimed private, trade secret or
confidential proprietary information. Moreover, Plaintiffs filed 35 evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Huizhen Lu, primarily arguing that the witness
fails to state that she reviewed the specific documents requested by Plaintiff,
instead declaring only that she is familiar with the general type of documents
sought in these types of cases.
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has not shown adequate cause
why the specific documents requested by Plaintiffs are protected trade secrets.
Further, any claimed private, trade secret or confidential proprietary
information may be adequately protected by the terms of the Stipulated
Protective Order entered on 9/15/23.
 
C.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(h).) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs request sanctions in the total amount of $3,160.00
to be imposed on Defendant and/or its counsel. This amount includes 8 hours of
Plaintiffs’ attorney’s time working on this motion, at her hourly billing rate
of $395.00 per hour. (Stoliker Decl. ¶ 43.) Defendant argues in opposition that it acted
with substantial justification in objecting to the overbroad requests. (Def.’s
Opp. 12:13–14.)
 
In granting the instant motion, the Court finds it
reasonable to award Plaintiff sanctions against Defendant and in the amount of
$790.00.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. Defendant to provide further
code-compliant responses to Plaintiffs’ first set of RFPs, Request Nos. 1, 3,
7, 17, 23–25, 37–45, 50–53, 58–59, 68, 76, 78–79, 86, and 91–94 within 30 days.
The Court imposes sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $790.00.