 Case Number:  22STCV31049    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  CARMEN TRUJILLO, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  MIGUEL REYES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV31049  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO DEEM ADMISSIONS ADMITTED  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  September 20, 2023  I. Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted Plaintiff Carmen Trujillo (“Plaintiff”) propounded requests for admissions (“RFAs”), set one, on Defendant Miguel Reyes (“Reyes”) on October 27, 2022. (Mot. Decl. Vardanyan ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel conferred with defense counsel regarding discovery extension requests and responses. (Id. at ¶¶ 3-4.) To date, Defendant Reyes has not served responses. (Id. at ¶ 5.) Plaintiff therefore seeks an order deeming the RFAs admitted and imposing sanctions. As of September 6, 2023, no opposition has been filed. Where there has been no timely response to a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Defendant Reyes has not filed any opposition to Plaintiff’s motion, nor has Defendant Reyes otherwise demonstrated that he has served, before the hearing on the motion, a response to the RFAs that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s RFAs, set one, is deemed admitted against Defendant Reyes. (CCP §2033.280(b).)    II. Sanctions Where a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $811.65 for the instant motion. Plaintiff is awarded 1 hour to prepare the motion and one hour to appear at the hearing, all at the requested rate of $250 per hour, for a total of $500 in attorney fees. Further, Plaintiff is awarded one motion filing fee of $61.65, as costs.    Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant Reyes and his attorney of record.  Sanctions are imposed against Defendant Reyes and his attorney of record, jointly and severally.  Defendant Reyes and/or his counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $561.65, within twenty (20) days.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 19th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   