 Case Number:  22STCV31779    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 28, 2022, Plaintiff Francisco Miguel Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Arencibia Trucking Inc., Arencibia Logistic, Inc.,
Jose Ramon Preciado, and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort and general
negligence. 
On
January 27, 2023, Defendants Arencibia Trucking, Inc., Arencibia Logistic,
Inc., and Jose Ramon Preciado (“Preciado”) filed an answer.  The answer asserted the “sudden emergency”
doctrine as an affirmative defense. 
On
June 11, 2024, Preciado filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.  The
motion was set for hearing on October 3, 2024. 
On September 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On September 30, 2024, Preciado filed a
reply.  The Court continued the hearing
to November 27, 2024. 
Trial
is scheduled for February 27, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Preciado
asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“ ‘ “[A]
defendant moving for summary judgment based upon the assertion of an
affirmative defense ... ‘has the initial burden to show that undisputed facts
support each element of the affirmative defense’ .... If the defendant does not
meet this burden, the motion must be denied.” [Citations.]’ ” (Shiver v.
Laramee (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 395, 400 (Shiver), quoting Consumer
Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 467-468.) “ ‘[T]he
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show there is one or more triable issues of
material fact regarding the defense after the defendant meets the burden of
establishing all the elements of the affirmative defense. [Citations.]’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Jessen v. Mentor Corp. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1484.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Negligence 
‘The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are
“(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c)
the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) 
C.   The sudden emergency doctrine 
“Under
the ‘sudden emergency’ or ‘imminent peril’ doctrine, ‘a person who, without
negligence on his part, is suddenly and unexpectedly confronted with peril,
arising from either the actual presence, or the appearance, of imminent danger
to himself or to others, is not expected nor required to use the same judgment
and prudence that is required of him in the exercise of ordinary care in calmer
and more deliberate moments.’ ” (Abdulkadhim v. Wu (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
298, 301-302, quoting Leo v. Dunham (1953) 41 Cal.2d 712, 714; see Shiver, supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at p. 399.) 
“ ‘The
doctrine of imminent peril is properly applied only in cases where an
unexpected physical danger is presented so suddenly as to deprive the driver of
his power of using reasonable judgment. [Citations.] A party will be denied the
benefit of the doctrine of imminent peril where that party's negligence causes
or contributes to the creation of the perilous situation. [Citations.]’ ” (Shiver,
supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at p. 399, quoting
Pittman v. Boiven (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 207, 216.) 
PRECIADO’S EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS:         
          Sustained:   1, 2,
12, 13, 14          Overruled:  3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15         
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on or about March 30, 2022, at or about the westbound 60
Freeway near the Grand Avenue exit in Diamond Bar, CA 91765, “the Defendant
negligently and unlawfully owne[d], maintained, entrusted, hired, drove and
operated his/her vehicle, thereby proximately causing Plaintiff the injuries
and damages herein sued for.” 
B.   Undisputed facts 
The
accident occurred in the early afternoon of March 30, 2022 on the westbound 60
Pomona Freeway. 
Plaintiff
was acting in the scope of his employment with Chino Hills Ford and was riding
in the front passenger seat of a 2021 Ford Transit van (“the van”) being driven
by Patrick Rice (“Rice”), Plaintiff’s co-worker.  Shortly before
the accident, the van was going at about 60-70 miles per hour in the number 3
lane. 
Preciado
was acting in the scope of his employment and driving a 2009 Freightliner truck
(“the truck”) in the number 4 lane.  Preciado
was looking forward and paying attention to where he was driving.  He was not using a phone and was not
distracted as he was driving.  Preciado had
performed a pre-trip inspection earlier that day.  He had checked and made sure that various
parts of his truck, including brakes, wheels and tires, were functioning
properly.  A mechanic inspected the truck on a monthly basis. 
Arencibia
Logistics, Inc., owned the truck Preciado was driving.  In years prior
to the accident, Arencibia Logistic, Inc. was called Arencibia Trucking, Inc. 
A
sedan suddenly changed lanes and cut off the truck, coming so close that
Preciado could see only the top of the sedan. 
Preciado estimates that the sedan was 10 feet from the front of the
truck when it cut him off. 
Preciado
applied the truck’s brakes to avoid hitting the sedan.  The truck veered into the lane on the truck’s
left, where the van in which Plaintiff was a passenger was traveling.  The van and the truck collided. 
Plaintiff
was typing on his laptop and did not see how the accident occurred.  Rice, the van’s driver, testified at his deposition
that, at the time of the accident, he could not see the front of Preciado’s
truck or any vehicle in front of the truck. It appeared to Rice that the
truck’s wheel locked up and was sliding. 
Rice had no reason to disbelieve Preciado’s testimony about another car
suddenly cutting in front of him before the accident. 
C.   Preciado has not carried his initial burden on summary
judgment or summary adjudication 
Preciado
argues the Court should grant summary judgment or summary adjudication because the
sudden emergency doctrine, which Preciado has asserted as an affirmative defense, provides a complete defense to Plaintiff’s
claims.  According to Preciado, the
undisputed facts show that Preciado was faced with a sudden emergency when a
car suddenly cut in front of the truck he was driving, requiring him to apply
his brakes to avoid a collision. 
Preciado also asserts that he did not negligently create the sudden
emergency because he was driving with reasonable care. 
In opposition
to the motion, Plaintiff has submitted the opinions of his accident
reconstruction expert that (1) Preciado was driving the truck over the 55-mile
per hour speed limit before he started braking (Lee
dec. ¶¶ 8, 15), (2) Preciado failed to operate his truck at a safe speed (Lee
dec. ¶ 17), and (3) Preciado did not maintain adequate distance between his
truck and the traffic in front of him (Lee dec. ¶ 17). 
In
reply, Preciado challenges the opinions of Plaintiff’s accident reconstruction
expert, arguing (1) the expert did not consider the sedan that cut in front of
Preciado’s truck, (2) the expert’s opinion about the truck’s speed is
speculative, (3) the expert’s opinions are irrelevant, and (4) as a
non-percipient witness, the expert cannot contradict the testimony of
percipient witnesses. 
Whether
the opinions of Plaintiff’s accident reconstruction expert are persuasive is an
issue for the trier of fact.  On a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication, however, the Court does not weigh the
evidence.  Instead, the Court considers
all the admissible evidence and all the inferences reasonably drawn from it,
viewing the evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the non-moving
party.  Based on this evidence, the Court
concludes that Preciado has not carried his initial burden on summary judgment
or summary adjudication because he has not shown that Plaintiff will be unable
to prove that Preciado’s negligence caused or contributed to the dangerous situation.  Even assuming that Preciado has carried his initial
burden on summary judgment or summary adjudication, Plaintiff has presented
evidence that creates a triable issue of fact concerning whether Preciado’s
negligence caused or contributed to the dangerous situation. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Jose Ramon Preciado’s motion for summary judgment or, in
the alternative, summary adjudication. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.