  Case Number:  23STCV30311    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 MARIA GABRIELA VIEYRA, an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
 CALIFORNIA
  MEDICAL PHARMACY, INC., a business entity, exact form unknown; DAVID
  LIAUTAUD, an individual; and Does 1 through 100, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV30311
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA OF
  EMPLOYMENT RECORDS
 
Date: December 27, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY:  Plaintiff Maria Gabriela Vieyra
(“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants California Medical Pharmacy, Inc. and David Liautaud (“Defendants”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This is a harassment and
constructive termination action arising out of an employment relationship. On
December 12, 2023 Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against
Defendants and Does 1 through 100 alleging cause of action for: (1) harassment
based on sex/gender/race and national origin in violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2) discrimination based on
sex/gender/race and national origin in violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation in
violation of FEHA; (4) failure to prevent harassment, discrimination and
retaliation in violation of FEHA; (5) sexual battery; (6) intentional infliction
of emotional distress; and (7) constructive tortious termination in violation
of public policy.   
 
             On November
26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to quash Defendants’ deposition subpoena
of employment records and request for sanctions (the “Motion”). Defendants
filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the Motion on December 13, 2024, and
Plaintiff filed a reply (the “Reply”) on December 18, 2024. 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Although
it is unnecessary to request judicial notice of a matter in the same file, pursuant
to Defendants’ request, the Court takes judicial notice of: (1) The Complaint
in this matter; and (2) this Court’s December 4, 2024 Order re: Motion to Quash,
or in the Alternative, Modify, Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena of Records from
a Medical Provider. (Evidence
Code § 452, subd. (d).) 
 
DISCUSSION
            Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
1987.1 states, “[w]hen a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents or other things before a court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, …, upon motion reasonably made by the party, the witness,
or any consumer described in Section 1985.3, or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.” There is no requirement that the motion contain a meet-and-confer
declaration demonstrating a good-faith attempt at informal resolution. (See
Id.) A motion to quash does require a separate statement, unless the party
being subpoenaed did not provide any response to the subpoena. (Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345(a)(5), (b)(6).)  
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action. Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.” (CCP § 2017.010.) 
 
Plaintiff moves to quash the deposition
subpoena issued to St. John’s Hospital, Plaintiff’s current employer, on the
grounds that the subpoena “violates Plaintiff’s right to privacy, seeks
inadmissible
character evidence, seeks irrelevant evidence, and Plaintiff has not waived her
right
to
Privacy.” (Mot. p. 4:20-22.) The subpoena seeks the following information: “Any
and all writings, documents, records and electronically stored information, including,
but not limited to, the personnel file, employment records, earnings records,
applications for employment, payroll records, work absence records, incident
reports, correspondence, employee progress reports, evaluations, records of
workers' compensation claims, records of disability claims, records of wage claims,
termination records, records of discrimination and/or harassment complaints, records
of any lawsuits and records of disciplinary actions/reports pertaining to the
employment of plaintiff Maria Gabriela Vieyra for the period from December 1,
2023 to the present.” (Mot. p. 6:21-28; Nevarez Decl., Ex 1.) 
 
            Defendants argue that that
information sought “will (1) assist the defendants in evaluating and refuting
Vieyra’s extensive allegations of physical, emotional, and economic injuries
and damages, (2) identify potential trial witnesses at least on the issues surrounding
damages, (3) and will identify witnesses relevant to Vieyra’s credibility.”
(Opp. p. 5:7-11.) 
 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff seeks “damages
for lost employment income and benefits, past and future, according to proof.”
(Compl., p. 15.) Plaintiff also asserts that she continues to suffer from
“depression,
anxiety, stress, fear, embarrassment, humiliation, anger, lack of sleep, PTSD,
lack of self-esteem, nightmares, weight gain, high blood pressure, and chest
pains.” (Compendium of Exs., Ex B [Response to Form Interrogatories, No. 6.3].)
Thus, the employment records sought are relevant to assessing Plaintiff’s
damages claim for future lost employment income and benefits and to assessing her
claim of ongoing emotional injuries. 
 
Request
for Sanctions
            The court shall impose monetary
sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to quash a deposition notice, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust (CCP, § 2025.410 subd.
(d).) 
            
            Defendants request sanctions against
Plaintiff and her counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $5,940.00
based upon counsel’s rate of $495/hour for: (1) 10 hours researching and
preparing the Opposition; and (2) 2.0 hours preparing for and traveling to the
hearing on this matter. (Opp., Vásquez Decl., ¶ 2.) Although the Court has
ruled in Defendants’ favor on this motion, the sanctions requested are
excessive. Thus, a 9.0 hour reduction is appropriate here. Accordingly,
Defendants’ request for sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,485.00.

 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena of Employment is DENIED. 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to pay sanctions to Defendants in the total amount of $1,485.00 within
20 days of this order. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 27th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



