 Case Number:  22STCV19369    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE DISMISSAL 
Hearing Date: 10/3/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV19369 MANUEL LOPEZ, et
al. vs SUSANA CASARRUBIAS HERRERA
Moving Party: Plaintiffs 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO SET ASIDE DISMISSAL IS GRANTED
 
Section 473,
subdivision (b) states in pertinent part: “The court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect....
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Italics added.) 
        Section
473, subdivision (b), provides for two distinct types of relief.  “Under
the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from
a “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against” a party or
his or her attorney. Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand,
upon a showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,” the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.”  The range of attorney conduct for which relief can be granted
in the mandatory provision is broader than that in the discretionary provision,
and includes inexcusable neglect.  But the range of adverse litigation
results from which relief can be granted is narrower. Mandatory relief only
extends to vacating a default which will result in the entry of a
default judgment, a default judgment, or an entered dismissal.”  (Leader
v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603,
615–616.)  ¿¿ 
To gain the statutory
benefits, a party or legal representative must seek such relief “within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”¿(Code
Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 (Rappleyea).   
Here, the case was
dismissed on December 12, 2023, and the present motion to set aside was filed
on June 12, 2024, within the six-month deadline. Further, Plaintiffs’ prior
attorney submitted a declaration detailing his mistake or neglect, which
resulted in the law firm not attending trial on December 12, 2023. Counsel’s
mistake led to the dismissal as the minute order indicate that the case was
dismissed under Code of Civil Procedure § 581(b)(3) for failing to appear at
trial. Finally, dismissal is a type of court order that falls within the scope
of mandatory relief under CCP § 473(b). All requirements for mandatory relief
have been met and therefore Plaintiffs’ motion is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 