 Case Number:  21STCV45326    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ERNESTO RIVERA, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
BIMBO
  BAKERIES, INC.; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV45326
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
October
  3, 2024




BIMBO
  BAKERIES USA, INC., 
                   Cross-Complainant,
          vs.
 
LOGISTICS
  ACADEMY: ROBERT HEATH LOGISTICS, INC., also known as ROBERT HEATH TRANSPORTATION;
  ROES 1 through 200, inclusive,
 
                   Cross- Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)




ROBERT
  HEATH LOGISTICS, INC., also known as ROBERT HEATH TRANSPORTATION, 
 
                   Cross-Complainant,
          vs.
 
LOGISTICS
  ACADEMY; MOES 1 
through
  100, inclusive,
 
                   Cross-Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)




LOGISTICS
  ACADEMY, 
 
                   Cross-Complainant,
          vs.
 
ON
  TIME EXPRESS LLC; and ZOES 1 
through
  100, inclusive,
 
                   Cross-Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)











 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Robert
Health Logistics
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
March 5, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant Bimbo Bakeries
USA, alleging that several large pellets fell on Plaintiff while he was
transporting containers for Defendant Bimbo Bakeries USA. On March 13, 2023,
Defendant Bimbo filed a cross-complaint against Logistics Academy and Robert
Health Logistics for indemnity. On March 13, 2023, Robert Health Logistics
filed a cross-complaint against Logistics Academy. On July 10, 2023,
Cross-Defendant Logistics Academy filed a Cross-Complaint against On Time
Express LLC.
On
April 2, 2024, Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Robert Health Logistics (“Cross-Complainant”)
filed its First Amended Cross-Complaint that was later withdrawn. On August 27,
2024, Cross-Complainant moved the Court for leave to file a First-Amended
Cross-Complaint. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect.” Code Civ.
Proc., § 473(a)(1). In addition, “any judge, at any time before or after
commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as
may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference
order.” Code Civ. Proc., § 576.   
“[T]he court’s discretion will usually
be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings.”  Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.  “Where
no prejudice is shown to the adverse party, the liberal rule of allowance
prevails.” Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564; cf. Arthur
L. Sachs, Inc. v. City of Oceanside (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 315, 324 (denial
of leave to amend on the eve of trial was error absent a showing a prejudice); Higgins,
supra, 123 Cal.App.3d at pp. 565–566 (same). 
“A motion to amend a pleading before
trial must: 
1.  
Include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; 
2.  
State
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and 
3.  
State
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.” 
Cal. Rule of Court, rule
3.1324(a). 
 
“A separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify:  
1.  
The
effect of the amendment; 
2.  
Why
the amendment is necessary and proper;  
3.  
When
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and 
4.  
The
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” 
Cal. Rule of Court, rule
3.1324(b). 
 
DISCUSSION
Cross-Complainant Robert Health Logistics
moves for leave to amend its cross-complaint and file the First Amended Cross-Complaint. The
motion will be granted. 

Cross-Complainant’s motion
     satisfies the statutory precepts under California Rules of Court Rule
     3.1324.¿ 

With its motion for leave to file the
FAC, Cross-Complainant has included a “redlined” copy of the proposed FAC.¿ (Motion, Exh. 1.)¿ Cross-Complainant’s motion indicates
that the FAC contains new causes of action for Express Indemnity and
Declaratory Relief. (Ibid.) Cross-Complainant’s motion indicates that
the FAC names two new parties, On Time Express, LLC, and Aziz Trucking, Inc. (Ibid.)
Thus, the motion states what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. (Mot., Turner Declaration.)¿
Further, Cross-Complainant’s motion is
accompanied by a separate declaration which states the effect of the amendment,
why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered, and the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. (Mot., Turner Decl.)¿
Therefore, Cross-Complainant’s motion
meets the minimum requirements under Rule 3.1324. Its motion will be
granted absent a showing of prejudice to Plaintiff, the only party who filed an
Opposition.¿See
Higgins, supra, 123 Cal.App.3d at p. 564.¿ 
2.  
Plaintiff’s
Opposition
Plaintiff argues that the Court should
deny the motion on the following grounds: a) the proposed amendments are futile
under the Worker’s Compensation Exclusivity Rule; b) the proposed amendments
are barred by the Statute of Limitations; c) Cross-Complainant’s delay in
proposing its amendments in unexcused; and d) undue prejudice will result from
the Court granting Cross-Complainant’s motion. No other parties filed an
opposition. 

Plaintiff fails to establish Futility
     under the Worker’s Compensation Exclusivity Rule.

Plaintiff argues that the Court should
deny the motion because the proposed amendments are futile under the Worker’s
Compensation Exclusivity Rule. Plaintiff references “the Worker’s Compensation
Exclusivity Rule” but fails to state the language of the rule or cite to a code
section or any case law supporting the existence of this rule. Thus, Plaintiff
fails to justify why Cross-Complainant’s motion should be denied on this
ground.

Cross-Complainant’s claims are not
     barred by the Statute of Limitations. 

Plaintiff argues that the Court should
deny the motion because Cross-Complainant’s claims are barred by the statute of
limitations.
First, the Court notes that an amended
complaint is not barred by the applicable statute of limitations under the
relation back doctrine where the proposed amendment: (1) rests on the same
general set of facts as the original complaint; and (2) refers to the same
incident and same injuries as the original complaint.  Barrington v.
A.H Robins Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 146, 151 (Barrington). 
Here, Cross-Complainant apparently
seeks to add causes of action arising from the same transaction as their
original claims. Cross-Complainant may reasonably succeed at arguing that these
claims for Express Indemnity and Declaratory Relief are allowed under the
relation back doctrine.  See Barrington, supra, 39 Cal.3d at
p. 151.  If Plaintiff believes that Cross-Complainant’s claims are
time-barred because they do not fall under the relation back doctrine, the
proper avenue by which Plaintiff might raise such a statute of limitations
defense could be a demurrer, a motion for summary adjudication, or a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, not in its brief opposing Cross-Complainant’s motion
for leave to amend the Cross-Complaint. Thus, Plaintiff fails to justify
why Cross-Complainant’s motion should be denied on this ground.
C.  
Cross-Complainant
has not demonstrated unwarranted delay in bringing this motion.
Plaintiff argues that Cross-Complainant
has demonstrated unwarranted delay in bringing its motion for leave to
amend. See Huff v. Wilkins (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 732, 746
(unwarranted delay may be sufficient for trial court to deny motion for leave
to amend). 
However, Cross-Complainant reasonably
argues that the proposed amendment is based on new facts that were first
discovered during deposition testimony on February 23 and 28, 2024. (See Mot.,
p. 8:19-25.) On April 1, 2024, Cross-Complainant’s counsel emailed all
parties requesting that they stipulate to the filing of their First Amended
Cross-Complaint in light of the deposition testimony. (Mot., p. 8:26-28.) On
April 2, 2024, Cross-Complainant filed its First Amended Cross-Complaint and
summons. (Mot., p. 9:1-2.) On April 4, 2024, Cross-Defendants On Time Express
and Logistics Academy each filed a demurrer and motions to strike the First
Amended Cross-Complaint. (Mot., p. 9:3-6.) 
On May 17, 2024, the parties stipulated
to Cross-Complainant withdrawing its First Amended Cross-Complaint without
prejudice and the Cross-Defendants withdrawing their demurrers and motions to
strike with the understanding from all parties that Cross-Complainant would
seek leave of the Court to file the instant motion. (Mot., p. 9:7-10.) On June
3, 2024, Cross-Complainant’s counsel requested via email that the parties agree
that Cross-Complainant would file its First-Amended Cross-Complaint adding
causes of action for Express Indemnity and Declaratory Relief. (Mot., p. 9:11-13.)
On June 13, 2024, Cross-Complainant’s counsel circulated the proposed red-lined
First Amended Cross-Complaint and Cross-Defendant Logistics Academy requested a
joint stipulation regarding the same, which was signed by both Defendant Bimbo
and Cross-Defendant Logistics Academy on July 1 and 15, 2024, respectively.
(Mot., p. 9:13-17.) On August 15, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel informed
Cross-Complainant that Plaintiff would not stipulate and suggested that
Cross-Complainant proceed with the instant motion. (Mot., p. 9:17-18.)
Cross-Complainant filed this motion for
leave to amend their cross-complaint and file the first amended cross-complaint
on August 27, 2024. The Court finds that under the circumstances in this case,
Cross-Complainant has not demonstrated unreasonable delay in bringing the
instant motion. Cross-Complainant’s filed their First Amended Cross-Complaint shortly
after learning of the new information in Plaintiff’s deposition, but
Cross-Defendants’ demurrers lead to a stipulation between all parties regarding
Cross-Complainants withdrawal of the initial first amended cross-complaint with
an understanding from all parties that Cross-Complainant would seek leave of
Court to file. Less than one month passed between the parties’ stipulation for
withdrawal of the First Amended Cross-Complaint and Cross-Complainant’s request
to stipulate as to the filing of the new First Amended Cross-Complaint, which
Cross-Complainant circulated a red-lined version of. 
Plaintiff made no indication that he
would oppose this motion until August 15, 2024, after being nonresponsive to the
request for stipulation for filing and multiple phone calls by
Cross-Complainant regarding the same. (Reply, p. 5:3-10.) Shortly after
learning of Plaintiff’s unwillingness to stipulate, Cross-Complainant filed the
instant motion. Based on the foregoing, Cross-Complainant did not “wait nearly
seven months to bring this motion” and did not have “plenty of opportunity to
bring its motion immediately after February 2024” as Plaintiff argues. (Opposition,
p. 6:20-21.) Thus, Cross-Complainant has not demonstrated unreasonable delay in
bringing the instant motion. 
D.  Plaintiff fails to show any undue
prejudice will result from the Court granting Cross-Complainant’s motion.
Finally, Plaintiff argues that he will
be unduly prejudiced if the Court grants Cross-Complainant’s motion for leave
to amend its complaint because Cross-Complainant’s added parties will require Plaintiff
to “undergo the discovery process all over again with new parties, and likely
undergo another deposition.” (Opp., p. 8:23-24.)  
Having to engage in discovery practice
is a basic feature of litigation, not proof of actual
prejudice. Furthermore, per Plaintiff’s own application, the Court has
already continued the trial date in this case from June 24, 2024, to February
19, 2025. (Opp., p. 8:7-9.) This motion is not made on the eve of trial as
Plaintiff argues, but even if this motion were made on the eve of trial, the
case law directs the Court to allow parties to amend their pleadings so long as
there is no showing of actual prejudice. Negative consequences for the opposing
party can be mitigated by continuing the trial. See Thompson Pacific
Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525,
545. 
Here, the facts are such that allowing Cross-Complainant
to amend its cross-complaint will not improperly prejudice Plaintiff. Plaintiff
also argues that granting the instant motion will result in the loss of
critical evidence because Defendant Bimbo will not agree to produce its
policies and procedures without the signatures of the proposed new
Cross-Defendants, On Time Express and Aziz Trucking, because they would now be
considered parties to the case based on the Proposed Cross-Complaint. However,
Plaintiff provides no authority to support the argument that another party’s
refusal to produce evidence in discovery justifies a denial of a Cross-Complainant’s
motion for leave to amend. The court’s discretion to liberally permit amendment
of the pleadings is not defeated by another party’s choice to withhold
discovery on the basis of the Cross-Complaint, which is an issue independent of
whether the proposed amendments to the Cross-Complaint are proper to begin with.
Plaintiff asserts that he has filed Motions to Compel relating to these
discovery issues, which is the proper avenue by which they might raise such an
argument. 
Further, the Cross-Complaint does not
name Plaintiff, such that Plaintiff does not need to mount any defense to the
causes of action therein. However, if Plaintiff believes that he neede
additional time to conduct discovery, the Court is open to providing another
continuance of the trial date. If necessary, the parties are encouraged to meet
and confer to stipulate to an approximate new trial date. 
Because Plaintiff has not shown that he
will suffer undue prejudice upon the Court granting Cross-Complainant’s motion,
the motion will be granted.¿ See Honig, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at p. 965.¿ 
III.       
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS the Motion for Leave
to file First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
        Dated this 3rd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 