  Case Number:  21STCV13910    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE AND MOTION TO CONTINUE
TRIAL
Hearing Date: 10/3/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV13910 DORIS FAY
WILLIAMS, AN INDIVIDUAL vs DILIP BHAKTA
Moving Party: Defendant DILIP BHAKTA
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE AND MOTION TO CONTINUE
TRIAL ARE DENIED.

Legal Standard 
 
California
Rule of Court 3.350, subdivision (a) states in relevant part: 
¿¿ 
(1) A notice of motion to consolidate must: 
(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of
those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; 
(B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and 
(C) Be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated. 
¿¿ 
(2) The motion to consolidate: 
(A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of
determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and
other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case;¿¿ 
(B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and 
(C) Must have a proof of service filed as part of the
motion.¿ 
¿¿ 
(Cal. Rule of
Court 3.350, subd. (a)). 
Also, the
consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, states in relevant
part: 
 
(a)¿ When actions involving a common question of law or
fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any
or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. 
¿¿ 
(b)¿ The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States. 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).)    
 
The granting
or denial of the motion to consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the
trial court and will not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of
discretion. (See Fellner v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)
 
The present motion failed to comply with the standards set
forth under Rule 3.350. First, the notice of motion did not list all named
parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, or the names of
their respective attorneys of record. Second, it failed to include the captions
of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case
listed first. Third, the notice was not filed in each case sought to be
consolidated. Without this information, the Court cannot determine whether all
parties in every case have been properly served. Thus, the motion to
consolidate is DENIED.
As for the trial
continuance, the trial in the instant action is currently scheduled for
November 25, 2024. Defendant seeks a continuance on the basis that written
discovery and depositions have not been completed in the related actions. The
two related cases were both filed in 2022, but Defendant has not specified
which related case has outstanding discovery, nor has Defendant provided an
explanation as to why discovery has not been completed in cases that have been
pending since 2022. Furthermore, Defendant has failed to articulate how, if at
all, the incomplete discovery in the related cases would impact the lead case.
Additionally, Defendant has not addressed the various factors for a trial
continuance under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c) and (d).
Defendant has provided
minimal information for the Court to find good cause for granting the
continuance. Therefore, the request for continuance is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 