 Case Number:  22STCV36910    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARCO
  NICOLAS,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
GERARDO ZAMORA, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE
  NO.: 22STCV36910
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S FORM
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE; MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
  SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
October
  3, 2024



 
          On
November 22, 2022, plaintiff Marco Nicolas (Plaintiff), filed this action
against defendants Gerardo Zamora; Uber Technologies, Inc.; Raiser-CA, LLC;
Raiser, LLC; and Does 1 through 100 for injuries arising from a vehicle
collision.
On May 3, 2024,
Plaintiff served defendants Uber Technologies, Inc; Raiser-CA, LLC; and Raiser,
LLC (collectively, Defendants) with Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories. On June 5, 2024, Defendants provided their objection-only
responses to the foregoing discovery. The responses were not verified by
defense counsel. On July 15, 2024, Defendants provided further responses to the
foregoing discovery. These responses also were not verified by defense counsel.
On September 5,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendants to serve further, verified
responses to Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories.
On September 16,
2024, Defendants served Plaintiff with signed verifications for both the June 5
objection-only responses and the July 15 substantive responses.
On September 19,
2024, Defendants filed oppositions to the motions to compel further responses.
Defendants stated in their oppositions and included supporting exhibits that
they have agreed to provide further responses in accordance with Plaintiff’s
separate statements.
On September 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed replies to the oppositions.
 
Discussion
Any party may obtain
any discovery of information, documents, land, property or electronically
stored information so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is
relevant to the subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) If a court determines the scope of discovery imposes a
burden, causes great expense or is intrusive and such outweighs the likelihood
that the discoverable information sought will garner admissible evidence, the
court shall limit the scope of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.020.)  
When responses to
interrogatories are deficient, the propounding party may file a motion to
compel further responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300.) A motion to compel
further responses to interrogatories may be brought when the responses contain:
(1) “a statement of compliance when the demand is incomplete;” (2) “answers
that are inadequate, incomplete or evasive;” and (3) “an objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.” (Ibid.)  
The court finds that
Plaintiff’s motions are moot. Here, Defendants have served verification on
September 16, 2024, before the hearing, for their prior responses, and have
agreed to provide further responses in accordance with Plaintiff’s separate
statement. (Opp. Mot. Compel Further Resp. to FROGS, p. 4; Fuentes Decl. Opp.
Mot. Compel Further Resp. to FROGS, Ex. 6-7.)
Sanctions
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides that a court may impose a
monetary sanction for misuse of the discovery process unless a court finds that
the one subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (b) and (d) provides that misuse of the
discovery process includes using a discovery method in a manner that does not
comply with its specified procedures and failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.
The court finds that
sanctions are warranted. Defendants failed to submit verified responses to
Plaintiff’s form interrogatories or special interrogatories until after
Plaintiff filed motions to compel further responses.
          
Moreover, Defendant
contends the responses were timely. It contends the responses were due on June
5, based on the fact that, without considering the 2-day extension for
electronic service, the responses were due on a Saturday and, pursuant to CCP
12 sections 12a and 1010.6(a)(2)(B), the due date then became Monday. Then,
adding the two days for service, Defendant calculated that the final deadline
was June 5, 2024.
Defendant’s
calculations are a morass of mistakes.  First, Defendant contends the
initial calculation had the responses due on Saturday, June
2.  But, June 2 was a Sunday.  As a result, CCP 12a, which
applies to holidays and Saturdays, does not apply here.  Defendant is
correct that Section 1010.6(a)(2)(B) does apply, but using June 2 as the due
date, extends the due date to June 4, not June 5.  So, while in its
opposition, Defendant recognizes it made some scheduling mistake, it fails to
recognize the mistake it actually made.  Plaintiff was correct – the
responses were due on June 4.
Based
on the discussion that the Court had with the parties at the IDC, the issue
here becomes centered on waiver and sanctions because Defendant did provide
further responses.  Technically, Defendant waived its objections
because its responses were late (whether or not the Court would provide it with
relief from this waiver is not before the Court).  Ultimately,
Plaintiff had to bring motions that likely could have been avoided if Defendant
had simply recognized its due date calculation error.  But, that did
not happen.  Accordingly, the Court awards Plaintiff sanctions
against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally in the reasonable
amount of $3000, to be paid within 20 days.  (The Court denies
Defendant’s request for sanctions.)  
Plaintiff has
requested sanctions in the amount of $4,355, calculated based on his attorney’s
hourly fee of $450 for 9.5 hours and an $80 filing fee. Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions against Defendants and their counsel is GRANTED in the
reduced amount of $3,000, which the Court deems
reasonable.  Sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiffs’ counsel within
20 days.
 
Conclusion
          In
light of the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One and to Special Interrogatories, Set One are MOOT.
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions against Defendants and their counsel
in the amount of $3,000. Sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel within
20 days.
 
 
 
Dated this 3rd day
of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 