 Case Number:  23STCV13640    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
Hearing Date: 10/3/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV13640 CHRISTIAN
HAYWOOD vs CEDAR SINAI
Moving Party: Defendant Cedars Sinai 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
 
Ruling: DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE ARE GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Background
On June 14, 2023,
Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a two-page Complaint. The first page contains the
case caption and lists the defendant as “Cedar Sinai.” The second page is
handwritten and almost illegible, but it appears to allege the following: 
·       
Plaintiff had a stroke three years ago
and was brain dead for seven days.  
·       
“On May 21,” Plaintiff went to “Cedar
Sinai” with “head swelling” and “a hard time breathing.” 
·       
Plaintiff was never called to the back
and was then discharged. 
Defendant now demurs
and moves to strike the pleading on the grounds of uncertainty and the fact
that the pleading is not signed. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
Uncertainty 
CCP section 430.10(f)
provides that a pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous and unintelligible.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) “A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine
what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him or her.” (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).) “The objection of uncertainty
does not go to the failure to allege sufficient facts.” (Brea v. McGlashan
(1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) “It goes to the doubt as to what the pleader
means by the facts alleged.” (Id.) “Such a demurrer should not be
sustained where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to
apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet.” (People v. Lim
(1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.)  
Discussion
Here, the complaint
contains no jurisdictional allegations. Plaintiff does not state whether the
events occurred in California or elsewhere, leaving the Court uncertain if it
has jurisdiction to hear this case. 
A significant portion
of the handwritten complaint is nearly illegible, which further exacerbates the
uncertainty of the pleading. Plaintiff alleges that he was "not called to
the back and then discharged." At another point, Plaintiff alleges that “they
stole my belt buckle” and “[p]rice is well over the limit.”  Ultimately, it is unclear what cause of
action Plaintiff is alleging: medical malpractice, negligence, or another cause
of action. This lack of clarity makes it impossible for Defendant to prepare a
defense or even understand what claims are being made against it.
Additionally, the
complaint does not allege any specific damages (except the stolen belt buckle) or
explain how Defendant's conduct caused harm. Under California law, a complaint
must include not only the facts supporting the cause of action but also a
demand for judgment for the relief to which the pleader claims to be entitled.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.10(a).) The foregoing absences adds to the uncertainty
of the pleading.
Furthermore, under
California law, every pleading, including a complaint, must be signed by the
party (if they are representing themselves) or by the attorney representing the
party. (California Code of Civil Procedure § 128.7(a).) The present complaint does
not include Plaintiff's signature and therefore should be stricken.
The Complaint is
uncertain and lacks Plaintiff’s signature, but since this is Plaintiff’s first
complaint, Plaintiff will be given an opportunity to amend. Thus, the demurrer
is sustained with leave to amend within 20 days.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 