  Case Number:  21VECV00418    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  T CYPERS V. GRANATELLI
21VECV00418             
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Fox Rothschild LLP and Conrad
Wilton’s Motion to Consolidate and Stay the Action is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
Introduction 
Defendants Fox Rothschild LLP and
Conrad Wilton (collectively, Fox Defendants) moved to consolidate Reuven Justin
Cypers aka Rory Cypers; Residual Income Opportunities, Inc. v. Joseph R.
Granatelli; David Gurnick; Stephen Holzer; Lewitt, Hackman, Shapiro, Marshall
& Harlan, a Law Corporation; Lincoln D. Bandlow; Rom Bar-Nissim; Conrad
Wilton; Fox Rothschild LLP; Law Offices of Lincoln Bandlow, P.C. (Super. Ct.
Los Angeles County, pending, No. 
21VECV00418)  (Instant Action)
with the related action, Reuven Justin Cypers aka Rory Cypers; Residual Income
Opportunities, Inc. v. David Gurnick; Stephen Holzer; Lewitt, Hackman, Shapiro,
Marshall & Harlan, a Law Corporation; Lincoln D. Bandlow; Rom Bar-Nissim;
Law Offices of Lincoln Bandlow, P.C. (Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, pending,
No.  23VECV00811) (Related Action).   The Fox Defendants further requested that,
upon consolidation, the entire consolidated action be stayed based upon the two
appeals as to the denials of the Anti-SLAPP motions filed by Co-Defendants
Stephen Holzer and Lewitt, Hackman, Shapiro, Marshall & Harlan, a Law
Corporation (collectively, Lewitt Defendants) and Co-Defendants The Law Offices
of Lincoln Bandlow PC and Lincoln Bandlow (collectively, Bandlow Defendants).  
In the Instant Action, the only
viable party defendants are the Fox Defendants. 
All other named defendants in the Instant Action were voluntarily
dismissed by Plaintiff on June 15, 2021, June 21, 2021 and July 28, 2021.  Further, the Fox Defendants are not named
defendants in the Related Action.
Discussion
When actions involving a common
question of law or fact and are pending before the same court, the Court may
order complete or partial consolidation. 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1048.) 
There is no dispute between the parties that the two actions involve
common questions of law or fact. 
However, the Court notes that the two actions are not pending before the
same court.  The two cases are
technically assigned to this Court. 
However, as admitted by both parties, the Related Action is currently on
appeal from the denial of two Anti-SLAPP motions filed by the Lewitt Defendants
and the Bandlow Defendants.  Due to the
two Appeals in the Related Action, this Court does not have jurisdiction over a
portion of the Related Action and more specifically does not have jurisdiction
over proceedings that could affect the merits of the appealed denial of the
Anti-SLAPP.  Because the Fox Defendants
failed to show that the entirety of the Related Action is pending before this
Court, the Fox Defendants failed to meet their initial burden on the motion to
consolidate. 
The Court exercises its
discretion to maintain the independence of the two actions, at least until the
two appeals in the Related Action are resolved and the Court of Appeal issues
its remittitur.  
The motion to consolidate the two
actions and to stay the consolidated action is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.