 Case Number:  23VECV05528    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  T MCCALL V GM 23VECV05528
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant General Motors LLC’s Demurrer to
the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 10 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant General Motors LLC’s
Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint is GRANTED WITH 10 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.
Plaintiff Zachary McCall is
GRANTED LEAVE to re-file his First Amended Complaint that was previously
rejected by the Court within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendant General Motors LLC
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Zachary Thomas McCall’s (Plaintiff)
Complaint.  The demurrer placed into
issue the first cause of action (COA) for breach of contract through breach of
express warranty; the second COA for breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability; the third COA for strict liability for manufacturing defect;
the fourth COA for strict liability for design defect – consumer expectations;
the fifth COA for strict liability for design defect – risk benefit; the sixth
COA for strict liability for failure to warn; the seventh COA for general
negligence; the eighth COA for negligent failure to recall/retrofit; the ninth
COA for breach of contract by way of breach of implied warranty of fitness for
purpose; tenth COA for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing; the eleventh COA for concealment; the twelfth COA for false promise;
the thirteenth COA for negligent misrepresentation; and the fourteenth COA for
intentional misrepresentation.  Plaintiff
filed an opposition to the demurrer and Defendant filed their reply.
Defendant’s motion to strike
sought to strike improper allegations supporting the requested relief under the
Song-Beverly Claims, breach of warranty and breach of contract; injunctive
relief; rescission or restitution. 
Plaintiff did not file an opposition to the motion to strike.
Discussion 
The Court finds Defendant’s
arguments in the demurrer and motion to strike to be persuasive.  Plaintiff’s opposition to the demurrer was
merely a rendition of the general rules governing demurrers and failed to present
argument against the substance of the demurrer. 
Plaintiff also relied on their attempt to file a First Amended Complaint
(FAC).    The attempted filing of the FAC
was properly rejected by the Court on July 30, 2024 because Co-Defendant Keyes
Motors Inc. (Keyes) filed an Answer on March 6, 2024.  Keyes’ Answer foreclosed Plaintiff’s right to
file an amendment without leave of Court. 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 472;  Woo
v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 175.)  However, Plaintiff’s attempt to amend the
Complaint is sufficient to show that there is a possibility of curing the
pleading defects identified by Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike.  In that this is the Court’s first review of
the pleading, the Court exercises its discretion in following its rule of
liberally permitting amendments.  (Tarrar
Enterprises, Inc. v. Associated Indemnity Corp. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 685,
688-689; Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.)  
The demurrer to the Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.