  Case Number:  22VECV01134    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  W YOSEF COHEN,
et al. v. KAMBIZ KAMANGAR, et al.
 
motions for
terminating sanctions
 
Date of Hearing:        May
8, 2024                                       Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV01134
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 9, 2022, Plaintiffs Yosef
Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstyan filed a complaint against Defendants World Tech
Toys, Inc., World Trading 23, Inc., Kevork Kouyoumjian, Kambiz Kamangar, and
Kamir Distribution, LLC asserting causes of action for (1) Breach of Oral Joint
Venture Agreement; (2) Unlawful, Fraudulent & Unfair Business Practices; (3)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (4) Fraud. On January 12, 2023, Plaintiffs
amended their complaint adding two additional causes of action for Breach of
Partnership Agreement and Declaratory Relief. 
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendant Kamangar
made fraudulent representations to Plaintiff Cohen regarding a business
opportunity arising from the Pandemic. Plaintiffs allege Defendant Kamangar
represented to Plaintiff Cohen Defendant KOUYOUMJIAN had extensive contacts in
China as a result of his companies, World Trading 23, Inc. and World Tech Toys,
Inc., which were involved in importing goods from China for sale in the United
States and actively encouraged Plaintiff Cohen and Plaintiff Ter-Galstanyan to
order the gloves. Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to perform in accordance
with the term so of the Agreement as well as their fiduciary duty. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Defendants Kevork Kouyoumjian, World
Tech Toys, Inc. and World Trading 23, Inc.’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions
or Contempt Against Plaintiffs is GRANTED
II.                 
Defendants
Kambiz Kamangar and Kamir Distribution LLC’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions Against
Plaintiffs is GRANTED
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Both Moving Defendants request this
court take judicial notice of several court documents regarding the criminal
actions against Plaintiffs in support of their motions for terminating
sanctions. The court GRANTS the Moving Defendants’ request for judicial notice.

 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANTS KEVORK KOUYOUMJIAN, WORLD
TECH TOYS, INC. AND WORLD TRADING 23, INC.’S MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
OR CONTEMPT AGAINST PLAINTIFFS
 
Defendants Kevork Kouyoumjian, World
Tech Toys, Inc., and World Trading 23, Inc. (collectively the “WT Defendants”)
move this court for an order for terminating sanctions pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030(d)(1), (4). Alternatively, WT Defendants seek
an order of contempt pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010(a),
(d), and (e). WT Defendants make the motion as a result of Plaintiffs’ discovery
abuses and their subsequent refusal to comply with the order of this court.
 
Terminating sanctions are authorized
where the evidence shows that less severe sanctions will not be successful in
compelling discovery responses. (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-80, distinguished on other grounds by New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1426.)
Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used
to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for
the lack of information.¿(Electronic Funds Solutions, LLC v. Murphy¿(2005)
134 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1183;¿McGinty v. Sup. Ct.¿(1994) 26 Cal.App.4th
204, 214;¿Midwife v. Bernal¿(1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64, superseded on
other grounds as stated in¿Kohan v. Cohan¿(1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967,
971.) 
 
Contempt is any act, in or out of
court, “which tends to impede, embarrass or obstruct the court in the discharge
of its duties.”¿ (In re Shortridge (1893) 99 Cal. 526, 532.)¿ Particular
acts constituting contempt are enumerated by statute, including:¿
“(d)isobedience of any lawful ... order, or process of the court”;¿
“(d)isobedience of a subpoena duly served”; “refusing to ... answer as a
witness”;¿ “(d)isorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the judge
while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of ... trial.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1209(a); see also Code Civ. Proc. § 1991 [disobedience of
subpoena]; and Pen. C. § 166 [misdemeanor].)¿ In addition, courts have inherent
power to punish acts that interfere with the orderly conduct of proceedings.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128(a)(3); In re Buckley (1973) 10 Cal.3d 237,
247.)¿ Any person who commits a contemptuous act may be punished for contempt,
which includes attorneys (Hallinan v. Superior Court (1925) 74 Cal.App.
420, 426 [persisting in arguing objections after repeated warnings by judge]; Hanson
v. Superior Court (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 75, 84-85 [attorney misconduct
during closing argument]) and parties (In re Coleman (1974) 12 Cal.3d
568, 573 [labor union violated temporary restraining order]).¿ 
 
 
 
WT Defendants argue Plaintiffs have
made clear that they have no intention to participate in this litigation even
upon an order of this court. Plaintiffs are currently incarcerated and could
have dismissed this case without prejudice until such time that they were able
to proceed. Instead, Plaintiffs forced the WT Defendants to proceed with
litigation as the case has been set forth trial on June 3, 2024. WT Defendants
further argue such actions by Plaintiffs are willful.  There is a process in the federal penitentiary
system for Plaintiffs to respond to discovery yet Plaintiffs have refused to
comply with the Orders of this Court. As a result, WT Defendants seek terminating
sanctions for the dismissal of this action in its entirety. Alternatively, if
the court declines WT Defendants’ request for terminating sanctions, WT
Defendants request that the court issue a contempt order staying Plaintiffs’
prosecution of their claims and providing that the contempt order may only be
purged upon Plaintiffs doing the following within 10 days of the order: (1)
providing all responses to all written discovery without objection; (2)
producing all documents requested; and (3) paying Defendants a total of
$14,242.95 ($4,777.95 for prior sanctions as well as $9,465.00 associated with
the cost of preparing this motion). 
 
The court finds terminating sanctions
warranted. The record shows Plaintiff has failed to respond to WT Defendants’
discovery requests. Although currently incarcerated, Plaintiffs are fully
capable of participating in the instant litigation yet have chosen not to. Lesser
sanctions would not be appropriate in this case, as Plaintiffs’ prior failures
to comply with court orders compelling discovery show that lesser sanctions
would not be effective. 
 
Accordingly, the court grants WT
Defendants’ motion for terminating sanctions. WT Defendants may obtain seek a
judgment for the prior monetary sanctions awarded.
 
II.                 
DEFENDANTS
KAMBIZ KAMANGAR AND KAMIR DISTRIBUTION LLC’S MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS AGAINST
PLAINTIFFS
 
Defendants Kambiz Kamangar (“Kamangar”)
and Kamir Distribution LLC (“Kamir”) (collectively “Defendants”) move this court,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.030(d)(3) and 2023.010(d)(g) for
an order for terminating sanctions by issuing an order dismissing the action brought
by Plaintiffs Yosef Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstanyan for their complete failure to
abide by this Court’s February 7, 2024 Order and their misuse of discovery. In
the alternative, Defendants seek an order for issue, evidence, and/or contempt
sanctions against Plaintiffs. Defendants also seek an order for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiffs in the amount of $7,099.45 for reasonable attorneys’ fees
and costs associated with bringing this motion against Plaintiffs.
 
Defendants argue terminating sanctions
for dismissal are warranted because anything short of dismissal will, in the
end, yield the same results. Moreover, it would be unfair to continue and drag
Defendants through litigation while Plaintiffs are in prison and continue to
misuse the discovery process and this Court’s Order. Plaintiffs continue to ask
for extensions only to ignore Defendants’ communications and force unwarranted
expenses on Defendants. Defendants further argue if the court is unwilling to
enter terminating sanctions, they can enter issue or evidentiary sanctions or
contempt. However, Defendants believe none of these would have an effect.
Regardless of how the court rules, Defendants still request this court order
Plaintiffs to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $7,099.45 for reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs associated with this Motion. 
 
Based on the reasoning stated above,
Defendants’ motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. Defendants may obtain
seek a judgment for the prior monetary sanctions awarded.