..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCP01869
Plaintiff's Name: C.Y., B.Y., O.W., L.W., T.X., T.X. (guardian ad litem for V.X.), H.N. (guardian ad litem for J.N.), A.D., and K.D.
Defendant's Name: Antelope Valley Union High School District
People-Names: C.Y., B.Y., O.W., L.W., T.X., V.X., H.N., J.N., A.D., K.D.
Company-Names: Antelope Valley Union High School District
Places: Antelope Valley
Dates: November 1, 2023
Events: Motion to Seal, Application to Proceed Under Fictitious Names, Appointment of Guardian Ad Litem
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiffs intend to proceed with fictitious names to protect their privacy and prevent harassment and humiliation
Facts: Plaintiffs are students or recent graduates of schools within the Defendant district, some have disabilities requiring specialized educational programs, and they allege discriminatory school disciplinary practices
Disputes: None mentioned
Acts: Plaintiffs filed a motion to seal and an application to proceed under fictitious names
Agreements: Defendant does not oppose the motion and application
Laws: California Rules of Court (CRC) Rule 2.550, CRC Rule 2.551, Universal City Studios v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (Unity Pictures Corp.) (2003)
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Judge Mitchell Beckloff
Significant Statements: "The private nature of the information is an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access... The public will have substantive information; the information, however, will not be tied to any particular Plaintiff."
Case Citations: Universal City Studios v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (Unity Pictures Corp.) (2003)
```

And here is a summary in English text:

The Judge, Mitchell Beckloff, has issued a tentative ruling in the case 23STCP01869, Antelope Valley v. Antelope Valley Union High School District. The Plaintiffs, C.Y., B.Y., O.W., L.W., T.X., V.X., H.N., J.N., A.D., and K.D., have moved to seal their notice of application and applications to proceed under fictitious names, as well as the applications for appointment of a guardian ad litem. The court has granted the motion to seal and the application to proceed under fictitious names.

The Judge found that the private nature of the information sought to be sealed, which includes personal and sensitive information about the Plaintiffs, is an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access. The Judge also found that the Plaintiffs' privacy interests outweigh the public's interest in obtaining the information, and that the Plaintiffs would suffer extreme prejudice if the motion to seal was not granted.

The Judge noted that the Plaintiffs' request to proceed under fictitious names is narrowly tailored and that there is no less restrictive means available to protect their sensitive personal information and provide the public with information relevant to the substance of the action. The Defendant did not oppose the Plaintiffs' request.

The court's ruling is based on California Rules of Court (CRC) Rule 2.550 and CRC Rule 2.551, as well as the case Universal City Studios v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (Unity Pictures Corp.) (2003).
