 Case Number:  23STCP01869    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  86 CANCEL THE CONTRACT-ANTELOPE VALLEY v. ANTELOPE VALLEY
UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
Case No. 23STCP01869
Hearing Date: November 1, 2023
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
GRANTING MOTION TO SEAL and 
                             ORDER
GRANTING APPLICATION TO PROCEED UNDER FICTITIOUS NAMES
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
 
Motion to Seal
 
Plaintiffs, C.Y., B.Y., O.W., L.W., T.X., T.X. as
guardian ad litem for V.X., H.N., H.N. as guardian ad litem for
J.N., A.D., and K.D. (collectively, Plaintiffs), move to seal their Notice of
Application and Plaintiffs’ Applications to Proceed Under Fictitious Names
(Fictitious Names Application) as well as the applications for appointment of a
guardian ad litem filed by T.X. and H.N. (GAL Applications).
 
The court has no evidence the motion to seal has been
served on Defendant, Antelope Valley Union High School District. The court
proceeds as if Plaintiffs provided proper notice on the assumption Plaintiffs
will provide proof of service at the time of hearing. The motion to seal is
unopposed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“A
party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to
justify the sealing.” (California Rules of Court [CRC], Rule 2.551, subd.
(b)(1).)
 
The
court must make express findings to support sealing under CRC, Rule 2.550.
Specifically, CRC, Rule 2.550, subdivision (d) provides:
 
The court
may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds that: 
(1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record;
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed;
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. 
 
In
finding records may be sealed, the court must find a substantial probability
that the moving party would be prejudiced absent sealing. (Universal City
Studios v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (Unity Pictures Corp.)
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1280-1284)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Some Plaintiffs in this action are students at or
recently graduated from schools within Defendant district. Several
plaintiffs—B.Y., L.W., V.X. and K.D. have been diagnosed with disabilities
requiring specialized educational programs to address their needs. 
 
Plaintiffs allege they have all faced discriminatory
school disciplinary practices.
 
Plaintiffs C.Y., O.W., T.X., H.N. and A.D., are the
parents to some of the student Plaintiffs in this action.
 
Plaintiffs have filed conditionally under seal their
Fictitious Names Application and GAL Applications. Relying on CRC, Rule 2.550,
Plaintiffs contend they are entitled to seal portions of the documents. The
court agrees.
 
First, the information sought to be sealed
identifies the Plaintiffs by name in this matter for purposes of the Fictitious
Names Application. The underlying allegations concern minors, their educations
(or educational plans/needs and related diagnosed disabilities) and any
discipline imposed upon them by the district. The information is private
personal information about Plaintiffs. It is also of a sensitive nature. The
private nature of the information is an overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access. The public’s access to such personal information is generally
extremely limited.
 
Second, the nature of Plaintiffs’ interest overrides
the public interest in obtaining the information. While ultimately the sensitive
information might be disclosed during the proceedings, the names of the
Plaintiffs will not. Thus, the public will have substantive information; the
information, however, will not be tied to any particular Plaintiff.
 
Third, if the court does not grant the motion to
seal, Plaintiffs’ privacy interests will be compromised. That is, each
Plaintiff will be identified along with the private information about that
individual. Thus, each Plaintiff will suffer extreme prejudice if the motion to
seal is not granted. The motion facilitates Plaintiffs’ request to proceed with
fictitious names in this action.
 
Fourth, Plaintiffs’ request is narrowly tailored.
The only information Plaintiffs seek to seal is their names—information that
would necessarily tie them to the sensitive personal information.
 
Finally, there is no less restrictive means
available to protect Plaintiffs’ sensitive personal information and also
provide the public with information relevant to the substance of the action.
 
Fictitious Names Application
 
Plaintiffs request they be permitted to proceed in
this matter by way of fictitious names. The need for proceeding in such manner
is explained in the related motion to seal. This action necessarily requires
personal sensitive information related to Plaintiffs be considered by the
court. The sensitive information relates to Plaintiffs’ education, educational
records, educational plan, disabilities and discipline imposed.
 
Defendants expressly do not oppose Plaintiffs’
request.
 
The court agrees with Plaintiffs—if Plaintiffs’ true
names were revealed in this action, they could be subject to harassment and
humiliation. Proceeding by way of fictitious name will protect Plaintiffs’—some
of whom are minors—private health information, educational records (including
disciplinary records) and private mental health information.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion to seal and
Fictitious Names Application are GRANTED.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
November
1, 2023                                                                ________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge
of the Superior Court
 