

 
Petitioners, Greenenvtech, LLC and Greenenvtech Grow, LLC, seek a
writ of mandate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 compelling
Respondents, the County of Los Angeles and Kerstin Schlegel, individually and
in her official capacity as the Senior Planner in the Zoning Enforcement North
Section, to rescind the notice of building code violations related to alleged
grading work without the benefit of permit or inspection or provide Petitioners
with an appeal hearing on the violation. In addition to Petitioners’ claim
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, Petitioners assert causes of action
for violations of procedural and substantive due process, equal protection, the
takings clause and declaratory relief. (See Amended Petition, Causes of Action Two
through Six.) On May 12, 2021, this court stayed all proceedings except
Petitioners’ request for a traditional writ of mandate and the derivative
declaratory relief claim. (See Amended Petition, Causes of Action One and
Seven.)
 
On May 12, 2021, this court set Petitioners’ first and seventh
causes of action for trial on March 9, 2022.
 
On January 10, 2022, the parties submitted a stipulation
requesting that the trial be continued. The parties advised they were engaged
in settlement negotiations. The parties requested a trial date of September 14,
2022 or later. The court accepted the stipulation and continued the trial to
September 14, 2022.
 
Thereafter, the court granted two additional continuances of the
trial pursuant to the parties’ stipulations.
 
On March 13, 2023, Respondents provided Petitioners with notice of
today’s trial date and the related briefing schedule.
 
On September 11, 2023, Respondents filed and served upon
Petitioners their notice Petitioners failed to file their opening brief. The
notice reported the court order required Petitioners to file and serve their
opening brief no later than September 2, 2023. Respondents noted “Petitioners
have failed to provide any evidence to support their petition for traditional
writ of mandate.” (Notice 2:6-7.)
 
Petitioners have failed to file an opening brief or present
evidence to support their writ and derivative declaratory relief causes of action.
Petitioners have not sought to continue trial through a written motion.
 
Evidence Code section 664 creates a presumption “that official
duty has been regularly performed.” (Evid. Code, § 664.) Given the presumption
and Petitioners’ burden in mandamus, it follows that Petitioners have not met their
burden—that is, they have not overcome the presumption of regularity contained
in Evidence Code section 664—where they file no opening brief demonstrating
error.
 
Additionally, California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1103 provides writ
petitions are considered law and motion matters. (Cal. Rules of Court [CRC],
Rule 3.1103, subd. (a)(2).) A memorandum must be filed in support of a law and
motion matter. (CRC, Rule 3.112, subd. (a)(3).) A party filing a motion “must
serve and file a supporting memorandum.” (CRC, Rule 3.113, subd. (a).) The
memorandum must set forth “a statement of facts, a concise statement of the
law, evidence and arguments relief on, and a discussion of statutes, cases, and
textbooks cited in support of the position advanced.” (Id. at subd.
(b).) The failure to file a memorandum may be construed by the court as an
admission the motion “is not meritorious and cause for its denial.” (Id. at
subd. (a).)
 
Petitioners’ failure to file an opening brief is fatal to their
claims under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 and for declaratory relief. Without
an opening brief, the court cannot determine whether Respondents properly
discharged any ministerial, mandatory and non-discretionary duties. Moreover,
there is no evidentiary basis for the court to take any action here. (See California
Oak Foundation v. Regents of the University of California (201) 188
Cal.App.4th 227, 255-256.)
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the petition is denied—Petitioners have
not met their burden of demonstrating error. 
 
Having resolved Petitioners’ first cause of action for a writ of
mandate and seventh cause of action to the extent it is derivative of the writ
of mandate claim,[1]
the remaining causes of action (two through six) are transferred to Department
1 for reassignment to a non-writ department.
 
IT
IS SO ORDERED.
 
November 1, 2023                                                                ________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge
of the Superior Court


