  Case Number:  21STCV12593    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 April 22, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCV12593
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Grace Gangapersaud, et al. v. Robinson
Helicopter Company, Inc., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1)
Defendant, Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc. 
                                                (2) Plaintiffs, Grace
Gangapersaud, Ryan Persaud, Sharita
Persaud, Lavendranauth Persaud, Jamwantee Sukhu, and Neelomie Cooper
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1)  Plaintiffs, Grace
Gangapersaud, Ryan Persaud, Sharita Persaud, Lavendranauth Persaud,
Jamwantee Sukhu, and Neelomie Cooper
                                                (2) Defendant,
Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc. 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       May 20, 2024  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s
Person Most Knowledgeable and Production of Documents
                                                (2) Defendant, Robinson’s, Motion to Continue Trial 
 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1) Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel
the Orloff expert is GRANTED for a date before the current expert discovery
cut-off date of May 5, regardless of Mr. Ronk’s availability. The Court will
rule on the expert discovery motion before addressing the trial continuance
(2)  Robinson’s Motion
to Continue Trial is to be ARGUED.   The evidence presented as to the grounds for
the continuance is that Mr. Ronk’s other trial will be concluded several weeks
before the May 20 current trial date.   Trial has already been postponed multiple
times, and the Court has no assurance that Mr. Ronk will be available even on
the October date Robinson seeks. 
 
 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On
April 1, 2021, Plaintiffs, Grace
Gangapersaud, Ryan Persaud, Sharita Persaud, Lavendranauth Persaud, Jamwantee
Sukhu, and Neelomie Cooper (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants,
Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc., Lycoming Engines, an operating division of
Avco Corporation, Massachusetts Corporation, HBD Industries, Inc., an Ohio
Corporation, HBD/Thermoid, Inc., an Ohio Corporation, FSH Maintenance, LLC, a
Florida, Corporation, Florida Suncoast Helicopters, LLC, a Florida Corporation,
and DOES 1 through 25 (“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action
for: (1) Strict Products Liability – Against Robinson Helicopter Company; (2)
Negligence – product Liability – Against 
Robinson Helicopter Company; (3) Negligence – Diagnosis, Repair and
Transport/Flight – Against Robinson Helicopter Company; (4) Breach of Implied
Warranty of Merchantability – Against Robinson Helicopter Company; (5)
Negligence – Against Florida Suncoast Helicopters and FSH Maintenance, LLC; (6)
Strict Products Liability – Against Lycoming; (7) Negligence Products Liability
– Against Lycoming; (8) Strict Products Liability – Against HBD; and (9)
Negligence Products Liability – Against HBD.  
 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On April 3, 2024, Defendant, Robinson
Helicopter Company filed an ex parte application to continue trial. On April 5,
2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. On April 9, 2024, this Court set a
hearing on the motion to continue trial for April 22, 2024. 
 
Additionally, on April 8, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant, Robinson Helicopter
Company Inc.’s Designated Expert Witness Kenneth Orloff, Ph.D. On April 15,
2024, Robinson filed an opposition. On April 18, Plaintiffs filed a reply.  
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Motion to Compel Orloff’s Expert Deposition 
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, section (a)
provides:  
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  
The motion must “be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition…by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions if the motion to compel is
granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances would make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  
Meet and Confer 
            Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450, Plaintiffs are required to meet and confer
in good faith prior to the bringing of this motion. Here, based on Plaintiffs’
moving papers as well as Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration, this Court finds
that Plaintiffs have sufficiently met and conferred. 
Motion to Compel the Deposition
            On the
expert deposition motion, Robinson argues that Plaintiffs’ motion is moot
because Robinson has already indicated that it would be willing to provide
proposed dates for the deposition of its designated expert, Kenneth Orloff,
Ph.D., based on lead trial counsel’s and Dr. Orloff’s availability. As noted by
this Court at the April 9, 2024 hearing to advance the date of his testimony,
this Court expressed its tentative views that it would not be unreasonable for another
attorney from Robinson’s counsel’s firm beside Mr. Ronk to prepare and defend Dr.
Orloff’s deposition on behalf of Robinson.  The Court has authority to regulate the timing
and sequence of discovery in the interests of justice, to compel the attendance
of persons to testify, and to provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings
before it.  (See Code of Civil Procedure
§§ 128(a)(3), (6); 2019.020(b).)  The
Court has authority to impose sanctions against a party who fails to submit to
an authorized method of discovery.  (Id.
§ 2023.010(d).)   Plaintiffs here have a statutory right complete
expert witness discovery on or before the 15th day before trial,
which is currently set for May 20, 2024. 

Robinson further notes that its
counsel provided Plaintiffs’ counsel with May 22, 2024 or May 23, 2024, for Dr.
Orloff’s deposition, both of which are after the current and not yet
re-re-re-continued trial date.  Here,
this Court is inclined to grant Plaintiffs’ request and order the deposition of
Kenneth Orloff, Ph.D to a date before May 5, regardless of Mr. Ronk’s
availability.  Robinson has not presented
good cause as to why the deposition cannot occur before the currently scheduled
May 5 expert discovery cut-off date, a date that has already been continued
multiple times.
 
B.    Motion
to Continue Trial 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance.  (Id.) The Court may look to
the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:
(1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance
of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of
the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another
trial.  (See generally, Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(d)(1)-(11).)  Additionally, factors for the Court to consider include: a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; the proximity of the trial date;
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
 
Discussion
 
            Robinson
argues that good cause exists for the continuance of the trial. First, Robinson
notes that Mr. Ronk, lead trial counsel for Robinson, will be engaged in
another trial on May 20, 2024. Robinson’s moving papers indicate that on the
first day of jury selection in that case, the Court advised the jury pool that
the trial was anticipated to last until the first week of May 2024. Robinson states
that jury selection was completed on March 21, 2024, and that the 20th day of
trial will fall on Monday, May 6, 2024. Next, Robinson notes that another trial
is currently trailing in another one of Robinson’s counsel’s cases and is
scheduled to start on April 15, 2024. Thus, Robinson contends that Mr. Ronk
will not be available to start trial on May 20, 2024, in this matter, and there
is good cause to continue trial.  The
Court will hear argument and needs an update as to the statute of Mr. Ronk’s
current trial and the one that had ben scheduled to commence on April 15.
 
            Robinson
is requesting a continuance of less than five months (October 7, 2024), and
notes that the case is well within the five-year-statute. Further, Robinson
contends that the parties or witnesses will not suffer any prejudice as a
result of the short continuance; however, Robinson asserts it will be
prejudiced in the proceedings with trial without its lead trial counsel or
other trial counsel. As such, Robinson maintains that it is in the interest of
justice to continue the trial to permit Robinson to have its lead trial counsel
available for trial. Further, Robinson acknowledges that it has previously
sought to continue trial once in December 2023, which was granted, and that the
parties further stipulated to continue trial after that. Moreover, on March 3,
2023, Robinson notes that Defendants HBD Industries and HBD/Thermoid filed an
ex parte application to continue trial, which was granted, and that they again
stipulated to an ex parte application to continue trial, which was also
granted. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Robinson’s ex parte application is improper
and should be denied because Robinson offers no factual showing of a statutory
basis for ex parte relief. More specifically, Plaintiffs argue that Robinson
fails to show, through its moving papers and the Declaration of Candice S. Nam,
that this ex parte application is justified to prevent irreparable harm,
immediate danger, or any other statutory grounds, as required by the California
Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1202(c).) Plaintiffs acknowledge
that not having lead counsel for Defendant would certainly present an
inconvenience to counsel, Plaintiffs contend that 
 
            Further,
Plaintiffs assert that Ms. Nam states that Defendants will be prejudiced if
their lead counsel is unavailable on the date trial is to commence but does not
explain why a potential trial continuance could not have been resolved through
reasonable meet and confer efforts with Plaintiffs’ counsel or through a
properly noticed motion. (Nam Declaration ¶ 8.) As such, Plaintiffs argue that
this Court should deny Defendant’s ex parte application of this motion.   Of course, the Court treated the ex parte
application as a request to shorten time to hear a noticed motion, giving
Plaintiffs time and opportunity to provide further evidence or briefing than
the opposition papers they filed on very short notice before the ex parte
hearing, or for the parties to agree on a continued trial date sooner than
October of 2024.  
 
            As to
the motion to continue on the merits, Plaintiffs argue that this is now the
fourth continuance of this trial, and that Plaintiffs have been amenable to
continuing the trial by stipulation to a mutually agreeable date where they are
provided genuine opportunity to do so and if the circumstances require it.
Plaintiffs contend that defense counsel knew of the conflicts on their calendar
before April 2, 2024, and that defense counsel should have met and conferred to
discuss their scheduling concerns and alternative trial dates.   Plaintiffs
note that the Rules of Court to grant a continuance do not include the unavailability
of lead trial counsel, and that Robinson raised the same grounds in the last ex
parte application that they filed in December 2023. In both motions, Plaintiffs
contend that Robinson fails to explain why they cannot seek a continuance in
their other trials to avoid repeated further delay in this one. Lastly,
Plaintiffs point out that if it is true Robinson and their counsel are unable
to appear for trial until after June 2024, Robinson’s application provides no
justification for continuing the trial four more months – into October 2024. 
 
            As
for prejudice, Plaintiffs argue that there are witnesses from six different
states who have all blocked the time to appear, Plaintiffs’ counsel has blocked
time and passed on other trials that would interfere with trying this case, and
all six Plaintiffs have blocked this time to travel to Los Angeles for this
trial. 
 
            Analysis          
 
            The
Court notes that there is no indication that any lawyer at the Gordon Rees
lawfirm besides Mr. Ronk could not try this case, or that Mr. Goetz who has
appeared on numerous hearings in this and other Robinson Helicopter cases would
greatly fall short of Ronk’s representation. Second, the Court acknowledges
that Mr. Ronk’s lack of availability was the reasoning behind Robinson’s last
motion to continue the trial.  Can
Robinson Helicopter guarantee that even if the Court were to continue the trial
to October 7, 2024 that Mr. Ronk would be certain to be available then?   The Court is mindful that as mentioned at the
April 9, 2024 ex parte hearing on the Dr. 
Orloff deposition, the Court mentioned was inclined to grant a
continuance of the trial date, which may have engendered discussion among
counsel as to a potential continued trial date into the Summer, not Fall, of
2024.
 
            Thus,
depending on this Court’s analysis below, as well as the parties’ oral
arguments during the hearing, the Court is inclined to grant a brief
continuance depending on availability of deponent and counsel for the parties. 
 
¿¿¿ 
 