 Case Number:  24TRCP00007    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    April 22, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      24TRCP00007
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           G. Joseph Buck v. City of Torrance
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Plaintiff,
G. Joseph Buck, in Pro Per
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Defendant, City of Torrance 
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set.
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                             (1) Petitioner’s Petition for Injunctive Relief Ordering
Compliance with California Public Records Act, Cal. Gov’t Code § 7920.000 et
seq., and Cal. Constitution, Art. 1, § 3(2) City's Request for Judicial Notice
 
Tentative Ruling:                       (1) DENIED. DJL Architects’ plans are protected by federal copyright laws that the City
validly raised as grounds for refusal to permit Mr. Buck to copy, although the
City complied with the CPRA in allowing him to inspect those plans.  The Court can conduct in camera review of the
documents submitted to confirm these grounds, and Mr. Buck can explain his
intended use of the copy he seeks to make at his own expense(2) RFJN is granted
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On January 5, 2024, Petitioner, G. Joseph Buck filed a
Petition for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief order Compliance with the
California Public Records Act, Cal. Gov Code §§ 7020.000 et seq., and
California Constitution Art. 1, § 3(b). In Petitioner’s Petition for
Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Order for Compliance with the Public Records
Act, Petitioner contends that Responded uses the label “PRE23-00013” to
identify a recent request for approval of a Precise Plan of Development for
property located at 22209 Susana Ave., Torrance, CA. (Petition, ¶ 17.) The
Petition indicates that Respondent’s planning department holds and retains
documents pertaining to Precise Plan PRE23-00013 in a file identified in The
same manner. (Petition, ¶ 18.) On December 18, 2023, at Petitioner’s request,
Petitioner notes that Respondent permitted Petitioner to examine the contents
of the file, maintained in Respondent’s Planning Department, that contained
documents filed by the Applicant for approval of Precise Plan PRE23-00013.
(Petition, ¶ 19.) Later that day, Petitioner notes that he then delivered to
Respondent, Petitioner’s Public Records Act request identified as “Public
Records Act Request re: PRE23-00013,” which request Respondent then further
identified as “Public Records Act Request:: W011717-121823.” (Petition, ¶ 20.) 
 
The Petition further contends that in his Public
Records Act Request, he asked for Respondent’s “permission to use [his] own
equipment to photograph, and obtain for [him] a copy of each of the documents
that [he] examined in the City of Torrance Planning Department on December 18,
2023, and that [he] described above,” i.e., “large-sized sheets of paper that
bear the labels: A1 – Site Plan, A2 – First Floor Plan, A3 – Second Floor Plan,
Aa5 – Elevations, A7 – Roof Plan, and TS – Boundary/Topography Survey.” (Petition,
¶ 21.) Petitioner notes that with the exception of the Document labeled
“A1-Site Plan” Respondent refused to permit Petitioner to photograph any of the
Documents. (Petition, ¶ 23.) Petitioner asserts that Respondent’s refusal to
allow Petitioner to use Petitioner’s own equipment, to make and retain a copy
of each of the Defendants (with the exception of the Document identified as
A1-Site Plan), violates the provisions of the CPRA as set forth by Government
Code section 7922.530(b). (Petition, ¶ 29.)
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On April 5, 2024, Petitioner filed a
brief in Support of Petitioner’s Verified Petition. On April 8, 2024,
Respondent filed an opposition brief. On April 8, 2024, Respondent also filed a
Notice of Lodgment of Exhibit “E” In Camera review. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            With Respondent’s opposition papers, Respondent has
Requested this Court take judicial notice of the following: 
 
1.    
Relevant excerpts from the meeting agenda for
the January 17, 2024 City of Torrance Planning Commission meeting, Supplemental
#1 – Item 8C and Supplemental #2 – Item 8C. (Exhibit C to the Declaration of
Oscar Martinez (“Martinez Declaration”).)
2.    
Relevant excerpts from the minutes from the
January 17, 2024 City of Torrance Planning Commission meeting. (Exhibit D to
the Martinez Declaration.)
3.    
The complaint in the lawsuit entitled, G. Joseph
Buck v. City of Torrance, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22TRCP000251.
(Exhibit F to the Declaration of Jennifer Vicente Guerrero (“Guerrero
Declaration”.) 
4.    
Relevant excerpt from the California Municipal
Law Handbook (CEB 2023). (Exhibit G to the Guerrero Declaration.)
5.    
Relevant excerpt from The People’s Business, A
Guide to the California Public Records Act (Cal. League of Cities Sept. 2022).
(Exhibit H to the Guerrero Declaration.)
6.    
The Legislative History (Bill Analysis) for
Senate Bill 1214, a true and correct copy of which is attached as Exhibit I to
the Guerrero Declaration. 7. Circular 1: Copyright Basics published by the U.S.
Copyright Office, a true and correct copy of which is attached as Exhibit J to
the Guerrero Declaration.
 
The Request for
Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
 
III. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
A party may seek
to set aside an agency decision by petitioning for either a writ of
administrative mandamus (Code Civ. Proc. §1094.5) or of traditional mandamus. (Code
Civ. Proc., §1085.) A petition for traditional mandamus is appropriate in all
actions “to compel the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins as
a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station.” (Ibid.)  
 
A traditional
writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 is the method of
compelling the performance of a legal, ministerial duty. (Pomona Police
Officers’ Assn. v. City of Pomona, (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 583-584.)
Generally, mandamus will lie when (1) there is no plain, speedy, and adequate
alternative remedy, (2) the respondent has a duty to perform, and (3) the
petitioner has a clear and beneficial right to performance. (Id. at 584.)
Whether a statute imposes a ministerial duty for which mandamus is available,
or a mere obligation to perform a discretionary function, is a question of
statutory interpretation. (AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County
Dept. of Public Health, (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 693, 701.)
 
Where a duty is
not ministerial and the agency has discretion, mandamus relief is unavailable
unless the petitioner can demonstrate an abuse of that discretion. Mandamus
will not lie to compel the exercise of a public agency’s discretion in a
particular manner. (American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees v. Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 247, 261.) It is available to compel an agency to exercise
discretion where it has not done so (Los Angeles County Employees Assn. v.
County of Los Angeles, (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 1, 8), and to correct an abuse
of discretion actually exercised. (Manjares v. Newton, (1966) 64 Cal.2d
365, 370-371.) In making this determination, the court may not substitute its
judgment for that of the agency, whose decision must be upheld if reasonable
minds may disagree as to its wisdom. (Id. at 371.) An agency decision is
an abuse of discretion only if it is “arbitrary, capricious, entirely lacking
in evidentiary support, unlawful, or procedurally unfair.” (Kahn v. Los
Angeles City Employees’ Retirement System, (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 98, 106.)
A writ will lie where the agency’s discretion can be exercised only in one way.
(Hurtado v. Superior Court, (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 579.)
 
No administrative
record is required for traditional mandamus to compel performance of a
ministerial duty or as an abuse of discretion. 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
The California Constitution 
 
The People
have the constitutional right of access to information concerning the conduct
of the people's business, and, therefore, the meetings of public bodies and the
writings of public officials and agencies shall be open to public
scrutiny.  (Cal. Const. art. I, §3(b)(1).)  A statute, court rule, or
other authority shall be broadly construed if it furthers the people's right of
access, and narrowly construed if it limits the right of access.  (Cal.
Const. art. I, §3(b)(2).)  If a statute, court rule, or other authority
adopted after the effective date of this subdivision of the constitution limits
the right of access, it shall be adopted with findings demonstrating the
interest protected by the limitation and the need for protecting that
interest.  Cal. Const. art. I, §3(b)(2).   
 
 
The California Public Rights Act (“CPRA”)
 
The CPRA was
enacted in 1968 to safeguard the accountability of government to the public. (San
Gabriel Tribune v. Superior Court, (1983) 143 Cal.App.4th 762, 77172.) 
Government Code section 7921.000 declares that “access to information
concerning the conduct of the people’s business is a fundamental and necessary
right of every person in this state.”  The CPRA’s purpose is to increase
freedom of information by giving the public access to information in possession
of public agencies. (CBS. Inc. v. Block, (1986) 42 Cal. 3d 646, 651.) The
CPRA was intended to safeguard the accountability of government to the public,
and it makes public access to governmental records a fundamental right of
citizenship.  (Wilson v. Superior Court, (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 1136, 1141.)
This requires maximum disclosure of the conduct of government operations. (California
State University Fresno Assn., Inc. v. Superior Court, (“California State
University”) (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 810, 823.  In 2004, the voters
endorsed the CPRA by approving Prop 59, which amended the state Constitution to
declare that “the writings of public agencies…shall be open to public
scrutiny.”  (Cal. Const. Art. I, §3(b).)
 
The CPRA makes
clear that “every person” has a right to inspect any public record. (Gov.
Code, §7922.525(a).) The inspection may be for any purpose; the requester’s
motivation is irrelevant. (Gov. Code, §7921.300.) The term “public record” is
broadly defined to include any writing containing information relating to the
conduct of the people’s business prepared, owned, used or retained by any state
or local agency regardless of physical form or characteristics. (Gov. Code, §7920.530(a).)
The definition of “state agency” excludes agencies described in Articles IV and
VI of the state constitution, which describe the legislative and judicial
branches, except the State Bar of California. (Gov. Code, §7920.540.)
 
A CPRA request
must reasonably describe an identifiable public record or records. (Gov. Code,
§7922.530(a).) Upon receiving a request for a copy of public records, an agency
must determine within ten days whether the request seeks public records in the
possession of the agency that are subject to disclosure, but that deadline may
be extended up to 14 days for unusual circumstances.  (Gov. Code, §§
7922.535(a), (b).)  Nothing in the CPRA “shall be construed to permit an
agency to delay or obstruct the inspection or copying of public records.” (Gov.
Code, §7922.500.)
 
Even significant
expense to the agency will not excuse an agency from conducting a thorough
search for responsive records unless it constitutes an undue burden.  (See,
e.g., CBS Broadcasting Inc. v. Superior Ct., (2001) 91 Cal. App. 4th 892,
909 ($43,000 cost to agency to compile responsive public records was not valid
reason to deny CPRA request).) “Reasonable efforts do not require that agencies
undertake extraordinarily extensive or intrusive searches, however.  In
general, the scope of an agency’s search for public records ‘need only be
reasonably calculated to locate responsive documents.’” (City of San Jose v.
Superior Court, (“San Jose”), (2017) 2 Cal.5th 608, 627 (citation
omitted).)
 
The “CPRA does
not prescribe specific methods of searching for those documents and agencies
may develop their own internal policies for conducting searches.  Some
general principles have emerged, however. Once an agency receives a CPRA
request, it must “‘communicate the scope of the information requested to the
custodians of its records,’ although it need not use the precise language of
the request...” (Ibid. (citation omitted).) If the agency determines
that the requested records are subject to disclosure, it must state in the
determination “the estimated date and time when the records will be made
available.” (Gov. Code, §7922.535(a).) There is no deadline expressed in
number of days for producing the records.  Rather, the agency “shall make
the records promptly available.” (Gov. Code, §7922.530(a).)
 
If the agency
determines that the requested records are not subject to disclosure, the agency
must promptly notify the person making the request and provide the reasons for
its determination. (Gov. Code, §7922.535(a).) The agency must justify
withholding a responsive record by demonstrating it is exempt or that on the
facts of the case the public interest served by not disclosing the record
clearly outweighs the public interest served by disclosure of the record. (Gov.
Code, §7922.000.) The determination that the request is denied, in whole or
part, must be in writing. (Gov. Code, §7922.540(a).)
 
CPRA Exemptions
 
In this case,
Respondent argues that at least two exemptions from the CPRA apply to
Petitioner’s request for copies of the Records, which every public agency in
the state of California relies on to protect architectural plans and other
copyrighted material in its files: (1) the express exemption for records where
“disclosure…is exempted or prohibited pursuant to federal or state law” (Gov.
Code § 7927.705); and (2) the so-called “catch all” or “public interest”
exemption that applies where the “public interest served by not disclosing the
record clearly outweighs the public interest served by disclosure of the
record” (Gov. Code § 7922.000).
 
The right to
inspect is subject to certain exemptions, which are narrowly construed.  (California
State University, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at 831.) The burden of
demonstrating that exemptions apply lies with the governmental entity. (Gov.
Code, §7922.000.) 
 
Prohibited by
State or Federal Law Exemption 
 
First, Respondent
asserts that Federal and State Law prohibit the City from providing copies of
the records to the public, and therefore are exempt from the PRA. Here,
Petitioner’s request sought to examine the contents of the Application for a
Precise Plan of Development to build a two-story single-family home located at
22209 Susana, Torrance, California, and sought to make copies, with his own
equipment, of certain sheets from the plans and drawings submitted with the
Application. These records are a single document, consisting of a total of
seven sheets, and together, constitute the project plans on file with the City
submitted with the Application. Respondent notes that all of the sheets except
for TS- Boundary/Topographical Survey were created by Douglas J. Leach,
Architects, Inc. (DJL Architects.) Respondent further notes that the last page
is a survey and topography plan originally prepared by Eagle Eye Land
Surveying, and specifically, Michael A. Profet, a California licensed land
surveyor, license umber LS 9806 and is included as an integral part of the
Project Plans. City notes that it notified Mr. Leach, a principal of DJL
Architects, of Petitioner’s request to make copies of the records. However,
Respondent notes that Mr. Leach, one of the design professionals that created
the records, responded that he would not provide authorization for copies of
the Records, and noted they were intellectual property and that permitting
copies of the records would cause him irreparable harm because anyone could
reproduce them without his compensation to DJ Architects, which may result in
substantial losses, including lost profits, to DJL Architects. 
 
Pursuant to 17
U.S.C. § 102(a), Architectural plans are expressly and
automatically protected by federal copyright laws. Under 17 U.S.C. §
102(a), Copyright protection subsists, in accordance with this title, in
original works of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression, now
known or later developed, from which they can be perceived, reproduced, or
otherwise communicated, either directly or with the aid of a machine or device.
Works of authorship include the following categories:…(8) architectural works.”
(17 U.S.C. § 102(a)(8).) Respondent in this case notes that the documents
sought by Petitioner all include an “original work of authorship fixed in a
tangible medium of expression, and fit within the categories of architectural
works as well as pictorial and graphic work. 
 
Public records
are exempt from disclosure where “exempted or prohibited pursuant to federal or
state law, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Evidence Code
relating to privilege” (Gov. Code, §7927.705.) In this case, Respondent denied
Petitioner’s request to make copies, with his own equipment, of certain sheets
from the plans and drawings submitted with the application (Petition, ¶¶ 20-21,
Ex. 1), because Respondent contends that such would violate Federal Copyright
law pursuant to 17 USC § 107.
 
As implied by the
parties’ lack of case citations, this topic is seemingly a case of first
impression. However, Respondent has presented citations to California Municipal
Law Handbook, noting: 
 
Records “the disclosure of which is
exempted or prohibited pursuant to federal or state law” (Govt C §6254 (k) [now
Gov’t Code § 7927.705]) include federally copyrighted architectural works,
defined as the “design of a building as embodied in any tangible medium of
expression, including a building, architectural plans, or drawings” (17 USC
§101). Architectural plans cannot be copied without the permission of the
owner. (17 USC §§102(a)(8), 106.) The fair use rule (17 USC §107) is a defense
only to a copyright infringement action and thus is not a separate ground for
disclosure under the Public Records Act. (17 USC §107.) The official copy of
building plans maintained by a local agency’s building department may be
inspected but may not be copied without first requesting the written permission
of the licensed or registered professional who signed the document and the
original or current property owner. (Health & S C §19851.) 
 
(California
Municipal Law Handbook (Cal CEB, 2023) § 2.223; Guerrero Decl., 9, Ex. G.)  Respondent has also provided instructive
authority to the leading CPRA-specific treatise, entitled “The People’s
Business: A Guide to the California Public Records Act,” prepared by the League
of California Cities, directly addressing the sole issue presented in this
case: 
 
The PRA recognizes exemptions to the
disclosure of a record “which is exempted or prohibited [from disclosure]
pursuant to federal or state law ....” Under this rule, architectural and
official building plans may be exempt from disclosure, because: (1) architectural
plans submitted by third parties to local agencies may qualify for federal
copyright protections; (2) local agencies may claim a copyright in many of
their own records; or (3) state laws address inspection and duplication of
building plans by members of the public. “Architectural work,” defined under
federal law as the “design of a building as embodied in any tangible medium of
expression, including a building, architectural plans, or drawings,” is
considered an “original work of authorship,” which has automatic federal
copyright protection. Architectural plans may be inspected, but cannot be
copied without the permission of the owner . . .
 
Some requesters will cite the “fair use
of copyrighted materials” doctrine as giving them the right to copy
architectural plans. The fair use rule is a defense to a copyright infringement
action only and not a legal entitlement to obtain copyrighted materials.
 
(The People’s Business (Cal. Cities,
Sept. 2022), Ch. 4, p. 30 [citations omitted, emphasis added]; Guerrero Decl.,
¶ 10, Ex. H.)
 
            Based on the above, federal
copyright infringement would qualify as an exemption to the CPRA. The Court
notes that Petitioner’s moving papers cite to County of Santa Clara v.
Superior Court (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1301 (“Santa Clara”), where
the Sixth District Court of Appeal discussed the legislative history of the since
repealed statute of California Government Code § 6254.9. (170 Cal.App.4th 1301,
1334. Government Code section 6254.9 permitted “the nondisclosure of computer
software, defined to include computer mapping systems.” (Id. at 1330.)
Specifically, Government Code section 6254.9, subdivision (e), addressed
copyright as follows: “Nothing in this section is intended to limit any
copyright protections.” (Ibid.) In conclusion, the Court of Appeal
stated: “In sum, while
section 6254.9 recognizes the availability of copyright protection for software
in a proper case, it provides no statutory authority for asserting any other
copyright interests.” (Id. at 1334.) Dissimilarly, this Court does not
believe that the case here involves computer software and is only referencing
the information in electronic format not limiting any other copyright
protections. Instead, this Court notes, as did the discussions above, that the
government code sections involved in the CPRA nonetheless provide protections
for federal and state prohibited acts.  
 
This Court also found
instructive authority from The Rutter Group California Practice Guide –
Administrative Law, Chapter 29(F): Exemptions from Right of Inspection and
Copying, which states that: 
 
Federal copyright law is another form of
protection from the copying (but not inspection) of copyrighted documents (see
17 USC § 101 et seq.). However, the restriction on copying is subject to a
number of exclusions, the most important of which for purposes of the PRA is
the “fair use” doctrine. Under the doctrine, the fair use of a copyrighted work
“for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching…,
scholarship, or research” is not a copyright infringement, and the statute
enumerates four factors to consider in determining whether, in a given case,
the use is a fair use. (17 USC § 107; see Andy Warhol Found. For the Visual
Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith (2023) 598 US 508.)
 
(F. Exemptions
From Right of Inspection and Copying, California Practice Guide: Administrative
Law Ch. 29-F.)
 
            Here, the Court is uncertain, based
on the moving and opposing papers, what use Petitioner is seeking to utilize
the copies of the architectural plans for. Although Petitioner’s moving papers
discuss fair use, he does not indicate how proposed use of the copies would
fall into one of the fair use exceptions. Respondents’ application notes that
Petitioner examined the contents of the Application for a precise plan of
development to build a two-story single-family home. The Court is unsure
whether Petitioner is attempting to copy the architectural plans to utilize
them into a plan of his own, to build the same home, etc.. Thus, the Court
would need more information to determine whether a fair use doctrine exemption
is available to Petitioner. 
 
            Further, Petitioner argues that even
if this would violate copyright law, there is no copyright on the sought
copies. As noted in Respondent’s opposition, simply because a copyright is not
federally registered, it does not negate that the owner’s rights are protected
and secured automatically when the work was created. This Court does clarify,
however, that a copyright owner may not file an infringement suit intil the
copyright office has processed the application. Moreover, as noted by
Respondent, the exclusive right and authority to permit Petitioner to make
copies or to provide Petitioner with copies lies with the architect and/or
surveyor, not the City. 
 
            Next, Respondent argues that
California State law also prohibits providing the copies as Business &
Professions Code section 5536.4(a) states that: “No person may use an
architect’s instruments of service, as those professional services are
described…without the consent of the architect in a written contract, written
agreement, or written license specifically authorizing that use.” Further,
Business & Professions Code section 5500.1(b) notes that an “Architects’
professional services may include any or all of the following… (1) Investigation, evaluation, consultation, and
advice; (2) Planning, schematic and preliminary studies, designs, working
drawings, and specifications; (3) Coordination of the work of technical and
special consultants; (4) Compliance with generally applicable codes and
regulations, and assistance in the governmental review process; (5) Technical
assistance in the preparation of bid documents and agreements between clients
and contractors; (6) Contract administration; and (7) Construction observation.”
Thus, the fact that when asked by Respondent, the architect here did not
consent to allowing the copying of his work by Petitioner, granting a motion
based on the CPRA would violated California state law. 
 
            As far as the waiver argument is
concerned, this Court notes that neither party has cited to any evidence that
disclosing a document to the public would allow for copying under the waiver
provision in Government Code section 7921.505. The Court requests oral argument
as to this issue. 
 
Public Interest
Exemption
   
Second, and as a
alternative ground for its refusal to permit Mr. Buck to make the requested
copies, Respondent’s opposition contends that the requested records are also
exempt under the CPRA’s catch-all exemption. Under the catch-all provisions of Government
Code section 7922.00-.540 (formerly §6255), public records are exempt from
disclosure if “the public interest served by not disclosing the record clearly
outweighs the public interest served by disclosure.”  Pursuant to the
catch-all provisions, the agency must demonstrate a clear overbalance on the
side of confidentiality.  (California State University, Fresno Assn.,
Inc. v. Superior Court, (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 810, 831.)  
 
Respondent argues
that the public interest balancing test requires the consideration of: (1) the
public interest in disclosure, (2) the public interest in nondisclosure and (3)
whether there are less intrusive alternatives to satisfy the public interest in
disclosure. (San Jose v. Superior Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1008.)
Respondent argues that the public interest served by refusing to provide copies
of the copyrighted Records outweighs the public interest served by obtaining
actual copies of information already available to the public. Here, Respondent
acknowledges that Petitioner, like a member of the public, has already been
permitted, and is permitted, to review and inspect the records in person
without harming the copyright holder or subjecting the City to significant
liability. 
 
This Court
further finds that both federal and state law would be violated if Petitioner
was allowed access to copy the records himself and keep those copies. Thus, the
public interest in protecting the rights of owners of original works as well as
rights of architects to have the sole power to grant individuals use of their
work would be lost.  Respondent argues
that providing said copies of the records would also result in a chilling
effect on architects and other design professionals working on any development
projects in the City, who would be reluctant to provide their work to the City
for proposed developments, and could refrain working on projects in the City at
all. Lastly, Respondent asserts that the City and its taxpayers have a
significant interest in avoiding a lawsuit from the copyright holder, and
potentially being faced with significant liability for improperly providing
copies of copyrighted material. The Court thus tentatively determines that it
is likely that public interest would weigh in favor of not allowing for copying
of the records. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, this Court’s tentative ruling is to DENY
the Petition as this Court believes that said records will likely fall under
the CPRA exemptions. The Court nonetheless, seeks clarifications as noted
above, and will allow oral argument on the issues.   
 
Respondent is ordered to give notice of
the Court’s ruling. 
 
 
 