 Case Number:  22STCV21435    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for Plaintiff Amelita
D. Zavaleta Bautista 
Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for
Plaintiff Rosa Imelda Ramirez
Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for Plaintiff Orlando Garcia
Ramos
 
Tentative
The Court will hear from counsel.
Background
On July 1, 2022, Amelita D. Zavaleta Bautista (“Bautista”),
Rosa Imelda Ramirez (“Ramirez”), and Orlando Garcia Ramos (“Ramos”) filed a
complaint against Elissa Esther Leon, Fortino Leon (collectively “Defendants”),
and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence arising from an automobile accident occurring on July 5,
2020. 
 
On October 5, 2022, Defendants filed their answer to the
complaint.
 
On April 2, 2024, the three motions that are currently before
the Court and set for hearing on May 1, 2024, were filed: (1) motion to
substitute Jose M. Gollaz for Bautista, who died on November 12, 2023; (2)
motion to substitute Oscar Manuel Ramirez for Ramirez, who died on August 24,
2023; and (3) motion to substitute Oscar Manuel Ramirez for Ramos, who died on
May 13, 2023.  Defendants filed
opposition to the three motions on April 16, 17, and 18, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause
of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an
action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none,
by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) 
After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, “shall allow a
pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the
decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s
successor-in-interest.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.31.)  
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s
successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that
includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death;
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s
estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor
in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other person has
a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for
the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that the statements
are true, under penalty of perjury. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).) 
The affidavit or declaration must attach a certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
The term
“decedent’s successor in interest” is defined (in part) as “the beneficiary of
the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.11.)  
If the
decedent died leaving a will, the term “beneficiary of the decedent’s estate”
is defined (in part) as “the sole beneficiary or all of the beneficiaries who succeed
to a cause of action … under the decedent’s will.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.10, subd. (a).)  If the decedent died without leaving a will,
the term is defined (in part) as “the sole person or all of the persons who
succeed to a cause of action” under the provisions of the Probate Code governing
intestate succession.  (Id., subd.
(b).)
Discussion
Since the time of the filing of the complaint,
all three plaintiffs have died.  Jose
Gollaz seeks to substitute in for Bautista, and Oscar Ramirez seeks to
substitute in for Ramirez and Ramos.
Each of the three motions to substitute is
supported by the declaration required by statute.
As to Plaintiff Bautista, the Declaration of Jose
M. Gollaz includes:
(1) the decedent’s
name;
(2) the date and
place of Plaintiff’s death;
(3) that there
is no proceeding now pending in California for the administration of
Plaintiff’s estate;
(4) that Petitioner
is the Plaintiff’s successor in interest; and 
(5) that no
other person has a superior right to be substituted in for Plaintiff.
The declaration is sworn under penalty of
perjury and attaches a copy of the death certificate.
As to Plaintiffs Ramirez and Ramos, the Declarations
of Oscar Manuel Ramirez include:
(1) the decedents’
names;
 (2) the date and place of Plaintiffs’
deaths;
(3) that there
is no proceeding now pending in California for the administration of either Plaintiff’s
estate;
(4) that Petitioner
is the successor in interest of each Plaintiff; and
(5) that no
other person has a superior right to be substituted in for either Plaintiff; 
The declarations are sworn under penalty of
perjury and attach copies of the death certificates.
Defendants argue (among other things) that
the testamentary documents provided to them undermine the statements in these
declarations.  The Court has reviewed
these documents and makes the following findings.
First, as to Plaintiff Bautista, her will directs
that her intangible personal property (which includes the cause of action in
this matter) is to be distributed to her Living Trust.  (Collins Decl., Exh. A, Last Will and
Testament, Article 5.)  The Living Trust,
in turn, provides that upon her death, the trust property is to be distributed
100 percent to Jose Gollaz.  (Collins
Decl., Exh. A, Living Trust, Article 5.) 
Accordingly, the facts in the record support the statement in the
declaration of Jose Gollaz that he is the successor in interest to Plaintiff
Bautista.
Second, as to Plaintiff Ramirez, her will
directs that her intangible personal property is to be distributed to a Living
Trust established jointly by her and Plaintiff Ramos.  (Collins Decl., Exh. A, Last Will and
Testament, Article 5.)  The Living Trust
document is not in the record.
Third, as to Plaintiff Ramos, his will
directs that his intangible personal property is to be distributed to a Living
Trust established jointly by him and Plaintiff Ramirez.  (Collins Decl., Exh. A, Last Will and
Testament, Article 6.)  The Living Trust
document is not in the record.
Conclusion
 
The Court
will hear from counsel.