  Case Number:  22STCV03554    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



FIFTH STREET FUNDING, INC. 
                           
         vs.
 
CLAYTON’S PUBLIC HOUSE, L.P. 
 
                                           


 Case No.: 
  22STCV03554  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 26, 2023



 
Plaintiffs’
motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED IN PART, GRANTED IN PART.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion is DENIED as to the request for terminating and issue sanctions.
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED as to the request for monetary sanctions. Each Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and
severally with counsel, $1,750, due within 20 days of entry of this judgment. 
 
On 1/28/2022,
Plaintiff Fifth Street Funding, Inc. and Mideb Nominees, Inc. (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against Clayton’s Public House, LP, EPG Development,
Inc. dba Clayton’s Construction, Elizabeth Peterson Group, Inc., Tony Gower
Pubs, LLC, Elizabeth Peterson, Tony Gower, and Annette Zilinskas, alleging: (1)
breach of written lease; (2) breach of written lease; (3) fraud; (4) quantum
meruit; (5) open book account; (6) declaratory relief; (7) declaratory relief;
and (8) breach of written guaranty. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiffs move for terminating sanctions against Defendants Clayton’s Public
House, LP; Tony Gower; Tony Gower Pubs, LLC; Elizabeth Peterson (collectively,
Nonresponsive Defendants) EPG Inc.; EPG Development Inc.; and Annette Zilinskas
(Responsive Defendants)
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that terminating sanctions are warranted here based on Defendants failure
to comply with the Court’s 4/24/2023 order (i) granting Plaintiffs’ Motions to
Compel Further Responses from each Defendant and (ii) ordering Defendants to
respond to discovery within 45 days, among other things.
 
            In
the Court’s 4/24/2023 order, the Court directed Defendants to provide verified
Code-compliant discovery responses by 6/15/2023. Instead, on 6/15/23,
Defendants Clayton’s Public House, LP; Tony Gower; Elizabeth Peterson; EPG
Inc.; EPG Development Inc.; and Annette Zilinskas served unverified
supplemental responses, while Defendant Tower Gower Pubs, LLC served no
supplemental responses at all. 
 
After
repeated meet and confer efforts by Plaintiffs, on 7/7/2023—nearly a month
later—Defendants Elizabeth Peterson Group Inc.; EPG Development Inc.; and
Annette Zilinskas served verifications. However, Plaintiffs contend that Nonresponsive
Defendants have refused to provide verifications and now claim that the
discovery responses they served on June 15, 2023 are “inaccurate.” As of
Plaintiffs’ filing, Nonresponsive Defendants had failed to provide any verified
supplemental responses in direct violation of the Court’s Order. 
 
In opposition,
Defendants indicate that all outstanding responses have since been provided. As
such, the Court does not find terminating sanctions to be warranted.
 
However, the
Court still finds monetary sanctions to be warranted, given Defendants’ abuses
of the discovery process.
 
As for EGP,
Inc., EPG Developments, Inc. and Annette Zilinskas, verified responses were
served nearly a month late on 7/7/2023, thus violating the Court-ordered
directive to serve discovery responses by 6/15/2023. To the extent that issues
arose that Defendants could not abide by this deadline, they should have sought
relief with the Court. Defendants may not fail to meet Court-ordered deadlines,
and then avoid sanction by providing responses at some time of their choosing.
 
As for Defendants
Clayton’s Public House, LP., Tony Gower, Tony Gower Pubs, LLC. and Elizabeth
Peterson, Defendants contend that they provided timely verified responses but
then had to rescind the responses and requested more time to provide additional
responses. While Defendants contend that they can identify these reasons in an in
camera hearing, this ignores the fact that Defendants were under a Court
order to provide verified responses by 6/15/2023. If issues appeared that
required the responses to be rescinded and additional time was needed,
Defendants inarguably should have sought relief with the Court at the time the
issues arose. Defendants cannot unilaterally determine that “good cause existed
as reason for an extra extension related to the discovery.’ (Opp., 4: 24-26.) 
 
Each Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with
counsel, $1,750 ($350/hr x 5 hr), due within 20 days of entry of this judgment.

 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 