  Case Number:  23STCP03433    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  82 Darcy French,                                                           Case No. 23STCP03433
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
August 19, 2024, at 1:30 p.m.
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
City of Los Angeles, et al.                                               Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                                     
 
[Tentative] Order Granting Petition for
Writ of Mandate
  
            
INTRODUCTION

 
             Petitioner Darcy French (“Petitioner”), a
Sergeant II with the Los Angeles Police Department (the “LAPD”), filed this
petition for writ of administrative mandate directing Respondents to set aside
a three-day suspension.[1]  While off-duty, Petitioner and other officers
attended a fundraiser for their division’s Baker-to-Vegas marathon team.  Another supervisor, Sergeant II James Linder,
observed Petitioner “becoming very friendly with two of the younger officers in
the gang unit.”  One of those officers,
Officer Carlos Gonzalez, testified that he decided to kiss Petitioner because
“she was an attractive female.”  Officer
Gonzalez and another officer testified that the kiss appeared to be mutual, though
Petitioner testified that she routinely “side kissed” colleagues on the
cheek.  It was undisputed that Petitioner
and Officer Gonzalez were intoxicated at the time.  Then, after Sergeant Linder separated
Petitioner from the other officers, he alleged that she was abusive and used
profanity, which another witness disputed. 
Sergeant Linder did not report the incident in 2019.  Rather, it surfaced in 2021, after Petitioner
made a complaint against other officers who then reported it.  Based upon the foregoing, Petitioner was
charged with two counts of misconduct:    
 
            1.         During
2019, you, while off-duty, inappropriately kissed a Department employee (“Count
One”); and 
 
            2.         During
2019, you, while off-duty, made several inappropriate comments towards Department
employees (“Count Two”).
 
Petitioner argued that the charges were
barred by the applicable statute of limitations and were not supported by the
evidence.  The Board of Rights (the
“Board”) found that the charges were timely because an appropriate supervisor
did not learn of the misconduct until 2021. 
Turning to the merits, the Board found Petitioner guilty on both
counts.  Now, Petitioner challenges the Board’s
decision on the same grounds.  The court
finds that Petitioner has not established that the charges are untimely.  The statute of limitations is triggered once
a supervisor who is “authorized to initiate an investigation” learns of the
misconduct, and Petitioner does not demonstrate that Sergeant Linder had such
authority.  Regardless, the weight of the
evidence does not support the Board’s findings on the merits, so the court
grants the petition for writ of mandate. 

BACKGROUND 
 
            During
the relevant time period, Petitioner was an assistant watch commander at the
LAPD’s Southeast Division.    (AR 101.) 
As am assistant watch commander, Petitioner oversaw all police activity
in the Southeast Division, including the gang enforcement detail (“GED”).  (AR 60.)
 
            In
early 2019, Petitioner attended a fundraiser for the Southeast Division’s
Baker-to-Vegas marathon team.  (AR 27-28,
48-50, 71.)  The event was held at a
casino in San Diego County, and the attendees took a charter bus from Los
Angeles County.  (Ibid.) The event
was attended by approximately 35 to 50 people, including officers and employees
of the Southeast Division.  (AR 28, 109.)
 
            Petitioner
rode on the charter bus and drank alcohol on the bus and at the casino.  (AR 28, 51, 75, 86, 109-110.)  Sergeant II James Linder, who also attended
the event, believed Petitioner was intoxicated based on her slurred speech,
watery eyes, and unsteady gait.  (AR
51.)  While at the casino, Petitioner sat
on a bench between Southeast Division GED Officers Jacob Rice and Carlos
Gonzalez.  According to Petitioner, both
GED officers had been drinking alcohol at the event.  (AR 111.)  At some point, Sergeant Linder felt like he
needed to monitor Petitioner because “she was becoming very friendly with two
of the younger officers in the gang unit.” 
(AR 52.)  Sergeant Linder saw
Petitioner with the two officers on the bench and then saw Petitioner lean in
to one of the officers, and “it looked like she was either about to kiss or did
kiss one of the younger officers.”  (AR
52-53.)  Sergeant Linder then clarified: “I
did not see them kiss” and “I don’t believe I saw them kiss” but “knew they
came in very close.”  (AR 53, 67, 70.)  
 
            Sergeant
Linder was concerned that Petitioner “was about to make out with a subordinate
in front of all the other subordinates.”  (AR 53.) 
So, he grabbed Petitioner’s hand, pulled her up from the couch, and said
“Darcy, let’s go for a walk.”  (Ibid.)  Sergeant Linder testified that he intervened
because “if they had kissed … [he] would consider that misconduct” and
supervisors “are obligated to step in if you believe another employee is about
to commit misconduct.”  (AR 53.)  Sergeant Linder never reported the incident
up the chain of command.  (AR 71-72.)
 
            Other
officers in attendance saw Petitioner kiss GED Officer Gonzalez but described
it as a brief encounter.  Sergeant Brian
Williams, who held the rank of Police Officer II at the time, testified that there
was “a peck on the lips barely.”  (AR 28-30.)  Officer Brent Evans testified that he
“observed a kiss that lasted two seconds, approximately.”  (AR 86-90.) 

            
            Officer
Gonzalez confirmed that there was a kiss but testified that he kissed Sergeant French:
 
            Q:        While at the casino, did you kiss
Sergeant Cornwell?
 
            A:        I did.
 
            Q:        And why did you kiss her?
 
            A:        We were standing there talking, she was
an attractive female, so I just kissed her.
 
            Q:        Was this a kiss on the lips on the
cheek?
 
            A:        It was on the lips.
 
(AR 95:5-12.)  However, he testified that it was a “quick
peck” on the lips and that he believed it was mutual.  (AR 97:12-18.)  Sergeant Williams suggested that the kiss was
mutual, as he testified that they were both “moving in closer together.”  (AR 28-29.) 
Officer Gonzalez was intoxicated at the time of the kiss.  (AR 115:6-7.) 
  
 
Petitioner
testified that she did not recall the incident but that it was routine for her
to “side kiss” colleagues on the cheek. 
(AR 112.)  Specifically,
Petitioner testified as follows:
 
Q:        And at some point did you kiss Officer
Gonzalez?
 
A:        I
do not recall in engaging in any kiss on the lips with Officer Gonzalez in a
romantic or inappropriate fashion.  We
routinely hug, embrace, side kiss when we greet, say hello, when we are at
Christmas parties, and off duty, that is very routine with my assistant chiefs,
my deputy chiefs.  It is a show of
affection.  I do with it with my
classmates, on duty, off duty, on perimeters, on crime scenes, at command
posts, it’s an enduring thing that we do. 
And, I, myself know that I do that especially, when we are in an
environment when we are very relaxed, I will reach out on a shoulder, I will do
a side kiss (indicating), if you will. 
How are you?  Things like that, to
that nature.  Nothing that day I did was
remarkable that I would necessarily remember, like a kiss on the lips,
inappropriate, romantic, never.  I don’t
do that.  I wouldn’t do that.  And if it was constructed that way, as I
said, the lean in and the side kiss (indicating), that was not my
intention.  
 
(AR 112:17-113:13.)  It is undisputed that Petitioner and Officer
Gonzalez had no prior or subsequent social relationship.  (AR 95.)   

 
After separating Petitioner from Officer
Gonzalez, Sergeant Linder walked Petitioner back to the charter bus.  (AR 54.) 
Sergeant Linder sat with Petitioner for “probably half” of the bus ride
back to Los Angeles.  (AR 55.)  Sergeant Linder testified that, during the
ride back, Petitioner became verbally abusive to him and Officer Sal Cervantes,
who was sitting across from them.  (AR
55-56.)  According to Sergeant Linder,
Petitioner said to him: “James, you’re an asshole. You’re a dick. Nobody likes
you. Why in the fuck did you do that?” (AR 55.) According to Sergeant Linder,
Petitioner said to Officer Cervantes, “You’re fucking worthless. Why are you
even here?” (AR 56-57.)  By contrast, Officer
Cervantes testified that he did not observe Petitioner “berate” Sergeant Linder
and that Petitioner made no inappropriate comments towards him.  (AR 202- 203.)  Petitioner denied that she made inappropriate
comments towards Sergeant Linder or Officer Cervantes.  Petitioner claims she only engaged in playful
“banter and joking.” (AR 125-126.)  
 


 
Although rumors of Petitioner’s kiss with
Officer Gonzalez spread throughout the  Southeast Division, no one reported the
incident to an uninvolved supervisor until May 28, 2021.  (See AR 40-41, 61, 178, 191.)  It came up during an investigation of a
complaint Petitioner had made against other officers.  (Ibid.)  Detective Leroi O’Brien testified that the
one-year statute of limitations for disciplinary matters is set forth in
Charter section 1070(c), which states in pertinent part: “No member shall be
removed, suspended, demoted in rank, or suspended and demoted in rank for any
conduct that was discovered by an uninvolved supervisor of the department more
than one year prior to the filing of the complaint against the member.”  (AR 179.) 
O’Brien distinguished an uninvolved supervisor from an involved
supervisor, as follows: “So an uninvolved supervisor is … a supervisor that is
not a percipient witness, wasn’t at scene, not aware of what is going on,
versus an involved supervisor that was at scene when an incident
occurred.”  (AR 179.)  O’Brien also testified that if a supervisor
witnesses what they believe is misconduct or potential misconduct, that
supervisor has a duty to stop and report it. 
(AR 186.)  The supervisor’s duty
to report is triggered “regardless of what the relationship is with any of the
parties.”  (AR 195.)  
 
The Board of Rights found that the statute
of limitations did not bar either count against Petitioner because Sergeant
Linder, who witnessed the alleged misconduct, was not an “uninvolved
supervisor” and therefore he did not have a duty to file a formal complaint
against Petitioner.  (AR 239.)  Because an “uninvolved supervisor” did not
learn of the alleged misconduct until May 28, 2021, the Board of Rights found
that the disciplinary charges were timely filed.  (Ibid.)  Turing to the merits, the Board of Rights
found Petitioner guilty of both counts and recommended a three-day suspension
as a penalty, which was imposed by the Chief of Police.  (AR 240-242, 290.)  
            
STANDARD OF
REVIEW
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
Because
the three-day suspension concerns a fundamental vested right in Petitioner’s
employment with Department, the court exercises its independent judgment on the
administrative findings.  (See Wences v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 177
Cal.App.4th 305, 314; Bixby v. Pierno
(1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130, 143.)  Under the
independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130,
143.)  The court may draw its own
reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its determinations as to the
credibility of witnesses.  (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  “In exercising its independent judgment, a
trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the
administrative findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision
bears the burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are
contrary to the weight of the evidence.” 
(Fukuda v. City of Angels
(1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
Petitioner
bears the burden of proof to demonstrate, by citation to the administrative
record, that the weight of the evidence does not support the administrative
findings.  (Strumsky v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil
Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal. App. 2d 129, 137.) A
reviewing court “will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will
not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for
any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742.)  
 
On
questions of law arising in mandate proceedings, the court exercises
independent judgment.  (See Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  The
interpretation of statute or regulation is a question of law.  (See State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v.
Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.) 
“A challenge to the procedural fairness of the
administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on appeal because the ultimate
determination of procedural fairness amounts to a question of law.”  (Nasha
L.L.C. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470, 482.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Petitioner
Does Not Demonstrate that this Action Was Untimely  
 
Petitioner argues that this action was untimely
under the Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of Rights Act (“POBRA”), which
states in relevant part as follows:
 
[N]o punitive action . . . shall be undertaken for any act,
omission, or other allegation of misconduct if the investigation of the
allegation is not completed within one year of the public agency’s discovery by
a person authorized to initiate an investigation of the allegation of an act,
omission, or other misconduct.
 
(Gov.
Code § 3304(d)(1).)  A suspension is a “punitive
action” for purposes of the statute.  (Gov.
Code § 3251(c).)  “The one-year period
begins to run upon the discovery by a person authorized to initiate an
investigation of an allegation of misconduct.” 
(Pedro v. City of Los Angeles (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 87, 101.)  
 
            Petitioner does not demonstrate that
this action was untimely under POBRA.  Petitioner
argues: “In this instance, two supervisors of the LAPD were present when the
2019 conduct occurred, both Sergeant Williams and Sergeant Linder.  Both were persons authorized to initiate an
investigation.”  (Opening Brief (“OB”) at
11:20-22.)  This is an unsupported
assertion; there are no citations to the record, which is problematic.  (See United States v. Dunkel, 927 F.2d
955, 956 (7th Cir. 1991), recognizing that “[j]udges are not like pigs, hunting
for truffles buried in the briefs [or the record].”)  It is undisputed that officers have an
obligation to “report” misconduct.  (See,
e.g., AR 67-71, 186.)  But Petitioner
does not establish that Sergeant Linder was “authorized to initiate an
investigation,” which is what the statute requires in order to trigger the
deadline.  This is even less clear with
respect to Sergeant Williams, who was only a Police Officer II and not a Sergeant
at the time of the alleged incident.                          
 
            Petitioner does not cite any LAPD
policy making clear whether a Sergeant II who witnessed the underlying incident
has authority to initiate an investigation. 
Petitioner’s current counsel represented her before the Board, and at no
point did he ask Sergeant Linder whether he had such authority.  
 
            Petitioner’s counsel argues that
“Sergeant Linder testified that he did not initiate an investigation because he
did not believe, at the time, that misconduct had taken place,” again failing
to cite to the administrative record. 
(OB 11:27-28.)  This is a
mischaracterization of Sergeant Linder’s testimony.  In fact, Sergeant Linder testified only that
he did not report the misconduct because he did not think it significant:
 
            Q:        You
didn’t bring it to the attention of any of your supervisors, did you?
 
            A:        No.
 
            Q:        You
didn’t think it was so significant that your lieutenant, or captain, or anyone
else in the chain of command needed to be notified; is that accurate?
 
            A:        That’s
accurate.
 
(AR
71:22-72:4.)  Sergeant Linder did not suggest
in this testimony that he had authority to initiate an investigation.  To the contrary, the fact that Sergeant
Linder would have had to report the incident to a supervisor suggests that he
did not, in fact, have authority to initiate an investigation.  The fair inference from Sergeant Linder’s
testimony is that such authority rested with his and Sergeant French’s
supervisor.  
 
            Petitioner’s counsel argues that
“[A]s supervisors, Sergeants have the authority to initiate complaints.”  (OB 9:8-9.) 
That is not the standard.  Filing
a “complaint” is different than having authority to initiate an
investigation.  
 
Respondent’s
counsel argues that POBRA does not apply because the LAPD did not discover the
misconduct, i.e., because Sergeant Linder was an “involved”
supervisor.  The Board suggests that
Sergeant Linder could only have initiated an investigation had he been
“uninvolved.”  (See AR 239.)  This is supported by the testimony of
Detective O’Brien.  In the context of
discussing the statute of limitations, he implied that an uninvolved Sergeant
may initiate an investigation:
 
            Q:        Now,
in this current case involving [Petitioner], why did the statute date not start
when Sergeant Linder was involved?
 
            A:        From
my recollection, Sergeant Linder was an involved supervisor; and at no point
was it reported to any other supervisor.
 
            Q:        Can
you explain the difference between an involved and an uninvolved supervisor?
 
            A:        So
an uninvolved supervisor is going to be a supervisor that is not a percipient
witness, wasn’t at the scene, not aware of what is going on, versus an involved
supervisor that was at the scene when an incident occurred.
 
(AR
179:5-17.)  Petitioner’s counsel attempts
to argue that Sergeant Linder was uninvolved, but that argument is not
supported by the record.  Sergeant Linder
was a percipient witness.   
 
In
sum, it is Petitioner’s burden to demonstrate that the Board was incorrect in
finding this action was timely. 
Petitioner argues that it was untimely based upon the POBRA but does not
develop a record that the officers who witnessed the event—Sergeant Linder and
then-Police Officer II Williams—were “authorized to initiate an investigation”
of Sergeant French’s alleged misconduct. 
To the contrary, the record suggests that Sergeant Linder was not
authorized to initiate an investigation. 
Therefore, the court denies the petition for writ of mandate on this
basis.   
 
B.        The Weight of the Evidence Does Not
Support the Board’s Findings 
 
            1.         Count
One 
 
            Count One—which alleged that
Petitioner inappropriately kissed Officer Gonzalez—was based on alleged violations
of Department Manual section 210.35, titled
“Conduct Unbecoming An Officer,” and Department Manual section 271, titled
“Relationships Between Department Employees.” (See AR 12-14; see also AR 301,
294.)  However, the Board made no finding
that Petitioner violated section 271.  (See
AR 238-241.)  Nor could the Board have
done so.  Section 271 pertains to a
relationship between a superior and subordinate officer that could give rise to
a conflict of interest.  Section 271 does
not prohibit such a relationship, but rather requires it to be reported up the
chain of command.  Section 271 does not prohibit
or pertain to interactions, such as an off-duty kiss, that do not result in or
arise from a relationship.  It was
undisputed that Petitioner and Officer Gonzalez had no prior or subsequent personal
relationship.   (See AR 95-96.)  Accordingly, there is no basis to sustain the
charge for any violation of section 271.
 
            The Board made no express finding
that Petitioner and Officer Gonzalez’s kiss violated section 210.35.  (See AR 238-241.)  Rather, it appears as though the Board based
its decision on the concept that the kiss constituted “conduct unbecoming an officer” under this section.  (See AR 240 [finding that Petitioner’s
conduct “reflect[ed] unfavorably” on Petitioner and/or Department].)  Section 210.35 states, in pertinent part:
“Since the conduct of officers, on- or off-duty, may reflect directly upon the
Department, officers must at all times conduct themselves in a manner which
does not bring discredit to themselves, the Department, or the City.”  (AR 301.) 
 
            The
court finds that the weight of the evidence does not support the Board’s
finding that this interaction constituted conduct unbecoming an officer.  As an initial matter, it is unclear whether
Petitioner intended the interaction to be anything more than a “side
kiss.”  Officer Gonzalez testified that
he decided to kiss Petitioner on the lips because “she was an attractive
female.”  While Sergeant Williams
testified that both were “moving in closer together,” Petitioner testified that
she frequently “side kissed” colleagues. 
Thus, it is unclear whether Petitioner intended to do anything more than
“side kiss” Officer Gonzalez.  The court
interprets a “side kiss” as two people embracing and pressing their cheeks
together while making a kissing sound.  
 
            Regardless,
even assuming Petitioner intended to kiss Officer Gonzalez on the lips, there
was no violation of section 210.35.  This
section prohibits conduct that is “excessive, unwarranted, or unjustified” that
may “bring discredit to themselves, the Department, or the City.”  (AR 301.) 
The kiss did not satisfy this standard. 
Officer Gonzalez testified that it was a “quick peck” on the lips.  (AR 97:12-18.)  Sergeant Williams testified that it was “a
peck on the lips barely.”  (AR 28-30.)[2]  Whereas such a kiss while on-duty may give
rise to issues, this kiss occurred: (1) While the officers were off-duty; (2)
While the officers were out-of-uniform; (3) While the officers were in a
different county; and (4) While the officers were at a social event where it
was acceptable to drink alcohol.  Finally,
the court notes that Sergeants Linder, Williams, and Gonzalez all believed, at
the time, that there was no misconduct to report.  (See AR 41-42, 71-72, 95-96.)[3]

 
Respondents’
counsel argues that “[p]ublic displays of affection, especially between a
supervisor and a subordinate, can make other employees feel uncomfortable ….”  (Oppo. 8:8-12, citing AR 40, 61, 115, 142,
147, 152, 178, 204, 211.)  In the
abstract, that statement may be true, e.g., when it occurs in the
workplace.  However, Respondents do not
cite any testimony related to section 210.35 or the circumstances, if any, in
which a consensual off-duty “peck” under these circumstances may be bring
“discredit” on the officers or Department within the meaning of section
210.35.  Further, the fact that no one
reported the “peck on the lips” until May 28, 2021—only after Petitioner
filed a complaint against other officers and they, in turn, raised the issue—further
supports the court’s finding that the incident was inconsequential and did not
bring discredit on Petitioner or Department. 
(See AR 40-41, 61, 178, 191.)  
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
finds that the weight of the evidence does not support the Board’s finding that
Petitioner is guilty on Count One. 
Therefore, the court grants the petition on this basis.  The court need not address Petitioner’s due
process arguments concerning Count One.    
 
                        2.         Count Two 
 
            Count
Two is predicated on Petitioner’s alleged verbal abuse of Sergeant Linder and
Officer Sal Cervantes.  The court finds
that the weight of the evidence does not support the Board’s finding that
Petitioner is guilty on Count Two. 
Sergeant Linder testified that Officer Sal Cervantes was a witness to
all of the alleged misconduct:
 
            Q:        Did [Petitioner] say anything to anybody
else?
 
            A:        Sitting on the bus, we were sitting
across from another officer, Sal Cervantes, and Sal kind of watched what was
going on with me.  And after a while, I
had enough, so I was like, okay, I’m going to switch seats.  So Sal offered to switch seats.  
 
                        Let me backup a little bit.  The way we were seated on the bus, I had
[Petitioner] all the way up against the window. 
I figured at some point she would fall asleep, so I sat along the aisle
to keep her, for lack of a better phrase, contained in one spot.  
 
                        So as she would berate me, I would
start go get more and more upset, so I had enough.  So Sal, who was sitting across the aisle
said, “I will take your spot.”  So I
stood up and I walked back several rows and I sat in a row by myself.  And Sal sat up and sat with [Petitioner].    
 
            Q:        Did you ever hear [Petitioner] say
anything to Sal?
 
            A:        Yes, it was basically the same thing,
just kind of berating him as well.
 
(AR 56:4-23.)  Cervates testified
that he did not observe anything Sergeant Linder reported:
 
            Q:        At any point in time, did you ever
observe [Petitioner] berating Sergeant Linder?
 
            A:        I did not.
 
            Q:        At any point in time, did [Petitioner]
ever berate you or speak to you in an inappropriate manner?
 
            A:        No. 

 
(AR 36:15-21.) 
The court credits this testimony from Officer Cervantes.  The Board apparently discredited Officer
Cervantes’ testimony but provided no reason to disbelieve him.  (See AR 241-242.)  It is undisputed that Sergeant Linder did not
report this incident in 2019, suggesting that it did not rise to the level of
reportable misconduct.  Moreover, the
long passage of time between the alleged incident in 2019—the exact date of
which was uncertain—and the Board hearing in June 2023 raises questions
concerning the exact context of any statements and whether they rose to the
level of actionable misconduct. 
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court finds that the weight of
the evidence does not support the Board’s finding that Petitioner is guilty on
Count Two.  Therefore, the court grants
the petition on this basis.  The court
need not address Petitioner’s due process arguments concerning Count Two.  
 


 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition is granted.
 
            2.         The court issues a writ of mandate
vacating the hearing officer’s decision and ordering that the administrative
disapproval be removed from LAPD Sergeant II Darcy French’s  personnel file and any other documents that
are used to make personnel decisions.  
 
            3.         Petitioner’s counsel shall lodge a
proposed judgment/writ.
 
            4.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED 
 
 
Dated:  August 19, 2024                                             ________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 
 
 
 
 
 


