 Case Number:  20SMCP00231    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  I The motion for fees on the contract is DENIED.  Plaintiff contends that he is entitled to
fees under the promissory note tendered by defendant to pay for plaintiff’s
stock over time after plaintiff left the company.  The promissory note has a fee provision
giving fees to the prevailing party to an action under the note.  Plaintiff contends that because the court
held that defendant calculated the amount needed to pay for the stock
improperly, plaintiff is entitled to fees. 
Plaintiff is wrong. 
 
First, there is no cause of action under the note.  Plaintiff did not sue to enforce the note
(the breach of contract action mentioned the shareholder’s agreement
only).  To the contrary, plaintiff
refused to accept the note because it was too low.  Defendant was always ready, willing, and able
to honor the note had plaintiff had been willing to accept the amount stated
therein.  It is not the note that was
breached; it was the shareholder’s agreement, which had no fee provision.  Plaintiff argues that the court must read the
contracts together.  The court disagrees,
at least to the extent plaintiff suggests. 
They were signed many years apart. 
And while the shareholder’s agreement did contemplate that defendant
would have the option of providing a note if it exercised its right to
pay for the stock over time, that does not mean that the contracts are combined
into one or that the note’s fee provision applies to the shareholder’s
agreement.
 
Second, even if the court were to import the note’s fee
provision to the shareholder agreement, Civil Code section 1717 provides that
fees to go the prevailing party.  In that
context, “prevailing” for fees is not the same as it is for costs.  For costs, if the plaintiff prevails by even
a small amount, the plaintiff prevails. 
But for fees, our Supreme Court under Hsu v. Abarra instructed
this court to look at the parties’ real litigation objectives.  Unless plaintiff recovered all that was
sought, plaintiff is not entitled to fees as of right; rather the court must
look to see whether, in a practical sense, plaintiff truly prevailed.  The court cannot say that here.  Plaintiff did recover, but only a fraction of
what plaintiff sought.  Plaintiff
believed he was entitled to the value of his ownership percentage of defendant
using a going concern valuation—something multiples higher than what he
actually recovered.  Given the limited
success, the court could not hold that plaintiff was the “prevailing party” under
a 1717 analysis under the contract.  The
court does not believe that either party prevailed in the 1717 sense.
 
For both of those reasons, the fee motion is DENIED.  Of course, this ruling has no effect on the
court’s prior ruling awarding fees under a different cause of action.  Fees are still recoverable there. 