 On February 8, 2024, Defendant Michelle Chen Frost filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against Manuel Gomez, Jr. asserting causes of action for (1) conversion, (2) nuisance, (3) trespass, (4) assault, and (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).  The allegations of the FACC are as follows.  Frost runs a criminal rehabilitation organization.  As a part of that program, she allowed Gomez to stay at one of her residences.  During the COVID-19 pandemic, Gomez’s behavior became erratic, and he invited individuals to the premises without Frost’s approval.  Similarly, he made unapproved modifications to the property.  Gomez also had dangerous personal property at the premises, including firearms and ammunition.  Gomez began to intimidate and argue with other rehabilitation members—sometimes he brandished a weapon.  After Gomez got into an altercation at a restaurant owned by Frost, Frost decided she no longer wanted Gomez at her residence.  She asked Gomez to return his key and leave the premises.  Gomez declined.  Frost then discovered the dangerous personal property at the residence and had police remove it.  She also saw that some of her personal property had disappeared.  Subsequently, Frost changed the locks to her home.  Gomez tried to enter the residence, but could not do so.  After Gomez learned that the locks had been changed, he threatened to burn down Frost’s home and restaurant.  Frost ultimately removed the modifications from her residence on her own.  Demurrer Gomez now demurs to the FACC for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Conversion Gomez first argues that the conversion claim fails because Frost did not have a right to possession of the subject premises as “the cross-complaint concedes that Plaintiff was illegally evicted from the property and his items were illegally removed without legal process when Defendants changed the locks and removed his belongings.”The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.  (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.)  Gomez’s argument lacks merit.  Frost plainly alleges that she had personal tools in her home that were taken by Gomez.  Gomez’s right of possession to the premises is irrelevant to this claim.   The Demurrer is overruled as to the first cause of action. Nuisance Gomez next argues that “the nuisance cause of action fails because Michelle Frost cannot establish that he had an ‘interest in the use and enjoyment’ of the property. The cross-complaint's concession that Plaintiff was illegally evicted without process and by the changing of the locks is fatal to this cause of action. Under CCP section 1161(1)(2)(3) and CC section 789.3, Plaintiff still had the right of interest in the use and enjoyment of the property.”The elements for a nuisance claim are as follows: “First, the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his property. [] Second, the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land [must be] substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage. [] Third, [t]he interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable’ [citation], i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.”  (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262–63 (internal quotation marks omitted).)As Gomez acknowledges in his reply, “California law permits a landlord [to] sue a tenant for nuisance.”  Gomez contends that “this proposition is wholly inapplicable to the facts and claims in this action. The Cross-Complaint’s nuisance claim is clearly premised on Plaintiff’s refusal to vacate the property upon Defendant’s illegal demands, not any other grounds.”This is untrue; the nuisance claim incorporates all of the prior allegations, which include the allegations as to modifications and dangerous personal property.  Indeed, the claim also specifically pertains to “GOMEZ’s abnormally dangerous activities”.  (FACC ¶ 56.)  The propriety of these specific activities is never analyzed by Gomez.   Gomez does argue that any such activities cannot constitute a nuisance because they are not “ongoing”, but rather relate to past activities.   This, however, is a false statement of law.  Civ. Code § 3484 states, “The abatement of a nuisance does not prejudice the right of any person to recover damages for its past existence.” The Demurrer is overruled as to the nuisance claim.Trespass Gomez similarly argues that he could not trespass because he was illegally evicted and because the FACC fails to state that he ever entered the premises.   “The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant's intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm.”  (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.)“Trespass may be ‘ “by personal intrusion of the wrongdoer or by his failure to leave; by throwing or placing something on the land; or by causing the entry of some other person.” ’ A trespass may be on the surface of the land, above it, or below it. The migration of pollutants from one property to another may constitute a trespass, a nuisance, or both.”  (Martin Marietta Corp. v. Insurance Co. of North America (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1132.)Here, the FACC sufficiently alleges that Gomez allowed an unapproved occupant, his girlfriend, to enter and reside at the premises.  These allegations are never analyzed. The Demurrer is overruled as to the trespass claim.Assault & IIED“The essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant's conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.”  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668–69.) With respect to IIED, the elements of such a claim are: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. . . . Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903, internal quotations omitted.)  Liability does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.  (Molko v. Holy Spirit Assn. (1986) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1122.) The Demurrer is overruled as to the assault and IIED claims in light of the allegation that Gomez threatened to burn down Frost’s residence and restaurant.  Factual issues remain.   Summary In sum, the Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Motion to Strike  Gomez also seeks to strike the FACC’s references to attorneys’ fees, emotional distress, and punitive damages.Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)The Motion is denied as to emotional distress and punitive damages because the FACC alleges that Gomez intended to injure Frost emotionally when he threatened her and her property.  The Motion is granted as to attorneys’ fees, without leave to amend, because the basis for fees is not apparent.The Motion to Strike is granted in part as set forth herein.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 