 On October 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Bak Auto Enterprise Inc. and Ashot Keshishyan filed the operative Complaint against Defendants City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, State of California, and California Department of Transportation asserting causes of action for (1) dangerous condition of public property and (2) nuisance.  The allegations of the Complaint are as follows.  Plaintiffs ran an automobile dismantling business near an offramp area of the i5 freeway.  This offramp area had homeless encampments, open fires, and unmaintained vegetation, which created a fire hazard.  Defendants knew of this hazard through numerous complaints, but they failed to take adequate remedial action.  Because of Defendants’ failure to act, one day a fire engulfed the area and entirely burned down Plaintiffs’ business.   Defendant City of Los Angeles (the “City”) now demurs to the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)The City first argues that “Homeless encampments are not conditions/characteristics of public property. Much like in Rodriguez and Hayes, instead, the dangerous condition alleged by Plaintiffs is that what caused their damages was a fire that was supposedly started by transients and/or an encampment near Plaintiffs’ business. Plaintiffs have no evidence by whom or how the fire was started, let alone by transients or an encampment. The transients were unrelated to the physical condition of any City property and cannot, in any sense, constitute a defect in something of which it was not a constituent part.”This lacks merit.  The Complaint clearly states that there were shrubs, dried foliage, and other vegetation in the area that were not properly maintained and that this vegetation increased the risk that encampment fires would result in an uncontrollable blaze.  As Defendant itself acknowledges, “in some situations third party conduct may expose a public entity to liability under §835 if its property is maintained in such a way to increase the risk of the third party’s negligent or illegal act”.  Factual issues remain. Similarly, the City next argues that “the City and its employees did not owe a duty of care to Plaintiffs to protect their business from third party conduct unrelated to the physical feature of its property.”  For the purposes of the pleadings stage, this has already been rejected.  The Complaint plainly pertains to the actions that the City took with respect maintaining foliage near known encampments and fires that others had reported.  (Compl. ¶ 24.)Finally, the City argues that “the City is immune from liability pursuant to §818.2 for any failure to enforce the law allegedly resulting in the presence of a homeless encampment or transients at or near 11184 Penrose St., Sun Valley, CA 91352. A public entity is not liable for injuries caused by ‘failing to enforce any law.’ (Gov’t Code §818.2)”Gov. Code § 818.2 states, “A public entity is not liable for an injury caused by adopting or failing to adopt an enactment or by failing to enforce any law.”Here, the City’s liability does not arise from the enforcement of laws, but rather its creation of a dangerous condition through the failure to maintain foliage.  As discussed, liability is present under Gov. Code § 835, which states, “a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: (a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or (b) The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”In sum, the Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 