 Case Number:  23CHCV03746    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49¿ 




Date:
  10/16/24




Case
  Name: Jorge Molina v. Hyundai Motor America, Mission Hills-H, Inc. d/b/a
  Keyes Hyundai of Mission Hills, and Does
1-10




Case No.
  23CHCV03746



 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F49
 

OCTOBER 16,
2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23CHCV03746

 
Motion
filed: 6/4/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Hyundai Motor America
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Jorge Molina
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling Plaintiff to submit to arbitration and staying the proceeding
pending the completion of such arbitration. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Jorge Molina (“Plaintiff” or “Molina”) filed this
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act lawsuit over alleged defects in his 2021 Hyundai
Santa Fe (the “Subject Vehicle”), which was manufactured by Defendant Hyundai Motor
America (“HMA”). Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle on March 19, 2021, entering
into a written warranty issued by HMA. (Compl. ¶ 9.)
 
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint against
Defendants HMA, Mission Hills-H, Inc. d/b/a 
Keyes Hyundai of Mission Hills (“Keyes Hyundai”) and Does 1–10, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty (against HMA), (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty (against HMA), (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act Section
1793.2 (against HMA), and (4) Negligent Repair (against Keyes Hyundai).
Subsequently, HMA and Keyes Hyundai filed their respective Answer to the
Complaint on January 10, 2024.
 
On June 4, 2024, HMA filed the instant Motion to Compel
Arbitration (the “Motion”). Following this, on October 2, Plaintiff filed his
Opposition, and HMA replied on October 9, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Parties may be
compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a
valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers
the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2; Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).) 
 
When seeking to compel arbitration of a plaintiff’s claims,
the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219 (Condee).)  The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to
prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement
to arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)  The Court must grant a motion to compel
arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration or
if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
A.   
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests the Court take judicial notice of the
following matters:
 
1.     
Request for Judicial
Notice (“RJN”) No. 1: 40 Fed. Reg. 60618-60211 (Dec. 31, 1975),
2.     
RJN No. 2: 64 Fed.
Reg. 19700 – 19709 (Apr. 22, 1999),
3.     
RJN No. 3: H.R. Rep.
No. 93-1107 (1974),
4.     
RJN No. 4:
Subcommittee Staff Report, 120 Cong. Rec. 31, 318 (1974), and
5.     
RJN No. 5: Final Action Concerning Review of
Interpretations of Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act; Rule Governing Disclosure of
Written Consumer Product Warranty Terms and Conditions; Rule Governing Pre-Sale
Availability of Written Warranty Terms; Rule Governing Informal Dispute
Settlement Procedures; and Guides for the Advertising of Warranties and
Guarantees, 80 Fed. Reg. 42710-01 (July 20, 2015)
 
Pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, “[j]udicial notice may be taken of the following
matters ... (b) Regulations
and legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of the United
States or any public entity in the United States.” (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(b).)
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the request for judicial notice.
B.    
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to Paragraph 3 and Exhibit 3 of Jordan A. Willette’s
Declaration are OVERRULED.
 
C.   
Arbitration
Clause in the Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information
 
HMA asserts that on pages 12-14 of the Owner’s Handbook
& Warranty Information manual (the “Warranty Booklet”), the purported
binding arbitration provision provides, in pertinent part:
“If you purchased or leased your Hyundai vehicle in the State
of California, you and we each agree that any claim or disputes between us (including
between you and any of our affiliated companies) related to or arising out of
your vehicle purchase, use of your vehicle, the vehicle warranty,
representations in the warranty, or duties contemplated under the warranty,
including without limitation claims related to the failure to conform a vehicle
to warranty, failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or claims for a
refund or partial refund of your vehicle’s
purchase
price (excluding personal injury claims), but excluding claims brought under
the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, shall be resolved by binding arbitration at
either your or our election, even if the claim is initially filed in a court of
law....”
 
“This
agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly interpreted and to make all
disputes and claims between us (including our affiliated companies) relating to
or arising out of your vehicle purchase, use of your vehicle, or the vehicle
warranty subject to arbitration to the maximum extent permitted by law....”
 
“Notwithstanding
the above, either you may file a lawsuit in small claims court for
any
claims that otherwise require binding arbitration. This agreement evidences a
transaction
involving interstate commerce and shall be governed by the Federal
Arbitration
Act, 9 U.S.C. §§ 1-16. Judgment upon any award in arbitration may
be
entered in any court having jurisdiction.”
 
“IF
YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA,
YOUR
WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS
BINDING
ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY ACCEPTING BENEFITS
UNDER
THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS
PERFORMED
UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY
THESE
TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS,
PLEASE
CONTACT US AT OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN
THIRTY
(30) DAYS OF YOUR PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF
THIS
ARBITRATION PROVISION.”

 
(Willette
Decl., Ex. B at pp. 12-14.)
 
HMA
argues that it has standing to enforce the above purported arbitration clause
in the Warranty Booklet. Alternatively, HMA maintains that it may also compel
arbitration under the doctrine of equitable estoppel – despite the lack of
Plaintiff’s signature on the Warranty Booklet, Plaintiff is not precluded from
the enforcement of the arbitration clause as he asserts claims to receive a
“direct benefit” from the warranty contained in the same Warranty Booklet.
(Mot. at p. 9.) 
 
In
the Opposition, Plaintiff contends that the arbitration clauses within the
Warranty Booklet are unconscionable as he was never informed by Parkway
Hyundai, an authorized dealer that sold the Subject Vehicle to him, that any
warranty claims against HMA would be subject to binding arbitration. (Opp’n. at p. 12, Molina Decl. ¶ 5.) As to the equitable
estoppel argument, Plaintiff cites Norcia v. Samsung Telecommunications
America, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 845 F.3d 1279 (Norcia), asserting that
the Ninth Circuit found “[l]anguage in a written warranty agreement is
‘contractual’ in the sense that it creates binding, legal obligations on the
seller, but a warranty does not impose binding obligations on the buyer.”
(Opp’n. at p. 10.)
 
The
Court finds Plaintiff’s argument persuasive.
 
In Romo v. Y-3 Holdings (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1153 (Romo),
the appellate court examined whether the language of an arbitration provision
in an employee handbook, combined with other documents, created a binding
agreement to arbitrate claims arising from a separately signed employment
contract. In Romo, the employer sought to compel arbitration based on a
three-page arbitration agreement found with a 44-page employee handbook.
Despite the employee’s acknowledgment of receiving the handbook and agreeing to
its policies, neither party had signed the arbitration agreement itself. (Romo,
supra, at pp. 1156-1159.) The Romo court concluded that the
arbitration was not agreed upon, which lacked mutual consent due to the absence
of signatures. (Id. at pp. 1159-1160.)
 
            Here, HMA seeks to establish the
existence of an arbitration agreement by presenting the three-page arbitration
clause verbatim within the Warranty Booklet. In a situation analogous to Romo,
the three-page arbitration clause is contained in a 48-page Warranty Booklet.
Moreover, HMA does not contest that Plaintiff was never informed, nor given
notice during the sale, that a subsequent enforceable arbitration clause
existed inside the Warranty Booklet. Instead, Plaintiff was assured by the
authorized dealer that the Subject Vehicle was already warranted during the
pre-sale communications. (Molina Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that HMA
has failed to provide evidence showing that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate under
the purported arbitration clause within the Warranty Booklet, violating the
general principles of contract law, which requires that parties have mutual
consent to enter into a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Craig v. Brown
& Root, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 420, see also AT&T
Techs., Inc. v. Commc’ns Workers of Am. (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 648
[“[A]rbitration is a matter of contract and a party cannot be required to
submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed so to submit.”])
 
            This finding also applies to HMA’s
equitable estoppel argument which is premised on the validity of the
arbitration clause as determined as a question of law. (See Metalclad Corp.
v. Ventana Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th
1705, 1716.)
 
            Furthermore, as Plaintiff points
out, the Norcia court, discussing Civil Code sections 1790-1795.8
governing the formation of express and implied warranties and applicable in
this case, held that “[l]anguage
in a written warranty agreement is “contractual” in the sense that it creates
binding, legal obligations on the seller [Citation omitted], but a warranty does not impose binding obligations
on the buyer.... A
buyer may have to fulfill certain statutory conditions to obtain the benefit of
a warranty. See, e.g., Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.02(c) (stating that “[i]f the
buyer returns the [assistive device for an individual with a disability] within
the period specified in the written warranty,” the seller must adjust or
replace the device (emphasis added)). But a warranty generally does not impose
any independent obligation on the buyer outside of the context of enforcing the
seller's promises
[Citation Omitted].” (Norcia, supra, 845 F.3d at p. 1288.) 
 
Applying the reasoning from Norcia, it follows that
when the arbitration clause does not impose a binding obligation on the
consumer, the doctrine of equitable estoppel cannot be invoked in a breach of
warranty claim. In such cases, the consumer is not seeking to enforce the
warranty contract’s benefits while evading corresponding obligations.
 
            Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
Motion with respect to the arbitration clauses within the Warranty Booklet.
 
D.   
Arbitration Clause in the Sales Contract Where HMA Is a
Nonsignatory
 
HMA further argues that in the alternative, arbitration must
be enforced by HMA through the arbitration provisions in the sales contract.
(Mot. at p. 10.)
 
Plaintiff’s purchase of the Subject Vehicle was memorialized
in a “Retail Installment Sales Contract – Simple Finance Charge (With
Arbitration Provision)” (“Sales Contract”). (Willette Decl. Ex. “A.”) The Sales
Contract contains the following arbitration provisions:
 
“Agreement to Arbitrate: By
signing below, you agree that, pursuant to the Arbitration Provision on page 7
of this contract, you or we may elect to resolve any dispute by neutral,
binding arbitration and not by a court action. See the Arbitration Provision
for additional information concerning the agreement to arbitrate.”
 
“YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS
CONTRACT. YOU CONFIRM THAT BEFORE YOU SIGNED THIS CONTRACT, WE GAVE IT TO YOU,
AND YOU WERE FREE TO TAKE IT AND REVIEW IT. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ
ALL PAGES OF THIS CONTRACT, INCLUDING THE ARBITRATION PROVISION ON THE
REVERSE SIDE, BEFORE SIGNING BELOW.
YOU CONFIRM THAT YOU RECEIVED A COMPLETELY FILLED-IN COPY WHEN YOU SIGNED IT.”
 
“PLEASE REVIEW – IMPORTANT-
AFFECTS YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS
 
1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO
HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US
DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN
COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL.
 
2. IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU
WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO
PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS
REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY
CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US
INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO
CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY
CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL
ARBITRATIONS.
 
3. DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL
IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY
MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT, AND
OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND
WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE
AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.
 
....”
 
(Ibid.)
 
1)      Applicability of Federal Arbitration Act
(FAA)
 
Plaintiff and HMA disagrees about whether FAA is the governing law, with
HMA arguing that FAA applies and Plaintiff arguing that California law, namely the
Song-Beverly Act, by referencing the federal Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act
(“MMWA”), adopts Congressional intent to prohibit references within a written
warranty to any binding, non-judicial remedy. (Opp’n. at p. 8.) Plaintiff
hinges his argument on Chevron doctrine and precedent in which courts applying
Chevron’s framework to defer to the agency’s interpretation of federal
statutes, such as MMWA, as Congressional intent. (Chevron U.S.A Inc. v. NRDC
(1984) 467 U.S. 837 (Chevron).)
 
The Court notes that Chevron has recently been overturned, where
the Supreme Court of the United States held that courts need not, and may not,
defer to an agency’s interpretation of the law simply because a statue is
ambiguous. (Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo (2024) 144 S. Ct. 2244)

 
Nevertheless, the Court does not need to resolve the conflict between
FAA and MMWA as cited by the parties, because “even if the FAA applies, ‘state
law determines whether a nonsignatory to an agreement containing an arbitration
clause may compel arbitration [against a signatory].’” (Yeh v. Superior
Court of Contra Costa County (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 264, 270.)
 
The Court proceeds to address this issue under the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, as asserted by HMA.
 
2)      Equitable Estoppel as Applied to Arbitration
Provisions in the Sales Contract
 
            Here, HMA argues that while it is a
nonsignatory to the Sales Contract, it may compel Plaintiff, a signatory, under
equitable estoppel when Plaintiff’s claims are intimately founded in and
intertwined with the underlying contract obligations in the Sales Contract,
citing Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495 (Felisilda)).
 
“Where the equitable estoppel doctrine applies, the nonsignatory has a
right to enforce the arbitration agreement.” (JSM
Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237,
fn. 18.) Under the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, in “both federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory
defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to
arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are
‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract
obligations.” (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 262, 271.) “By relying on contract terms in a claim against a
nonsignatory defendant, even if not exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably
estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in that agreement.”
(Id. at p. 272.) “[I]f a plaintiff relies on the terms of an agreement
to assert his or her claims against a nonsignatory defendant, the plaintiff may
be equitably estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause of that very
agreement. In other words, a signatory to an agreement with an arbitration
clause cannot ‘“‘have it both ways’”’; the signatory ‘cannot, on the one hand,
seek to hold the non-signatory liable pursuant to duties imposed by the
agreement, which contains an arbitration provision, but, on the other hand,
deny arbitration's applicability because the defendant is a non-signatory.’” (Goldman
v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 220.)¿¿¿ 
 
There are two scenarios in which the causes of action are
“intimately founded in and intertwined” with the underlying contract
obligations: “‘The first occurs when “adjudication of the disputes between the
signatory and nonsignatory parties would require interpretation, and probably
enforcement, of the specific terms and conditions of the underlying contract”
[citation]—in other words, when the plaintiff “‘must rely on the terms of the
written agreement in asserting their claims.’” [Citation].  The second factual
scenario warranting equitable estoppel occurs when the signatory raises
allegations of “not merely parallel or similar, but substantially
interdependent and concerted misconduct by both the nonsignatory and one or
more of the signatories to the contract.’ [Citation.]”  (Goldman v.
KPMG, LLP, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at p. 220.)
 
The Court first rejects HMA’s argument as to the second
basis. The Complaint does not allege
any “interdependent and concerted misconduct” between both the signatory
dealership – which is not a party to this action or even mentioned in the
Complaint – and nonsignatory HMA.  Accordingly, the second basis for finding
equitable estoppel does not apply.
 
As to the first basis, the question then is whether
Plaintiff’s claims against HMA rely on the specific terms of the Sales
Contract.  Defendant primarily relies on Felisilda.  There, the plaintiff named both
the signatory dealer and non-signatory manufacturer, and the dealership
moved to compel arbitration.  After the trial court ordered arbitration,
the plaintiff dismissed the dealership.  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 489.)
(Underlines added.)  The appellate court affirmed the trial court’s order
to compel arbitration between the manufacturer and plaintiff alone.  (Id.
at p. 499.) 
 
The Court distinguishes the Felisilda case.  Here, only nonsignatory HMA is named
as a defendant and moved to compel arbitration.  (Ngo, supra,
23 F.4th at p. 950 [“It makes a critical difference that the Felisildas, unlike
Ngo, sued the dealership in addition to the manufacturer ...
Accordingly, Felisilda does not address the situation we are confronted
with here, where the non-signatory manufacturer attempted to compel arbitration
on its own.”]; Ruderman v. Rolls Royce Motor Cars LLC (C.D. Cal. 2021)
511 F.Supp.3d 1055, 1060  [“But Felisilda is not directly on point, because the plaintiff
in Felisildas
sued both the manufacturer and the dealer. Ruderman, on the other hand,
sued only Rolls-Royce. Felisilda, therefore, does not change state law that
directly controls this case. Kramer remains the controlling precedent
for this case. Under the Kramer line of cases, Rolls-Royce cannot compel
Ruderman to arbitrate his claims against it under the doctrine of equitable
estoppel.”].) 
 
In addition, the complaint in Felisilda alleged that “‘express warranties accompanied
the sale of the vehicle to [them] by which FCA … undertook to preserve
or maintain the utility or performance of [their] vehicle or provide
compensation if there was a failure in such utility or performance.’”  (Felisilda, supra,
53 Cal.App.5th at p. 496.)  Thus, the claims directly related to the
condition of the vehicle, which were alleged to have “violated warranties they
received as a consequence of the sales contract.”  (Id. at
p. 497, underlines added.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint makes no similar reference to
the Sales Contract as the source of its warranties. (Kramer v. Toyota
Motor Corp. (2013) 705 F.3d 1122, 1132.)  Indeed, Plaintiff’s First
and Third Causes of Action, for breach of warranty and failure to repair,
reference the warranty as provided by HMA’s warranty booklet, distinct from any
performance directed in the Sales Contract.    
 
            As to the Second Cause of Action for
Breach of Implied Warranty, Plaintiff pleads that the “[a]mong other
warranties, the Subject Vehicle was accompanied by an implied warranty that the
Subject Vehicle was merchantable pursuant to Civil Code section 1792.”
(Compl. ¶ 39.) (Underlines added.)  However, this reference
does not suggest the need to interpret “specific terms and conditions of
the underlying contract.” (See Mundi
v. Union Sec. Life Ins. Co., (2009) 555 F.3d 1042, 1047 [the Ninth Circuit
found that the claims were not intertwined with the loan agreement because
“[t]he resolution of [the plaintiff’s] claim does not require the examination
of any provisions of the [contract]” and the plaintiff was not making any
allegations against the other signatory of the contract.]) Consequently, HMA
has failed to meet its burden as a nonsignatory to establish that it may invoke
the arbitration provision against signatory Plaintiff.
 
            Therefore,
the Court DENIES the Motion with respect to the arbitration provisions in the
Sales Contract.
 
            Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Arbitration.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
is DENIED.
 
Motion party to give notice.
 