 Case Number:  22STCV21513    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



EDWIN FIGUEROA, et
  al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
ISABEL JONES, 
 
                        Defendant.


Case No.:


  22STCV21513




Hearing Date:


November 8, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
DEFENDANT ISABEL
  JONES’ DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 



            
Background
On July 1, 2022, Plaintiffs
Edwin Figueroa and Lizbeth Figueroa (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against Defendant Isabel Jones (“Defendant”). 
The original Complaint
asserted causes of action for (1) quiet title, (2) breach of contract, (3)
breach of warranty of habitability, and (4) negligent infliction of emotional
distress. Defendant demurred
to each of these causes of action and moved to strike portions of the
Complaint. On April 28, 2023, the Court issued an Order sustaining Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second, and third causes
of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend. Defendant’s demurrer to the
fourth cause of action of the Complaint was sustained without leave to amend.
Defendant’s motion to strike was denied as moot. 
            On May 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for
(1) quiet title, (2) breach of contract, and (3) breach of warranty of
habitability. 
            Defendant now demurs to each of the
causes of action of the FAC. Plaintiffs oppose. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice.  
Discussion 
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition
Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
B.     Allegations of the
FAC 
In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that around January of 2005, Plaintiffs were approached by Defendant with
an offer to move into the property at 4928 Granada Street, Los Angeles, CA
90042 (the “Subject Property”). (FAC, ¶¶ 4, 7.) Defendant said that the Subject
Property would have a “rent to own” Agreement, and Defendant would credit
Plaintiffs with two years’ worth of payments that would be applied to the
Subject Property. (FAC, ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs accepted the agreement and moved into
the Subject Property. (FAC, ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiffs allege that the
Subject Property had issues that need to be repaired, including but not limited
to a leaking roof, mold, and a mice infestation. (FAC, ¶ 8.) Defendant
neglected to make any repairs to the Subject Property and denied Plaintiffs the
ability to attempt repairs on their own. (FAC, ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs allege that
around September of 2012, Plaintiffs grew tired of the issues with the Subject
Property, and decided they would move from Los Angeles. (FAC, ¶ 10.) On or
about April 17, 2013, Plaintiffs signed on the purchase of a home located at
4317 W Avenue L4, Quartz Hill, California. (FAC, ¶ 13.) 
In September of 2017,
Defendant informed Plaintiffs that she was going to add them to the title of
the Subject Property. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Defendant filed a Grant Deed to add
Plaintiffs to the title of the Subject Property on September 29, 2017. (FAC, ¶
16.) 
Defendant then came to
Plaintiffs in or about October of 2017 and “sought to have them…get a loan
under their names.” (FAC, ¶ 17.) Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s the loan had not
gone through, the Defendant in or about December 2, 2017 asked the Plaintiffs
to sign a quit claim deed to remove themselves from the title of the Subject
Property.” (FAC, ¶ 19.) Plaintiffs agreed. (FAC, ¶ 19.) 
Plaintiffs also allege
that “in September of 2018…Plaintiff requested that the Defendant take Edwin
Figueroa off the title on the Lancaster home. By October 2018 the house in
Lancaster transferred from Plaintiff Edwin Figueroa to Antonio Castro and
Defendant…” (FAC, ¶ 20.) Defendant “promised that upon sale of the property she
would transfer title to the Subject Property to the Plaintiffs…” (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
Then, “[o]n or about
December 31, 2021 Defendant came to Plaintiffs with a possible solution to the
issue of the Subject Property. Plaintiffs would sign a written agreement that
stated Defendant Isabel Jones would be adding Plaintiffs to the title of the
Subject Property so that Plaintiff Edwin Figueroa could apply for loans for the
desperately needed repairs. Defendant would be given $53,000.00 on top of the
loan needed for the repairs. Defendant returned later that New Year’s Eve
asking Plaintiffs for the handwritten agreement which was granted and given to
the Defendant.” (FAC, ¶ 24.) Then, “Plaintiffs learned on or about January 10,
2022 that Defendant no longer wanted to be removed from the tittle [sic].
Instead Defendant would merely add Plaintiffs to the title of the Subject
Property. Given the myriad of issues in the Subject Property and the need for
funds to get the repairs done the Plaintiffs had little choice but to agree…” (FAC,
¶ 26.) Plaintiffs then alleges that “they realized that [Defendant] had no
interest in deeding them the Subject Property and further allege that she never
had a desire to do so since they made their initial agreement back in 2005…”
(FAC, ¶ 28.) 
Plaintiffs allege they made
a formal complaint to the Housing Department of the City of Los Angeles. (FAC,
¶ 28.) On or about April 25, 2022 City Inspector Javier Ramos Sr. inspected the
Subject Property. (FAC, ¶ 28.) Plaintiffs allege that “[i]n or about June of
2022 Defendant notified the Housing Department of the City of Los Angeles that
all the repairs had been completed. The matter was closed until Plaintiffs
contacted the inspectors and informed them that no work was actually done upon
the Subject Property. As of June 14, 2022 the case has been reopened. Defendant
informed the Plaintiffs of her intention to retaliate against them by evicting
them from the Subject Property. Defendant as [sic] in fact filed an unlawful
detainer action…” (FAC, ¶ 31.) 
C.     First, Second, and
Third Causes of Action of the FAC 
In the demurrer,
Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs’ causes of action for quiet title, breach of
contract, and breach of warranty of habitability are barred by the statute of
frauds. Defendant notes that pursuant to Civil Code
section 1624, subdivision (a)(3), “[t]he following contracts are invalid, unless they, or some note
or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged
or by the party’s agent:…(3) An agreement for the leasing for a longer period
than one year, or for the sale of real property, or of an interest therein;
such an agreement, if made by an agent of the party sought to be charged, is
invalid, unless the authority of the agent is in writing, subscribed by the
party sought to be charged.” (Civ. Code, § 1624, subd. (a)(3).) 
In support of the first cause of action for quiet title to real
property, Plaintiffs allege that “[g]iven the length of time and the repeated
changes to the agreement the Plaintiffs allege that [Defendant] had no
intention to ever transfer title of the Subject Property to them and merely
made hallow promises all the while collecting rent the Plaintiffs rightfully
believed was part of a valid rent-to-own agreement. Yet due to the undue
influence that [Defendant] had upon her son Edwin Figueroa excuses which should
have given rise to suspicions instead were accepted at face value. Upon their
belief that the Defendant was not acting in a fraudulent manner they proceeded
with the action currently before the court.” (FAC, ¶ 34, p. 9.) Plaintiffs seek “a declaration that
Plaintiffs are entitled to the legal and equitable ownership of the real Subject Property and that title
thereto should be vested in Plaintiff’s name alone…” (SAC, ¶ 34, p. 10.) Plaintiffs
further allege that “[t]he claims for Constructive Trust by the Plaintiffs rest
in the clear fraud engaged by the Defendant and the undue influence she held
upon her family.” (SAC, ¶ 35.) 
In the demurrer, Defendant notes
that Plaintiffs allege, “[a]round
January of 2005 the Plaintiffs were approached by Defendant with an offer to move into the Subject Property at 4928
Granada Street which was located next door to their then current address of 4932 Granada Street.
Defendant said that the Subject property would have the same ‘rent to
own’ agreement…The Plaintiffs accepted the agreement…” (FAC, ¶¶ 7, 8, emphasis
added.) Defendant thus asserts that “Plaintiffs allege in the FAC that
they entered into a verbal agreement with Defendant in approximately
2005 for Defendant to eventually transfer title in the Property to Plaintiffs.”
(Demurrer at p. 6:14-15, emphasis in original.) Defendant cites to Rossberg v. Bank of America, N.A. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1503, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “[b]ecause the Rossbergs sought to allege a contract
subject to the statute of frauds, they must allege a written contract signed by
BofA and their failure to do so is a legal issue properly decided on demurrer.”

Moreover, as Defendant notes, Plaintiffs allege that they agreed to sign a quit claim deed to remove
themselves from the title of the Subject Property. (FAC, ¶ 19, Ex. 3.) The Quitclaim
Deed is dated December 2, 2017. (Ibid.) The FAC
does not appear to allege that there was any written agreement to transfer
title in the Subject Property to Plaintiffs after the alleged Quit Claim Deed
was executed. 
In support of the second
cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiffs allege that “in or about
January of 2022 an oral agreement was made between themselves and the
Defendant. The Defendant since that time has not performed her part of the
agreement even though the Plaintiffs have paid rent as part of a rent-to-own
agreement consistently since that time. The Defendant kept insisting the
contract was in place and used her influence upon her son Plaintiff Edwin
Figueroa to change the terms of the agreement to her unilateral benefit
until…it was clear that Defendant…had no intention to perform her part of the
contract.” (FAC, ¶ 36, emphasis added.) Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s a direct
and proximate result of the inaction by the Defendant, Plaintiffs have suffered
damages in an amount not as ascertained, but the estimate on the Subject
Property makes it worth a little over one million dollars...” (FAC, ¶ 37.) 
As to the
breach of contract cause of action, Defendant notes that Plaintiffs allege that
an “oral agreement was made
between themselves and the Defendant” in about January of 2005. (FAC, ¶ 36.)
Defendant asserts that “[t]his on its face renders the FAC subject to
demurrer because the alleged agreement is oral and is for the purchase of real
property.” (Demurrer at p. 7:15-16.) 
In support of the third cause of action for breach of warranty of
habitability, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendant has been
charging rent for the Plaintiffs to reside on the property since they moved in.
This was part of an alleged rent-to-own agreement between the parties. No
writing exists between the parties as to terms of a lease, but given the
years upon the property alongside the Defendant accepting rent created specific
obligations between [Defendant] as a Landlord and the Plaintiffs as tenants on
the property.” (FAC, ¶ 40, emphasis added.) 
As to the third cause of
action, Defendant cites to Green v.
Superior Court of San Francisco (1974)
10 Cal.3d 616, 631, where the California Supreme Court held that “a warranty of
habitability is implied by law in residential leases in California.” As discussed,
Plaintiffs allege that “[a]round
January of 2005 the Plaintiffs were approached by Defendant with an offer
to move into the Subject
Property at 4928 Granada Street,” that “Defendant said that the Subject property would have [a]…‘rent to own’
agreement,” and that Plaintiffs “accepted the agreement and moved into the Subject
Property.” (SAC, ¶¶ 7-8, underline added.) To the extent Plaintiffs are
alleging that they entered into a lease agreement with Defendant as of 2005,
Defendant asserts that any such agreement is barred by the statute of frauds.
As set forth above, “[t]he
following contracts are invalid, unless they, or some note or memorandum
thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged or by the
party’s agent:…(3) An agreement for
the leasing for a longer period than one year, or for the sale of real property, or of an
interest therein; such an agreement, if made by an agent of the party sought to
be charged, is invalid, unless the authority of the agent is in writing,
subscribed by the party sought to be charged.” (Civ.
Code, § 1624, subd. (a)(3), emphasis added.) In the opposition, Plaintiffs
do not appear to dispute that any purported lease agreement between Plaintiffs
and Defendant pertaining to the Subject Property is for a longer period
than one year.  
In addition, in the
opposition, Plaintiffs appear to concede that they are alleging that an oral
agreement was made between Plaintiffs and Defendant. They assert that “a clear
agreement, albeit orally, was made between the Plaintiffs and Defendant in
which in exchange for transferring ownership of property located in Quartz
Hill, California would be placed on title to the property owned by the
Defendant. Part of this was a rent-to-own agreement which the Defendant fully
benefited from.” (Opp’n at p.
6:14-19.) 
Plaintiffs appear to
argue that the statute of frauds is inapplicable here because a “constructive
trust” was imposed. Plaintiffs cite to Kraus
v. Willow Park Public Golf Course (1977)
73 Cal.App.3d 354, 373,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] constructive trust is an equitable
remedy imposed where the defendant holds title or some interest in certain
property which it is inequitable for him to enjoy as against the
plaintiff. Section 2224 of the Civil Code provides
that: ‘One who gains a thing by fraud, accident, mistake, undue influence, the
violation of a trust, or other wrongful act, is, unless he has some other and
better right thereto, an involuntary trustee of the thing gained, for the
benefit of the person who would otherwise have had it.’ In order to create
a constructive or involuntary trust as defined in section
2224, no conditions other than the three stated in that section are
necessary: the existence of a res (property or some interest in property), the
plaintiff’s right to that res, and the defendant’s gain of the res by fraud,
accident, mistake, undue influence, the violation of a trust or other wrongful
act. A constructive trust is a remedial device primarily created to prevent
unjust enrichment; equity compels the restoration to another of property to
which the holder thereof is not justly entitled.”
(Internal citations omitted.) Plaintiffs note
“[t]hat the statute of frauds does not apply where a constructive trust is
imposed is well settled.” (Edwards v. Edwards (1949) 90 Cal.App.2d 33, 40.) 
Plaintiffs assert that “[t]he
wrongful action as alleged in the complaint was that after the agreement was
made between the Plaintiffs and Defendant in 2012 that while the Plaintiffs did
everything to perform their pat [sic] of the rent-to-own agreement the
Defendant did nothing but collect money from the Plaintiffs which she in turn
used to pay off the mortgage owned upon the property in Quartz Hill,
California. This fact which can be proven at trial will establish that
Defendant…enriched herself to the detriment of Plaintiffs Edwin and Lisbeth
Figueroa which in turn created a resulting trust.” (Opp’n at p. 7:13-21.)  
Defendant contends that
Plaintiffs “have not alleged the constructive trust exception to the [statute
of frauds].” (Demurrer at p. 8:22.) As set
forth above, “[i]n order to create a constructive or involuntary trust as
defined in section 2224, no conditions other than
the three stated in that section are necessary: the existence of a res
(property or some interest in property), the plaintiff’s right to that res, and
the defendant’s gain of the res by fraud, accident, mistake, undue influence,
the violation of a trust or other wrongful act.” (Kraus v. Willow
Park Public Golf Course, supra,
73 Cal.App.3d at p. 373.) 
Defendant
asserts that here, Plaintiffs fail to allege “facts supporting
their right to the Subject Property” and “a wrongful acquisition of the Subject
Property by [Defendant].”
(Demurrer
at p. 9:10-12.) As noted by Defendant, Plaintiffs allege (as set forth above)
that “Defendant in or about December 2, 2017 asked the Plaintiffs to sign a
quit claim deed to remove themselves from the title of the Subject
Property…Plaintiffs preferred to avoid angering the Defendant and agreed.”
(FAC, ¶ 19.) Plaintiffs attach a copy of the Quitclaim Deed as Exhibit 3 to the
FAC. (FAC, ¶ 19, Ex. 3.) The Quitclaim Deed provides, inter alia, that “Grantors,
Edwin Giovanni Figueroa and Lizbeth Figueroa…Hereby remise, release and forever
quitclaims to Grantee, Isabel Jones, a married woman as her sole and separate
property, the Real property in the City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles,
State of California…Commonly known as: 4928 Granada Street, Los Angeles, CA
90042.” (Ibid.) The Quitclaim Deed is dated
December 2, 2017. Defendant also asserts that Plaintiffs’ “admission that they
voluntarily transferred their share of the title to [Defendant] defeats any
notions of fraud or wrongdoing by her to support Constructive Trust.” (Demurrer
at p. 12:2-3.) Plaintiffs do not appear to address the foregoing points in the
opposition, or demonstrate how Plaintiff purportedly has a “right to that res…”
(Kraus v. Willow Park Public Golf Course, supra, 73 Cal.App.3d at p. 373.)
 
Defendant also asserts that the FAC is defective because it is
uncertain. Defendant asserts that “after alleging the above-discussed verbal
‘rent to own’ agreement, the Complaint alleges various promises between the
parties but it is not clear if these are supposed to form part of the oral
‘rent to own’ agreement or other agreements between the parties.” (Demurrer at
p. 11:17-20, citing FAC, ¶¶ 10-21.) In the opposition, Plaintiffs do not
address this argument or appear to dispute that the causes of action of the FAC
fail for uncertainty. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action for quiet
title, the second cause of action for breach of contract, and the third cause
of action for breach of warranty of habitability, without leave to amend. As
set forth above, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to these causes of
action in the original Complaint. In addition, Plaintiffs have not
demonstrated any way that they could amend their causes of action to alleviate
the problems with the causes of action discussed above.
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the first,
second, and third causes of action of the FAC is sustained, without leave to
amend. 
The Court orders Defendant to file and serve a proposed
judgment of dismissal within 30 days of the date of this order. (Donald v. Cafe Royale, Inc. (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 168, 186 [“An order
sustaining a demurrer without leave to amend is not a final judgment; a
judgment of dismissal follows such an order as a matter of course.”].) 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  November 8, 2023                          ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 