  Case Number:  23STCV22930    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Thursday, August 1, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 9  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Exal
Recinos, et al. v. Prairie Avenue Apartments LLC, et al. 
20STCV22930
1.      Petitioner Exal Recinos’s Petition to Approve
Compromise of Pending Action of Minor (Matthew Recinos)
2.      Petitioner Exal Recinos’s Petition to Approve
Compromise of Pending Action of Minor (Jessica Recinos) 
     
TENTATIVE RULING
        
            Petitioner’s Petitions
to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of Minor[s] are granted.   
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on
July 17, 2020. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs are tenants at
property owned, controlled, and/or managed by Defendant. The property suffers
from significant habitability problems. 
 
Petitions to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of
Minor
 
A claim by or against a minor may be settled through
compromise only with the approval of the court. 
A petition for approval must be presented to the court by the minor’s
guardian.  CCP § 372; Probate Code Secs.
2500-2507; 3413-3605.
 
            The court should consider the
following factors: the circumstances of the accident, particularly the facts
bearing on the payor’s liability and the minor’s damages; the amount of the
proposed settlement; the method of payment; the nature of the injury and the
minor’s current medical status (the petition should include a recent medical
report); and the amount of attorney’s fees being requested.  Before the hearing, the court should make a
preliminary determination of whether the proposed settlement and the method of
payment appear reasonable in relation to the potential liability and the nature
and extent of injuries.  It is especially
important to determine whether the minor’s condition is permanent, and whether
it is stable or likely to worsen.  The
court should also make a preliminary determination as to whether the costs,
expenses, and attorneys’ fees appear reasonable.
 
            The Court has reviewed the petitions for compromise of pending action.
The Court determines that the petitions are reasonable as to the settlement
amounts and as to the delineated costs. The Court finds that the settlement is
in the best interests of the minors. The proposed petitions for compromise of
the pending action and the proposed disposition of the proceeds of the
settlement funds are hereby approved.
 
            Thus, for the foregoing reasons, Petitioner’s Petitions to Approve Compromise
of Pending Action of Minor[s] are granted.  
 
Petitioner is ordered to give notice of this ruling.