  Case Number:  22PSCV00430    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  K 1.         Defendants
Jing Qiu Kwok and Winsome CPA, Inc.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED.
The court will hear from counsel for
Plaintiff as to whether leave to amend is requested, and will require an offer
of proof if so.
2.         Defendants Jing Qiu Kwok and Winsome
CPA, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint is DENIED as
MOOT.
3.         Defendants
Marshall Brubacher and Mundell Odlum & Haws, LLP’s Demurrer to Second
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. The court
will hear from counsel for Plaintiff as to whether leave to amend is requested,
and as to which cause(s) of action, and will require an offer of proof if so.
4.         Defendants
Marshall Brubacher and Mundell Odlum & Haws, LLP’s Motion to Strike Portions
of Second Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.
Background[1]  
Plaintiffs Zia Abhari (“Abhari”) and Amir Shamloo
(“Shamloo” and collectively with Abhari as the “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On
May 2, 2020, Gordes Hospitality, Inc. (“Gordes”), through Ganyu Huang aka Gary Huang (“Huang”), and Shamloo, with Abhari serving as a silent partner, entered into an
“Asset Purchase Agreement” and a “Security Agreement” with Gordes for the transfer of ownership of
Hamilton’s Steakhouse (“Hamilton”) from Gordes, as seller, to Plaintiffs, as
buyers. On June 18, 2020, LVGEM Hotel Corporation (“LVGEM”), through Huang, and Shamloo, with Abhari
serving as a silent partner of Shamloo, entered into a “Lease Agreement” for the lease of the property upon which
Hamilton is located. Gordes, LVGEM and Huang have refused to transfer the
existing liquor license for Hamilton to Plaintiffs, failed to provide
Plaintiffs with the insurance information and have undertaken efforts to
deprive Plaintiffs of their real estate leasehold possessory interest in the premises
upon which the Hamilton is located. 
On January 30, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed two “Amendment[s] to Complaint,”
wherein Jing Qiu Kwok (“Kwok”) was named in lieu of Doe 1 and Winsome CPA, Inc. (“Winsome”) was named in lieu of
Doe 2.
On May 3, 2023, the court
sustained Gordes, LVGEM and Huang’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
with leave to amend.
On June 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint, asserting causes of action against Gordes, LVGEM, Huang, Kwok,
Winsome, Marshall Brubacher (“Brubacher”), Mundell Odlum & Haws LLP
(“MO&H” and collectively with the others as “Defendants”), and Does 5-100
for:
1.                 
Breach of the
“Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
2.                 
Breach of the
“Security Agreement” Contract
3.                 
Breach of the
“Lease Agreement” Contract
4.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Asset
Purchase Agreement” Contract
5.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the
“Security Agreement” Contract
6.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Lease
Agreement” Contract
7.                 
Fraud in
the Inducement of Forming at Least the “Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
8.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation 
9.                 
Inducing
Breach of Contract
10.             
Fraud by False
Promise
On August 28, 2023, the court sustained, without leave to
amend, the demurrer to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and tenth causes of action. The
court also granted Gordes, LVGEM and Huang’s motion to strike as to the request
for punitive damages.
A Case Management Conference is set for December 4, 2023.
1.         Kwok/Winsome
Demurrer
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion
Kwok and Winsome demur, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), to the ninth cause of action (i.e.,
Inducing Breach of Contract) in Plaintiff’s SAC, on the basis that it fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain.
In order to state a cause of action for inducing a breach of
contract, “plaintiff must allege the existence of a valid contract; that the
defendant had knowledge of the existence of the contract and intended to induce
a breach thereof; that the contract was in fact breached resulting in injury to
plaintiff, and the breach and resulting injury [was] proximately caused by
defendant’s unjustified or wrongful conduct.” (Freed v. Manchester Service,
Inc. (1958) 165 Cal.App.2d 186, 189 [internal citations omitted].)
Plaintiffs have alleged that Kwok is an accountant (SAC, ¶
8), that Winsome is a San Marino corporation (Id., ¶ 9), that Kwok and
Winsome were introduced to Plaintiffs by Qian for the purpose of providing
accounting services as to Hamilton (Id., ¶ 46), that if Huang’s “above
referenced assertion” (i.e., presumably that made in ¶ 40, that “supposedly
Huang, after having given Qian authority to act on behalf of Gordes, LHC, and Huang
with regard to Shamloo and Abhari as to negotiating and concluding the sale of
Hamilton to Shamloo and Abhari, terminated that authority before the ‘Asset
Purchase Agreement’ contract, the ‘Security Agreement’ contract, and the ‘Lease
Agreement’ contract had ever been initially drafted) “is not true, or if Qian
did have at least ostensible authority to negotiate and conclude the three
contracts with Shamloo and Abhari for the sale of Hamilton, then, Kwok, and
Winsome, and each of them, had full knowledge of those contracts and each
contract’s terms” (Id.), and that Kwok and Winsome specifically intended
to induce the breach of those contracts “by participating in wrongfully
obstructing the delivery of the contract rights to which [Plaintiffs] were
entitled, and to which Gordes, LHC, Huang, DOES 5 through 100, and each of them
were to perform, as at least a substantial factor, causing Shamloo and Abhari’s
complained-of harm.” (Id.)
Plaintiff has not factually alleged how Kwok and Winsome
purportedly induced the breach of each of the three contracts. Kwok’s and
Winsome’s demurrer, then, is sustained.
2.         Kwok/Winsome Motion to Strike
Based upon the
ruling made on the demurrer, Kwok/Winsome’s motion to strike is denied as moot.
3.         Brubacher/Firm’s
Demurrer
Legal Standard
See Demurrer #1.
Discussion
Brubacher and Firm
demur, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10, subdivision (e), to
the seventh and eighth causes of action (i.e., for Fraud in the Inducement of
Forming at Least the “Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract and Negligent
Misrepresentation, respectively) in Plaintiff’s SAC, on the basis that they
both fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court denies Brubacher and Firm’s Request for Judicial Notice.
Seventh Cause of Action (i.e., Fraud
in the Inducement of Forming at Least the “Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract)
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “Fraud in the inducement is a
subset of the tort of fraud.” (Id.)
“Fraud must be pleaded with
specificity…[t]o withstand a demurrer, the facts
constituting every element of the fraud must be alleged with particularity,
and the claim cannot be salvaged by references to the general policy favoring
the liberal construction of pleadings.” (Goldrich
v. Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782
[emphasis in original].) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 59, 73 (emphasis in original), quoting Hills Trans. Co. v. Southwest (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.) “The
requirement of specificity in a fraud action against a corporation requires the
plaintiff to allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.)

Here, Plaintiffs have
failed to allege that Brubacher and/or Firm had any knowledge of Qian’s
purported lack of authority. Further, Plaintiffs’ allegations are void of “how,
when, where, and by what means” any misrepresentation was made by Brubacher
and/or Firm. Brubacher and Firm’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action is
sustained.
Eighth Cause of Action
(i.e., Negligent Misrepresentation)
“The elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) made without
reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) made with the intent to
induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance
on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank
National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 196). “Each element in a
cause of action for. . . negligent misrepresentation
must be factually and specifically alleged.” (Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 513, 519
[citation omitted].)
Again, Plaintiffs have not factually and specifically alleged this cause
of action, as identified above. Brubacher and Firm’s demurrer to the
eighth cause of action is sustained.
4.         Brubacher/Firm’s Motion
to Strike
Based upon the ruling made
on the demurrer, Brubacher/Firm’s motion to strike is denied as moot.

