 Case Number:  24STCV02667    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


November 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


24STCV02667




MOTION:  


Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Chase Love and Steve Love




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant General Motors LLC



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiffs
Chase Love and Steve Love (“Plaintiffs”) move to compel further responses from
Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) to Requests for Production of
Documents, set one (“RPD”) and Special Interrogatories, set one (“SROG”).  Defendant opposes the motions.
ANALYSIS
If the propounding
party deems responses to requests for production of documents or
interrogatories unsatisfactory, the propounding party may move to compel
further responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300, 2031.310.)  
In this case,
Plaintiffs allege their 2021 Chevrolet Bolt vehicle had defects Defendant was
unable to repair after a reasonable number of attempts, and defendant did not
repurchase the vehicle.  Plaintiffs,
therefore, contend Defendant is liable under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act (Song-Beverly).  Plaintiffs demanded Defendant
produce documents about Plaintiffs’ vehicle and about the same make and model
of their vehicle.
Defendant objects
to the RPD to the extent Plaintiffs seek documents about vehicles other than
Plaintiffs’ vehicle.  As Plaintiffs
timely filed this motion to compel further responses, Defendant has the burden
to justify its objections.  (Fairmont
Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255 (Fairmont Insurance).)  Pursuant to Santana v. FCA US, LLC
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 334, Plaintiffs are entitled to discovery regarding the
alleged defects in other vehicles of the same make and model as Plaintiffs’
vehicle.  Likewise, Plaintiffs are
entitled to evidence of Defendant’s conduct towards other purchasers of
defective vehicles, which is pertinent to a finding the manufacturer willfully
violated Song-Beverly by failing to adequately repair a vehicle.  (Johnson v. Ford Motor Co. (2005) 35
Cal. 4th 1191, 1204.)  Furthermore,
“whether [Defendant] had a written policy on the requirement to repair or
replace” under Song-Beverly is relevant to a finding of willfulness.  (Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc.
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 136.)  Plaintiffs are entitled to discovery on
Defendant’s policies and procedures.  
Defendant contends
the information Plaintiffs seek about defects in vehicles of the same make and
model as Plaintiffs’ vehicle is irrelevant. “In the context of discovery,
evidence is ‘relevant’ if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its
case, preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement. Admissibility is not
the test, and it is sufficient if the information sought might reasonably lead
to other, admissible evidence.”  (Glenfed
Development Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  As set forth above, information about the same
make and model as Plaintiffs’ vehicle is pertinent to this case.
Defendant claims
responsive information is a trade secret.  Defendant has not substantiated that
objection.  Pursuant to Civil Code
section 3426.1, “Trade secret means information, including a formula, pattern,
compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives
independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known
to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its
disclosure or use; and (2) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under
the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” 
The Court is skeptical that Defendant derives economic value from
defects in its vehicles and complaints to Defendant about defects in its
vehicles.  Further, in support of this
argument, Defendant advances a declaration that is unrelated to this case and
is dated October 25, 2018.  (See
Declaration of Huizhen Lu (attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Sandra
Habib in Support of General Motors LLC’s Opposition).)  There is no evidence before the Court the averments
in that six-year-old declaration are accurate and reliable. Thus, the Court
disregards it.
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ motion is granted and Defendant is ordered to respond with
responsive documents regarding other vehicles that are of the same year, make,
and model as Plaintiffs’ vehicle.  
In response to
SROG Nos. 25, 26,and  39, Defendant
asserted objections.  As Plaintiffs
timely filed this motion to compel further responses, Defendant has the burden
to justify its objections.  (Fairmont
Insurance, supra, 22 Cal.4th at p. 255.)  Defendant has not done so.  Instead, Defendant states in opposition it
will produce documents from which Plaintiffs may obtain responsive information.  As set forth below, the production of
documents does not meet Defendant’s obligations to respond to the SROG.  Consequently, Defendant must respond to these
SROG.
In response to
SROG Nos. 14, 20, 23, 41, and 43, Defendant references other documents and
responses instead of providing complete responses.  Defendant’s responses are improper. (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1984) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783-784.)  To respond to interrogatories by reference to
documents, the responding party must be responding to an interrogatory that
requires a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of records, and the party
must specify the documents from which the answer may be derived.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, see also Fuss
v. Superior Court (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 807, 815-817.) As the SROG do not
ask Defendant to provide a compilation or summary of records, Defendant cannot
respond by referring Plaintiffs to documents. 
Defendant must further respond to the subject SROG.
The Court declines
to impose sanctions.  The Court notes Defendant
agreed to produce many of the documents Plaintiffs seek. (See Opposition to
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, pp.
1-2.)  Accordingly, an award of sanctions
would be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiffs’ motion
to compel further responses to the RPD is granted and Defendant is ordered to
respond by producing responsive documents regarding other vehicles that are of
the same year, make, and model as Plaintiffs’ vehicle. 
Plaintiffs’ motion
to compel further responses to the SROG is granted.
Plaintiffs are
ordered to give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 