 Case Number:  23STCV25626    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MURAL MEDIA, LLC 401 K PLAN 
  
        
  vs.
 
LINDA J. MAULTSBY, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV25626   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 4, 2024




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Accordingly,
the pending discovery motions and motion for protective order are MOOT.   
 
            On 10/20/2023, Plaintiff Mural
Media, LLC 401 K. Plan (Plaintiff) filed an unlawful detainer action against
Linda J. Maultsby (Defendant).
 
            On 7/8/2024, Defendant demurred to
Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
Complaint must be dismissed on the following grounds: (1)
The Plaintiff does not have standing or legal capacity to sue; (2) There is
another action pending between the Plaintiff and Defendant on the same cause of
action; (3) The court lacked subject matter jurisdiction over the unlawful
detainer cause of action because the Defendant was not served with any of the
pre-requisite notices to quit and the pre-requisite notice is fatally defective
on its face; and (4) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. 
 
            After
review, the Court finds Defendant’s demurrer should be sustained, without leave
to amend.    
 
            As
to the first contention, the Court disagrees with Defendant’s arguments that
Plaintiff lacks capacity and standing. For the purposes of a demurrer, the Court
must assume the truth of the allegations in the pleading. Here, Plaintiff
alleges that it is the owner of the real property at issue. (Verified
Complaint, ¶ 1.) That allegation is sufficient at the pleading stage for
Plaintiff to show that it has standing for an unlawful detainer cause of action
regarding this real property. Furthermore, Defendant Linda Maultsby’s arguments
that Plaintiff lacks the capacity to sue based on fictitious personhood,
real-parties-in-interest, and trusts are unpersuasive, and Defendant did not
advance any contention that Plaintiff lacks the capacity to sue based on its
current corporate standing.
 
As to the
second contention, Defendant argues that:
 
This unlawful
detainer action was filed on October 20, 2023 against the Defendant based upon
a notice to vacate premises, dated August 24, 2023 for the subject property
located at 2757 South Mansfield Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90016. However, the
Plaintiff filed another unlawful detainer action against the Defendant
(L.A.S.C. No. 23STCV21245) on September 1, 2023 based upon the same notice to
vacate premises, dated August 24, 2023, which is also still pending. (See
Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. A  
 
            (Demurrer,
5: 3-8.)
 
In support, Defendant cites CCP section
430.10, subdivision (c) which allows for a demurrer where “[t]here is another action pending between the same
parties on the same cause of action.” 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s argument “is completely lacking in any analysis or
supporting documentation.” (Opp., 3: 14-15.) 
 
            However,
a review of the Complaints reveal otherwise. Both cases are brought by the same
Plaintiff against the same Defendant based on the same notice for the same
cause of action, i.e., unlawful detainer. The Complaints seek identical relief:
return of the same Unit, and damages for unlawful detention of the Property of
at least $106.67 per day. Under Plaintiff’s logic, Plaintiff could file separate
lawsuits against a tenant to recover damages to the unit, failure to timely pay
rent, and failure to obey by a Notice to Quit. This would not only run directly
counter to interests of judicial economy, but could lead to conflicting
rulings. 
 
            Third,
Defendant contends that the three-day notice to quit the property was defective
and thus the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction over this matter.
 
After review,
the Court agrees. Notably, on 2/28/2024, the Court overseeing Case No.
23STCV21245 (the other unlawful detainer case seeking involving the same
parties, same property, and same notice to quit) reached the same conclusion in
response to Defendant Jaccoma Maultsby’s demurrer there. This not only
compounds the Court’s confidence in its conclusion here, but highlights the
risk of conflicting ruling created by filing two separate cases based on the
same 3-day notice.  
 
As part of
its Complaint, Plaintiff attached a copy of the Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale,
recorded and filed in the Official Records of the Recorder’s Office for Los
Angeles County, California. (Complaint, Exh. 1.) The Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale
purportedly shows, among other things, that “Mural Media LLC 401K Plan” owns an
undivided 47.618% interest in the real property at issue. (Id.) The
Verified Complaint further alleges that “Mural Media, LLC 401k Plan” is the
“owner of the real property.” (Complaint, ¶ 1.) (Notably, the Verified
Complaint omits any mention of the other current owners of the real property,
who appear to collectively own more than 50% of the real property.) 
 
However, the
actual “notice” provided to Defendants states that “the new legal owner of this
Property is Real Time Resolutions, Inc.,” not “Mural Media LLC 401K
Plan.” (Complaint, Exh. 2, p. 1.)
 
“It is true
that where the purchaser at a trustee’s sale proceeds under section 1161a of
the Code of Civil Procedure he must prove his acquisition of title by purchase
at the sale . . . .” (Cheney v. Trauzettel (1937) 9 Cal.2d 158, 159,
citations omitted.) “In an action for unlawful detainer, section 1161a
therefore necessarily requires proof that the property was ‘duly sold . . .’
and that ‘the title under the sale has been duly perfected.’” (Seidell v.
Anglo-California Trust Co. (1942) 55 Cal.App.2d 913, 920, citing Code Civ.
Proc., § 1161a.) 
 
Here, the
“notice” was defective because it did not give proper notice to the occupants
of the real property that the real property had in fact been sold. Even if the
occupants saw the notice and had the insight to check the Official Records of
Los Angeles County to determine if a nonjudicial foreclosure had occurred and
been recorded, they would have seen Mural Media LLC 401K Plan — not Real Time
Resolutions, Inc. In order words, the occupants would have had no notice or
reason to believe that the actual owner of their real property was seeking
repossession of the premises that they lived in. Plaintiff admits that a
mistake was made, calling it a “typo.” (Opposition, p. 3:2–10.) 
 
Still,
Plaintiff argues that the notice is fine because “other parts of the Notice to
Vacate correctly identify Plaintiff as the owner of the subject property and
the party that was issuing the Notice to Vacate.” (Id., emphases
omitted.)
 
The Court
disagrees.
 
First, the
notice does not make it clear that Plaintiff is the property owner. Only at the
very end of the notice is the name “Mural Media, LLC 401k Plan” listed, and
even then, it is not clarified in any way that would indicate this entity is
the actual owner of the real property. 
 
Second,
unlawful detainer proceedings are “limited in scope and demand strict adherence
to the statutes’ procedural requirements.” (Stancil v. Super. Ct. (2021)
11 Cal.5th 381, 390.) Unlawful detainer cases filed pursuant to CCP section
1161 are regularly dismissed for even the most minute defects in notice. (ESA
Mgmt., LLC v. Jacob (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th Supp. 1, 3, holding that a notice
that did not include the amount of rent due or any information to permit the
tenant to cure the default made the notice “fatally defective.”) In situations
like this one, where the statute requires a “three-day written notice to quit
the property” in situations where “the property has been sold,” anything less
than notice to current occupants that the actual current owner is seeking
repossession does not comply with CCP section 1161a and is “fatally defective.”
Because the three-day notice is fatally defective, the Court lacks subject
matter jurisdiction over this matter. (CCP § 1161a, subd. (b).) Therefore, the
Court cannot grant leave to amend because such leave would be futile. (Am.
Nat’l Bank of Santa Monica v. Johnson (124 Cal.App.Supp. 783, 787.)
 
Finally,
while not raised by either party, the Court also finds Plaintiff’s notice to be
ambiguous or incomplete in two other regards. 
 
First, rather
than state that it is a Three-Day Notice to Quit, Plaintiff wrote an ambiguous
notice that requires the individuals who receive the notice to figure out
whether they are subject a three-, thirty-, or ninety-day notice to quit the
property. While it may not be an issue for an occupant to receive more time
than legally required (for example, ninety days when only sixty days is
required), it would be highly prejudicial to occupants to be forced out of their
homes after three days if they were mistakenly under the belief that they had
sixty days because of a notice’s fundamental ambiguity. Individuals subject to
Notices to Quit should not be left to decipher such Notices, particularly given
the stakes involved. As a result, the Court holds doubt as to whether or not the
Notice’s ambiguous language could survive a strict application of the language
of CCP section 1161a. 
 
Second, “[i]n
an action regarding residential real property based on Section 1161a, the
plaintiff shall state in the caption of the complaint ‘Action based on Code of
Civil Procedure Section 1161a.’” (CCP § 1166, subd. (c).) Plaintiff has not
complied with this procedural requirement. Instead of listing the required
language in the caption of the Complaint, Plaintiff has only written the
following in the footer: “Verified Complaint for Unlawful Detainer Under CCP §
1161a.” Again, unlawful detainer proceedings are “limited in scope and demand
strict adherence to the statutes’ procedural requirements.” (Stancil, supra,
11 Cal.5th at p. 390.) Unlike the failure to attach certain documents, the
statute does not explicitly include the right to amend for failure to include the
required caption statement. (See CCP § 1166, subd. (d)(2) [“If the
plaintiff fails to attach the documents required by this subdivision, the court
shall grant leave to amend the complaint for a five-day period in order to
include the required attachments.”].) Given the explicit requirement to amend
for document omissions, the Court presumes that the Legislature knew how to
require such amendments and chose not to require them for caption omissions.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 