 Case Number:  22STCV29482    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Alam v.
Barrientos
22STCV29482
Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Tentative
The
motion is granted.
Background
On September
9, 2022, MD Alam (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Aroldo Barrientos
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 100 for general negligence and motor vehicle
negligence arising out of an automobile accident occurring on March 10, 2022.
At the Final
Status Conference on February 23, 2024, the Court noted that no proof of
service had been filed.  The Court
vacated the trial date and set an OSC re dismissal for failure to file a proof
of service for September 9, 2024.
On
September 9, 2024, there was no appearance. 
The Court dismissed the complaint without prejudice.
On September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to set
aside the dismissal. 
No opposition has been filed.
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b) provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief from
dismissal. 
As to discretionary
relief, the statute states: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 473, subd. (b).)
Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the motion must be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be filed;
“otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Ibid.)
The statute also provides
for mandatory relief from dismissal, default, or default judgment:
“whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or 22STCneglect … unless the court
finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” 

(Ibid.)
A request for
discretionary relief under section 473, subdivision (b), must be made (subject
to certain exceptions) “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six
months.”  (Ibid.)  A request for mandatory relief must be made
within six months.  (Ibid.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff requests that the Court’s order of dismissal be
set aside under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.
In support of the motion, Plaintiff submits a declaration
from counsel.  Counsel states that the
failure to appear at the OSC hearing on September 9, 2024, was the result of
Counsel’s calendaring error.  (Galajian
Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3.)
The Court finds that this motion is timely filed and that
Plaintiff has established that the dismissal was entered as a result of the
mistake of Plaintiff’s attorney.  Accordingly,
the motion is granted.
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (c)(1)(B), the Court orders
counsel Karapet Galajian, Esq., to pay $250 to the State Bar Client Security
Fund.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the
dismissal of this action.
The
Court SETS ASIDE the order filed September 9, 2024, dismissing this action.
The
Court SETS an Order to Show Cause regarding Why Monetary Sanctions in the
Amount of up to $500 Should Not be Imposed on Plaintiff and/or Counsel of
Record, George G. Mgdesyan, Esq., for Failure to Serve Defendant Within the
Time Period Set Forth in California Rules of Court, Rule 3.110(b), or,
alternatively, a Trial Setting Conference in approximately 60
days.  Any response to the OSC must be in writing and must be filed
at least five court days prior to the OSC hearing.
The
Court ORDERS Counsel Karapet Galajian, Esq. to pay $250 to the State Bar Client
Security Fund by November 21, 2024.
The
Court ORDERS Counsel Karapet Galajian, Esq., to file proof of service of the
payment with the Court by December 6, 2024. 
Moving
Party is to give notice.