..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV21888
Plaintiff's Name: Daniel Ortiz
Defendant's Name: Reno Keshishian and Legacy Global Private Security
People-Names: Daniel Ortiz, Reno Keshishian, Evan C. Schweitzer
Company-Names: Legacy Global Private Security
Places: None
Dates: October 4, 2024 (Hearing Date), October 4, 2023 (Original Hearing Date)
Events: Motion to Seal, Good Faith Motion, Determination of Good Faith Settlement
Money: Financial details of the settlement agreement
Intentions: To keep the specific terms of the settlement agreement confidential
Facts: Confidential settlement agreement, contractual obligation not to disclose certain information
Disputes: None (unopposed motion)
Acts: Filing of motion, filing of settlement agreement, request to seal documents
Agreements: Confidential settlement agreement, contractual obligation not to disclose certain information
Laws: California Rules of Court Rule 2.550
Statutes: None
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Settling Defendants
Significant Statements:
  - "The contractual obligation not to disclose certain information constitutes an overriding interest within the meaning of Rule 2.550(d)."
  - "Any attempt to disclose these terms would compromise the confidentiality agreement and the parties' contractual obligations."
  - "The parties are not requesting to seal more than what is necessary to protect their agreed-upon confidentiality as the redacted document would be available in the public record."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The court has granted the motion to seal the settlement agreement and related documents, including the financial details, filed by the settling defendants. The defendants had requested that the court keep the specific terms of the settlement agreement confidential, as they had entered into a confidential settlement agreement with the plaintiff. The court found that this was an overriding interest, as the contractual obligation not to disclose certain information is a valid reason to seal the documents. The court also found that the motion was narrowly tailored and that no less restrictive means existed to achieve the overriding interest. Since no opposition was filed, the court grants the motion and orders that the documents be sealed. The parties are advised to submit to this tentative ruling by email or appear at the hearing to argue.
