  Case Number:  19STCV39062    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 
Hearing Date: 10/4/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 19STCV39062 M. LYNNE MARTA
vs GLORIA FILM PRODUCTIONS, LLC, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS IS DENIED
 
On October 31, 2019,
Plaintiff M. Lynne Marta filed the present slip and fall case. Defendant
alleges that on January 11, 2024, Plaintiff M. Lynne Marta passed away, and no
one has since substituted in on behalf of the now-deceased Plaintiff. Defendant
moves the Court to dismiss the case. The evidence of Plaintiff’s death comes in
the form of an IMDb website entry and a newspaper article reporting Plaintiff’s
alleged death.
Under Cal. Evid. Code §
452(h), judicial notice is limited to "facts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy."
An IMDb page does not
generally meet the standard for judicial notice under § 452(h) because IMDb is
a user-edited platform, and its content may not be entirely accurate or
reliable. Similarly, courts have declined to take judicial notice of the
contents of newspaper articles, as they are often based on hearsay and are not
sources of indisputable accuracy. (Linda Vista Village San Diego Homeowners
Assn. v. Tecolote Investors, LLC (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 166, 186 [appellate
court declining to take judicial notice of newspaper articles].) Courts
typically take judicial notice of more authoritative and verifiable sources,
such as official records (e.g., death certificates, government publications, or
public records).
Furthermore, Defendant
failed to provide any evidence that the person mentioned in the IMDb page or
newspaper article is, in fact, the same individual as Plaintiff in the present
case. Plaintiff in the present case is named M. Lynne Marta, while the news
article relates to an individual named Lynne Marta, without the "M."
in front. There is insufficient evidence linking Plaintiff to the individual in
the news article or the IMDB webpage.
Thus, the motion is
DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.