 Case Number:  22STCV28406    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ADAM RODOLFO RUEDA, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
KASSANDRA HERNANDEZ ROJAS, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV28406 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENAS FOR PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS
  RECORDS AND FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
October 4,
  2024



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
This action arises out of a motor vehicle
collision that occurred on the Santa Ana Freeway in Los Angeles, California.  Defendant Kassandra Hernandez Rojas’s vehicle
struck Plaintiff’s vehicle from the rear. Plaintiff suffered physical injuries,
including, allegedly, a traumatic brain injury, and emotional distress. Plaintiff
has alleged causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and negligent
entrustment against Defendants. 
On July 23, 2024, Defendants served deposition
subpoenas for production of business records to Regenerative Institute of
Newport Beach and Starxx Industries. 
On August 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant
motion to quash the subpoenas. Plaintiff also seeks a protective order.
On September 20, 2024, Defendants filed an
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion and on September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply.
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
When a subpoena has been issued requiring the
attendance of a witness or the production of documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion “reasonably made” by the party, the witness, or any
consumer whose personal records are sought, or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon
those terms and conditions as the court may specify.¿ (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 1987.1;¿Southern Pac. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1940) 15 Cal.2d
206.) There is no requirement that the motion contain a meet-and-confer
declaration demonstrating a good-faith attempt at informal resolution. (See
id.)  
The court can make an order quashing or
modifying a subpoena as necessary to protect a person from “unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right¿of privacy
of the person.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,¿subd. (a).)
            The scope of discovery is different
depending on whether an expert witness is a consulting expert or testifying
expert. (Deluca v. State Fish Co., Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 671, 688
[Deluca].) “If the expert is solely retained as a consulting expert, the
attorney-client privilege applies to communications made by the client or the
attorney to the expert in order for the expert to properly advise counsel… the
attorney-client privilege applies to communications ‘to whom disclosure is
reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or the
accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer is consulted;’ this clearly
includes communications to a consulting expert.” (Ibid, citations
omitted.) “Similarly, a consulting expert's report, prepared at the attorney's
request and with the purpose of assisting the attorney in trial preparation,
constitutes work product entitled to conditional protection and barred from
discovery in the absence of good cause.” (Ibid, citations omitted.) Parties
can make a demand for the exchange of expert testifying witnesses, their
declarations, and production of writings 50 days before the initial trial date
or 20 days after service of the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.230,¿subd. (b).)
            “The court shall limit the scope of
discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that
discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The court may make this
determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other
affected person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020,¿subd. (a).)
III.            
DISCUSSION
The Subpoenas 
Plaintiff moves to quash the deposition subpoenas
for production of business records arguing that they seek privileged and
confidential information and that they seek to obtain expert discovery prior to
expert disclosure. Defendants’ subpoenas seek the following:
To REGENERATIVE INSTITUTE OF NEWPORT BEACH: 
1.     
 Any and all MEDICAL RECORDS from between
November 2010 up until the present date (i.e., the date of production for the
subject subpoena), RELATING TO TREATMENT provided to Adam Rodolfo Rueda for his
head, neck, cervical spine, and lumbar spine, back, and brain. To include the
records of Dr. Khyber Zaffarkhan. 
2.     
Any and all
IMAGING STUDIES from between November 1, 2010 up until the present date (i.e.,
the date of the subject subpoena), RELATING TO Adam Rodolfo Rueda for his head,
neck, cervical spine, and lumbar spine, back and brain. Please provide
breakdown of films and or studies reflecting bod parts, dates taken, number of
films and or studies, with associated cost for approval prior to production. 
3.     
Any and all
MEDICAL BILLS from between November 1, 2010 up until the present date (i.e.,
the date of production for the subject subpoena), RELATING TO TREATMENT
provided to Adam Rodolfo Rueda for his head, neck, cervical spine, and lumbar
spine, back and brain. To include the records of Dr. Khyber Zaffarkhan. 
4.     
Any and all
records of any non-privileged COMMUNICATIONS to and/or from Adam Rodolfo Rueda
and/or his legal representative billings, treatments and appointments,
including reason or appointments, related to head, neck, cervical spine, and
lumbar spine, back and brain between November 1, 2010 up until the present date
(i.e., the date of production for the subject subpoena). To include the records
of Dr. Khyber Zaffarkhan.
To STARXX INDUSTRIES: 
1.     
Any and all
MEDICAL BILLS from between November 1, 2010 up until the present date (i.e.,
the date of production for the subject subpoena), RELATING TO TREATMENT
provided to Adam Rodolfo Rueda for his head, neck, cervical spine, and lumbar
spine, back and brain. 
2.     
Any and all
records of any non-privileged COMMUNICATIONS to and/or from Adam Rodolfo Rueda
and/or his legal representative billings, treatments and appointments,
including reason or appointments, related to head, neck, cervical spine, and
lumbar spine, back and brain between November 1, 2010 up until the present date
(i.e., the date of production for the subject subpoena).
The Subpoena Dispute
            The issue relating to the subpoenas
is that encompassed within the responsive records are the reports, opinions,
and documents of Dr. Khyber Zaffarkhan, who is connected to both Regenerative
Institute of Newport Beach and Starxx Industries. (Motion to Quash, p. 8.) Plaintiff
argues that he retained Dr. Zaffarkhan as a consulting expert to advise
Plaintiff’s counsel on Plaintiff’s care and rehabilitation. (Farahi Decl., ¶ 3.) Dr. Zaffarkhan’s findings in this matter were thus far
only used in Plaintiff’s settlement offer on June 26, 2024. (Motion to Quash,
p. 4.) Because Dr. Zaffarkhan was not retained as a testifying expert witness
nor has he been designated as such, Plaintiff contends that Dr. Zaffarkhan is a
consulting expert to which the attorney-client privilege applies. Further,
Plaintiff contends that any reports Dr. Zaffarkhan produced for the purpose of
trial preparation are protected work product.   
The attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine
apply to communications between an attorney and a consulting expert. (DeLuca
v. State Fish Co., Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 671, 688.) The
attorney-client privilege applies to communications to whom disclosure is
reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or the
accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer is consulted. (Cal. Evid.
Code § 952.) This includes communications to an expert consultant. (DeLuca,
217 Cal.App.4th at 688; Roush v. Seagate Technology, LLC (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 210, 225.) An expert employed by an attorney to evaluate issues
in the case may be treated as an agent of the attorney for this purpose. (People
v. Gurule (2002) 28 Cal.4th 557, 594.) In Sanders v. Sup. Ct. (1973)
34 Cal.App.3d 270, 277, the appeal court stated, “Consultation between expert
and counsel may appropriately be given broad immunity from discovery, both as
to expert and as to counsel, because none of the expert’s opinion, professional
though it may be, is relevant evidence in the case. To the contrary, his
opinion is and will remain wholly irrelevant and immaterial as evidence until
the expert is called as a witness on the trial and shown to be qualified to
give competent opinion testimony.” Thus, the subpoenaed information relating to
Dr. Zaffarkhan is privileged and protected by the work product doctrine.  
            Additionally, here, the exchange of
witnesses has not happened yet. Neither has the designation of witnesses.
Defendants are not entitled to subpoena testifying experts until after the
exchange of expert witnesses. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to quash
deposition subpoenas for production of business records is granted. 
Protective
Order
            Plaintiff seeks a protective order
to safeguard against misuse of the discovery process. Plaintiff has not described
what he seeks the protective order for or how he thinks the court should limit
discovery apart from granting the motion to quash. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
request for a protective order is denied. 
            CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion to quash deposition subpoena
for production of business records is GRANTED.
Plaintiff’s request for a protective order is
DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.