 Case Number:  22STCV21888    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
¿¿ 
MOTION TO SEAL
Hearing Date: 10/4/23 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV21888
DANIEL ORTIZ vs RENO KESHISHIAN et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Reno Keshishian and Legacy Global Private Security 
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION TO SEAL IS GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Daniel Ortiz and
Settling Defendants, Reno Keshishian and Legacy Global Private Security,
entered into a confidential settlement agreement and filed a motion for
determination of good faith settlement. Settling Defendants request the Court
to keep the specific terms of the settlement agreement that will be disclosed
in the motion for good faith settlement confidential and move the Court to seal
the settlement terms, including all financial details, in the following
documents:
 
·        
Mr. Keshishian and Legacy Global
Private Security’s Notice of Motion and Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement ("Good Faith Motion")
·        
The Declaration of Evan C.
Schweitzer and Exhibit B (the Settlement Agreement) attached to the Declaration
filed in support of the Good Faith Motion
 
Defendants contend that redacted versions of the
documents will be filed publicly, protecting only the confidential settlement
terms, with no other information withheld. No opposition was filed.
 
Discussion 
 
Pursuant to California Rules of
Court Rule 2.550 the court may seal a record “only if it expressly finds facts
that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding
interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) 
 
The contractual obligation not to
disclose certain information constitutes an overriding interest within the
meaning of Rule 2.550(d). (Publicker Industries, Inc. v. Cohen (3d Cir.
1984) 733 F.2d 1059, 1073; NBC Subsidiary (KNBC–TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999)
20 Cal.4th 1178, 1222, fn. 46.) 
 
Here, disclosure of the terms of
the settlement agreement would violate the confidentiality of the agreement,
thus breaching the parties' contractual obligation not to disclose certain
information, an overriding interest. The motion is narrowly tailored, as it
only seeks to seal the portions of the public document that reveal the
confidential terms of the settlement agreement. The parties are not requesting
to seal more than what is necessary to protect their agreed-upon
confidentiality as the redacted document would be available in the public
record.
 
Moreover, no less restrictive
means exist to achieve the overriding interest of maintaining the
confidentiality of the settlement terms. Any attempt to disclose these terms
would compromise the confidentiality agreement and the parties' contractual
obligations. All the requirements under Rule 2.550(d) of the California Rules
of Court are met. Plaintiff did not file an opposition. Therefore, the Court
grants the present motion.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 