 Case Number:  22STCV25862    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO VACATE DISMISSAL 
Hearing Date: 10/4/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV25862 SABRINA GARCIA
vs NATALIE ANGELA MATTERA, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendants
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO VACATE DISMISSAL IS GRANTED. 
 
Background
On August 10, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case. On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff represented to
the Court that the matter had settled. On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
informed the Court that additional time was needed to file a Request for
Dismissal. The Court directed Plaintiff's counsel to file a Notice of
Settlement within 15 days and to submit a Declaration addressing the failure to
effectuate the disposition of the matter. 
On June 5, 2024,
Plaintiff's counsel filed a Declaration stating that the parties had agreed to
settle the case, but Plaintiff was undergoing final treatment, which delayed
the finalization of the settlement. Counsel assured the Court that the
settlement would be finalized, and the case dismissed upon completion of
Plaintiff's treatment.
On June 7, 2024, the
Court considered the Declaration filed by Plaintiff's counsel. The Court stated
that if no dismissal was filed and no good cause was shown as to why the case
should not be dismissed, it would dismiss the case on its own motion pursuant
to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1385. The Court ordered Plaintiff's
counsel to file a Declaration addressing the delay in dismissing the action
five court days before the next hearing. On June 11, 2024, proof of service for
Defendants’ summons and complaint was filed. On July 24, 2024, Defendants filed
their answer.
On September 5, 2024,
the Court noted that no Declaration had been filed as ordered in the minute
order dated June 7, 2024. Since no dismissal was filed and no good cause was
shown as to why the action should not be dismissed, the Court dismissed the case
on its own motion pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1385. Plaintiff
now moves the Court to set aside the dismissal.
Legal Standard
Section 473,
subdivision (b) states in pertinent part: “The court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect....
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Italics added.) 
Section 473,
subdivision (b), provides for two distinct types of relief.  “Under the discretionary
relief provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against” a party or his or her
attorney. Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon
a showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,” the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.”  The range of attorney conduct for which relief can be granted
in the mandatory provision is broader than that in the discretionary provision,
and includes inexcusable neglect.  But the range of adverse litigation
results from which relief can be granted is narrower. Mandatory relief only
extends to vacating a default which will result in the entry of a
default judgment, a default judgment, or an entered dismissal.”  (Leader
v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 615–616.)
The¿mandatory¿relief
provision of section 473(b) is a “narrow
exception to the discretionary relief provision for default judgments and¿dismissals.” [Citation.] Its purpose “‘was to alleviate the hardship on
parties who¿lose their day in court¿due
solely to an inexcusable failure to act on the part of their attorneys.’”
[Citation.] An application for¿mandatory¿relief
must be filed within six months of entry of judgment and be in proper form,
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. [Citation.] The defaulting party “must submit sufficient evidence
that the default was actually caused by the attorney's error. [Citation.] ‘If the prerequisites for the
application of the¿mandatory¿relief
provision of section 473, subdivision (b) exist, the trial court does not have
discretion to refuse relief.’”
[Citation.]”
(Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co.¿(2010)
187 Cal.App.4th 215, 226.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff has met all
the requirements for mandatory relief. First, the motion was filed within the
six-month deadline. Second, Plaintiff’s attorney submitted a Declaration
admitting his mistake. Counsel explained that after Defendant filed an answer
on July 24, 2024, and the OSC re dismissal scheduled for August 7, 2024, was
vacated by the Court, he believed this fulfilled the Court’s June 7, 2024
minute order. However, Counsel misunderstood the Court’s instructions and
incorrectly assumed that Defendant’s answer resolved the settlement issue,
leading to his failure to file the required Declaration, which resulted in the
case’s dismissal.
Counsel’s
misunderstanding is reasonable. Counsel had previously informed the Court that
settlement was pending, and the Court’s June 7 order directed Plaintiff to
either dismiss the case pursuant to the settlement or file a Declaration
explaining the delay. Counsel believed that Plaintiff’s service of the summons
and complaint, followed by Defendant’s answer, indicated to the Court that the
settlement had fallen through. As a result, counsel mistakenly thought that he
did not need to file a Declaration explaining why the action should not be
dismissed. As a result of Plaintiff’s failure to file the declaration, the case
was dismissed. The Court finds that Counsel’s mistaken belief was the cause for
the dismissal. Having, all the requirement for mandatory relief, the present
motion is GRANTED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 