  Case Number:  22STCP03920    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



sam
  burton,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
  
 
keelson
  strategic corporation; tercio elite, llc; tercio elite consulting, inc.;
  nathanial a. romero; and
  NICHOLAS J. MOLINA,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22STCP03920
 
  Hearing Date:  February 14, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
APPLICATION FOR AN ORDER PERMITTING TIMOTHY B.
  FITZGERALD AS COUNSEL PRO HAC VICE 
 



 
Timothy B. Fitzgerald (“Fitzgerald”) applies as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants
Keelson Strategic Corporation and Nicholas J. Molina.  The application is unopposed. 
Under CRC Rule 9.40, attorneys licensed and in
good standing in other states may, upon the California court’s approval, appear
as counsel pro hac vice in a pending
case if an active member of the state bar is associated as attorney of
record.  (CRC 9.40(a).)  Fitzgerald is an active
member, in good standing, of the Supreme Court of the State of New York
Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department, the District of Columbia, South
Carolina, Washington State, the United States District Court of the Western District
of Washington, the United States District Court for Southern District of New
York, and the U.S. Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit.  (Firzgerald Decl. ¶ 2(c)-(d).)  In addition, Fitzgerald
states that he is not a resident of California or regularly engaged in business
in California.  Fitzgerald is a resident
of Mercer Island Washington with an office in Seattle, Washington.  (Fitzgerald Decl. ¶¶ 2(a)-(b).)  Fitzgerald states that states that he has
applied to be admitted pro hac vice in a California proceeding once in the Los
Angeles Superior Court Case entitled action entitled TGC Restaurant Limited,
L.P. v. Las Vegas Restaurant, LLC and Forum Restaurant Venture, Case No.
BC714026 which was granted on October 23, 2018.  (Fitzgerald Decl. ¶ 2(e).)  Thus, counsel satisfies the
eligibility requirements of CRC 9.40(a).
Fitzgerald’s application successfully addresses all six
content requirements outlined in CRC 9.40(d). 
Specifically, Fitzgerald provides
in his application: (1) his residence and office address (Fitzgerald
Decl. ¶ 2); (2) the courts to which Fitzgerald has been admitted to practice and the
dates of admission (Fitzgerald Decl. ¶ 2); (3) that Fitzgerald is a member in
good standing in those courts (Fitzgerald Decl. ¶ 2); (4) that he is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court (Fitzgerald Decl. ¶ 2); (5) the
title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application
to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, and whether or not it was granted if any (Fitzgerald Decl.
¶ 2); and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of an active member, Lukas
Sosnicki of the State Bar of California who is the current counsel of record
for Defendants Keelson Strategic Corporation and Nicholas J. Molina.  (Fitzgerald Decl. ¶ 2(g)).
Furthermore, Fitzgerald demonstrates that he has met the requirement of CRC 9.40(c)(1). That rule
provides: “a person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a
verified application together with proof of service . . . of a copy of the
application and of the notice on all parties who have appeared in the cause and
on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office.”  (See Fitzgerald Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The application of Timothy B. Fitzgerald to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants Keelson Strategic Corporation and
Nicholas J. Molina is GRANTED.
The Court notes that the parties in this action
have reserved multiple (at least twelve) hearing dates on the online Court
Reservation System (CRS) for motions to compel further discovery
responses.  To date, moving papers have
not been filed for some of the hearings reserved on CRS.  The parties’ reservation of unused hearing
dates is exacerbating the congestion of the Court’s motion calendar.  
 
In the interests of judicial efficiency, the
Court herby orders the parties to attend an informal discovery conference (IDC)
to seek a resolution of their discovery disputes.  Within 3 court days of notice of this order,
the parties must jointly contact Department 26 to schedule a mutually
convenient date and time for the IDC, to occur within the next 3 weeks.
 
The parties are ordered to meet and confer by way
of a realtime conversation (by phone, in person, or by videoconference) to
attempt resolution of their disputes prior to appearing for the informal
discovery conference.  An exchange of
emails or correspondence will not suffice for purposes of this meet and confer.
 
In addition, in preparation for the IDC, each
party is to file and serve a short IDC statement that sets forth: (1) any
recurring issues, objections, or assertions of privilege that are common to all
or most of the disputed items, and (2) for each form of written discovery, a
representative sample of at least three requests and the universe of responses
received to date for each of the requests. 
For example, if the parties cannot resolve their disputes regarding a motion
to compel further responses to requests for production, each party should file
an IDC statement that sets forth recurring issues, objections, and assertions
of privilege common to all the disputed requests, and each party should also
provide the text of at least three disputed requests for production and under
each, all the responses served for that request for production. The IDC
statement should not exceed more than two pages for each disputed motion. Each
party must file its IDC statement no later than three court days before the
IDC.  For purposes of this IDC statement,
it is unnecessary to lay out the procedural history of the parties’ meet and
confer efforts.
 
The parties may appear remotely through
LACourtConnect for the informal discovery conference, but if they appear
remotely, they must at least appear by a video connection on
LACourtConnect  (as opposed a telephonic
connection on LACourtConnect).
 
The moving party should be prepared to file all
moving papers for these CRS reservations within 10 days of the IDC.  Failure to do so will result in cancellation
of any CRS reservations for which no moving papers are filed so that these
unused CRS reservations will become available for litigants in other cases to
schedule hearings for their discovery motions.
 
If the moving party that reserved a CRS
reservation for a motion to compel further hearing is satisfied that the
dispute has been resolved, and that a motion to compel further responses is no
longer necessary, the moving party is ordered to cancel the CRS reservation
immediately – in advance of the IDC – so that these unused CRS reservations
will become available for litigants in other cases to schedule hearings for
their discovery motions.
 
If the moving party fails to contact the Court
within three court days to schedule an IDC, the CRS reservations will all be
cancelled so that these unused CRS reservations will become available for
litigants in other cases to schedule hearings for their discovery motions.
 
In addition, the parties should note that a
court-wide change in the CRS system is imminent such that parties will no
longer be able to make a CRS reservation without filing moving papers within
three days of making the reservation; unused CRS reservations will be
automatically cancelled if moving papers are not filed within three days of
making the CRS reservation.  It may well
be that the court-wide change to the CRS system may occur before the parties
attend the IDC in this matter.  The Court
thus urges the parties that made the multiple CRS reservations in this case to
file their moving papers as soon as possible if they wish to avoid automatic
cancellation by the CRS system.
The
Moving Party is ordered to provide notice of this order and file a proof of service
of such.
 
DATED: February ___, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court