 Case Number:  20STCV10698    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  39 John Doe v. Los
Angeles Unified School District
Case No.
20STCV10698
Pretrial Motions
 
            Plaintiff
John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against the Los Angeles Unified School
District (“Defendant” or the “LAUSD”) alleging that he was molested by an
employee at his middle school.  The case
will proceed to trial on the following causes of action:
 
Fourth COA – Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention (Government
Code §§ 815.2 & 820)
Fifth COA – Breach of a Mandatory Duty to Report (Government
Code § 815.6)
Eighth COA – Negligence (Government Code §§ 815.2 & 820)
 
            A.        Plaintiff’s Motions in Limine 
   
                        1.         Motion
in Limine #1 – GRANTED IN PART; DENIED IN PART
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel seeks to exclude evidence of certain actions by his client.  Plaintiff’s counsel argues: “Plaintiff has
been diagnosed with conditions like ADHD, depression, and anxiety, both before
and after the incident.  While some
pre-existing diagnoses may be relevant to his damages, detailing specific bad
acts would be unfairly prejudicial and should be excluded at trial . . .
.”  One of Plaintiff’s theories of
damages is that the molestation caused him to attempt suicide and is the reason
for his psychological issues.  In raising
this theory of damages, Plaintiff has put his mental state at issue, and
Defendant is entitled to introduce evidence concerning Plaintiff’s mental
health, which is reflected by his actions. 
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the motion is granted in part and denied in part.  Defendant’s counsel may not introduce
evidence concerning the following: (1) Plaintiff’s misdemeanor convictions and
the underlying facts/circumstances; (2) The fact that Plaintiff’s girlfriend
sought a restraining order against him in April 2017; and (3) Allegations of
sexual harassment against Plaintiff in 2017. 
With respect to the first and second issues, there is little probative
value to this legal process, and any probative value would be greatly
outweighed by the prejudice.  With
respect to the third issue, evidence that Plaintiff engaged in sexual
harassment is not probative in light of the Court’s decision to admit most of
the other evidence, and it would be unduly prejudicial because the jury may be confused
into believing that any consent by Plaintiff (who was a minor) is a defense in
this case.  
 
            The motion
is denied in all other respects because the remaining incidents are probative
as to Plaintiff’s mental state and whether the sexual molestation—or the
underlying psychological issues as evidence by Plaintiff’s behavior—are
responsible for his damages.  In other
words, the evidence Plaintiff seeks to exclude is probative to establish
whether Plaintiff had a pre-existing psychological condition.  For example, behavioral issues at home or
reports of violent behavior are probative of whether he had pre-existing
psychological issues.  Although the Court
is excluding the fact of the restraining order, Defendant’s counsel may
introduce evidence of the underlying incident. 
Similarly, Plaintiff’s drug and alcohol experimentation not only
evidences a pre-existing psychological condition, it is close enough in time to
the alleged molestation to be relevant to his recollection and perceptions of
the events at issue. 
 
            B.        Defendant’s Motions in Limine 
 
                        1.         Motion in Limine #1 – GRANTED 
 
Defendant seeks to exclude evidence
of prior settlements or verdicts against the LAUSD.  Plaintiff stipulated to an order granting
this motion in limine.  Therefore, the
motion is granted.       
 
                        2.         Motion in Limine #2 – WITHDRAWN 
 
                        3.         Motion in Limine #3 – GRANTED IN PART;
DENIED IN PART 
 
            Defendant
seeks to exclude evidence relating to other allegations of sexual abuse at the
John Liechty Middle School.  The motion
is denied with respect to allegations of sexual abuse by Clara Moreno-Santos,
because such evidence may be probative of the issue whether the LAUSD had
notice of the relevant issues, and this probative value is not greatly
outweighed by the prejudice.  The motion
is granted with respect to allegations that any other LAUSD employees engaged
in sexual abuse of students.  For example,
allegations that Denique Tarin was investigated for kissing a middle school
student and engaging in inappropriate conduct with students has little
probative value, because the relevant issue is whether Defendant had notice of
issues with Clara Moreno-Santos.  The
mere fact that Denique Tarin had inappropriate relations with students does not
mean the LAUSD was negligent in supervising Clara Moreno-Santos and reporting
her abuse.  The Court finds that any
probative value is greatly outweighed by the prejudice of having a trial within
a trial concerning allegations against Denique Tarin.  
 
                        4.         Motion in Limine #4 – GRANTED 
 
            Defendant
moves to exclude evidence relating to Adalberto Vega’s promotion.  Plaintiff does not oppose the motion.  Therefore, the motion is granted with respect
to both parties: While this order shall not prohibit Vega from testifying about
his current assignment, neither party shall inquire into the circumstances for
the reassignment.  Defendant’s counsel
may not make a record that Vega was promoted, suggesting that he performed
appropriately in response to the underlying incident.  Plaintiff’s counsel may not make a record
that Vega was transferred, suggesting that he performed inappropriately in
response to the underlying incident.
 
                        5.         Motion in Limine #5 – GRANTED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE   
 
            Defendant
seeks to exclude hearsay statements in police reports “reflecting that
Plaintiff was the subject of child abuse.” 
There are two reports at issue.  The
first was written by LAPD Officer Avila, who is not on the witness list.  The second was written by LAPD Detective
Melissa Jindra, who is on the witness list. 
Both reports attribute statements to Plaintiff.  
 
            The Court grants
the motion without prejudice to revisiting this decision during trial if
necessary.  As an initial matter, the
Court is unclear why the police report is necessary.  Detective Melissa Jindra will be a witness at
trial.  Presumably, she will testify that
she investigated allegations of child abuse, interviewed Plaintiff, and
arrested Clara Moreno-Santos.  Detective
Jindra likely would be able to testify as to Plaintiff’s statements as prior
consistent statements if Defendant’s counsel challenges his credibility
directly on cross-examination or indirectly by arguing that no molestation
occurred.  Detective Jindra might be able
to provide a lay opinion under Evidence Code section 800 that Plaintiff
exhibited all of the characteristic signs and behavior of an abused child
assuming she has foundation to do so (e.g., she has encountered abused children
and investigated child molestation cases in the past).  Defendant’s counsel does not intend to argue
that Plaintiff was not molested by Clara Moreno-Santos.  Therefore, the Court excludes the report
under Evidence Code section 352 as cumulative of Detective Jindra’s testimony.
 
            The Court
will revisit this decision if there is some independent need to introduce the
report.  The report may, in fact, be
admissible.  Police reports may fall
within the official records exception to the hearsay rule if the officer
prepared the report within the scope of her duty as a public employee; the
report was made on or near the date of the relevant events; and the sources of
information and method and time of preparation were such to indicate the
trustworthiness of the report.  If
necessary, the Court could conduct a 402 hearing with Detective Jindra in order
to resolve this issue.   
 
                        6.         Motion in Limine #6 – GRANTED IN PART;
DENIED IN PART  
 
            Defendant
moves to exclude “evidence of statements related to Plaintiff’s alleged
‘diagnosis’ of herpes allegedly transmitted from Clara Moreno-Santos.”  The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
 
            Plaintiff
may testify about his physical condition, i.e., that he discovered lesions, how
they felt, etc.  Plaintiff may testify
that he sought medical advice of this condition.  Plaintiff may testify concerning what
medications he takes for the condition. 
Plaintiff may testify about the timing of Clara Moreno-Santos’s
molestation in relation to his discovery of the lesions, and whether he had
sexual contact with anyone else during the relevant time period.   
 
            Plaintiff
may not testify that he was diagnosed with herpes because the testimony would
be based on hearsay.  Plaintiff also may
not testify that the medications are used to treat herpes, as he lacks
foundation for that testimony. 
Plaintiff’s counsel must elicit this testimony from his non-retained
expert witnesses (or retained expert witnesses, if they examined Plaintiff) or through
other admissible evidence. 
 
                        7.         Motion in Limine #7 – DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE   
 
            Defendant
moves to exclude argument and evidence that the LAUSD had “any responsibility
to check on Plaintiff off-campus.”  The
Court cannot rule on this motion in advance of trial because the Court must
hear the evidence and argument.  On the
one hand, Defendant is correct that the LAUSD was not responsible for
monitoring students after they leave school after school hours.  On the other hand, as the Court noted in
denying Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, the LAUSD had a responsibility
to hire, train, and supervise Ms. Moreno-Santos and to report suspected child
abuse.  Defendant’s counsel may argue that
it was not negligent in supervising Moreno-Santos because the misconduct
occurred off-campus.      
 
            C.         Motion to Exclude Witnesses – DENIED 
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel moves to exclude four witnesses: (1) Isela Vega, a therapist; (2)
Melissa Pireo, a teacher; (3) Gabriela Lopez, a social worker; and (4) Guillermo
Alas, a teacher.  The parties filed a
joint witness list on February 20, 2024. 
However, on February 19, 2024, at 6:39 p.m., Defendant’s counsel served
Plaintiff’s counsel with a witness list containing the four additional names.
 
            The Court cannot
exclude witnesses or evidence not identified or produced during discovery
unless the omission violated a court order or otherwise was willful. (New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1422-1434; see
also Mitchell v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 269, 272; Saxena v.
Goffney (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316, 334.) 
Originally, the Court ordered the parties to prepare and file joint
trial documents—and “to identify all witnesses they intend to call in their
respective cases-in-chief, and identify and produce all exhibits they intend to
introduce in their respective cases-in-chief”—on or before February 16, 2024.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated January 29,
2024.)  However, the Court continued the
deadline to February 20, 2024, to accommodate a two-day mandatory settlement
conference.  (See Court’s Minute Order,
dated February 15, 2024.)  The witnesses
were disclosed in advance of the deadline, and there is no basis to conclude that
Defendant’s counsel concealed the names of these potential witnesses in discovery.
 
            Based upon the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to exclude the additional witnesses is
denied.  The Court authorizes Plaintiff’s
counsel to take depositions of these witnesses after the discovery cut-off.  If Plaintiff’s counsel wishes to do so, the Court
orders Defendant’s counsel to make any LAUSD employees available for depositions
or to facilitate the depositions of any non-LAUSD employees.  This order is without prejudice to Plaintiff’s
counsel seeking to exclude these witnesses as providing cumulative testimony.
 
            D.        Motion to Exclude Exhibits #147 and #148
– DENIED 
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel moves to exclude Exhibit #147 and Exhibit #148, which are Plaintiff’s
medical records.  The fact discovery
cutoff was Monday, January 22, 2024, based on a trial date of February 20,
2024.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated June
30, 2024.)  The subpoenas were served
before the discovery cutoff: The subpoena for Exhibit #147 was served on January
10, 2024, and the subpoena for Exhibit #148 was served on January 12, 2024.  
 
            The declaration
of the custodian of records for Exhibit #147 was executed on February 6,
2024.  The declaration of the custodian
of records for Exhibit #148 was executed on January 29, 2024.  Plaintiff’s counsel advances no evidence that
he served any discovery requests after January 29, 2024, that would have required
production of these documents.  Nor can the
Court find any misconduct by Defendant’s counsel.  The exhibit list filed on February 15, 2024,
lists these documents in sufficient detail. 
The documents were produced before the Court’s deadline of February 20,
2024.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated February
15, 2024.)  Therefore, the motion is
denied.  