 Case Number:  24VECV03780    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Dror Shoval, et al., 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Cash 4 Less, Inc., et al.
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  
  24VECV03780                   107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
Preliminary
  Injunction
 
  
 



 
 
Deny

     
I.         
BACKGROUND 
 
On or about January 5, 2024, Plaintiffs
Dror Shoval (“Shoval”) and LD Electric, Inc. (“LD Electric”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) executed a “Term Note Secured by Deed of Trust” (the “Note”) for
$1,227,293.92 and Shoval executed a Deed of Trust (“DOT”) against a property
located at 22747 Califa St., Woodland Hills, CA 91367 (the “Subject Property”).
(Complaint ¶ 7.)  The Note was given to
Defendant Cash 4 Less, Inc., (“Cash 4 Less”) in exchange for Shoval receiving a
line of credit. (Complaint ¶ 7.) Later, Cash 4 Less. sent a Notice of Trustee’s
Sale to Plaintiffs and scheduled a sale date of August 20, 2024, for the
Subject Property. (Complaint ¶ 11.)
 
On August 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
complaint against Cash 4 Less, Best Alliance Foreclosure and Lien Services,
Corp., and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for cancellation of
instrument, quiet title, rescission, declaratory relief, wrongful foreclosure,
breach of contract, and usury.
 
On August 12, 2024, Shoval applied for a
temporary restraining order and order to show cause re: preliminary injunction
to restrain Cash 4 Less, Inc. and Best Alliance Foreclosure and Lien Services,
Corp. from proceeding with a trustee’s sale.
 
On September 20, 2024, Cash 4 Less filed
a cross-complaint against Shoval, LD Electric, YAS Investments, LLC (“YAS”),
SBS Trust Deed Network, and Roes 1 through 100, alleging eleven causes of
action for violation of the voidable transfer act, common law fraudulent
transfer, declaratory relief, quiet title, conspiracy to commit fraud,
intentional misrepresentation and concealment, breach of contract, unjust
enrichment, account stated, money lent, and wrongful foreclosure. 
 
On October 8, 2024, Cash 4 Less filed an
ex parte application for restraining order and order to show cause re:
preliminary injunction to restrain the foreclosure sale of the property set by
Cross-Defendants YAS and SBS Trust Deed Network. That same day, YAS filed an
opposition.
 
On October 9, 2024,
this court granted Shoval’s motion for a preliminary injunction preventing Cash
4 Less, Best Alliance Foreclosure and Lien Services, Corp. from proceeding,
maintaining, or commencing any trustee’s sale. (10/09/24 Order.)
 
Also on October 9,
2024, this court granted Cash 4 Less’ ex parte application for an order
restraining the foreclosure sale of the Subject Property. (10/9/24 Order.) This
court ordered moving papers be filed and served by November 13, 2024, the
opposition be filed and served by November 22, 2024, and the reply be filed and
served by December 4, 2024. (10/9/24 Minute Order.)
 
On November 20, 2024,
YAS filed a supplemental opposition, to which no reply was filed.
 
   
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
An injunction¿may be
granted “[w]hen it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to
the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in
restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for
a limited period or perpetually.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 526.) A preliminary injunction may be granted
upon a verified complaint or affidavit which shows the existence of sufficient
grounds for the issuance of an¿injunction. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 527(a).)
 
“[T]rial courts
consider two interrelated questions in deciding whether to issue a preliminary
injunction: (1) are the plaintiffs likely to suffer greater injury from a
denial of the injunction than the¿defendants are likely to suffer from its
grant; and (2) is there a reasonable probability that the plaintiffs will
prevail on the merits.” (Robbins v. Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199,
206.) “Plaintiff carries the burden of proof and persuasion on these issues.” (Drakes
Bay Oyster Co. v. California Coastal Com. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 1165, 1172.)
“[A] court may deny a¿preliminary¿injunction¿either¿(1) on its finding
irreparable injury will not result to the party seeking the injunction, or (2)
that the party has failed to demonstrate a reasonable probability of success on
the merits.” (Jessen v. Keystone Savings & Loan Assn. (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 454, 459, emphasis original.) “Regardless of the balance of interim
harm, the preliminary injunction cannot be allowed to stand unless there is
‘some possibility’ [the party] will prevail on the merits of its action.” (Costa
Mesa City Employees' Ass'n v. City of Costa Mesa¿(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
298, 309.) 
 
 III.         
THE
ARGUMENTS
 
a.    
The Motion
 
Cash 4 Less seeks a
preliminary injunction preventing YAS and SBS Trust Deed Network from
proceeding with a foreclosure sale. (Ex Parte Application for Restraining Order
filed 10/08/24  [“Motion”] p. 3.) 
 
Cash 4 Less argues it can
show a likelihood of success because, “when [Cash 4 Less’] DOT and Note w[ere]
executed and delivered by Shoval to [Cash 4 Less], the intent was that [Cash 4
Less’] priority would not be affected” but “[i]nstead, Shoval and LD electric
conspired with YAS to have YAS created so that YAS can record the YAS DOT
before [Cash 4 Less’] DOT so that YAS’ DOT is senior to [Cash 4 Less’].”
(Motion p. 7.) Cash 4 Less further argues that “YAS and Shoval knew about [Cash
4 Less’] debt and DOT and conspired to commit a fraudulent transfer,
prejudicing [Cash 4 Less] and [Cash 4 Less’] lien priority despite the Note and
DOT in favor of [Cash 4 Less] being executed and delivered well before the YAS
DOT.” (Motion p. 7.)
 
Cash 4 Less argues it will
suffer irreparable harm because “[o]nce the Subject Property is foreclosed upon
– the bell cannot be ‘unrung’” and Cash 4 Less will lose its rights, title, and
interest in the Subject Property. (Motion p. 8.) 
 
b.    
The Opposition
 
YAS argues Cash 4 Less
cannot meet its burden because “it submits no admissible evidence in support of
its Application and the allegations it does make are belied by the admissible
evidence submitted by Yas.” (Opposition to Ex Parte p. 6.) YAS further argues
Cash 4 Less’ allegations are inadmissible because “they are either mere
conclusions without foundation or are based on information and belief.”
(Opposition to Ex Parte p. 6.) 
 
YAS further argues Cash 4
Less cannot show harm because Cash 4 Less “does not explain why monetary
damages could not make it whole.” (Opposition to Ex Parte p. 7.)
 
In its supplemental
opposition, YAS submits text messages showing Shoval and YAS began discussing
the loan on December 15, 2022, opened escrow for refinance a week later, and,
on December 26, 2022, YAS told LCD escrow there was “no rush” and it was better
to close around January 12. (Ex. H; Ex. G; Gilboa Supplemental Declaration ¶¶ 3-5.) YAS’ managing member also
states they did not learn about Cash 4 Less until July 2023. (Gilboa
Supplemental Declaration ¶
5.) 
 
 IV.         
 ANALYSIS  
 
a.     Injury
 
This court first
considers which of the parties is likely to suffer greater injury upon the
grant or denial of the injunction.
 
Cash 4 Less argues it
stands to lose its rights, title, and interest in the Subject Property. (Motion
p. 8.)
 
When a cause of action
involves real property, the court may find that the party who stands to lose
the property is more likely to suffer irreparable harm than the party seeking
to sell the property. (Baypoint Mortgage Corp. v. Crest Premium Real Estate
etc. Trust, (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 818, 824.) At worst, if the party seeking
to sell the property prevails at trial, “the worst that it will have suffered
will have been some delay in foreclosure.” (Id.) In contrast, the party
who stands to lose the property is more likely to suffer greater harm because
it may lose its trust deeds and be chargeable with foreclosure expenses. (Id.
at pp. 824-825.)
 
In the cross-complaint, Cash 4 Less
“seeks a judicial determination that the DOT is superior to the YAS deed of
trust on the Subject Property[.]” (Cross-Complaint ¶ 44.) If YAS proceeds with
the sale, then Cash 4 Less may lose its rights, title, and interest in the
Subject Property. In contrast, if YAS is prevented from moving forward with the
sale, YAS will suffer, at worst, a delay in selling the Subject Property. In
Jessen v. Keystone Savings and Loan Association (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d
454, Jessen-Norwich borrowed money from Keystone Savings & Loan Association
to finance constructing condo units it intended to sell. Keystone sought to
foreclose the properties. (Id. at p. 456.) Jessen sought a preliminary
injunction to halt the foreclosure sale. (Id.) The trial court denied
the preliminary injunction “because it believed plaintiffs had only a marketing
interest in the respective condominiums” and found plaintiffs could be
adequately compensated by money damages. (Id. at p. 457.) On appeal, the
Court noted that units 8 and 15 were priced and openly marketed, and “they had
no unique relationship to Ray Jessen other than their market price.” The Court
then held that “[t]he trial court correctly determined the loss of unit Nos. 8
and 15 may be adequately compensated in damages and will create no great or
irreparable harm.” (Id. at p. 458.) The Court also stated that units 2
and 4 were being held for “undefined investment purposes” which could
potentially include the “owners personal occupancy, renting until an
appropriate market climate, or for other purposes within their total investment
plan.” (Id.) The Court concluded “it would not have been an abuse of
discretion to have granted an injunction as to unit Nos. 2 and 4.” (Id.)
Here, the court granted Shoval’s request
for a preliminary injunction preventing Cash 4 Less, Best Alliance Foreclosure,
and Lien Services, Corp. from proceeding with a trustees sale scheduled for
August 20, 2024. (Shoval Ex Parte Application for TRO p. 3; Shoval Declaration ¶
5.)
 
The fact Cash 4 Less was trying to sell
the property makes this case resemble units 8 and 15 in Jessen and
supports concluding Cash 4 Less will not suffer a greater likelihood of harm if
the preliminary injunction is denied.
 
 
This court finds that
Cash 4 Less is likely to suffer a greater injury upon the denial of the
injunction.
 
b.     Reasonable Probability of Prevailing on
the Merits
 
Next, this court
considers whether there is a reasonable probability Cash 4 Less will prevail on
the merits.
 
Cash 4 Less’
cross-complaint alleges causes of action against YAS for voidable transfer
pursuant to California Civil Code 3439.01-3439.07, common law fraudulent
transfer, declaratory relief, quiet title, conspiracy to commit fraud, and
wrongful foreclosure. (Cross-Complaint pp. 7-10, 15.)
 
Per California Civil
Code section 3439.05:
 
A transfer made
or obligation incurred by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor
whose claim arose before the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred
if the debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation without receiving a
reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation and the
debtor was insolvent at that time or the debtor became insolvent as a result of
the transfer or obligation.

 
Plaintiffs may also bring a cause of
action for common law fraudulent transfer. (Berger v. Varum (2019) 35
Cal.App.5th 1013, 1019.) Berger states
a plaintiff may bring a common law fraudulent transfer cause of action, but it
does not state the elements of a common law fraudulent transfer claim. I have
found no other published cases discussing how the elements of a common law
fraudulent transfer claim differ from the elements under section 3439.05. However,
under the cause of action, the cross-complaint alleges Cross-Defendants
intended to defraud Cash 4 Less. And, as noted below, Cash 4 Less has not
submitted sufficient evidence showing YAS intended to defraud Cash 4 Less.
 
 
A wrongful foreclosure
requires showing: 
 
(1) the trustee or mortgagee caused an illegal, fraudulent,
or willfully oppressive sale of real property pursuant to a power of sale in a
mortgage or deed of trust; 
(2) the party attacking the sale (usually but not always the
trustor or mortgagor) was prejudiced or harmed; and 
(3) in cases where the trustor or mortgagor challenges the
sale, the trustor or mortgagor tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness
or was excused from tendering.
 
Miles v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 408.
 
A conspiracy requires
showing: (1) Defendants’ knowledge and agreement to the objective and course of
action to injure; (2) a wrongful act pursuant to such agreement; and (3)
resulting damage. (Berg
& Berg Ent., LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 802,
823.) 
 
Cash 4 Less argues it
has shown a reasonable probability of success on the merits because: (1) “Shoval
and LD Electric conspired with YAS to have YAS created so that YAS can record
the YAS DOT before Defendant’s DOT so that YAS’ DOT is senior to [Cash 4
Less’]” and (2) “YAS and Shoval knew about [Cash 4 Less’] debt and DOT and
conspired to commit a fraudulent transfer, prejudicing [Cash 4 Less] and [Cash
4 Less’] lien priority despite the Note and DOT in favor of [Cash 4 Less] being
executed and delivered well before the YAS DOT.” (Motion p. 7.) 
 
Cash 4 Less submits no declarations or other evidence
in support of its Motion, but instead relies on the allegations in the verified
cross-complaint. (See Motion p. 3.)  This
court may consider allegations in a verified compliant.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 527(a).) However, the
allegations in the cross-complaint are insufficient to meet Cash 4 Less’
burden.
 
Cash 4 Less alleges
“Cross-Defendants transferred their interests in the Subject Property and/or
encumbered the Subject Property without receiving any consideration” but Cash 4
Less submits no evidence supporting that allegation. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 38.) In
contrast, YAS submits evidence showing it agreed to give Shoval a $2 million
loan at a 12% interest rate. (Gilboa Supplemental Declaration ¶ 3.) YAS also
submits copies of the wires made to escrow for the loan which total $2 million.
(Gilboa Declaration ¶ 4; Ex Parte Ex. D.) Finally, YAS submits copies of the
settlement statements showing about $1.450 million to pay off the existing
second position lender and about $560,000 to Shoval to complete construction.
(Gilboa Declaration ¶ 5; Ex. E.)  Thus,
Cash 4 Less has not shown a reasonable probability of prevailing on the merits
of the voidable transfer cause of action.
 
Further, Cash 4 Less’
allegations are insufficient to show an illegal, fraudulent, willfully
oppressive, or wrongful act that would support the remaining causes of action. The
cross-complaint alleges that Shoval owed Cash 4 Less over $1.2 million and “the
parties agreed that Shoval and his company, LD Electric, would execute a note
(“Note”) secured by a deed of trust (“DOT”) against the Subject Property to
allow Shoval to pay off the balances due to [Cash 4 Less] and secure any future
advances Shoval would receive from [Cash 4 Less] as a result of the working
relationship.” (Cross-Complaint ¶
18.) The cross-complaint also alleges that “[o]n January 5, 2023,
Shoval and LD Electric executed the Note and DOT in favor of [Cash 4 Less]
securing the existing and any future balances due to [Cash 4 Less] against the
Subject Property” but “Shoval once again falsely stated to [Cash 4 Less] that
rather than recording the DOT, if [Cash 4 Less] would wait three weeks, Shoval
would pay the full balance due to [Cash 4 Less] so that the DOT would not
affect the existing liens against the Subject Property by causing other lenders
to enforce a non-encumbrance clause.” (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 19-20.) Cash 4 Less agreed to wait
three weeks and recorded the DOT on January 26, 2023. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 21.)
Cash 4 Less later learned that YAS was formed and YAS recorded a deed of trust
against the Subject Property on January 19, 2023, “making the YAS lien superior
to [Cash 4 Less’].” (Cross-Complaint ¶ 22.) 
 
YAS submits a
declaration by its managing member, Alon Gilboa, who states that Shoval texted
Gilboa about securing a loan for a construction property on or about December
15, 2022. (Gilboa Declaration Supplemental ¶ 3.) Gilboa states that Gilboa
reached out to Daiana Alon at LCD Escrow on December 22, 2022, to open escrow
and that escrow opened on December 23, 2022. (Gilboa Supplemental Declaration ¶
4.) Gilboa states that Gilboa told Alon there was “no rush” to close escrow and
“around January 12 was fine.” (Gilboa Declaration ¶ 4; Ex. H.) Cash 4 Less
alleges Shoval and LD Electric executed the Note and DOT in favor of Cash 4
Less on January 5, 2023, which, according to the evidence YAS submitted, was
weeks after Shoval and YAS began discussing the loan. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 19.) Taken
together, the evidence does not support Cash 4 Less’ claim that YAS and Shoval
conspired to record YAS’ deed of trust before Cash 4 Less recorded its DOT.
 
The remaining
allegations in the cross-complaint are also insufficient to meet Cash 4 Less’
burden. For example, the cross-complaint alleges that “Cross-Defendants
Shoval, LD Electric and YAS worked in concert to assist Shoval and LD Electric
in further encumbering the Subject Property with the intent to hinder, delay or
defraud [Cash 4 Less], a known creditor of Shoval and LD Electric by YAS.” (Cross-Complaint
¶ 32.) And the cross-complaint alleges
that “[Cash 4 Less] transferred their interests in the Subject
Property and/or encumbered the Subject Property with the intent to hinder,
delay, or defraud [Cash 4 Less], known creditor.” (Cross-Complaint ¶ 39.) These allegations are conclusory
and do not show that YAS conspired to commit fraud. Also, although the complaint is verified,
Cash 4 Less’ President verified it stating “I am informed and believe and on
that ground allege that the matters stated in the foregoing document are true.”
(Cross-Complaint pdf p. 18.)

 
Thus, Cash 4 Less has
not shown it is likely to prevail on the merits.
 
   
V.         
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing
reasons, this court denies the Motion.
 
 
 
 
Dated:  December 9, 2024                                                                   _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior
Court