 Case Number:  24VECV03614    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Meir Mark Frydman,
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Tesla Motors, Inc. and Does 1-20 
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  24VECV03614     107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:       
Compel Arbitration  
 
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
Grant
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
On May 1, 2022, Plaintiff Meir Mark
Frydman (“Plaintiff”) acquired a 2022 Tesla Model 3 (the “Vehicle”). (Complaint
¶ 6.) The Vehicle was defective. (Complaint ¶ 9.) On July 31, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendants Tesla Motors Inc. and Does 1 to 20,
alleging causes of action for breach of express warranty under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act and breach of implied warranty under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act.
 
On September 5, 2024, Defendant Tesla
Motors Inc. (“Defendant”) filed a motion to compel arbitration (the “Motion”).
On November 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On December 2, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply.
 
II.            
JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
Defendant requests the court take
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint. The court need not take judicial
notice of a complaint that is part of the case file.   Thus,
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is denied. 
 
III.          
DISCUSSION 
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act
and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) “[T]he right to arbitration depends upon contract; a
petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific
performance of that contract.” (Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Inv.
Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 83, 88.)  
 
The court is empowered by California Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes
pursuant to an agreement to do so. (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1281.2.) 
 
The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there
should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier
of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; Provencio
v. WMA Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.) 
 
“California law incorporates many of the
basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a
presumption in favor of arbitrability.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical
Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This strong policy has
resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld ‘unless it can
be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an
interpretation covering the asserted dispute.’” (Coast Plaza Doctors
Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.)
Notwithstanding that strong policy, the United States Supreme Court has held,
“[A]rbitration is a matter of contract and a party cannot be required to submit
to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed so to submit.”¿(AT &
T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications Workers of America¿(1986) 475 U.S.
643, 648.) 
 
The hearing and determination of a
petition to compel arbitration “in the manner and upon the notice provided by
law for the making and hearing of motions” generally means that “the facts are
to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence with oral
testimony taken only in the court's discretion.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v.
Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1157.) 
 
A.    Existence of an Arbitration Agreement 
 
The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp., supra,
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
 
Defendant submits the Motor Vehicle Order
Agreement (the “Order Agreement”) that contains an arbitration provision,
stating:
 
Agreement to
Arbitrate. Please carefully read this provision, which applies to any
dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates, (together “Tesla”).
 
If you have a
concern or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and your desired
resolution to resolutions@tesla.com.
 
If not resolved
within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to any
aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a judge
or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered by
the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration
Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as claims
related to statements about our products.
 
We will pay all
AAA fees for any arbitration, which will be held in the city or county of your
residence. To learn more about the Rules and how to begin an arbitration, you
may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org.
 
The arbitrator may
only resolve disputes between you and Tesla, and may not consolidate claims
without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot hear class or
representative claims or requests for relief on behalf of others purchasing or
leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring claims against
the other only in your or its individual capacity and not as a plaintiff or
class member in any class or representative action. If a court or arbitrator
decides that any part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a
particular claim for relief or remedy, then that claim or remedy (and only that
claim or remedy) must be brought in court and any other claims must be
arbitrated.
 
If you prefer, you
may instead take an individual dispute to small claims court.
 
You may opt out of
arbitration within 30 days after signing this Agreement by sending a letter to:
Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your name, Vehicle
Identification Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If
you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration
agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance
contract.
 
(Kim
Declaration ¶ 3 Ex. 1 p. 3.)
 
Defendant submits a declaration by its
Business Resolution Manager, stating Plaintiff consented to the Order Agreement
when Plaintiff ordered the Vehicle. (Kim Declaration ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
Defendant has met its burden of proving
that a valid arbitration agreement exists. The burden, therefore, shifts to
Plaintiff.
 
B.   
Plaintiff’s
Arguments
 
Plaintiff raises three arguments. First,
the Order Agreement is superseded by the Purchase Agreement. (Opposition p. 1.)
Second, the Order Agreement is unconscionable. (Opposition p. 3.) Third,
Plaintiff’s claims are independent from the Order Agreement and Purchase
Agreement. (Opposition pp. 8-9.) 
 
i.                
Superseding
Contract
 
Plaintiff states that Plaintiff entered
into two agreements relating to the Vehicle. (Opposition p. 1.) First, the
Order Agreement, which Defendant submits to meet its burden that an arbitration
agreement exists. (Opposition p. 1.) Second, the Purchase Agreement, which is
not submitted by Defendant.  (Opposition
p. 1.) Plaintiff argues that “the Order Agreement, and its
arbitration clause, do not bind, and are not intended to bind, the parties’
purchase relationship. As there are two separate arbitration provisions, and
the Order Agreement allegedly controls, there was no way for Plaintiff to know
what he was agreeing to in the Order Agreement and its effect on the Purchase
agreement.” (Opposition p. 3.)
 
Plaintiff argues the Purchase Agreement
and Order Agreement contain contradictory clauses. For example, Plaintiff
states that “[t]he Order Agreement has an opt-out provision, the Purchase
Agreement does not.” (Opposition p. 1.) Plaintiff further argues that “[t]he
Order Agreement designates the American Arbitration Association as the sole
arbitration association” but “Defendant refused to acknowledge the
contradictory arbitration clause in the Purchase Agreement[.]” (Opposition p. 1.)
 
Plaintiff submits the Retail Installment
Sales Contract, which this court assumes is what Plaintiff refers to as the
“Purchase Agreement” in the opposition, as an exhibit. (Frydman Declaration ¶
5; Ex. 1.)  However, the portions of the
Purchase Agreement submitted do not contain an arbitration provision. (See
Frydman Declaration Ex. 1 pp. 1-2.) In contrast, the only arbitration provision
Plaintiff submits is within a document titled “Motor Vehicle Order Agreement”
and appears to be the same arbitration provision submitted by Defendant. (Frydman
Declaration Ex. 1 pp. 4-5.)
 
Accordingly, because Plaintiff submitted
no evidence of a different arbitration agreement, this court will only consider
the arbitration provision submitted by Defendant. Also,
the arbitration provision in the Order Agreement states: “If you do not opt
out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement
between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance
contract.” (Kim Declaration Ex. 1 p. 3.) So, even if there are two arbitration
agreements, this language indicates the arbitration provision in the Order
Agreement supersedes other agreements.
 
ii.              
Unconscionability
 
The doctrine of unconscionability applies
to arbitration agreements. (Peng v. First Republic Bank (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Civil
Code section 1670.5, subdivision (a)¿provides, “If the court as a matter of law
finds the contract or any clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at
the time it was made the court may refuse to enforce the contract.”  
 
“Unconscionability has both a
‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element, the former focusing on ‘oppression’
or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or
‘one-sided’ results. The prevailing view is that procedural and substantive
unconscionability must¿both¿be present in order for a court to exercise
its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability. But they need not be present in the same degree. The more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Peng v. First Republic Bank, supra,
219 Cal.App.4th at p. 1469, internal citations omitted, emphasis original.)
“Ordinary¿contracts¿of¿adhesion, although they are indispensable facts of
modern life that are generally enforced, contain a degree of
procedural¿unconscionability.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) 
 
a)    
Procedural
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues the Agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because it is an adhesion contract. (Opposition p. 3.)
Plaintiff further argues the Agreement is
unconscionable because Plaintiff was given no “explanation as to the extent of
the rights that Plaintiff would be waiving by agreeing to the Order Agreement .
. . and was forced to click accept in order to proceed with the order process,
without any ability to ask questions or learn that he had to opt out of
arbitration within 30-days[.]” (Opposition p. 7.)
 
“A procedural unconscionability analysis
‘begins with an inquiry into whether the contract is one of adhesion.” (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho, (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 116.) “An adhesive contract is
standardized, generally on a preprinted form, and offered by the party with
superior bargaining power ‘on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.” (Id.) Procedural
unconscionability also “focus[es] on oppression and surprise due to unequal
bargaining power.” (Swain v. LaserAway Medical Group, Inc. (2020)
57 Cal.App.5th 59, 69.) “[O]pression occurs where a contract involves
lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly
unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Id.) “[A]n
opt[-]out provision does not insulate an arbitration agreement from a finding
of procedural unconscionability.” (Id.) Factors relevant to oppression
include: “(1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed
contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the
proposed contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and
complexity of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the
party; and (5) whether the party’s review of the proposed contract was aided by
an attorney.” (Id.)  
 
Here, the Order Agreement was part of a
standardized, pre-printed form that Plaintiff accepted while placing an order
for the vehicle. (Kim Declaration ¶ 3; Ex. 1.) Accordingly, the Order Agreement
is an adhesion contract. Further, Defendant had superior bargaining power
because, without accepting the Order Agreement’s terms and conditions,
Plaintiff would not have been able to place the order. (Kim Declaration ¶ 4.)
 
The Order Agreement was part of the online order process.
(Kim Declaration ¶¶ 3-4.) Accordingly, Plaintiff presumably had an unlimited
amount of time to review the Order Agreement. Further, Defendant asserted some
pressure on Plaintiff because Plaintiff could not order the Vehicle without
agreeing to the terms. (Kim Declaration ¶ 4.)  The arbitration provision
within the Order Agreement is also less than a page long, so it is relatively
short. (Kim Declaration Ex. 1 at 3.) Finally, there has been no evidence
submitted regarding Plaintiff’s education and experience or whether Plaintiff was
aided by an attorney while reviewing the Order Agreement. Accordingly, one
circumstance relevant to oppression is present here. 
 
Thus, this court finds that there is a
small degree of procedural unconscionability. 
 
b)   
Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff argues the Order Agreement is substantively
unconscionable because it requires Plaintiff to submit disputes to the AAA
under its Consumer Arbitration Rules, which limit discovery. (Opposition p. 6.)

 
“Substantive unconscionability examines
the fairness of a contract’s terms.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, supra, 8
Cal.5th at p. 129.)  “This may include fine-print terms, unreasonably or
unexpectedly harsh terms regarding price or other central aspects of the
transaction, and terms that undermine the nondrafting party’s reasonable
expectations.” (Id.) 
 
The Order Agreement provides that
arbitration will be “administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA)
under its Consumer Arbitration Rules.” (Kim Declaration Ex. at 3.) 
 
Plaintiff has not submitted the AAA’s
Consumer Arbitration Rules to this court. However, Plaintiff quotes one AAA
rule, which purportedly states: “No other exchange of information
beyond what is provided for in section (a) above is contemplated under these
rules, unless an arbitrator determines further information exchange is needed
to provide for a fundamentally fair process.” (Opposition p. 6.) In reply, Defendant
submits an exhibit containing the full AAA rule quoted by Plaintiff. (Ameripour
Reply Declaration ¶ 2; Ex. 1.)
 
Although “parties are entitled to
discovery sufficient to vindicate their claims . . . discovery limitations are
an integral and permissible part of the arbitration process.” (Dotson v.
Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 983-984.) If an agreement
“allow[s] the arbitrator to order additional discovery as needed to allow a
full and fair exploration of the issues in dispute, the discovery provisions
would be valid.” (Ramirez v. Charter Communications, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th
478, 507.)  
 
Under the AAA rule cited by Plaintiff and
submitted by Defendant, the arbitrator may order additional discovery if it “is
needed to provide for a fundamentally fair process.”  (Opposition p. 6; Ameripour
Reply Ex. 1.) Accordingly, discovery through arbitration may be more limited
than discovery under the Rules of Civil Procedure, but the Order Agreement is
not highly unconscionable. 
 
Plaintiff further argues the Order Agreement is unconscionable
because “[t]he likelihood of actual or implied bias against
Plaintiff and other customers across the State also heightens where the
arbitrator has an incentive to retain its exclusivity arrangement with
Defendant for all its motor vehicles and disputes.” (Opposition p. 6.) The
court “assume[s] that the arbitrator will operate in a reasonable manner in
conformity with the law.” (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc., supra, 181 Cal.App.4th
at p. 984.)
 
Thus, although this court finds a small
degree of procedural unconscionability, there is no substantive
unconscionability. As such, the Order Agreement is not unconscionable.
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues this court
should strike the provision requiring an AAA arbitrator. (Opposition p. 8.)
Because the provision requiring submitting disputes to an AAA arbitrator is not
unconscionable, this court declines to strike that provision.
 
iii.            
Claims Independent from
Order and Purchase Agreement
 
Plaintiff also argues this court should not compel arbitration
because “Plaintiff’s claims bear no connection to either the Order Agreement or
Purchase Agreement.” (Opposition p. 10.)
 
Plaintiff cites Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89
Cal.App.5th 1324, review
granted Sept. 4, 2024, S279969, and
states that “By concluding that the Plaintiff’s vehicle warranty
claims were distinct from the underlying purchase agreements, the court
compellingly asserted that manufacturer could not enforce arbitration for these
claims.” (Opposition p. 9.)
 
In
Ford Motor Warranty Cases, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1329, review granted Sept. 4, 2024, S279969, the
plaintiffs purchased vehicles from a motor vehicle dealer and signed Retail
Installment Contracts in connection with the purchases. The defendant
manufacturer was not a party to those contracts or named in the sale contracts.
(Id.) The defendant manufacturer filed a motion to compel arbitration of
the claims based on the arbitration provisions in the contracts. (Id. at
p. 1331.) The issue, therefore, was whether the defendant manufacturer, “as a
nonsignatory to the sale contracts, [could] compel plaintiffs to arbitrate.” (Id.
at p. 1332.)
 
Similarly,
the other California cases Plaintiff cites, Montemayor v. Ford (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 958, 962, 968, review granted Sept. 30, 2023,
S27996, and Kielar v. Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th
614, 616-617, review granted Oct. 25, 2023,
S279969, also considered whether a nonsignatory could enforce an
arbitration agreement.
 
Defendant
was a party to the Order Agreement. (See Kim Declaration ¶ 3; Ex. 1.) Accordingly, the
cases discussed above that addressed whether a nonsignatory could compel
arbitration do not apply here.
 
Plaintiff
further argues that the causes of action here do not fall within the arbitration
provision because the Order Agreement states:
 
If you do not get
a written warranty, and the Seller does not enter into a service contract
within 90 days from the date of this contract, the Seller makes no warranties, express
or implied, on the vehicle, and there will be no implied warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purchase. This provision does not
affect any warranties covering the vehicle that the vehicle manufacture may
provide.
 
(Opposition
pp. 10-11.)
 
This
provision relates to the scope of the Vehicle’s warranties, but it does not
exclude claims relating to the Vehicle’s warranties from the arbitration
provision.
 
In
contrast, the Order Agreement provides that: “that any dispute arising out of
or relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be
decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator . . .” (Ex 1 p.
3; Kim Declaration ¶ 3.) Plaintiff alleges
in the complaint that:
 
Along with the
acquisition of the Vehicle, Plaintiff received written warranties and other
express and implied warranties including, but not limited to, warranties from
Defendants that the Vehicle and its components would be free from all defects
in material and workmanship; that the Vehicle would pass without objection in
the trade under the Contract description; that the Vehicle would be fit for the
ordinary purposes for which it was intended; that the Vehicle would conform to
the promises and affirmations of fact made; and that Defendants would perform
any repairs, alignments, adjustments, and/or replacements of any parts
necessary to ensure that the Vehicle was free from any defects in material and
workmanship.
 
(Complaint
¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiff’s
claims arise out of or relate to an aspect of the relationship between Defendant
and Plaintiff. Thus, Plaintiff’s claims are within the scope of the Order
Agreement’s arbitration provision.
 
Plaintiff further argues that “in a sweeping trend, corporations
are continuing to attempt to use arbitration agreements to avoid court for
claims that were not specifically contemplated by either party at the time the
arbitration agreement was entered into.” (Opposition p. 7.) Plaintiff submits as an exhibit a motion
to compel arbitration filed in Florida state court. (Opposition Ex. 1.) A
motion submitted to a Florida state court is irrelevant for purposes of the issues
here.
 
IV.          
STAY
PROCEEDINGS
 
Defendant requests this court stay the proceedings until
arbitration has been completed. (Motion pp. 11-12.)
 
“If a
court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.4.) 
 
This court has ordered arbitration of
this controversy. Accordingly, this court stays the action pending the outcome
of arbitration.
 
V.             
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, this court
grants Defendant’s Motion. This action is stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration.
 
 
Dated:  December 9, 2024                                                                   _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior
Court