 Case Number:  BC675696    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Petition of Defendants/Petitioners to Confirm
Arbitration Award [Regarding Plaintiff Maria Estela Rosas].
 
The unopposed petition is granted, as prayed.
Background
Three plaintiffs filed a Complaint, including
allegations that a plaintiff was sexually harassed by an assistant supervisor
and coworkers, and experienced adverse employment actions after complaining.  The causes of action are: 1. Sex
Discrimination In Violation Of FEHA; 2. National Origin Discrimination In
Violation Of FEHA; 3, Sexual Harassment/Hostile Work Environment; 4.
Retaliation/Protected Activity; 5. Failure To Prevent Discrimination And
Harassment; 6. Aiding And Abetting; 7. Wrongful Termination In Violation Of
Cal, Gov. Code § 12940(H); and 8. Violation Of Unfair Competition Law, Bus,
& Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.
The Court granted a Motion to Compel Arbitration, as
to all three plaintiffs in this case. The
Court entered an order that case numbers BC675696 and 21STCV17412 are deemed
related. The Court confirmed an arbitration award, based on a petition
addressing Plaintiff/Respondent ERIKA VALADEZ and EFREN LARA, including based
on the arbitration award finding a bar of the Statute of Limitations. Plaintiffs
filed a notice of appeal as to the order confirming the award.  In the meantime, Defendants filed a petition
to confirm an arbitration award, as to Plaintiff/Respondent MARIA ESTELA ROSAS.  
According to Court of Appeal
records, in appellate case number B318125, an opinion has affirmed Judge
Malcome Mackey’s arbitration ruling regarding VALADEZ and LARA.
Moving parties request the Court confirm the
arbitration award as to Respondent MARIA ESTELA ROSAS, on bases including the
following: 1)  A JAMS arbitration award
was made, awarding nothing to either side, on 8/2/21; and, 2) the Arbitrator,
after reviewing all submissions, dismissed Claimant’s case, finding that her
case was barred by statutes of limitations, but that the issue was complicated
and not frivolously disputed.  No
opposition has been filed to consider.
Legal Standard
Unless a petition or response seeking to correct or
vacate an arbitration award was filed properly based upon valid grounds, or the
proceeding is dismissed, courts are required to enter judgment in conformity
with the award. Valsan Partners Ltd. Partnership v. Calcor Space Facility
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 809, 818.
Analysis
The petition has merit because it is based upon an arbitration
award and no plaintiff filed a response to the petition. Further, overlapping
issues were involved as to the instant petition, and the similar petition of a
co-plaintiff, such as the awards finding that the Statute of Limitations
expired. As to such issues, the appellate opinion in case number B318125
resolved them against plaintiffs.
 
Conclusion
Therefore, the Court grants the petition.