 Case Number:  23STCV03260    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







MITAL TAMORO,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
QUANTUM CORPORATION,
  et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV03260




Hearing Date:


June 20, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO BIFURCATE CROSS-COMPLAINT FILED BY DEFENDANT QUANTUM CORPORATION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
Plaintiff Mital Tamoro (“Tamoro”) filed this action on February
14, 2023 against Defendant Quantum Corporation (“Quantum”). The Complaint
alleges causes of action for 
(1)
pregnancy discrimination, (2) disability discrimination, (3) failure to
accommodate,
(4)
failure to engage in the interactive process, (5) denial of CFRA rights, (6)
failure to reimburse expenses, and (7) interference with prospective economic
advantage. 
On May 7, 2024, Quantum filed a Cross-Complaint against Larkin
Benefit Administrators, d/b/a The Larkin Company (“Larkin”), alleging causes of
action for (1) breach of contract – failure to perform, (2) breach of contract
– failure to defend and indemnify,
(3)
negligence, (4) comparative indemnity, (5) equitable indemnity, and (6)
declaratory relief.
In the Complaint, Tamoro alleges, inter alia, that “QUANTUM
terminated Tamoro because of her pregnancy and need for pregnancy-related
accommodations.” (Compl., ¶ 48.) Tamoro also alleges that her “disabilities
and/or her medical leave were a motivating reason for QUANTUM’s decision to
terminate TAMORO.” (Compl., ¶ 64.) Tamoro alleges that “QUANTUM terminated
TAMORO while she was on leave thus denying her right to receive a reasonable
accommodation in the form of being able to return to work after her leave of
absence.” (Compl., ¶ 76.) Tamoro further alleges, inter alia, that
“TAMORO was set to vest a grant of 15,000 time-based Restricted Stock Units
(‘RSUs’) in three equal installments on each anniversary of the Grant Date
(April 1st), becoming fully vested three years from the Grant Date, subject to
continued employment. QUANTUM terminated TAMORO two weeks before she was due to
vest 5,000 RSUs in order to deny TAMORO her RSUs.” (Compl., ¶ 121.)
In the Cross-Complaint, Quantum alleges, inter alia, that
“Quantum denies any liability to Tamoro, but to the extent it is found to be
liable, Larkin is the real party at fault. During all relevant times before and
after Quantum’s decision to terminate Tamoro, Quantum did not determine
protected leave eligibility status for its employees, or administer employee
leave programs, because it paid Larkin to fill that role. When Larkin informed
Quantum that it would not violate the law by terminating Tamoro (which Quantum
asserts it did not) Quantum believed that determination to be correct based on
Larkin’s expertise and specialized knowledge. Quantum relied on the accuracy of
the advice that Larkin provided with respect to Tamoro’s leave status, and
thus, if Quantum is found to have violated the law, Larkin is the party who
should answer for such violations and required to satisfy any judgment rendered
against Quantum.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 1.) 
In the Cross-Complaint, Quantum also alleges that “Larkin was
obligated under its agreement with Quantum to administer Quantum’s employee
leave programs. If Quantum were to suffer ‘any costs, claims, liabilities,
damages, judgments, or expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs
of litigation)’ as a result of a claim brought by a third party arising from
Larkin’s alleged negligence, willful or gross misconduct in the performance of
this agreement, then Larkin agreed to ‘defend and indemnify [Quantum] and its
affiliates, directors, officers, and employees.’” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 2.) Quantum
alleges that “Larkin is…in breach for failing to indemnify Quantum for Tamoro’s
claims that arise out of Larkin’s alleged negligence.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 2.)
Tamoro now moves for an order bifurcating the claims
brought by Quantum against Larkin from the claims brought by Tamoro in
her complaint against Quantum. Tamoro also moves to have the trial on her
claims against Quantum occur before the trial on Quantum’s claims against
Larkin. Quantum and Larkin both oppose the motion. 
Discussion
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b) provides: “[t]he court, in furtherance
of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive
to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action,
including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate
issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of
trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the
United States.” 
Code
of Civil Procedure sections 597 and 598 allow a court to order that the trial of any issue or part thereof
proceed before the trial of any other issue to promote the ends of justice or
the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation. Additionally, Evidence Code section 320 provides that trial
courts have discretion to regulate the order of proof. “[T]rial courts have
broad discretion to determine the order of proof in the interests of judicial
economy.” (Grappo
v. Coventry Fin. Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504.) The objective of
bifurcation is “avoidance of the waste of time and money caused by the
unnecessary trial of damage questions in cases where the liability issue is
resolved against the plaintiff.” (Horton v.
Jones (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 952,
955.)
Tamoro asserts that the
Court should bifurcate Tamoro’s claims in the Complaint from Quantum’s claims
in the Cross-Complaint. Tamoro argues that “the two complaints in the
case allege facts unrelated to one another and are based on legal theories that
have no overlap. A jury would be confused with the task of sorting through
unrelated facts and attempting to allocate facts amongst unrelated claims.”
(Mot. at p. 1:9-13.) In its opposition, Quantum counters that “a jury is
entirely capable of hearing facts relating to multiple causes of action and
three parties without confusion. This is not a situation here where there are
dozens of plaintiffs, defendants, cross-complainants, and cross-defendants each
with several different cross-complaints with varying causes of action. There
are only three parties—Plaintiff, Quantum, and Larkin—and two complaints. And
Quantum and Larkin only have one agreement between them at issue in this
litigation. The issues to be litigated in both Plaintiff’s Complaint and
Quantum’s Cross-Complaint are not only overlapping, but they are also
straightforward.” (Opp’n at p. 8:16-22.) The Court finds that Quantum has the
better argument on this point.  
            Quantum also asserts that its
“Cross-Complaint against Larkin arises out of the same occurrence as
Plaintiff’s complaint against Quantum—Quantum’s termination of Plaintiff’s
employment—and hinges on many of the same issues as Plaintiff’s Complaint…the
Cross-Complaint expressly references Plaintiff’s allegations as a basis for
Quantum’s claims if Plaintiff’s allegations are adjudicated in her favor.”
(Opp’n at p. 9:23-27.) Quantum’s Cross-Complaint alleges, inter alia,
that “Quantum expressly denies any liability to Tamoro arising from or related
to the allegations in the Tamoro Complaint. However, if held liable to Tamoro,
such liability is a result of Larkin’s negligence, breach of contract, willful
or gross misconduct in performance under the Larkin Agreement.” (Cross-Compl.,
¶ 27.) 
 In addition, Tamoro alleges in
the Complaint that “[a]t the time QUANTUM terminated TAMORO, TAMORO had been
employed with QUANTUM for over one year and had worked over 1,250 hours in the
previous year, and was therefore entitled to CFRA leave.” (Compl., ¶ 35.)
Tamoro alleges that “QUANTUM denied TAMORO of her CFRA rights by terminating
her just one day into her CFRA protected leave, in violation of Government Code §12945.” (Compl., ¶ 99.) As noted by
Quantum, in the Cross-Complaint, Quantum alleges that on or about January 1,
2011, Quantum and Larkin entered into The Larkin Company Service Agreement (the
“Larkin Agreement”). (Cross-Compl., ¶ 15.) Quantum alleges that Section 2.1 of the Larkin Agreement requires Larkin to
perform certain services, including, inter alia, “a. ‘Administer
employee leaves of absence in accordance with the requirements of applicable
state and federal law and [Quantum’s] leave of absence policies.’ b. ‘Determine
the [Quantum] employee’s eligibility for protected leave under the Family and
Medical Leave Act and all statutory leave in states where [Quantum’s] employees
work using [Quantum’s] data feed.’ c. ‘Determine the [Quantum] employee’s
eligibility for other leaves offered by [Quantum].’…” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 16.)
Quantum asserts that accordingly, both Tamoro’s Complaint and
Quantum’s Cross-Complaint concern “the question of whether Plaintiff had worked
enough hours to be eligible for protected leave, and the question of whether
she was, in fact, on a protected leave of absence at the time of the
termination of her employment. Resolving those questions in one trial, as to
all parties, would avoid the need for Quantum to litigate them twice.” (Opp’n
at p. 5:17-21.) The Court agrees with Quantum that claims in Tamoro’s and
Quantum’s complaints are overlapping. 
            Quantum also asserts that “in
addition to the…inconvenience to the jury of multiple, overlapping trials,
bifurcation would also be highly inconvenient to witnesses. Because there are
many overlapping issues between Plaintiff’s Complaint and Quantum’s
Cross-Complaint, the witnesses with personal knowledge relevant to both
complaints are also overlapping. Thus, bifurcation would require witnesses,
such as Larkin’s benefits and leave of absence administrator, to testify
twice.” (Opp’n at pp. 10:25-11:1) Quantum asserts that bifurcation would thus “require
duplication of evidence and repeated testimony by the same
witnesses—inefficiencies that run counter to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1048(b).” (Opp’n at p. 11:2-3.) Indeed, as
discussed, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048,
subdivision (b) provides in part that “[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a
cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of
any number of causes of action or issues…” (Emphasis added.)
Tamoro also asserts that she “would be greatly prejudiced, and the
interests of justice not served, should a jury have to filter through extensive
facts about Quantum’s contract with Larkin while listening to and interpreting
facts relating to her employment and termination from Quantum.” (Mot. at p.
3:7-9.) But Tamoro does not appear to provide any further argument as to why
she would be purportedly prejudiced due to such circumstances. 
Quantum also asserts in its opposition that “many of the same issues
will need to be resolved in adjudicating Plaintiff’s Complaint against Quantum
and Quantum’s Cross-Complaint against Larkin. These include the accuracy of
Larkin’s determinations regarding the timing of Plaintiff’s leave of absence
and whether Plaintiff worked enough hours for Quantum to be eligible for
protected leave. If Quantum were forced to litigate Plaintiff’s Complaint and
its Cross-Complaint in separate trials, Quantum would face the risk of
inconsistent rulings on those issues to its detriment…The ends of justice are
served by avoiding that risk.” (Opp’n at p. 11:19-27.) The Court agrees with
Quantum that bifurcation could subject Quantum to inconsistent rulings. 
As set forth above, Larkin also opposes the motion. Larkin asserts inter
alia, that “bifurcation will not promote the convenience of the witnesses,
the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling litigation.
Instead, bifurcation will result in a longer trial and a greater burden in that
it risks the marshalling of overlapping evidence thereby unnecessarily
increasing the burden on the witnesses and Court.” (Opp’n at p. 5:1-4.)[1]
The Court agrees. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Tamoro has
demonstrated good cause for “an order bifurcating the claims brought by
[Quantum] against [Larkin] from the claims brought by Tamoro in her complaint
against Quantum.” 
Lastly, Tamoro asserts that “[s]hould the Court bifurcate the
complaint from the cross-complaint, a trial on Tamoro’s claims against Larkin
should occur before a trial on Quantum’s claims against Larkin.” (Mot. at p.
3:17-18.) As set forth above, the Court does not find that Tamoro has
demonstrated good cause for an order bifurcating the Complaint from the
Cross-Complaint. 
Conclusion 
            Based on the
foregoing, Tamoro’s motion is denied. 
            Quantum
is ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
            
DATED:  June 20, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


