  Case Number:  20STCV05310    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



NAHIDEH HAROONI, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DAVID S. LIN., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV05310




Hearing Date:


June 20, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANT LAW OFFICES OF DAVID S. LIN’S RENEWED MOTION FOR NONSUIT
  ON PLAINTIFF NAHIDEH HAROONI’S CLAIMS IN THIS CASE
 



 
Background
On February 10, 2020, Plaintiff Nahideh
Harooni (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Law Offices of David
S. Lin a Professional Corporation. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on December 10, 2020 against Defendant David S. Lin,
individually and dba Law Offices of David S. Lin, APC. The FAC alleges causes
of action for (1) breach of contract, and (2) general negligence. Law Offices
of David S. Lin (“Defendant”) filed an answer to the FAC on January 14, 2021. 
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that on or about November 27, 2017, an agreement was made between Plaintiff and
“David
S. Lin, Law Offices of David S. Lin, APC.” (FAC, p. 3.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant was retained to sue a dentist
for malpractice on LASC BC 665427.” (Ibid.) In
the first cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff alleges that on or
about December 7, 2018, Defendant breached the agreement because “Defendant
failed to retain an expert in a timely manner.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a result of that failure, Defendant failed to
sufficiently address the Separate Statement of Facts in Dispute attached to
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment that should have been based on expert
witness testimony.” (Ibid.) 
In
the second cause of action for general negligence, Plaintiff similarly alleges,
inter alia, that on December 7, 2018 “Defendant failed to retain an
expert in a timely manner. As a result of that failure, Defendant failed to
sufficiently address the Separate Statement of Facts in Dispute attached to
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment that should have been based on expert
witness testimony. Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty as her attorney of record
to timely prepare for trial and ability [sic] to respond to a Motion for
Summary Judgment based on the expert witness that should have been retained at
the beginning of the case. Defendants breached that duty owed to Plaintiff by
early preparation of the case with the aid of an expert [sic].” (FAC, p. 5.)  
On May 14, 2024, a minute order was issued in
this action providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Cause is called for
trial…Plaintiff waives opening statement. Defendant makes
and [sic] oral and written motion for nonsuit. The Court reviewed the motion
for nonsuit filed after Plaintiff waived opening statement. Defendant failed to
cite any California Authorities regarding the need for expert testimony as to
Plaintiff’s legal malpractice cause of action. Defendant also did not address
Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of action. The motion is denied without
prejudice.” 
On May 21, 2024, a minute order was issued in
this action providing, inter alia, that “[t]rial resumes from May 14, 2024
with all parties and counsel present as heretofore. Defendant makes a[n] oral
and written Motion for Nonsuit…The Court sets a briefing schedule for the
Motion for Nonsuit. Opposition to the Motion is due May 28, 2024. The reply is
due May 31, 2024. Hearing on Motion - Other for Nonsuit is scheduled for
06/10/24 at 10:00 AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.” 
Defendant now moves for an
order granting nonsuit in Defendant’s favor and against Plaintiff. Plaintiff
opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Defendant’s evidentiary
objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained. Plaintiff does not
appear to show that the Court denied two previous motions for nonsuit filed by
Defendant.
Objection No. 2: sustained 
Objection No. 3: sustained 
Objection No. 4: sustained
Objection No. 5: sustained 
Objection No. 6: sustained 
Legal Standard 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581c, subdivision (a),
“[o]nly after, and not before, the plaintiff has completed his or
her opening statement, or after the presentation of his or her evidence in a
trial by jury, the defendant, without waiving his or her right to offer
evidence in the event the motion is not granted, may move for a judgment of
nonsuit.”[1]
As set forth above, the Court’s May 14, 2024 minute order in this case provides,
inter alia, that “Plaintiff waives opening statement.” 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581c, subdivision (b),
“[i]f it appears that the evidence presented, or to be presented,
supports the granting of the motion as to some but not all of the issues
involved in the action, the court shall grant the motion as to those issues and
the action shall proceed as to the issues remaining. Despite the granting of
the motion, no final judgment shall be entered prior to the termination of the
action, but the final judgment in the action shall, in addition to any matters
determined in the trial, award judgment as determined by the motion herein
provided for.” In addition, “[i]f the motion is
granted, unless the court in its order for judgment otherwise specifies, the
judgment of nonsuit operates as an adjudication upon the merits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 581c,
subd. (c).) 
Discussion 
Defendant asserts that “a
motion for nonsuit should be granted because Plaintiff has failed to and cannot
provide any evidence of sufficient substantiality to support a judgment in
favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant Lin in this action.” (Mot. at p.
8:22-24.) Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff HAROONI has failed to and…cannot
present any relevant, material and admissible evidence required to prove up
any…alleged…professional negligence/breach of contract as levied against
Defendant LIN in this Action…” (Mot. at p. 2:20-22.) Defendant states that
here, Plaintiff failed to “timely designate[] and retain[] a proper Legal
Negligence or Legal Malpractice expert in this present Action…” (Mot. at p.
7:12-13.) 
Defendant cites to Lipscomb v.
Krause (1978)
87 Cal.App.3d 970, 975, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]t is the current view in
California that the legal malpractice suit is but one variety of
negligence action and is governed by the general doctrines of pleading and
proof prevailing in negligence actions…These questions of fact in a case such
as the one at bench require expert evidence. The issue of whether and when
expert evidence is required in a legal malpractice action appears to have been
resolved in the affirmative by Wright v.
Williams (1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 802
[121 Cal.Rptr. 194].” 
In Lipscomb Court found that “[g]enerally, the creation of
the attorney-client relationship imposes upon the lawyer the obligation to
represent his client with such skill, prudence, and diligence as lawyers of
ordinary skill and capacity commonly possess and exercise in the performance of
the tasks which they undertake. The standard is that of members of the
profession in the same or a similar locality under similar circumstances…Plaintiffs’
proof relative to these issues generally requires the testimony of experts as
to the standards of care and consequences of breach. Expert evidence in a
malpractice suit is conclusive as to the proof of the prevailing standard of
skill and learning in the locality and of the propriety of particular conduct
by the practitioner in particular instances because such standard and skill is
not a matter of general knowledge and can only be supplied by expert testimony…We conclude that
the trial court did not err in granting the motion for nonsuit based on its
conclusion that legal consequences of the facts by which Lipscomb sought to
establish malpractice were not within the common knowledge of laymen and
required expert testimony.” (Lipscomb
v. Krause, supra, 87 Cal.App.3d at p. 976 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)

Defendant
asserts that here, “none of Plaintiff’s witnesses, i.e., Plaintiff HAROONI
herself and the two dental expert witnesses retained and designated to testify
as witnesses at Trial of this Action have any of the requisite knowledge to
testify as to the standard of care against which Defendant LIN’s professional
acts carried out in his prior handling of the underlying case can be measured,
which…remains a matter within the scope of a legal negligence expert only.”
(Mot. at p. 10:14-19.) 
In the motion,
Defendant asserts that he did “retain and hire an expert witness, Dr. Alan
Zweig…to review the subject dental records of Plaintiff HAROONI…” (Mot. at p.
4:21-22.) 
Defendant states in the motion that Dr. Zweig
“determined that all of Dr. Aghaloo’s dental work and care as rendered to
Plaintiff HAROONI in the conduct of [the] dental procedure fell within the
scope of the standard of care within the profession.” (Mot. at p. 5:7-9.) Defendant
asserts that here, “whether Defendant Attorney Lin timely retained an expert
witness on Plaintiff HAROONI’s dental malpractice claims or whether Defendant
LIN has a duty to engage in expert witness shopping to find an expert who is
willing to offer a contrary finding or determination on the issue of dental
professional negligence…constitutes an issue and legal determination which
requires an [e]xpert in the field of legal negligence to render an expert
opinion on…” (Mot. at p. 11:21-27 [internal quotations omitted].) 
In the
opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute that she did not designate an expert in
this action for purposes of establishing legal
malpractice. Rather,
Plaintiff asserts that “the matter may proceed without an expert witness
because Defendant’s negligence is within the scope of Plaintiff’s ‘common
knowledge.’” (Opp’n at p. 2:9-10.)   
Plaintiff cites to, inter alia, Ryan v. Real Estate
of Pacific, Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th
637, 643, where the
Court of Appeal noted that the “common
knowledge” theory “states an expert witness is
not needed to establish the standard of care in a professional negligence cause
of action when the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within
the common knowledge of a layman.” Plaintiff contends
that here, “[t]he issues are simple: 1) defendant did not designate an
expert in the matter; 2) had no expert to offer evidence in opposition to a
Motion for Summary Judgment; 3) resulting in, the grant of the MSJ because for
[sic] inability to raise a triable issue of fact. This three part analysis is
not complex and already established by the record from the prior action.” (Opp’n
at p. 3:1-4.) Plaintiff asserts that “Plaintiff as a layperson, clearly understood
why the court ruled the way it did, and that understanding does not require an
expert witness.” (Opp’n at p. 3:17-18.) 
But Plaintiff does not appear to dispute
Defendant’s statement that he did hire an expert witness in the underlying
action, Dr. Zweig, who determined that no professional dental negligence
existed. (Mot. at p. 5:10.) Plaintiff asserts that “[w]hen Defendant discovered
his expert was not favorable to Plaintiff’s position, and had a conflict with
defendants (prior affiliation(s) with medical providers), he had an obligation
to pursue other experts and did not.” (Opp’n at p. 5:2-4.) However, as noted by
Defendant, Plaintiff does not cite any legal authority in support of this
assertion. Moreover, Plaintiff does not cite any legal authority demonstrating
that such obligation purportedly required by the circumstances is within the
“common knowledge of laymen.” 
Plaintiff also does not appear to show
that it is “within the common knowledge of laymen” as to whether Defendant
should have found another expert “willing to offer a contrary finding or
determination on the issue of dental professional negligence.” (Mot. at p.
11:23-24.) As discussed, Ryan v. Real Estate of Pacific, Inc., supra,
32 Cal.App.5th at page 643, cited by Plaintiff, provides that the “common knowledge” theory “states an expert witness is not needed to establish the
standard of care in a professional negligence cause of action when the conduct
required by the particular circumstances is within the common knowledge of a
layman.”
Plaintiff also asserts that “[b]ecause
Defendant failed to retain an expert witness early on in the litigation, there
was no expert testimony offered to raise a triable issue of fact in opposition
to a Motion for Summary Judgment. The ‘MSJ’ was entered against Plaintiff on
her then action.” (Opp’n at p. 4:21-23.) But Plaintiff does not appear to show
that the issue of whether Defendant should have “retaine[d] an expert witness
early on in the litigation” is “within the common knowledge of laymen.” (See
Opp’n at p. 4:21.)
In addition, in the reply,
Defendant asserts that “the legal negligence issue in this case…does not fall
within a layperson’s common knowledge such that a legal negligence expert
witness is required…” (Reply at p. 7:18-20.) Defendant cites to O’Shea v. Lindenberg (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th
228, 230-231, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[t]his
is a legal malpractice case. Plaintiff Michael O’Shea hired Attorney Susan F.
Lindenberg to represent him in a child support action. After O’Shea’s ex-wife
was awarded what he believed to be an excessive amount of child support, he
filed this action. His most significant allegation of negligence was that
Lindenberg should have retained a forensic accountant. The case went to trial
and the jury concluded, in a special verdict, that Lindenberg owed a
professional duty of care that she breached. The jury was unable to agree,
however, on whether the breach of duty caused him damage, and the judge
declared a mistrial. Lindenberg moved for a
directed verdict on the grounds that the evidence presented at trial did not
support a finding of causation, specifically, that without the alleged
malpractice, O’Shea would have received a better result. The trial court agreed
and directed a verdict in Lindenberg’s favor. After reviewing the evidence in
accordance with the applicable standard of review, we find O’Shea failed to
present sufficient testimony on the issue of causation, and therefore we affirm
the judgment.” The O’Shea Court noted as follows: 
 
“The
general rule is that expert evidence is required to establish legal
malpractice. (Unigard Ins. Group v. O'Flaherty &
Belgum (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1239 [45 Cal. Rptr. 2d 565]; Wilkinson v. Rives (1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 641,
647–648 [172 Cal. Rptr. 254].) The need for expert testimony has particular
force where the attorney, as here, holds himself or herself out as a
specialist: “Where … the malpractice action is brought against an attorney
holding [him or herself] out as a legal specialist and the claim … is related
to [his or her] expertise as such, then only a person knowledgeable in the
specialty can define the applicable duty of care and opine whether it was
met.” (Wright v. Williams (1975) 47
Cal.App.3d 802, 810–811 [121 Cal. Rptr. 194].)
 
There is an exception when the
alleged malpractice is so utterly egregious and obvious that no expert
testimony is needed. Goebel v. Lauderdale (1989)
214 Cal.App.3d 1502 [263 Cal. Rptr. 275] is a leading contemporary case
recognizing this exception…There, a bankruptcy attorney—but one who,
nonetheless, still “handle[d] other legal matters”—specifically advised a
contractor to collect $15,000 from a job on which he was working even though he
himself owed the laborers and material suppliers, and then stop work on the
project. (Goebel, at p. 1505.) The
contractor followed the advice and within about a month filed for bankruptcy. (Ibid.) But there was a substantial problem with
the attorney’s advice—it constituted a felony under Penal
Code section 484b. When the contractor was prosecuted, he sued the attorney
for legal malpractice. The contractor’s expert witness
was not a bankruptcy specialist and could not testify about attorneys as a
general matter. In reversing a subsequent nonsuit, the appellate court said the
malpractice was “so clear,” or readily obvious from the facts of the case, that
no expert was necessary. (Goebel, at pp.
1508–1509; see Wilkinson v. Rives, supra,
116 Cal.App.3d at pp. 647–648; Wright v.
Williams, supra, 47 Cal.App.3d at pp. 810–811.)
 
The case O’Shea repeatedly
cites here is another example of this exception, Stanley
v. Richmond (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1070 [41 Cal. Rptr. 2d 768]. In
that case, the plaintiff (who herself was a bankruptcy attorney) was going
through a divorce with a husband who had a VA (Department of Veterans Affairs)
pension. The plaintiff had also completed a buyout of her partnership from
her previous law firm. Her family law attorney advised her to cede her entire
interest in the VA pension as a way to help her stay in her house, despite the
fact that even keeping a mere $1 interest in it would have made her eligible
for lifetime health insurance “at very low cost.” (Id. at
p. 1083.) The family law attorney also failed to advise her of the
“immediate and specific” tax consequences of the partnership buyout. (Id. at p. 1095.) Despite the lack of
expert testimony on the standard of care, the appellate court reversed a
nonsuit. As to the VA pension, the court stated a “few hours” of research
would have shown that even a nominal interest in the pension would have allowed
her to keep those “valuable benefits.” (Id. at
pp. 1094–1095.) As to the tax liability, the court stated the lack of
research, “coupled” with evidence the family law attorney was
“unnecessarily rushing to finalize” a settlement, was enough for the plaintiff’s
claim to survive the absence of expert testimony…” (O’Shea v. Lindenberg, supra, 64
Cal.App.5th at pp. 236-238.) 
Defendant notes that here, “[u]nlike Goebel
v. Lauderdale, Plaintiff HAROONI did not and has not alleged that Defendant
LIN gave her wrongful legal advice and caused her violation of statutes. As
well, unlike Stanley v. Richmond, this case is not about any deficient
legal advice rendered without basic legal research.” (Reply at p. 8:15-17.)
As discussed, the issues here
involve, inter alia, whether Defendant should have retained another expert
after Dr. Zweig determined that Dr.
Aghaloo’s dental work fell within the standard of care, and whether Defendant should
have retained an expert witness early on in the litigation. The Court does not
find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the
purported conduct required by Defendant in the underlying action is within the
common knowledge of a layman. As discussed above, “[t]he general rule is that expert evidence is required to
establish legal malpractice.” (O'Shea v. Lindenberg,
supra, 64 Cal.App.5th at p. 236.) 
In light of the foregoing, the
Court grants Defendant’s renewed motion for nonsuit.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
renewed motion for nonsuit is granted. Defendant is ordered to file and serve a
proposed judgment within 10 days of the date of this Order.
Defendant is ordered to give
notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  June 20, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court


