 Case Number:  22STCV37560    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




Y.Y., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
DOE 1, et al.,
                        Defendants. 


Case No.:


22STCV37560




Hearing Date:


June 20, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
SPECIALLY
  APPEARING DEFENDANT DOE 1’S MOTION TO QUASH SUMMONS
 




 
Background 
Plaintiff Y.Y. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on November 30, 2022
against Defendants Doe 1, Doe 2, Doe 3, and Does 4 through 60. The Complaint
alleges causes of action for 
(1)
sexual assault, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (3) negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention, (4) negligent supervision of a minor, (5)
failure to report suspected child abuse in violation of Penal
Code section 11165, et
seq. based on vicarious liability, and 
(6)
negligence.[1]
            On March 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
proof of service indicating that the summons and Complaint were served on Doe 1
by substituted service on March 10, 2023. 
Specially appearing defendant “DOE 1” (herein, “Doe 1”) now moves for
an order quashing the service of the summons. Plaintiff opposes. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice. The Court also notes that “Exhibit A” is not attached to the
request. 
 
Discussion

Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10 provides in part: “[a] defendant, on
or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time
that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion…(1)
To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.” (Id.,
§ 418.10, subd. (a).) Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10,
subdivision (e), “[a] defendant or
cross-defendant may make a motion under this section and simultaneously answer,
demur, or move to strike the complaint or cross-complaint.” 
            In the Complaint in this action,
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[t]his action to recover
damages on behalf of an adult who was a victim of childhood sexual assault is
governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1.
Plaintiff is over the age of forty. Therefore, pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1,
Plaintiff is filing this civil action against unnamed ‘Doe’ defendants.”
(Compl., ¶ 4.)  
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
340.1, subdivision (e), “[e]very plaintiff 40
years of age or older at the time the action is filed shall file certificates
of merit as specified in subdivision (f).” In addition, “[i]n any action subject to subdivision (e), a defendant
shall be named by ‘Doe’ designation in any pleadings or papers filed in the
action until there has been a showing of corroborative fact as to the charging
allegations against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
340.1, subd. (k).)  
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
340.1, subdivision (l), “[a]t
any time after the action is filed, the plaintiff may apply to the court for permission
to amend the complaint to substitute the name of the defendant or defendants
for the fictitious designation, as follows:
 
(1) The application shall be accompanied by a certificate of
corroborative fact executed by the attorney for the plaintiff. The certificate
shall declare that the attorney has discovered one or more facts corroborative
of one or more of the charging allegations against a defendant or defendants,
and shall set forth in clear and concise terms the nature and substance of the
corroborative fact. If the corroborative fact is evidenced by the statement of
a witness or the contents of a document, the certificate shall declare that the
attorney has personal knowledge of the statement of the witness or of the
contents of the document, and the identity and location of the witness or
document shall be included in the certificate. For purposes of this section, a
fact is corroborative of an allegation if it confirms or supports the
allegation. The opinion of any mental health practitioner concerning the
plaintiff shall not constitute a corroborative fact for purposes of this
section.
 
(2) If the application to name a defendant is made before that
defendant’s appearance in the action, neither the application nor the
certificate of corroborative fact by the attorney shall be served on the
defendant or defendants, nor on any other party or their counsel of record.
 
(3) If the application to name a defendant is made after that
defendant’s appearance in the action, the application shall be served on all
parties and proof of service provided to the court, but the certificate of
corroborative fact by the attorney shall not be served on any party or their
counsel of record.” 
            Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 340.1, subdivision (m), “[t]he
court shall review the application and the certificate of corroborative fact in
camera and, based solely on the certificate and any reasonable inferences to be
drawn from the certificate, shall, if one or more facts corroborative of one or
more of the charging allegations against a defendant has been shown, order that
the complaint may be amended to substitute the name of the defendant or
defendants.” 
            In the
instant motion, Doe 1 asserts that Plaintiff has not complied with Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1, subdivision (m)
here. Doe 1 argues that “Plaintiff has not applied to substitute [the Boys and
Girls Club of Metro Los Angeles (“BGCMLA”)] (or any other person or entity) for
any fictitious designation. Nor has her counsel provided a certificate of
corroborative fact to support any such application. As such, BGCMLA has not
been substituted in place of the fictitiously named ‘Doe 1.’ Because BGCMLA has
not been so substituted, it is not a party to the action and service of a
summons on it was improper.” (Mot. at p. 4:2-6.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff
counters that “[n]owhere does C.C.P. 340.1 create an additional procedural
hurdle prior to service that dictates plaintiffs must name the defendants. On
the contrary, the statute requires plaintiffs to name defendants by ‘DOE’
designations ‘until there has been [an application accompanied by] a
[certificate] of corroborative fact as to the charging allegations against the
defendant.’…plaintiffs may name the defendants ‘[a]t any time after the action
is filed.’” (Opp’n at p. 4:20-25, emphasis omitted.) 
Indeed, as set forth above, Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1, subdivision (l) provides in part that “[a]t any time after the action is filed, the plaintiff may apply to the court for permission to
amend the complaint to substitute the name of the defendant or defendants for
the fictitious designation, as follows…” (Emphasis added.) Here, Doe 1 does not
cite any legal authority demonstrating that Code of
Civil Procedure section 340.1 requires Plaintiff to name Doe 1 prior
to effectuating service.
            In
addition, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1, subdivision (h), “[i]n any action subject to
subdivision (e), a defendant shall not be served, and the duty to serve a
defendant with process does not attach, until the court has reviewed the
certificates of merit filed pursuant to subdivision (f) with respect to that
defendant, and has found, in camera, based solely on those certificates of
merit, that there is reasonable and meritorious cause for the filing of the
action against that defendant. At that time, the duty to serve that defendant
with process shall attach.” On February 6, 2023, the Court in this
action issued an Order providing, inter alia, that “Plaintiff’s ex parte
application for an order to name and serve ‘Doe’ Defendants pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 came on for
haring on February 6, 2023…The court reviewed the following documents in
camera: 1. Ex Parte Application, including the Memorandum of Points and
Authorities; 2. Notice of Lodging containing: (a) Attorney Certificate of Merit
on Behalf of Plaintiff regarding DOE 1; (b) Attorney Certificate of Merit on
Behalf of Plaintiff Regarding DOE 2; (c) Attorney Certificate of Merit on
Behalf of Plaintiff Regarding DOE 3; and (d) Certificate of Merit by Mental
Health Practitioner re Plaintiff. The Court hereby grants the ex parte
application and orders the following: 1. Plaintiff is permitted to serve the
defendants with the Summons and Complaint…” (February 6, 2023
Order at pp. 1-2.) 
Doe 1 also argues in the instant motion that Plaintiff failed to
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 474
such that service of the summons is defective and must be quashed. Code of Civil Procedure section 474 provides as
follows: 
 
“When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant,
he must state that fact in the complaint, or the affidavit if the action is
commenced by affidavit, and such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or
proceeding must be amended accordingly; provided, that no default or default
judgment shall be entered against a defendant so designated, unless it appears
that the copy of the summons or other process, or, if there be no summons or
process, the copy of the first pleading or notice served upon such defendant
bore on the face thereof a notice stating in substance: “To the person served:
You are hereby served in the within action (or proceedings) as (or on behalf
of) the person sued under the fictitious name of (designating it).” The
certificate or affidavit of service must state the fictitious name under which
such defendant was served and the fact that notice of identity was given by
endorsement upon the document served as required by this section. The foregoing
requirements for entry of a default or default judgment shall be applicable
only as to fictitious names designated pursuant to this section and not in the
event the plaintiff has sued the defendant by an erroneous name and shall not
be applicable to entry of a default or default judgment based upon service, in
the manner otherwise provided by law, of an amended pleading, process or notice
designating defendant by his true name.” 
The Declaration of Robert A. Bailey
in support of the instant motion, provides, inter alia, that “BGCMLA
provided me with a copy of the summons received in this action. A true and
correct copy of the summons delivered to BGMLA [sic] is attached as Exhibit 1.”
(Bailey Decl., ¶ 2.) Doe 1 asserts that with regard to this summons, “[i]n
order to comply with CCP § 474, Plaintiff was
required to check box number 2. Instead, she checked only box 3. When, as here,
a corporation is served as a Doe defendant, the summons must indicate both that
the person served is being served both on behalf of the corporation and the Doe
defendant.” (Mot. at p. 5:9-12, emphasis omitted; see Bailey Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. 1.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Doe 1’s “argument is
completely contrary to the plain language of Section
474. The text of the statute does not even contemplate the sufficiency of
the summons unless there is a default or default judgment against the defendant
at issue. Default is not under consideration with respect to DOE 1, so the
language of C.C.P. 474 that refers to the summons is wholly inapplicable.”
(Opp’n at p. 8:9-13, emphasis omitted.) 
Indeed, Code of Civil Procedure section 474
provides in pertinent part that “no default or
default judgment shall be entered against a defendant so designated, unless it appears that the copy of the summons or other process,
or, if there be no summons or process, the copy of the first pleading or notice
served upon such defendant bore on the face thereof a notice stating in
substance: “To the person served: You
are hereby served in the within action (or proceedings) as (or on behalf of)
the person sued under the fictitious name of (designating it).”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 474, emphasis added.) Here, no
default or default judgment against Doe 1 is at issue.  
Lastly, Doe 1 asserts that “[s]imilarly, the certificate of service
filed by Plaintiff fails to state that the summons included the required
endorsement as required by section 474. Bailey
Decl., Ex. 2, p. 2, para. 6.b.” (Mot. at p. 5:13-15.) The Court notes that this
argument appears to reference an “Exhibit 2” to the Bailey Declaration.
However, no Exhibit 2 is attached to the declaration. Moreover, as discussed
above, default or default judgment against Doe 1 is not at issue here. Code of Civil Procedure section 474 provides in
pertinent part that “[t]he certificate or affidavit
of service must state the fictitious name under which such defendant was served
and the fact that notice of identity was given by endorsement upon the document
served as required by this section. The foregoing requirements for entry of
a default or default judgment shall be applicable only as to fictitious
names designated pursuant to this section…” (Emphasis added.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Doe 1 has
demonstrated grounds for an order quashing the service of the summons. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Doe 1’s motion to quash. 
Plaintiff
shall give notice of this ruling.  
 
DATED:  June 20, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles
Superior Court
 
 


