  Case Number:  19STCV32839    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV32839




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Fact Discovery  




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Jose Martin




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  MGK Builders, Inc. and Angelina & Katherine Garden, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 13, 2019, Plaintiff Jose Martin
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Angelina &
Katherine Garden, LLC and MGK Builders, Inc.
(“Defendants”) for premises liability and negligence after allegedly being
injured on Defendants’ construction site when a metal gate fell on him.
Plaintiff now moves to reopen fact discovery surrounding a 911 audio recording
of the subject incident. Plaintiff seeks to subpoena the custodian of records
at the LAFD for the entire audio recording and to discover the caller’s name.
Plaintiff also wants to depose the caller and any unknown witnesses the caller
may identify and depose Defendants’ PMK about this caller. Defendants oppose
and Plaintiff replies.[1]
 
The complaint was filed on September 13, 2019. Trial was
initially set for March 12, 2021.¿ 
¿ 
Defendant’s answer was filed on March 9, 2020.¿¿ 
¿ 
On November 10, 2020, pursuant to stipulation, the Court
continued trial and all related dates to September 13, 2022.¿¿ 
¿ 
On June 21, 2022, pursuant to stipulation, the Court
continued trial and all related dates to April 27, 2023. The Court noted there
would be no further continuance absent good cause.¿¿ 
¿ 
On March 20, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court
continued trial and all related dates to September 25, 2023.¿ 
¿ 
On September 8, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court
continued trial and expert discovery deadlines only, from September 25, 2023 to
February 29, 2024.¿¿ 
 
On February 7, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion
to continue trial and all expert discovery deadlines to April 24, 2024. Fact
discovery remained closed.  
 
On February 14, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion to reopen
discovery to depose Defendant Angelina & Katherine Garden, LLC’s two
owners and person most knowledgeable. (Min. Order, 2/14/24.) 
 
At
the final status conference, pursuant to oral stipulation, the Court continued
trial to May 8, 2024. All discovery remained closed except for expert discovery
as agreed between all counsels. (Min. Order, 4/10/24.) 
 
On
April 23, 2024, the parties filed a joint stipulation to continue trial. Pursuant
to written stipulation, the Court continued trial and the expert discovery
cutoffs to September 24, 2024. The parties also stipulated that the five-year
limit in this case extended by Emergency Rule 10 is March 10, 2025. (Min.
Order, 4/24/24.) 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Jennifer Bagosy does not describe a meet and confer
to reopen discovery upon disclosure of the 911 audio recording. However, the
declaration attaches email correspondence between the parties that show they
briefly discussed the issue in writing. (Bagosy Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an
initial matter, Defendants contend this motion is untimely since it was brought
after the discovery cut-off. (Opp., 3.) However, Defendant provides no
authority that a motion to reopen under section 2024.050 is subject to any
discovery cut-offs.  
 
Plaintiff
requests that discovery be reopened in this case surrounding a 911 audio
recording he asserts was first disclosed on April 19, 2024 with Defendants’
trial exhibits. The audio is a February 17, 2018 911 call to the Los Angeles
Fire Department (“LAFD”) by an unknown man who reported Plaintiff’s injury. Plaintiff
argues this recording was never produced in discovery and was obtained by
Defendants in September 2021. Plaintiff contends Defendants have maintained
there were no witnesses to the incident and no construction crews present that
day. (Motion, 9.) Plaintiff argues the audio is critical since Plaintiff “is
amnesiac to the accident”, and the audio shows that multiple people were
present. (Motion, 1.) Plaintiff is now in possession of the recording, but
Defendant will not stipulate to additional discovery regarding the identity of
the caller.
 
In response
to Defendants’ argument that they served the subpoena to LAFD for the recording
in August 2021, and Plaintiff could have requested a copy, Plaintiff asserts
service of the subpoena was deficient. (Motion, 2.) Specifically, Plaintiff
argues that notice of the subpoena was served by mail to
Plaintiff’s attorneys Olivier A. Taillieu and Jennifer R. Bagosy at their
former law firm The Dominguez Firm, and also listed their former Dominguez Firm
e-mail addresses. (Bagosy Decl. ¶ 5–7, Exh. D, C.) On June 11, 2021,
Plaintiff’s counsel filed and served a notice of association with Banafsheh,
Danesh & Javid, PC. 
 
The proof of service of the subpoena shows it was mailed to
Plaintiff’s counsel on August 6, 2021, at the Dominguez Firm, at a different
address and firm than what was provided in the Notice of Association filed and
served on June 11, 2021. Similarly, the consumer notice was also served by mail
to the old firm address. (See Bagosy Decl., Exh. C.) 
 
On July 27, 2023, Defendant MGK Builders, Inc. served responses to
Plaintiff’s request for production for subpoenaed records. MGK responded that
it had no responsive documents in its custody besides subpoenaed records that
are equally available to Plaintiff. (Bagosy Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. F.) 
 
In opposition, Defendants note fact discovery closed in August 2023
and there is no good cause to reopen discovery. Defendants contend the
recording was available to Plaintiff and they will be unduly prejudiced if
discovery is reopened since they have spent time preparing their retained
experts on the facts already discovered. Defendant argues that on November 1,
2021, Plaintiff testified in his deposition that others were present at the
site but could not recall their names or provide contact information. Defendant
argues this information was sufficient for Plaintiff’s counsel to deduce there
was possibly potential witnesses or 911 callers. (Opp., 6.) Defendant also
contends Plaintiff could have asked about a 911 call when LAFD’s person most
knowledgeable, Luis Sayo, was deposed on February 23, 2023. (Ibid.) 
 
While Plaintiff relies on the fact that he did not receive notice of
the subpoena, he fails to explain why he did not independently attempt to
discover a 911 call, given the facts of this case. The discovery now sought was
equally available to Plaintiff pursuant to subpoena and Plaintiff does not
explain the lack of diligence in pursuing the discovery.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to reopen discovery is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 


