 Case Number:  22STCV24422    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV24422




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Dismissal




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Diana Sarkisyan 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 28, 2022, Plaintiff Diana Sarkisyan (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Cynthia Eccles (“Defendant”) for negligence from a
motor vehicle accident. 
 
On February 9, 2024, the case was called for trial at 8:30 a.m. and counsel
for Plaintiff did not appear. Upon oral request by Defendant, the Court
dismissed the complaint without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 581(b)(5). (Min. Order, 2/9/24.) 
 
On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to set aside the
dismissal. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            First,
there is no proof of service attached to this motion. A moving party’s
failure to serve the notice of motion and moving papers on a non-moving party
violates the basic principles of procedural due process under the federal and
state constitutions – notice and an opportunity to be heard.¿ (Logan v.
Zimmerman Brush Co. (1982) 455 U.S. 422, 428 [minimum due process requires
notice and opportunity for hearing appropriate to the nature of the case]; Horn
v. County of Ventura (1979) 24 Cal.3d 605, 612 [due process principles
require reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard].) Therefore, because there
is no proof that Defendant has received notice of this motion, it is procedurally
defective. 
 
Second, there is no declaration of counsel
in support of this motion, and thus no evidence in support.[1] 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion to set aside the dismissal.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal.

 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 


