 Case Number:  24SMCV00651    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Shen, et al.,
v. Li, et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00651
MOTION:                  Special Motion to Strike
HEARING DATE:   12/12/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16 permits the Court to strike causes of action arising from an act in
furtherance of the defendant's right of free speech or petition, unless the
plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim. “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a
defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of
frivolous litigation.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.)
“The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability
for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech. It only
provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless
claims arising from protected activity.” (Id. at 384.) 
 
“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion
involves two steps. First, the defendant must establish that the challenged
claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16. If the defendant makes
the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the
merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.” (Baral, supra,
1 Cal.5th at 384, citation omitted.) The California Supreme Court has
“described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court
does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made
a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It
accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing
only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.
‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id. at
384-385 [citations omitted].) 
 
A moving party must move to strike
under this section within 60 days of service of the complaint. (CCP
§425.16(f).)
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Ziyi Yang moves to strike
the Ninth (Fraudulent Transfer), Tenth (Fraudulent Transfer), Eleventh
(Constructive Trust), Twelfth (Accounting), and Thirteenth (Declaratory Relief)
causes of action in the First Amended Complaint (FAC). Yang argues that the
gravamen of these causes arise from her activities in furtherance of her
constitutionally protected rights of petition and speech, specifically, her
alleged formation of two business entities activities through governmental bodies,
including the California Secretary of State (SOS) and the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS).
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16(e) defines protected acts as the following: 1) any written or oral
statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law; 2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law; 3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest; or 4) any other conduct in furtherance of the
exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of
free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest. 
 
“To prevail on an anti-SLAPP
motion, the movant must first make ‘a threshold showing the challenged cause of
action’ arises from an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free
speech in connection with a public issue.” (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v.
Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.) “The phrase ‘arising from’ means the
defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have
been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.” (City
of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 67.)  
 
“A claim arises from protected
activity when that activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim.” 
(Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017) 2
Cal.5th 1057, 1062.)  “‘[D]efendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause
of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of
petition or free speech.’” (Id. at 1063.) “‘[T]he mere fact
that an action was filed after protected activity took place does not mean the
action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP
statute.’”  (Id.)  “Instead, the focus is on determining what
‘the defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or her asserted
liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech or
petitioning.’”  (Id.) “‘The only means specified in section 425.16
by which a moving defendant can satisfy that [‘arising from’] requirement is to
demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct by which plaintiff claims to have
been injured falls within one of the four categories described in
subdivision (e) . .  .’”  (Id.)
“In short, in ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the
elements of the challenged claim and what actions by defendant supply those
elements and consequently form the basis for liability.”  (Id.) 
 
The FAC alleges the following
pertinent facts against Yang. Yang is a secretary and director of defendant
Apple Blossom Foundation. (FAC, ¶¶ 14, 62.) Along with the other defendants, Yang
secretly executed a grant deed for an entirely different property (a warehouse)
with insufficient consideration. (¶ 172.) Yang and the other defendants sold
the warehouse for “no consideration or insufficient consideration, in an
attempt to pocket the proceeds, avoid creditors and to place such
asset/property out of the reach of Plaintiffs’ collection efforts . . ..” (¶
175.) Yang also set up Apple Blossom Foundation “intentionally…not to be a
non-profit foundation…and instead, they set up the purported ‘foundation’ as a
registered corporation.” (¶ 225.) Yang did not seek recognition of the entity
by the IRS as a non-profit. (¶ 226.) Yang “attempted to cover [her] tracks and
register a new entity as a true non-profit, using a similar name of Apple
Blossom US Foundation.” (FAC, ¶ 228.) Yang filed documents with the California
Secretary of State which reflected Yang as a manager/director/officer, but not
Plaintiff. (¶ 230.) Additionally, Defendants Li and Steve purchased the
Scientific Way Building on September 29, 2021. (¶ 231.) Defendants Li and
Steve’s alleged purchase was “an attempt” by Defendants (including Yang) “to
avoid creditors and to place such asset/property out of reach of Plaintiffs’
collection efforts.” (¶¶ 231-232.) 
 
The Ninth and Tenth causes of action
for Fraudulent Transfer alleges that Yang is liable for the warehouse transfers
(FAC, ¶ 391), the Scientific Way Building transfer (FAC, ¶ 393), and the Claremont
House transfer (FAC, ¶ 396). (See FAC ¶¶ 405, 407, 441, 414.) The Twelfth and
Thirteenth causes of action generally pertain to these same activities. 
 
Yang argues that the gravamen of
the allegations against her show that liability is premised on protected
conduct: writings made before agencies. She highlights that she allegedly set
up Apple Blossom Foundation “intentionally…not to be a non-profit
foundation…and instead, they set up the purported ‘foundation’ as a registered
corporation.” (FAC ¶ 225.) The FAC further alleged that Yang did not seek
recognition of the entity by the IRS, and as a result the entity was not
recognized or listed by the IRS as a nonprofit. (FAC, ¶ 226.)  Yang attempted to cover up her misdeeds by registering
a different entity as a the non-profit (FAC, ¶ 228). 
 
Yang cites Li v. Jin (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 481 for the proposition that such conduct is protected by Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.15(e)(1)-(2). However, Li is distinct
from these alleged facts.  In Li, liability
arose from protected statements (forms submitted to IRS) as opposed to a failure
to register a corporation as non-profit. (See Id. at 491-494.) More
specifically, Li concerned three alumni of a university and the
governance of an alumni association. Fuzu Li served as vice-president, Jigang
Jin served as executive vice-president, and Yaning Li served as president of
the association. (Id. at 487.) The parties sought to incorporate as a
non-profit organization. (Id. at 488.) Jin listed himself as secretary
and chief financial officer, and Yaning Li as chief executive officer, and
listed the wrong address for the organization on filings with the SOS. (Id.)
Jin also filed several forms with the IRS for the association's application for
tax-exempt status, listing Fuzu Li as a director, with no notice or consent
given to Fuzu Li. (Id.) Jin also filed another form with the Franchise
Tax Board (FTB), again without any board of directors meeting or consent from
Fuzu Li. (Id.) When Fuzu Li first learned that he had been listed as a director
on the application to the IRS, he was upset that his personal information had
been used without his consent and that he wasn’t told he was on the board of
directors. (Id.) Fuzu Li posted a message in the Association WeChat
group, telling alumni that Jigang Jin registered a nonprofit corporation using
Fuzu Li's personal information without telling him, that he felt “fooled,” and that
he was concerned that Jin provided Fuzu Li's Social Security number and
driver's license number in the application. (Id.) 
 
Four days later, Jin filed a
defamation complaint against Fuzu Li. In turn, Fuzu Li cross-claimed stating
causes of action for breach of charitable trust, fraud, misappropriation of
likeness, and negligent infliction of emotional distress. (Id. at 489.) Fuzu
Li claimed Jin and Yaning wrongfully seized control of the association through
Jin's filing of (1) the IRS application, (2) articles of incorporation
and corporate statement of information with the California Secretary of State,
and (3) a FTB application for state tax-exempt status. (Id. at 487,
489.) Jin and Yaning Li filed special motions to strike the cross-complaint
under section 425.16, arguing that the crossclaims all arose from protected communications
made with the SOS, FTB, and IRS. (Id.) The trial court denied the
motions, finding that the statements to the agencies were not protected. (Id.)
The appellate court reversed finding that the trial court should have reached
the second prong of the analysis as to statements made to the IRS, but not as
to the statements made to the SOS or FTB. (Id. at 491.) 
 
Since it was undisputed that Fuzu
Li’s claims rested on the filing of the statements, the Li court focused
on whether such statements were before an “official proceeding” as defined by
section 425.15(e)(1)-(2). (See Id., at 492-494.) The appellate court
noted that the IRS’s determination of tax-exempt status is an administrative
proceeding involving a comprehensive federal scheme, where the IRS makes
discretionary, non-ministerial determinations interpreting the law and facts
regarding a particular organization. (Ibid.) Statements made during the
application process would be made before or in connection with an official
proceeding, therefore giving the statements anti-SLAPP protection. On the other
hand, the court found the other writings (the articles of incorporation and
information filed with the SOS, and the submission exemption request to the
FTB) were not made in connection with an official proceeding or with an issue
of public interest. (Id. at 494-496.) Unlike the IRS application, these
submissions were ministerial in nature and did not involve any agency
discretion. (Id. at 495.) Further, section 425.15(e)(3)-(4) offered no
protection because there was no ongoing controversy, dispute or discussion at
the time Jin filed the documents with the SOS and FTB. (Id. at 496.) 
 
Applying these principles to the
case at hand, the claims in this matter do not arise from any statements made
before or in connection with Yang’s statements to the IRS. As Yang observes, it
was the opposite—she allegedly did not attempt to obtain tax-exempt charitable
status for the Apple Foundation entities from the IRS. (FAC, ¶ 225.) Thus, the
filings with the SOS and IRS are not the complained-of wrong. Yang notes the allegation
that she attempted to “cover up” her misdeeds by registering a different entity
as a non-profit. (FAC, ¶ 228.) While such allegation involves statements
made during the IRS’s non-profit determination, this allegation is incidental
to liability. It merely provides necessary context for the claims. Plaintiff
alleges that he first learned of the transgressions after discovering that
Defendants attempted to cover their tracks by registering a new entity as a
true non-profit, using a similar name of Apple Blossom US Foundation. (Id.) Yang
does not cite any cause of action which attempts to hold her liable for
registering Apple Blossom US Foundation (the non-profit), as opposed to failing
to register the Apple Blossom Foundation (a for-profit corporation) as the
parties allegedly agreed. For the same reasons, the claims do not arise from
any statements to the SOS. Even if the statements to the SOS did give rise to
liability, such statements are not entitled to protection.
 
Here, the gravamen of the FAC as to
Yang is that Yang aided and abetted the other defendants in the fraud perpetrated
upon Plaintiff.  The IRS and SOS filings
are not the alleged wrongs, but steps Yang allegedly took to conceal the fraud.
Therefore, Yang fails to meet her burden on the first prong of the anti-SLAPP
analysis and the motion to strike is DENIED.