  Case Number:  23SMCV02923    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Adamyan v. O’Gara
Coach Company LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02923
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Initial Discovery Responses
HEARING DATE:   12/10/2024

 
COMPEL
Legal Standard
 
 If a
party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a
monetary sanction. (CCP § 2030.290(b).) The statute contains no time limit for
a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown
in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on
the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response
of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.
App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP section 2031.010 inspection demand, the demanding party must
seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. Thus,
unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he
or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no
showing of "good cause" is required. 
 
Pursuant to CCP section
2033.280(b), a party may move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010). “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not result in
automatic admissions. Rather, the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under §
2023.010 et seq.” (CCP, § 2033.280(b).) The court “shall” grant the motion to
deem RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.” (CCP, § 2033.280(c).) 
 
COMPEL ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant O’Gara Coach Company, LLC moves to compel initial discovery
responses from Plaintiff Adamyan Akop as to its first set of Special
Interrogatories, Form Interrogatories, and Inspection Demands, as well as to
deem matters admitted as to its first set of Requests for Admissions. For each
motion, Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $465.00 against
Plaintiff Adamyan Akop (“Plaintiff”) and/or his counsel of record, Mgdesyan Law
Firm.
 
On August 20, 2024, O’Gara concurrently served Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, Requests for Admission and Document Requests on Plaintiff.
(Kim Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) The last day to serve responses was September 23,
2024. (Kim Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff never requested an extension to respond before
the due date and failed to serve timely responses to the outstanding discovery.
(Id.) On October 8, 2024, counsel for O’Gara sent correspondence to counsel for
Plaintiff requesting a response, but to no avail. (Kim Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. B.) On
October 10, 2024, at the hearing on Defendant Automobili Lamborghini America, LLC’s
motions to compel, Plaintiff’s counsel informed the Court that he had lost all
contact with his client and therefore, he would be withdrawing as counsel in
this matter. (Kim Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff has not responded to the subject
discovery. (Id. at ¶ 7.)
 
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
 
Sanctions are
mandatory. The Court must sanction any party that unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response, “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust” (See, e.g., CCP, § 2030.290(c) and without
exception as to the RFAs. The court finds the noticed sanctions reasonable in
amount. Therefore, sanctions are imposed as noticed in the total amount of $1,860.00,
inclusive of costs, against Plaintiff and his
counsel of record, Mgdesyan Law Firm, jointly and severally, payable within 30
days.
 
Further responses are due within 20 days without objection.  The RFAs are deemed admitted.
 
RELIEVED Legal Standard
 
The court may order that an
attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or
final determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice
from one to the other. (CCP § 284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must
take “reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights
of the client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for
employment of other counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2); see,
e.g., Vann v. Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial
where attorney withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday
before trial began the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant
or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the
trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)  
 
An application to be relieved as
counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a),
(c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties
that have appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).) When a client is
served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that the client’s
address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was confirmed. (Id.)
If the attorney is unable to confirm the client’s current address, the
declaration must state the reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to
obtain the client’s current address. (Id.)  Additionally, the declaration “must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney
client relationship why” a motion is brought instead of filing a substitution
of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
RELIEVED ANALYSIS
 
Counsel Karapet Galajian of
Mgdesyan Law Firm moves to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff. Counsel
submits all the mandatory forms. Counsel states that an irreparable breakdown
of the attorney-client relationship has occurred, as counsel no longer has
contact with Plaintiff. Counsel served his client by mail at his last known
address, which was confirmed within the past 30 days by online searches and
mail. The declaration notes the hearings that are on calendar, including the upcoming
FSC and trial dates. 
 
The Court notes that trial commences
in less than a month, Withdrawal may create a risk of prejudice to Plaintiff. That
said, the declarations demonstrate that counsel has taken reasonable steps to
avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the client. Plaintiff has a
reasonable opportunity to obtain new counsel and may seek any appropriate
relief if necessary.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
The order is effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the
order on the client. Until then, counsel remains counsel of record.