  Case Number:  24TRCV00064    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint   Moving  Parties: Defendants  Dalton Erb and Energy Bee Farm                      Responding Party: Plaintiff Nazila Mahgerefth   RULING   The court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Based on the foregoing, Defendants’  demurrer is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in PART. Defendants’ motion to  strike is DENIED in part and GRANTED in part.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On January 9, 2024, Plaintiff Nazila Mahgerefth (“Plaintiff”) filed a  complaint against Defendants Dalton Erb (“Erb”) and Energy Bee Farm (“EBF”)  (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1) Ralph Act; (2)  Bane Act; (3) Assault; and (4) Negligence.   On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”)  alleging the same causes of action.   On May 21, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer and motion to strike certain  portions of the FAC.  On July 10, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer in its entirety and  granted the motion to strike in part.    On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (“SAC”)  alleging causes of action for (1) Ralph Act; (2) Bane Act; and (3) Negligence.    On September 30, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer and motion to strike  portions of the SAC. On October 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On  October 30, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   Plaintiff  is an animal rights activist who often attends the City of Torrance’s Farmer’s  Market (the “Market”) to buy produce and attend protests. (SAC, ¶¶ 9, 14.)   Defendant  Erb works at EBF, a business that sells honey at the Market. (SAC, ¶¶ 17, 19.)  EBF is owned by Erb’s father, Jeffrey Erb. (SAC, ¶ 17.)   The Market  usually prohibits live animals inside its perimeter, but it allowed one vendor  to sell live animals. (SAC, ¶¶ 25-26.) Plaintiff notified the Market manager of  the live animal vendor, but the Market failed to take action. (SAC, ¶ 26.) Plaintiff  began to verbally protest the live animal vendor. (SAC, ¶ 26.)   After a  few minutes of protesting the live animal vendor, Plaintiff walked over to  Defendants’ booth to protest the sale of honey products. (SAC, ¶ 30.) When  Plaintiff came within five feet of Erb, he yelled profanities at her and  threatened to knock her out. (SAC, ¶¶ 31-32.) Plaintiff notes that Erb is  considerably larger than her and has an athletic build. (SAC, ¶ 35.) Plaintiff  alleges that Erb believed Plaintiff’s protest would drive off customers, so he  was incentivized to threaten her. (SAC, ¶ 36.) Alternatively, he threatened her  because of her political affiliation as an animal rights activist. (SAC, ¶ 37.)   After  Plaintiff filed the original complaint, EBF allowed Erb to continue working at  the Market booth. (SAC, ¶ 40.) EBF did not take any disciplinary measures  against Erb. (SAC, ¶ 40.) EBF continued to allow Erb to interact with  Plaintiff, despite knowing that Plaintiff was a regular patron at the Market.  (SAC, ¶ 40.)   Plaintiff  also alleges that Jeffrey Erb shouted profanities at the process server who  served him with the original complaint. (SAC, ¶ 44.)   Defendants  demur to all three causes of action on the grounds that they fail to allege  sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain. Defendants  also seek to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint which assert that “vegan”  is a political affiliation; describe Jeffrey Erb’s actions; or discuss  Plaintiff’s interactions with the live animal vendor. Defendants also seek to  strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.               LEGAL STANDARD             A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the  complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be  sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot  reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be  admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury  v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)    When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true.  (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A  demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic  matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the  pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)  153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is  whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.  747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or  conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of  America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)    Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be  alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.  California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading  subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)    DISCUSSION               Moving Party’s Argument   Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s SAC on the grounds that it fails to state  sufficient facts and is uncertain.   Opposing Party’s Argument   As a preliminary matter, the court notes that Plaintiff’s opposition was  filed late. However, the court exercises its discretion to consider late  papers, pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d).    Plaintiff argues that she has alleged sufficient facts to support her  causes of action. Further, Plaintiff’s claims vicarious liability against EBF based  on ratification, which Defendants do not dispute in their demurrer.   Reply Argument   Defendants argue that Plaintiff has provided no facts to support her  theory of ratification. Further,  Defendants disagree with Plaintiff’s analysis of the foreseeability of the  incident.    Merits of the Motion   A.  Meet and Confer   Before  filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in  person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the  pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining  whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading  that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) Motions to strike have a similar meet and confer  requirement.   Defense  counsel declares that he sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer email, but  Plaintiff’s attorney did not respond. Plaintiff’s attorney declares that he did  respond to the emails, but he got no response in return.    The court  finds that the parties have not satisfied the meet and confer requirements.  However, the court will still discuss the merits of the motion and rule  accordingly.   B.  First Cause of Action for Ralph Act   The Ralph  Civil Rights Act provides that “All persons within the jurisdiction of this  state have the right to be free from any violence, or intimidation by threat of  violence, committed against their persons or property because of political  affiliation, or on account of any characteristic listed or defined in  subdivision (b) or (e) of section 51, or position in a labor dispute, or  because another person perceives them to have one or more of those  characteristics." (Civ. Code, § 51.7, subd. (b)(1).)     To plead a  claim for violation of the Ralph Act, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant  threatened or committed violent acts against the plaintiff; (2) the defendant  was motivated by his perception of plaintiff’s protected characteristic; (3)  the plaintiff was harmed; and (4) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial  factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm. (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School  Dist., supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at pp. 880-81.)   Defendants  demur to this cause of action as it applies to EBF on the basis that Plaintiff  has not stated sufficient facts to support a theory of vicarious liability.  Plaintiff argues that she has stated sufficient facts to show that EBF ratified  Erb’s conduct.   “‘As an  alternate theory to respondeat superior, an employer may be liable for an  employee's act where the employer either authorized the tortious act or  subsequently ratified an originally unauthorized tort. [Citations.] The failure  to discharge an employee who has committed misconduct may be evidence of  ratification. [Citations.] The theory of ratification is generally applied  where an employer fails to investigate or respond to charges that an employee  committed an intentional tort, such as assault or battery.  [Citations.]  Whether an employer has ratified an employee's conduct is generally a factual  question. [Citation.]’ (Baptist v. Robinson (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 151,  169-170.) A principal may be liable when it ratifies an originally unauthorized  tort. [Citations.] And generally, the ratification relates back to the time the  tortious act occurred[Citations.] …[R]atification may [also] occur when an  employer learns of misconduct and fails to discharge an agent or employee.  [Citations.] (C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094,  1110-1111.) Ratification, like agency, may be pleaded generally. (Id.  at p. 1112.)   Here,  Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Erb threatened violence against her due  to her political affiliations. She has also alleged that EBF learned about  Erb’s threats and did not investigate him. Further, EBF continued to employ Erb  without taking any corrective action. At this stage of the proceedings, the  court finds that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to support a theory of  ratification. Thus, EBF may be liable for Erb’s violation of the Ralph Act based  on ratification.   Accordingly,  Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.   C.  Second Cause of Action for Bane Act   Civil  Code, section 52.1 (the “Bane Act”) allows an individual to sue for damages if  a person or persons “interferes by threat, intimidation, or coercion, or  attempts to interfere by threat, intimidation, or coercion, with the exercise  or enjoyment by any individual or individuals of rights secured by the  Constitution or laws of the United States, or of the rights secured by the  Constitution or laws of this state….” (Civ. Code, § 52.1, subds. (a),  (b).)    “The  essence of a Bane Act claim is that the defendant, by the specified improper  means (i.e.,‘threat[ ], intimidation or coercion’), tried to or did prevent  the plaintiff from doing something he or she had the right to do under the law  or to force the plaintiff to do something that he or she was not required to do  under the law.” (King v. State of Cal. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 265, 294;  Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860,  883.) “The statute requires a showing of threatening conduct independent from  the alleged interference or violation of a civil right. [Citations.]” (Doe  v. State of California (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 832, 842–843.) It was passed  primarily as hate crime legislation (Jones v. Kmart Corp (1998) 17  Cal.4th 329, 338) and was meant to narrowly supplement the Ralph Act to deter  violence. (Stamps v. Superior Court (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1441,  1447.)     The  elements of a Bane Act claim are: (1) defendant interfered with or attempted to  interfere with plaintiffs’ constitutional or statutory right by threatening or  committing violent acts; (2) plaintiffs reasonably believed that if they  exercised their constitutional right the defendant would commit violence  against them or their property; (3) defendant injured plaintiffs or their  property to prevent them from exercising their constitutional right or  retaliated against plaintiffs for having exercised their constitutional right;  (4) plaintiffs were harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial  factor in causing plaintiffs' harm. (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School  Dist., supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at p. 882.) In context, the statutory  framework of section 52.1 “indicates that the Legislature meant the statute to  address interference with constitutional rights involving more egregious  conduct than mere negligence.” (Shoyoye v. County of Los Angeles (2012)  203 Cal.App.4th 947, 958.)   Defendant  demurs to this cause of action as it applies to EBF on the same basis as above.  Plaintiff argues that she has alleged sufficient facts to show that EBF  ratified Erb’s violation of the Bane Act.   As  discussed above, ratification may be pleaded generally. Further, an employer’s  failure to take action after learning of misconduct may be evidence of  ratification. Thus, Plaintiff has pleaded sufficient facts to support a theory  of ratification.   Accordingly,  Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.   D.  Third Cause of Action for Negligent  Supervision, Hiring, or Retention of Employee   The  elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision  are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the  employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue  risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan  F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)   Defendants  argue that this cause of action must fail because Plaintiff has not sufficiently  alleged that EBF knew or should have known that Erb was unfit before it hired  him. Plaintiff argues that she has pleaded sufficient facts because EBF and Erb  share a mutual disdain for Plaintiff. As such, EBF should have known that Erb  would threaten violence against Plaintiff.    The court  finds that these facts are insufficient to support a negligent supervision,  hiring, or retention cause of action. An employee’s mere dislike of a certain  customer does not indicate that the employee poses an increased risk of becoming  violent. As there are no other facts alleging Erb’s propensity for violence,  Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient facts to maintain this cause of action.   Accordingly,  Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED.   E.  Uncertainty   Generally  speaking, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly  construed because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of  discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so  incomprehensible that defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)  “Where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently  apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for  uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams  v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)    In  applying the stringent standard for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court  finds that Plaintiff’s complaint is not “so incomprehensible” that Defendants  cannot respond to it, particularly where Defendants have offered substantive  arguments in opposition thereto. Even where a complaint is in some respects  uncertain, ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. (A.J.  Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677,  695.)    F.  Motion to Strike   The court  may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems  proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or  any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., §436, subd.  (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading  or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   Defendants  seek to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages in paragraphs 53, 60,  and 68. As discussed above, Plaintiff has sufficiently pleaded EBF’s  ratification of acts which could justify the imposition of punitive damages.  Thus, Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED as to these paragraphs.   Defendants  seek to strike paragraphs 13-16 of the SAC in its entirety. The court GRANTS  the motion to strike as to paragraphs 13, 14, and 16. The court has already  determined in a prior ruling that “vegan” is not a political affiliation for  the purposes of Plaintiff’s causes of action.   There is no assertion that Defendants were involved in other acts  against Plaintiff, so other “examples” of consequences from Plaintiff’s beliefs  are irrelevant.   The court  denies Defendant’s motion to strike paragraphs 26, 44, and 45 in their entirety  as they contain allegations that may be relevant to Plaintiff’s causes of  action.   G.  Leave to Amend   Leave to  amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful  amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court  shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable  possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden is on the  complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)   Plaintiff  has not shown that she can successfully amend her complaint. Accordingly, leave  to amend is DENIED.   CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, the court OVERRULES the demurrer to the first and  second causes of action and SUSTAINS the demurrer to the third cause of action.  Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Leave to  amend is DENIED.   Plaintiff to give notice of ruling.