 Case Number:  23AHCV01728    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF BARRI WHITTAKER’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED
COMPLAINTI.        INTRODUCTION

           This is a personal injury case. Plaintiff Barri Whittaker
alleges that she was hired by defendant Katherine Lee to exercise a horse that Lee
owned. Whittaker alleges that on January 19, 2023, she fell off the horse and
was injured. She sues for negligence, fraud, and unjust enrichment. 
Before
the Court is Plaintiff Whittaker’s motion for leave to amend and file a second
amended complaint, filed on April 5, 2024. Whittaker seeks to add additional
facts, a request for punitive damages and to delete a title. Defendant filed an
opposition on May 17, 2024. 
           The motion is granted. 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
Civ.
Proc. Code Section 473, subd. (a), allows courts to permit amendment of
pleadings in furtherance of justice and on any terms as may be proper. (CCP §
473(a).)
           Judicial policy strongly favors amendment. The general
rule is liberal construction of pleadings and liberal allowance of amendments.
(Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6
Cal.3d 920, 939.)
           “Motions for leave to amend are directed to the sound
discretion of the judge: The court may, in furtherance of justice and on any
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.... However, the
court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of
the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare
case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. Leave to amend should
be denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the
plaintiff's claim is clear, but under substantive law, no liability exists and
no amendment would change the result.” (Howard v. County of San Diego
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428, internal citations omitted.)
           Courts will ordinarily not consider the validity of a
proposed pleading; the preferred practice is to “permit the amendment and allow
the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on
the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.) But a court does not
abuse its discretion in denying leave to amend where the proposed pleading
fails to state a cause of action and further amendment would be “futile.” (Foxborough v. Van Atta (1994) 26
Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231.)   
           Courts have discretion to deny leave to amend where delay
in seeking amendment has prejudiced the other party. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)
           California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b),
requires that a motion for leave to amend include a copy of the proposed
amended pleading and a declaration stating why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended declaration were discovered,
and the reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (CRC
3.1324(b).)
III.     DISCUSSION  
A. The Procedural Requirements Are Met
 Whittaker urges that amendment must be
allowed, as Defendant will seek to file a demurrer to the first amended
complaint if amendment is not allowed. (Motion p. 3: 19-25.) Allowing amendment
would conserve judicial resources. (Id.) The Court agrees.
The
motion is supported by the declaration of her attorney, Tim D. Wright. Wright
declares that opposing counsel informed him on March 25, 2024, that they
intended to file a demurrer to the First Amended Complaint due to lack of
specificity and the request for punitive damages. (Wright Decl. ¶ 3.) Wright
declares that the proposed Second Amended Complaint is Whittaker’s response to
this meet and confer and resolves the issues raised by the meet and confer. (Wright
Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Wright informed opposing counsel he would file this motion by
April 5, 2024. This declaration satisfies the requirements of Rule 3.1324(b) as
it explains when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered and why leave to amend was not sought sooner.  
Whittaker
also attaches a copy of her proposed Second Amended Complaint.
B. The Motion is Not Untimely
Timeliness
is only a basis for denial where leave to amend would be prejudicial. While
there is no time limit on motions for leave to amend, leave to amend may be
denied where allowing amendment would be prejudicial to the opposing party. 
In
her opposition, Lee urges that the Seconded Amended Complaint is speculative.
(Opposition p. 4-5.) However, this is not a ground on which to deny leave to
amend. As no party asserts that allowing amendment would be prejudicial, the
motion for leave to amend is not untimely. 

           The Court grants the motion.
            IV. ORDER
Whittaker’s
motion for leave to amend is granted. 
Whittaker
is ordered to file and serve separately the proposed Second Amended Complaint on
Defendant within 30 days’ notice of this order. 
Plaintiff
Barri Whittaker to give notice of this order.
           Dated: 5/29/24        _______________________________
                                                                             
           JARED D. MOSES
                                                                         JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT