 Case Number:  23STCV24494B    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


June 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV24494B




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Saul Gonzalez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant General Motors LLC



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
Saul Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant General Motors LLC
(“Defendant”) to produce its person most qualified to testify at deposition and
to produce documents set forth in its deposition notice.  Defendant opposes the motion.
 
ANALYSIS
If a party to the
action fails to appear for deposition after service of a deposition notice, and
the party has not served a valid objection to that deposition notice, the party
who noticed the deposition may move for an order to compel the deponent to
attend and testify at deposition.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (a).)  In
this action, Plaintiff served Defendant with a notice of deposition.  Defendant has not produced its person most
knowledgeable for deposition.  Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to compel Defendant to provide for deposition its
person[s] most knowledgeable in response to Plaintiff’s deposition notice.  
In opposition to
Plaintiff’s motion, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s deposition notice is overbroad
and seeks trade secret material.  If Defendant
sought to avoid producing a person most qualified to testify or documents on
specified topics, Defendant was required to seek a protective order so “[t]hat
certain matters [would] not be inquired into.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(9).)  Defendant did not do so.  Nor is the scope of the requested information
an “error or irregularity” in the deposition notice, to which Defendant could
object. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410.)
Defendant also
argues Plaintiff failed to adequately attempt to informally resolve this
matter.  Plaintiff was not required to do
so, as Defendant did not appear for deposition. 
Instead, Plaintiff was required to “contact[] [Defendant] to inquire
about the nonappearance.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) 
Plaintiff did so.  
 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to
produce its person(s) most qualified to testify on specified topics and to
produce documents is granted.  Defendant
is to produce its person(s) most qualified for deposition within 30 days of the
notice of this order unless Plaintiff stipulates to a different time frame. The
scope of the deposition is as set forth in Plaintiff’s November 30, 2023 Notice
of Deposition and the Joint Statement submitted by the parties on May 17, 2024,
in which they noted the production of requested documents upon which they had
agreed, and the court hereby orders Defendant to produce those which remained in
dispute. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this order and file proof of service of same.
 