  Case Number:  22TRCV01281    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                    Thursday, February 8, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 17  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Andre
Belotto, et al. v. James Raack, et al. 
22TRCV01281
1.      James Raack, et al.’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint

2.      James Raack, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of First
Amended Complaint

TENTATIVE RULING

            James
Raack, et al.’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is overruled, in part, and
sustained with 20 days leave to amend, in part.
 
            James
Raack, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint is moot,
in part, and denied, in part.  
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on November 18, 2022. Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint was filed on August 9, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the
following facts. Plaintiffs are 25 percent owners of the partnership
Westchester Triangle 8. The partnership owns commercial property - 6227-6241 W.
87th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90045 - that is leased. Plaintiffs made an offer
to the other partners to purchase the property, which was accepted, and the funds
were put into escrow. However, because the other partners mismanaged the
property, the Plaintiffs’ initial funding failed. Plaintiffs were able to
obtain additional funding but needed an extension to close the sale. Instead, the
other partners accepted another offer to purchase the property from One Cole
Group, which ultimately was reduced due to defects which existed in the
property. 
 
            Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1.
Breach of Contract; 2. Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations; 3.
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 4. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage; 5. Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 6.
Constructive Fraud; 7. Fraudulent Concealment; 8.  Negligence; 9. Unfair Business Practices
(Bus. & Prof. Code 17200); 10. Accounting. 
 
            Meet and Confer
  
            Defendants filed a meet
and confer declaration in sufficient compliance with both CCP § 430.41 and CCP
§ 435.5.  (Decl., Matthew L. Eanet.)
 
            Demurrer

            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
            Defendants demur to the first through tenth causes of
action on the grounds that the causes of action fail to state facts sufficient
to state a cause of action and are uncertain. CCP § 430.10(e)(f). 
 
            First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract Which
is Directed Against J. Raack, C. Raack. N. Veits, Mollica, and Doolittle 
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.  Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action. 
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for breach of contract
are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.” Coles v. Glaser (2016) 2
Cal.App.5th 384, 391. 
 
            The Court notes that the Defendants’ arguments, which
essentially consist of stating that Section 31 of the partnership agreement
only applies a right of first refusal to a partnership “interest” rather than
partnership owned property, does not appear to be specifically contradicted by
Section 23 which provides that sale of partnership is pursuant to a majority
vote. That is, the fact that a majority vote is required does not necessarily
mean that this would automatically negate a right of first refusal. 
 
            In addition, Section 22 states: “Each partner shall
participate in the control, management, and direction of the business of the
partnership.” The fact that Defendants believe that usurping Plaintiffs’ right
to vote on the potential sale to One Cole Group would have been a futile act
because Plaintiffs’ potential “no” vote would not have altered the outcome does
not necessarily mean that negating Plaintiffs’ right to engage in the process
would not itself constitute a breach of the agreement.  The Court further notes that the cause of
action is not merely based on the alleged failure to recognize the right of
first refusal but also upon other acts specifically delineated in paragraph 51
of the FAC including: “a. Failing to keep the BELOTTOS informed of and/or
concealing from the BELOTTOS ongoing deals related to the sale of the Property;
b. Failing to permit the BELOTTOS to participate in the control, management,
and discretion of the business of the partnership, especially but not
exclusively in relation to the Cole Group Offer; c. Failing to keep the
BELOTTOS informed of and/or concealing discussion regarding the sale of the
Property[,]”  (FAC, ¶ 51.) 
 
            In addition, Plaintiffs attached as Exhibit B, correspondence
from Nancy Veits which appears to confirm Plaintiffs’ right of first refusal.
 
            “The proper interpretation of a contract is disputable if
the contract is susceptible of more than one reasonable interpretation, that
is, if the contract is ambiguous. An ambiguity may appear on the face of a
contract, or extrinsic evidence may reveal a latent ambiguity. A court
determining whether a contract is ambiguous must first consider extrinsic
evidence offered to prove the parties' mutual intention. If the court
determines that the contract is reasonably susceptible of an interpretation
supported by extrinsic evidence, the court must admit that evidence for
purposes of interpreting the contract. [Citation.] A court cannot determine
based on only the four corners of a document, without provisionally considering
any extrinsic evidence offered by the parties, that the meaning of the document
is clear and unambiguous. [Citation.] Instead, a court must provisionally
consider extrinsic evidence offered by the parties in the manner we have
stated.” George v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126 (internal citation omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            Plaintiffs have the right to introduce extrinsic evidence
to attempt to prove their interpretation of the contract.  The Court cannot make this determination upon
a demurrer unless the terms are indisputable.
 
            The demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled. 
 
            Second Cause of Action for Intentional Interference
with Contract Directed Against Condon
            
            Defendant Condon’s demurrer to the second cause of action
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to
state a cause of action.
 
            “The elements of an action for tortious interference
[with contract] are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party;
(2) defendant's knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts
designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4)
actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting
damage. It has been repeatedly held that a plaintiff, seeking to hold one
liable for unjustifiably inducing another to breach a contract, must allege
[and prove] that the contract would otherwise have been performed.” Hahn v. Diaz-Barba (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 1177, 1196 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Plaintiffs have attempted to allege facts to meet all the
elements of the cause of action.  (FAC, ¶¶
53-60.)  Plaintiffs have alleged a valid
contract between Plaintiffs and the other members of the partnership for the
sale of the subject property. (Id. at 53-54.) Plaintiffs have alleged Condon’s
knowledge of the contract. (Id. at 55.)  Plaintiffs
have alleged Condon’s intentional acts to disrupt the contract including
mismanagement and concealment.  (Id. at
56-57.)  Plaintiffs allege disruption of
the contract and harm.  (Id. at 58-60.)  Plaintiffs continue to parrot back the
language of “information and belief,” for some reason. However, Plaintiffs have
previously alleged the factual bases for their information and belief.  (Id. at 26.)  However, in paragraph 26 and throughout the
FAC, Plaintiffs have specifically alleged that Condon was the agent of Veits.  In fact, there are no specific allegations to
indicate that Condon acted at any point outside of this agency relationship.
 
            Thus, Plaintiffs failed to plead facts of an economic
relationship with a “third party” and/or a valid contract between Plaintiff and
a “third party.”  “There is an important
limitation to the use of this tort as a remedy for the disruption of
contractual relationships. It can only be asserted against a stranger to the
relationship. “[C]onsistent with its underlying policy of protecting the
expectations of contracting parties against frustration by outsiders who have
no legitimate social or economic interest in the contractual relationship, the
tort cause of action for interference with a contract does not lie against a
party to the contract. It is obvious that if an action is brought for
interference with contractual relationship by one party to a contract against
another who is also a party to that same contract, the grievance of the
plaintiff is, in essence, breach of contract; and, in such case, plaintiff is
entitled to recover all damages flowing from the breach. In such an instance to
allow the plaintiff to sue under the tort theory of wrongful interference with
contractual rights would not only be superfluous, but also would enable him to
recover tort damages (e.g., punitive damages, damages for mental suffering) to
which he is not entitled under California law.” Kasparian v. County of Los
Angeles (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 242, 262.
 
            “It has long been held that a stranger to a contract
may be liable in tort for intentionally interfering with the performance of the
contract.” Applied Equip. Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 503, 513–14 (emphasis in original). An agent of a party to a contract
is not a stranger to that contract. Caliber Paving Co. v. Rexford Indus.
Realty & Mgmt., Inc. (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 175, 177. 
 
            Here, Plaintiffs allegations directed against Condon are
directed only in his role as an agent for a member of the partnership who is
alleged to be a party to the contract. Thus, the acts of Condon which as
mentioned were only in his role as an agent of the contracting party cannot be
deemed an act to interfere with a contract.  
 
            Thus, the demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
               Third Cause
of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            The demurrer is overruled, in part, and sustained with 20
days leave to amend, in part.  As against
the other partner Defendants, Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain. The demurrer as to
the claims against J. Raack, C. Raack. N. Veits, Mollica, and Doolittle is
overruled. The demurrer as to the claim against Condon is sustained with 20
days leave to amend.
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the
fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach.”  Stanley v. Richmond (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1070, 1086–87 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            As against the other members of the partnership,
Plaintiffs have alleged facts to demonstrate the existence of a fiduciary duty,
breach of the duty, and damages proximately caused by the breach. (FAC, ¶¶ 62-69.)
As against Condon, as noted above, he is not alleged to be a member of the
partnership and thus would not himself owe a fiduciary duty personally to
Plaintiffs. Instead, the only allegations against him are that he acted as the
agent of Veits – a partner. Thus, any alleged acts of Condon would reflect upon
any alleged breach of fiduciary duty by Veits. Plaintiffs have failed to
provide any authority that a non-partner owes a fiduciary duty to the other
partners.
 
            In addition, the cause of action is not uncertain as
against the other partner Defendants. Plaintiffs have eliminated a reference to
a derivative claim in the heading of this cause of action. Plaintiffs have also
corrected by notice of errata the reference to derivative claim in paragraph 44
by now eliminating that paragraph.
 
            Thus, the demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend as to Condon and overruled as to the other
Defendants named in the cause of action.  
 
            Fourth Cause of Action for Intentional Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage Directed Against Veits and Condon
 
            Defendants’ demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend. Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
            The elements of Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage are: (a) An economic relationship between the plaintiff and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
plaintiff; (b) The defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (c) Intentional
acts by the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (d) Actual
disruption of the relationship; (e) Economic harm to the plaintiff proximately
caused by the acts of the defendant; (f) Conduct that was wrongful by some
legal measure other than the fact of interference itself.  Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A.
(1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378.
 
            Plaintiffs failed to plead facts of an economic
relationship with a third party. Plaintiffs have only pled facts as to a
potential future economic relationship with potential tenants, but no actual
existing relationship. The only existing relationship that has been alleged is
the relationship between the partnership and the tenants. “[A] plaintiff that
wishes to state a cause of action for this tort must allege the existence of an
economic relationship with some third party that contains the probability of
future economic benefit to the plaintiff. This tort therefore protects the
expectation that the relationship eventually will yield the desired benefit,
not necessarily the more speculative expectation that a potentially beneficial
relationship will arise.” Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1164 (internal quotation omitted). Here, Plaintiffs
have merely alleged the existence of the possibility of a potential beneficial
relationship. Again, the actual existing relationship was not between the
Plaintiffs themselves, but with the partnership, as a whole, and the tenants.
 
            Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
            Fifth Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Directed Against J. Raack, C. Raack. N.
Veits, Mollica, and Doolittle
 
            The demurrer is overruled. Plaintiffs state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action. 
 
            “Every contract contains an implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing providing that no party to the contract will do anything
that would deprive another party of the benefits of the contract. The implied
covenant protects the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties based
on their mutual promises. The scope of conduct prohibited by the implied
covenant depends on the purposes and express terms of the contract. Although
breach of the implied covenant often is pleaded as a separate count, a breach
of the implied covenant is necessarily a breach of contract.” Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money
Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885 (internal citations
omitted). A breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing does not give
rise to a cause of action separate from a cause of action for breach of the
contract containing the covenant. Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 327 (stating that “where breach of an actual term is alleged, a
separate implied covenant claim, based on the same breach, is superfluous.”)
“If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a
mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract
cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim
is actually stated.” Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit,
Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.
 
            Plaintiffs have alleged acts intended by Defendants to
deprive Plaintiffs the benefit of the contract. Again, as noted above, any
alleged acts of Condon were merely in his role as agent of Veits, and are
therefore attributed to Veits for purposes of this cause of action.
 
            The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled. 
            
            Sixth Cause of Action for Constructive Fraud
Directed Against Veits 
 
            Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. Plaintiffs state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action. 
 
            “Constructive fraud is a unique species of fraud
applicable only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship.  Constructive fraud arises on a breach of duty
by one in a confidential or fiduciary relationship to another which induces
justifiable reliance by the latter to his prejudice. [The] elements of
constructive fraud cause of action are (1) a fiduciary or confidential
relationship; (2) nondisclosure (breach of fiduciary duty); (3) intent to
deceive, and (4) reliance and resulting injury (causation).  In its generic sense, constructive fraud
comprises all acts, omissions and concealments involving a breach of legal or
equitable duty, trust, or confidence, and resulting in damages to another.  Constructive fraud exists in cases in which
conduct, although not actually fraudulent, ought to be so treated—that is, in
which such conduct is a constructive or quasi fraud, having all the actual
consequences and all the legal effects of actual fraud.”  Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb &
Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131 (internal citations and quotations
omitted.)
 
            As against Defendant Veits, Plaintiffs have alleged
sufficient facts to meet all the elements of the cause of action. (FAC, ¶¶ 86-94.)

 
            The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is overruled. 
 
            Seventh Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment
Directed Against J. Raack, C. Raack. N. Veits, Mollica, and Doolittle
              
            Defendants’ demurrer is overruled. Plaintiffs state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action.  
 
            “A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.”  Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he has known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248. “Every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner and the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow
defendant to understand fully the nature of the charge made.”  Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157. 
Plaintiffs must state facts which “show how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered.”  Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
 
            Plaintiffs have now stated specific facts to support all
the elements of the cause of action including the alleged concealment, as well
as the element of intent to deceive. (FAC, ¶¶ 96-103.) While the substantive
allegations of wrongful conduct are substantially directed against Veits, Plaintiffs
have alleged that the other Defendant partners had knowledge of the concealment
through correspondences that they were a part of which were withheld from
Plaintiffs.  (FAC, ¶ 100.)  
 
            Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled.

 
             Eighth Cause
of Action for Negligence Directed Against Veits and Condon
              
            Defendants’ demurrer is overruled. 
 
            “To state a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff
must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the
defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the
plaintiff's damages or injuries.” Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.
 
            Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts stating that
Defendants owed a duty of care, that Defendants breached a duty of care, and
the breach caused damages to Plaintiffs. (FAC, ¶¶ 105-109.) 
 
            The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is overruled. 
 
            Ninth Cause of
Action for Violation of Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Business & Professions
Code §§ 17200 et seq.) Directed Against J. Raack, C. Raack. N. Veits, Mollica,
and Doolittle
 
            Defendants’ demurrer to the ninth cause of action is overruled.
Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  
 
            “California Business and Professions Code Sections 17000,
et seq., and 17200, et seq., states [sic] that unfair competition shall mean
and include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices.” Khoury v.
Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618–19. “By
proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business act or practice, the UCL “borrows” rules
set out in other laws and makes violations of those rules independently
actionable. [Citation.] However, a practice may violate the UCL even if it is
not prohibited by another statute.” Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v.
Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 835. “The unfair competition
law is independent of the Unfair Practices Act and other laws.  Its remedies are “cumulative ... to the
remedies or penalties available under all other laws of this state” (§ 17205),
but its sanctions are less severe than those of the Unfair Practices Act.  Prevailing plaintiffs are generally limited to
injunctive relief and restitution. (§ 17203; see ABC Internat. Traders,
Inc. v. Matsushita Electric Corp. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1247, 1268 [61
Cal.Rptr.2d 112, 931 P.2d 290].)  Plaintiffs
may not receive damages, much less treble damages, or attorney
fees.” Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999)
20 Cal.4th 163, 179.
 
            Based on the underlying allegations noted above,
Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts and pled a viable cause of action that
would demonstrate unlawful, fraudulent, and/or unfair business practices on the
part of demurring Defendants. 
 
            Thus, the demurrer to the ninth cause of action is overruled.

 
            Tenth Cause of Action for Accounting Brought by
Plaintiffs Against Veits
 
            Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend. 
 
            “A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing
that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting. An action for accounting is not available where
the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be
made certain by calculation.” Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 179. 
 
             Plaintiffs fail to
allege that there is an unusual complexity to the accounts that requires an
accounting. 
 
             The demurrer to the tenth cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend.
 
 
            Motion to
Strike  
 
            The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with
laws.  CCP § 436.  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Defendants move to strike the following items: 1.
Paragraph 26; 2. Paragraph 27; 3. Paragraph 42; 4. Paragraph 43; 5. Paragraph
58; 6. Paragraph 67(d), (g)-(m); 7. Paragraph 83; 8. Paragraph 89; 9. Paragraph
90; 10. Paragraph 91; 11. Paragraph 108(d), (f)-(l); 12. Paragraph 119; 13.
Paragraph 61; 14. Paragraph 70; 15. Paragraph 78; 16. Paragraph 95; 17. Paragraph
104; 18. FAC, Prayer for Relief, 23:12, 17, 22, 24:4, 9 “For exemplary damages,
according to proof”.
 
            As to Items 1 to 12 - Paragraph 26, 27, 42, 43, 58, 67
(d), 67 (g)-(m), 83, 89, 90, 91, 108 (d), 108 (f)-(l), and 119, the motion to
strike is denied. Upon the face of the allegations, the allegations are not
false, irrelevant, improper, or not drawn in conformity with the law.
Defendants argue that these allegations reference derivative claims. However,
there is nothing on the face of the allegations that would directly and only
apply to a derivative claim.
 
            As to Items 13 and 15, the motion is moot upon the
sustaining of the demurrer to the second and fourth causes of action.
 
            As to Item 14, the motion is moot as to Condon and denied
as to the other partner Defendants. Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient specific
facts of malice, oppression, and fraud to support a claim for punitive damages.
 
            As to Items 16 and 17, the motion is denied. Plaintiffs
have alleged sufficient specific facts to support a claim for punitive damages
pursuant to the causes of action for Constructive Fraud and Fraudulent
Concealment.
 
            As to Items 18, the motion is moot as to page 23:12 and
23:22, and denied as to page 23:17, 24:4, and 24:9. As to the latter,
Plaintiffs stated sufficient specific facts to state a claim for punitive
damages.
 
            Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.