  Case Number:  22VECV01480    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  T 22VECV01480 INCONTHIEVABLE
V CHAMPION
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Structure HR, Inc. dba Champion
Employer Services and Tom Elias’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
Defendants Structure HR, Inc. dba
Champion Employer Services and Tom Elias’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is
DENIED as to the first cause of action and GRANTED as to the second cause of
action.
Objections to Defendant Elias'
declaration are overruled.
INTRODUCTION 
Defendants Structure HR, Inc. dba
Champion Employer Services (Champion) and Tom Elias (Elias) (collectively,
Defendants) moved for summary judgment (MSJ) against Plaintiff Inconthievable,
LLC’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  In the
alternative, Defendants moved for summary adjudication (MSA) against the
Complaint’s first cause of action (COA) for breach of fiduciary duty and the
second COA for negligence.  
DISCUSSION  
Defendants asserted that there is
no triable issue of material fact as to the breach element in the negligence
COA.  As to breach, Defendants submitted
facts to show that they complied with Plaintiff’s August 29, 2022 request/order
to process a 6-day payroll for Plaintiff’s hotel, Delta Hotel, for the time
period of August 21 thru August 26, 2022. 
The Delta Hotel was owned by non-party RKJ Hotel Management, LLC (RKJ).  (Defendants’ Separate Statement of Facts
(DSSF) 2-3, 5-8.  Defendants submitted
evidence to show that Defendants were notified on August 30, 2022 that
non-party RKJ was ordered into receivership as of August 26, 202 and were
instructed not to process any payroll or expenses.  (DSSF 9-12, 14-15.)  However, within Defendants’ own evidence
there is a triable issue of fact. 
Defendants’ submitted the August 29, 2022 email from Diane Tinney,
Plaintiff’s human resources coordinator, authorizing the partial payroll to be
processed.  However, the very next day,
Defendants received an email from Jeff Katofsky, the managing member of RKJ and
Plaintiff, which expressly ordered Defendants to not process “any”
payroll.  Defendants’ reliance upon the
August 29, 2022 email from Ms. Tinney to show that no triable issue of facts
exists turns a blind-eye to the subsequent email from Mr. Katofsky ordering
Defendants not to process any payroll. 
Mr. Katofsky’s August 30, 202 email presents a triable issue of fact as
to whether Defendants breached their duty of care.  
Due to this triable issue of fact
found within Defendants’ own evidence, Defendants failed to meet their initial
burden as to the negligence COA and the burden on the MSJ/MSA did not transfer
to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of fact existed as to the negligence
COA.  
The MSJ and MSA as to the
negligence COA is DENIED.  
As to the breach of fiduciary
duty COA, Defendants submitted evidence to show that there is no triable issue
of fact as to a duty owed or a fiduciary relationship existing.  Defendants assert that payroll service providers
are not, as a matter of law, in a fiduciary relationship with their clients
and/or owe a fiduciary duty.  (DSSF 1-3
and JSB Industries, Inc. v. Nexus Payroll Services, Inc. (D. Mass. 2006) 463
F.Supp.2d 103, 107-108; Ironforge.com v. Paychex, Inc. (W.D.N.Y. 2010) 747
F.Supp.2d 384, 396-397.)  Defendants
submitted evidence showing that they were contracted to perform payroll and tax
services for Plaintiff’s employees. 
(DSSF 2-3.)  Plaintiff’s evidence
to dispute the services Defendants performed does not present facts to
contradict Defendants’ fact. 
(Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed Facts (PSSDF) 3 and
Plaintiff’s Additional Separate Statement of Facts (PASSF) 16.)  The evidence provided by both parties merely
show a contract for services and no existence of a fiduciary relationship.  There are no facts presented to show
reliance, trust, or confidence reposed upon another.  The facts presented by both parties only show
a business relationship based upon mutual contractual obligations.  Defendants have met their burden to show that
no triable issue of fact exists as to a fiduciary duty being owed and Plaintiff
failed to meet their burden to show that a triable issue of fact exists.
The MSA as to the second COA for
breach of fiduciary duty is GRANTED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.