  Case Number:  20STCV11649    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 28, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Mengjiao Gao v. Leon Liliang Sun
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV11649            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Mengjiao Gao
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Leon
Liliang Sun
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract action that was filed on March 23, 2020. 
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
File a First Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
            The Court
may, “at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, . . . allow the amendment of any
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 576.) A motion to amend a pleading must comply
with California Rule of Court 3.1324(b). This rule provides:
 
(a)
Contents of motion
 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
(1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)
State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and
 
(3)
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located.
 
(b)
Supporting declaration
 
A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1)
The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)
Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
 
(3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
(Cal. Rule of Court 3.1324.) This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
 
Contents of Motion
 
            Plaintiff
has included, with the motion, a copy of a proposed second cause of action for
fraud. However, the proposed pleading does not include the allegations set
forth in the original form pleading filed by Plaintiff on March 23, 2020. Thus,
the motion does not comply with Rule 3.1324(a)(1). Moreover, because the
proposed pleading deviates from the original Complaint in this manner, the
motion does not accurately set forth which amendments are proposed by page,
paragraph, and line number as required by Rule 3.1324(a)(2) and (a)(3), notwithstanding
the motion’s plain identification of the new cause of action. Plaintiff has
therefore failed to comply with Rule 3.1324(a). 
 
Supporting Declaration
 
The declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel in support of the motion is devoid of any detail that would demonstrate
compliance with Rule 3.1324(b). Moreover, although the Motion itself explains
the effect of the proposed amendment to assert a new cause of action for fraud,
as required by Rule 3.1324(b)(1), nothing in Plaintiff’s papers demonstrates
why amendment is necessary and proper (Rule 3.1324(b)(2)), when the facts
giving rise to the amendments were discovered (Rule 3.1324(b)(3)), or crucially
why amendment has never been sought in the four years this matter has been
pending. (Rule 3.1324(b)(4).) Plaintiff has thus failed to comply with Rule
3.1324(b). 
 
In summation, Plaintiff’s meager
showing does not demonstrate that leave to amend is proper at this juncture,
notwithstanding the strong presumption in favor of permitting amendment. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 28, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 