 Case Number:  23SMCV01911    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer to the cross-complaint is OVERRULED in part and
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND in part.
Defendants filed tax returns on plaintiffs’ behalf.  Plaintiffs later learned that the tax returns
failed to set forth the correct basis of certain securities leading to
significantly larger tax liability than should have been reported.  Plaintiffs therefore sued defendants.  Defendants filed a cross-complaint against
the cross-defendants—a law firm and a partner. 
Cross-complainants contend that the law firm had also been retained by
plaintiff to provide advice concerning the formation of certain entities but
also to provide certain tax strategies to plaintiffs.  According to the cross-complaint, the law
firm provided information to plaintiffs who forwarded that information on to
cross-complainants, who relied thereon. 
The cross-complaint alleges that the information so provided was not
correct and that the problem tax returns were the result of that bad
information.  Cross-complainants sue for
indemnity, contribution, declaratory relief, and negligence.  Cross-defendants demur and cross-complainants
oppose.
Central to the demurrer is the theory of duty.  Cross-defendants contend that a lawyer (and a
law firm) owes no duty except to the client and to a third party beneficiary of
the contract between attorney and client. 
That is, generally speaking, a correct rule of law.  (Moore v. Anderson Zeigler Disharoon
Gallagher & Gray (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1287.)  Here, cross-complainants are not the client;
plaintiffs are the client.  Thus, the law
firm owed no direct attorney-client duty to cross-complainants.  But what of the third party beneficiary
theory?  That is a relatively narrow
exception to the general rule that a lawyer’s duty starts and stops with the
client.  Where there is a third party who
everyone knows is intended to rely on counsel’s advice, then if the advice is
improper, a tort can be alleged.  Thus,
where a client asks for an opinion letter from a lawyer and everyone knows that
the client intends to show the letter to an investor and that the investor will
rely on it, if the opinion is negligently rendered the investor may sue.  (Lucas v. Hamm (1961) 56 Cal.2d
583.)  And that rule has been extended a
bit so as to apply to a third party where the transaction was intended to
benefit the third party, there was foreseeability of harm, certainty that the
harm came to pass, a close connection between the lawyer’s conduct and the
harm, moral blame, and imposing liability would prevent future harm, such as
where the plaintiff is the beneficiary under a trust injured because the
attorney negligently drafted the trust documents.  (Moore, supra, 109 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 1294-1295.)
What the court cannot tell here is whether
cross-complainants qualify.  The
complaint is somewhat terse.  It alleges
that cross-defendants provided information that cross-complainants needed in
order to fill out the tax returns and that this information was given to
cross-complainants (although the court is not sure if the allegation is that
the information came indirectly from the client or directly from
cross-defendants).  And there is the
rub.  If cross-defendants knew that their
advice and information was going to be given to the tax preparer who would rely
on that advice at the time the advice was given, it could be enough.  But if that was not part and parcel of the
contract between the law firm and plaintiffs, then it would not be enough.  Consider the following hypothetical.  Law firm L comes up with a tax structure that
the firm believes will minimize taxes by characterizing something as a lease
rather than a sale.  L provides that
structure along with supporting information to income tax preparer P, who
relies on that to prepare client C’s tax returns.  L knows that the structure will be given to P
and that P will rely on it in preparing the returns.  However, the structure is faulty and will not
achieve the intended tax savings.  P
dutifully uses the information to prepare the tax return, making certain
elections and calculations based on the structure and advice L gave.  The return is filed on C’s behalf.  Because of the erroneous structure, however,
the IRS later disallows certain deductions and finds that C owes lots of money
in back taxes, interest, and penalties even though had a proper structure been
in place the deductions could have been properly taken.  When the IRS imposes the penalty, C sues P
for not preparing the returns in such a way to minimize taxes notwithstanding
L’s advice.  One could see how P might
well have a cause of action against L for indemnity or perhaps contribution or
perhaps negligence.  If, however, so far
as L knew its job ended when it provided its advice to C, then it would be hard
to understand how P might have a cause of action against L down the road, even
if it was somehow L’s actions that led to the tax ruling.
The court cannot tell from the complaint whether or not
cross-defendants are alleged to have known and understood that their
information would be forwarded to cross-complainants and relied upon by
cross-complainants in filing tax returns. 
And, at the pleading stage, the court must construe the complaint in the
light most favorable to the cross-complainant. 
Frankly, the court suspects that cross-complainants’ theory will
ultimately not hold up.  Reading between
the lines, the cross-complaint seems to read more like a claim that the legal
advice was poor and so it is really the lawyers’ fault that plaintiff paid too
much in tax rather than that the lawyers provided negligently bad information
to cross-complainants who relied on it to file a bad tax return and that
cross-complainants were third-party beneficiaries.  But the court cannot indulge that suspicion
now.  The court recites it only because
the court suspects a summary judgment motion is coming down the pike following
some pretty basic discovery, and it could well be that this case will not
survive an evidentiary showing that cross-complainants were not true third
party beneficiaries here.
And that is important. 
Indemnity does not apply when there are simply two tortfeasors.  It arises only when the liability is joint
and several such that one of them ought not be left holding the proverbial bag
for the other.  But here, what is most
likely being claimed in the cross-complaint is that it is not
cross-complainants’ returns that caused the problem at all, but rather
cross-defendants’ allegedly bad legal advice. 
If such is the case, there is no indemnity.  What there is would be the ability for
cross-complainants to allege that they are not liable at all for the
injury, or that if they are liable, cross-defendants’ actions are such that
their liability is not the total harm. 
In other words, their claim would be that the liability is several, not
joint and any judgment ought to be reduced by cross-defendants’ negligence as
part of the verdict.  There is no
indemnity (or contribution, for that matter) where the liability is several and
not joint. 
The negligence cause of action stands or falls with
contribution and indemnity.  If
cross-complainants are third party beneficiaries, they may well be able to
claim professional negligence.  And if
not, then there is no duty of professional care owed to them and thus no cause
of action.  (This is professional
negligence or nothing.  There is no claim
that cross-defendants hit cross-complainants’ car on the way to the IRS filing
location and thus caused the filing to be late or incomplete because certain
pages were lost in the wreckage.)
Finally, as to declaratory relief, the court tends to agree
with the demurring defendants.  There is
no need for a declaration here.  The
issue will either be solved on the merits or the jury’s verdict will apportion
the liability.  The demurrer is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to that cause of action.  It is OVERRULED in all other respects.  Cross-defendants have 30 days to answer.