  Case Number:  20STCV22267    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV22267




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Estate of Elizabeth Evans




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Estate of Elizabeth Evans (Defendant) moves to compel
Plaintiff Antoinette Smith’s (Plaintiff) deposition. Defendant requests
monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion
under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the sanction unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Ani Garigyan states that she sent Plaintiff’s
counsel three emails in an attempt to reschedule the deposition. However,
Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond. (Garibyan Decl. ¶ 11–12.) Therefore, the
meet and confer requirement has been satisfied. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant argues it has noticed Plaintiff’s deposition three times.
Plaintiff objected due to unavailability for the first two notices. On May 19,
2023, Defendant served its Third Notice of Deposition set for July 20, 2023.
Defendant asserts this date was chosen by Plaintiff. (Garibyan Decl. ¶ 8, Exh.
D.) However, on July 18, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel stated that the deposition
needed to be rescheduled. Defendant refused to reschedule and obtained a
certificate of nonappearance. (Id. ¶ 9–10, Exh. E.) Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff has not offered any new dates for a deposition. (Id. ¶ 12.) Therefore,
because Plaintiff did not timely serve an objection to the July 20, 2023
deposition, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Defendant also seeks $911.65 in monetary sanctions representing a $250
hourly rate and two hours to prepare this motion, $350 for the Court Reporter
Nonappearance fee, and the $61.65 filing fee. The Court grants Defendant’s
request for sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant
Estate of Elizabeth Evans’ motion to compel Plaintiff Antoinette Smith’s deposition
is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall appear for deposition within 10 days.
 
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record, jointly and severally, are
ordered to pay $911.65 in monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant within 30
days. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 