 Case Number:  21STCV34334    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV34334




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Service 




MOVING PARTY:


Specially Appearing Defendant Alfonso
  Montoya Del Real




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Gilberto Vera



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
September 17, 2021, Plaintiff Gilberto Vera (Plaintiff) filed a complaint
against Defendants Francisco Salas Corona, Alfonso Del Real Montoya, Johnny
Lobos, and Does 1 to 10 for injuries related to an alleged motor vehicle
accident. On October 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a proof of service
which purports that Specially appearing Defendant Alfonso Montoya Del Real
(Defendant) was served the summons and complaint by personal service to “Nancy
Rasor, Owner of Postal Atmex & Authorized Agent for Alfonso Montoya Del
Real, per CCP 416.90.” The purported service occurred on October 18, 2023. 
 
Defendant now moves to quash service of the summons and complaint,
arguing service was defective and as such, the Court lacks personal
jurisdiction over Defendant. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of motion for one or
more of the following purposes:¿ (1) To quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . . .”¿(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 418.10(a).)¿The motion must be filed on or before the last day on which the
defendant must plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow. (Id.) 
 
“[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is
essential to establish personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]”¿(Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)¿“[T]he filing of a proof of
service creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only
if it “complies with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.”¿(Id. at
1441-42.) ¿On a motion to quash service of summons, the plaintiff has the
burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence the prima facie facts
entitling the court to assume jurisdiction, including whether service was in
compliance with statutory requirements. (Lebel v Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th
1154, 1160.) A court may rely upon the verified declarations of the parties and
other competent witnesses. (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1362.) “A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper
service of process.”¿(Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 416.90 states: “[a] summons may be
served on a person not otherwise specified in this article by delivering a copy
of the summons and of the complaint to such person or to a person authorized by
him to receive service of process.” 
 
If
the summons and complaint cannot be delivered personally with reasonable
diligence, a plaintiff may serve an individual defendant “by leaving a copy of
the summons and complaint at the person's dwelling house, usual place of abode,
usual place of business, or usual mailing address . . . , in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office, place of business, or usual mailing address . . . , at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
 
“Notwithstanding [section 415.20(b)], if the only address reasonably
known for the person to be served is a private mailbox obtained through a
commercial mail receiving agency [CMRA], service of process may be effected on
the first delivery attempt by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with
the commercial mail receiving agency in the manner described in subdivision (d)
of Section 17538.5 of the Business and Professions Code.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
415.20(c).) 
 
Business and
Professions Code section 17538.5(d)(1) states the following:
 
“Every person receiving
private mailbox receiving service from a CMRA in this state shall be required
to sign an agreement, along with a USPS Form 1583, which authorizes the CMRA
owner or operator to act as agent for service of process for the mail receiving
service customer. Every CMRA owner or operator shall be required to accept
service of process for and on behalf of any of their mail receiving service
customers, and for two years after termination of any mail receiving service
customer agreement. Upon receipt of any process for any mailbox service
customer, the CMRA owner or operator shall (A) within 48 hours after receipt of
any process, place a copy of the documents or a notice that the documents were
received into the customer's mailbox or other place where the customer usually
receives his or her mail, unless the mail receiving service for the customer
was previously terminated, and (B) within five days after receipt, send all
documents by first-class mail, to the last known home or personal address of
the mail receiving service customer. The CMRA shall obtain a certificate of
mailing in connection with the mailing of the documents. Service of process
upon the mail receiving service customer shall then be deemed perfected 10 days
after the date of mailing.
 
If the CMRA owner or
operator has complied with the foregoing requirements and provides to any party
participating in a lawsuit involving a mail receiving service customer a
declaration of service by mail, given under penalty of perjury along with a
certificate of mailing, the CMRA owner or operator shall have no further
liability in connection with acting as agent for service of process for its
mail receiving service customer.”   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant argues that Nancy Rasor, owner of a Postal
Annex, was not authorized by Plaintiff to receive service on his behalf. Therefore,
since Defendant challenges the service, Plaintiff has the burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that service was proper. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that he followed the
requirements of section 416.90 by serving an authorized agent pursuant to
Business and Professions Code section 17538.5. Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s listed address on the Traffic Collision Report was 416 W.
San 10 Ysidro Blvd., # 308, San Ysidro, CA 92173, and was a private mailbox. (Martinez
Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1; Brummond Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s process server visited the address
and declared it was a CMRA. (Brummond Decl. ¶ 3–5.) Brummond also states his
investigation revealed no other address for Defendant. (Id. ¶ 4.)  Brummond confirmed that Nancy Rasor was the
owner of the CMRA and authorized to receive service of process on behalf of
Defendant. (Brummond Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
Defendant did not provide a
declaration and does not appear to challenge that he owns a private mailbox at
the address where service occurred. 
 
However, Plaintiff’s evidence that the
private mailbox was the only address reasonably known to Defendant is the
conclusory statement by the process server that his “investigation revealed no
other valid address for Defendant.” (Brummond Decl. ¶ 4.) Brummond does not
indicate what his investigation entailed. Also, Plaintiff provides no evidence
that Defendant signed an agreement authorizing Nancy Rasor, as owner of the
CMRA, to act as an agent for service of process. Therefore, Plaintiff fails to
meet his burden. 
 
Plaintiff argues the motion is
untimely because it was filed after the deadline for a responsive pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1) [“A defendant, on or before the last day of his
or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion . . . to quash service of
summons.”].) Defendant argues that Plaintiff agreed to an extension of the
deadline to file a responsive pleading. In any event, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
shown that service was proper. Accordingly, the Court finds good cause to allow
Defendant further time.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Specially Appearing Defendant Alfonso
Montoya Del Real’s motion to quash
service of summons and complaint.
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 