


[1] Although
Plaintiff appears to suggest that the dangerous condition was the floor itself
(see Opposition at p. 1), Plaintiff’s own expert does not provide evidence
regarding the dangerousness of the floor material. (See Burns Dec. ¶ 9 [“Under
clean and dry conditions, the slip resistance was measured to be as high as
0.71.”].) Rather, the evidence presented relates to the presence of water on
the floor, causing Plaintiff to slip and fall. (Id. at ¶ 16 [“In conclusion,
the subject ceramic tile floor is safe when dry but slippery when wet with
water. Water was present at the time of the incident….”].) Plaintiff
characterizes the condition as a “dangerously slippery” floor “when invisible
water was on it.” (Opposition at p. 1.)


[2] Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion, the
photographs do not appear to show there was water on the floor. Though
Plaintiff argues the photos reveal some water dripping down the wall below the
paper towel holder, she does not explain how that translates to water in the
area where she allegedly fell. “Facts are the lifeblood of summary
judgment proceedings because absent a factual dispute, trial is unnecessary. …A
party cannot avoid summary judgment by asserting facts based on mere
speculation and conjecture, but instead must produce admissible evidence
raising a triable issue of fact.” (Christina C. v. County of Orange
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1371, 1378 (quotations and citations omitted).) According
to the photographs, the area where the black mark exists is not below the paper
towel holder. Therefore, Plaintiff offers no reason how water could have
collected where the fall occurred.


[3] Various
factors may calibrate this timing. For example, heavily trafficked areas where
slippery substances may be present will require more frequent inspections and
attention from the store owner.


[4] There
are other variables to be considered when determining the reasonableness of an
inspection. For example, the length of the inspection; how the inspection was
performed, the record of the inspection, etc.


[5]
Plaintiff’s own undisputed fact provides evidence that the caution sign was
kept in the bathroom because it was an exterior bathroom, for caution, to say
“be aware.” (PAMF 23.) Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument that the caution sign
demonstrates that Defendant “knew the floor was dangerously slippery when
invisible water was on it,” Plaintiff presents no such evidence supporting this
argument regarding Defendant’s knowledge. (Opposition at p. 1.) In any event,
Plaintiff does not present evidence that Defendant knew or should have known
about the presence of “invisible water” at the time of the fall.


[6] In light
of the Court’s ruling, the Court does not reach Defendant’s other arguments.

