 Case Number:  21STCV07725    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV07725




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Chia Ching Chiang and Brent
  Sokol




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants Chia Ching Chiang and Brent Sokol (Defendants) move to
compel Plaintiff Ron York’s (Plaintiff) deposition. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion
under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the sanction unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Jill Kramer shows she has attempted to schedule
Plaintiff’s deposition with counsel multiple times. Therefore, the meet and
confer requirement has been satisfied. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for November 13, 2023, as
agreed by Plaintiff. (Kramer Decl. ¶ 2–3.) The date was canceled by Plaintiff’s
counsel on November 9, 2023 due to unavailability. Defendants requested
alternative dates from Plaintiff’s newly associated counsel, but received none.
Defendants re-noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for November 28, 2023. (Id. ¶ 7,
Exh. F.) Plaintiff’s counsel indicated she was unavailable on that date but did
not serve a formal objection. (Id. ¶ 7–9.) Therefore, because Plaintiff did not
serve a timely objection, and does not oppose, the motion to compel is granted.

 
The discovery cut off in this case is January 15, 2023, and thus,
Defendants seek a Court order compelling Plaintiff’s deposition within five
days of this hearing. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.270(d) [On motion or ex parte
application of any party or deponent, for good cause shown, the court may
shorten or extend the time for scheduling a deposition.”].)
 
Defendants do not seek monetary sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
motion to compel Plaintiff Ron York’s deposition is GRANTED.  
Plaintiff
is ordered to appear for deposition within five days of notice of this ruling. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 