 Case Number:  21STCV08823    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV08823




MOTIONS:  


Compel  Response to Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Cleotilde Armando Velasquez 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Cleotilde Armando
Velasquez (Plaintiff), moves to Compel Defendant Baten Windows Inc.’s (Defendant)
Response to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One.
The opposition was due December 29, 2023. On January 5, 2023, Defendant’s
counsel filed a declaration addressing Plaintiff’s discovery motions.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff represents that she served Form Interrogatories, Set
One and Special Interrogatories, Set One on Defendant on August 22, 2023. (Bagosy
Decl. ¶ 2–3, Exh. A, B.) The responses were due on September 26, 2023. (Id. ¶ 6.)
Defendant has not responded to the interrogatories and has not filed an
opposition to this motion. Instead, Defendant’s counsel filed a declaration stating
that the person responsible for providing responses (Mr. Acosta) was
hospitalized. (Gerges Decl. ¶ 3–4.) He also declares that he was also dealing
with personal medical issues at the time. (Id. ¶ 5.)  Defendant’s counsel therefore, asks that no
sanctions be awarded at this time. (Gerges Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
Because Defendant failed to serve timely responses, the motion to
compel is granted.  
 
Plaintiff did
not request monetary sanctions in the Notice of Motion. The Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the Response to Defendant’s Declaration,
filed on January 8, 2024, because it was not requested in the original notice
of motion. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1010; Luri v. Greenwald¿(2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 1119 [132 Cal.Rptr.2d 680] [“As a general rule, the trial court may
consider only the grounds stated in the notice of motion.”].)        
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Set
One and Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant Baten Windows,
Inc. shall provide verified responses, without objection, within 10 days.
 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 