 Case Number:  21STCV42856    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV42856




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Forest Lawn Memorial-Park
  Association




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Shireen Ayoub 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Kimberly A.
Byrge and Exhibits
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.      Declaration of Maria Rodriguez
4.      Declaration of Leonel Barrera
5.      Declaration of Ronald Kvitne
6.      Declaration of Angie Ray
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Opposition
2.      Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
3.      Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement 
4.      Plaintiff’s Statement of Material Facts
5.      Declaration of Counsel in Support
6.      Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence in Support
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
1.      Reply in support of Motion
2.      Objection to Plaintiff’s Evidence
3.      Opposition to Plaintiff’s Objection
4.      Reply to Separate Statement
5.      Response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 19, 2021,
Plaintiff Shireen Ayoub (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Moving
Defendant Forest Lawn Memorial-Park Association (Defendant) for negligence and premises
liability after allegedly slipping and falling in Defendant’s restroom. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant breached its duty by “allowing water accumulation and a
slippery condition.” (Complaint ¶ 18.)  
 
Defendant now moves for
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication, arguing (1) there
is no evidence a dangerous condition existed at the time of the incident; (2)
Defendant lacked any notice of the alleged condition; (3) Defendant provided an
adequate warning; and (4) there are no triable issues regarding causation. Plaintiff
opposes. 
 
OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff
objects to the Declaration of Ronald Kvitne. The Court declines to rule on the
objections because the Court does not rely on the evidence to reach the ruling
herein.
 
            The
Court declines to rule on Defendant’s evidentiary objections, except as
discussed below, because consideration of the evidence does not change the
ruling herein.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no
triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay
Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence­–Premises
Liability
 
The elements of a cause of action
for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages.  (McIntyre v.
The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671; Civ. Code, §
1714, subd. (a).)  Therefore, to prevail
on a claim for premises liability, the plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant
owned or controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the
use or maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4)
defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s
harm.  (See CACI No. 1000; Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d
108.)  
 
A defendant may be negligent in the use or maintenance of the property if
(1) a condition on the property created an unreasonable risk of harm; (2) the
defendant knew or, through the exercise of reasonable care, should have known
about it; and (3) the defendant failed to repair the condition, protect against
harm from the condition, or give adequate warning of the condition.  (CACI No. 1003.)  
 
“A plaintiff alleging injuries based on a dangerous condition must prove
the defendant either: (1) created the dangerous condition, or (2) knew or
should have known of the dangerous condition.  (See Peralta v. Vons Companies,
Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030, 1036; see also Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206.) “If a dangerous condition exists, the property
owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care either to make the condition
reasonably safe for [visitors’] use or to give a warning adequate to enable
them to avoid the harm.”  (Bridgman v.
Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.)  The
existence and scope of a property owner’s duty are legal questions for the
court.  (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 36.)
 
 
Defendant argues there is no evidence a dangerous condition existed at the time of the incident,
and even if it did, Defendant did not have actual or constructive notice of it.
Defendant offers the following facts:
 
-         
After visiting a gravesite with her husband, Plaintiff
went to the subject restroom. As she went into the subject restroom, someone
came out. (UMF 4.) 
-         
When she entered the subject restroom and walked to the
toilet from the door, she did not slip and fall. She used the toilet, then
stood up, put her clothing back on, then as she took one step with her right
foot, she slipped and fell. (UMF 5.) 
-         
Plaintiff has confirmed at the time of the incident 1)
she did not see anything on the floor, 2) she did not see any water on the
ground, and 3) even if there was anything on the floor she did not see it. (UMF
6.) 
-         
The photographs and videos taken by Plaintiff’s husband
and Forest Lawn immediately after Plaintiff’s alleged incident also confirm
there was no water or any other liquid substance on the floor. (UMF 7.) 
-         
Leonel Barrera, the employee of Forest Lawn who exited
and passed Plaintiff at the subject restroom confirmed that he did not observe
any water, liquid substance or unsafe condition on the floor while he was in
the subject restroom. (UMF 8.) 
-         
Forest Lawn employee Maria Rodriguez’s inspection and
cleaning of the subject restroom earlier that morning confirmed that neither
the sink nor the toilet in the subject restroom were leaking on the day of the
incident. (UMF 9.) 
-         
The subject restroom floor had been mopped at
approximately 5:30 a.m. earlier that morning and Ms. Rodriguez placed a bright
yellow “caution” sign in the subject restroom after the mopping activity, which
remained in the subject restroom at the time of the alleged incident to provide
warn patrons to exercise caution. (UMF 10.) 
-         
Immediately after Plaintiff’s alleged incident was
reported, Forest Lawn examined the floor and did not find any water, liquid or
other substance on the floor. (UMF 12.) 
 
Specifically, Plaintiff testified as follows:
 
Q: Was there any
water on the ground or any condition on the ground when you were walking from
the door to the toilet?
A: I didn’t see.
You know, the floor actually is white-colored. I didn’t see anything. 
…
Q: Do you know
what you slipped on?
A: The tiles were
very slippery, if you will. So the tiles were, like, so soft and glistening,
like a mirror, so to speak, so that it was very slippery.
…
Q: What was on
the floor?
…
A: I didn’t see
anything on the floor. I slipped. I didn’t see anything on the floor. So even,
you know, the color of the floor was white. So even if there was anything on
the floor, how would I see it?
Q: Was there
anything on the floor?
A: I didn’t see
anything.
Q: So is that a
no?
A: I didn’t see
anything on the floor.
 
(Byrge Dec., Ex.
F at 35:5-37:12.) 
 
Defendant has met its initial burden. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff offers the following facts:
 
-         
Plaintiff did not lose her balance and then fall.
Rather when she was taking a step with her right foot, she slipped and then
fell. (PAMF 8.) 
-         
While she was on the floor, she noticed her pant legs
were damp. She also remembers noticing that her right hand felt wet. They were
not damp or wet before she fell. (PAMF 11.) 
-         
She was on the ground nearly forty-five minutes between
the time she fell and the time that paramedics removed her from the ground. No
Forest Lawn employee entered the bathroom during those forty- five minutes so
they did not immediately inspect the floor. (PAMF 12.) 
-         
No Forest Lawn employee inspected the area under the
Plaintiff, the plaintiff’s clothing or the Plaintiff’s shoes for moisture.
(PAMF 13.) 
-         
When recently examining the photograph numbered
IMG_1710 Plaintiff’s recollection was refreshed and she remembered that as she
slipped her left leg went out straight traveling in the direction from nearer
to the toilet toward the trash can by the sink. The black mark on the tile
floor is from her left shoe. She somehow fell onto her right foot, causing the
break. (PAMF 17.) 
-         
Plaintiff
did not see the water on the floor so she was unaware of it. Had she been able
to see the water, she would have avoided it. The ground was shiny, glistening
and white with reflections from the window and ceiling light on it making it
impossible to see clear water. (PAMF 18.)
-         
In the photograph taken immediately after the Plaintiff
fell, streaking water marks can be seen traveling down the back wall between
the urinal and waste basket, to the floor, roughly intersecting into the black
streak caused by Plaintiff’s shoe. The photograph must be zoomed in to see this
clearly. (PAMF 19.)
-         
Plaintiff’s expert Mark Burns inspected the bathroom on
March 24, 2021. Under clean and dry conditions, slip resistance was measured to
be as high as .71. But when water is present, it was as low as .20. With water
present, the slip resistance of .20 corresponds with a greater than 80% chance
of a slip event occurring. This is an unreasonable and unacceptable risk as it
would create a large probability of a slip and fall occurring. The slip
resistance of ice is .17 when wet and .20 when dry. Because slip resistant when
dry, a contaminant must have been present for Plaintiff to slip and fall. The
shoe skid mark would not have been present without water, and Plaintiff
declared her pants were wet, so there was water on the floor which caused her
to slip and fall. Water on the floor was a significant slipping hazard at the
time of the incident. (PAMF 38.) 
 
Plaintiff argues there is a triable issue of fact that the
floor was wet[1]
because Plaintiff has provided a declaration that her pants were damp and her
hand was wet after the fall. She further argues that the photographs reveal a
black mark that shows where she slipped, and which she argues is evidence of
water. Lastly, Plaintiff points to photographs of water on a wall next to the
sink, which she argues is proof that water was on the floor.[2]
 
Plaintiff’s Declaration
 
As an initial matter, the Court sustains Defendant’s
objections to Plaintiff’s declaration, paragraph 15 (Objection No. 2.). In her
deposition, Plaintiff was repeatedly and generally asked about whether there
was anything on the floor. The questions were not limited to what Plaintiff
saw. She never testified that her pants were damp and her hand wet. “[W]hen
discovery has produced an admission or concession on the part of the party
opposing summary judgment which demonstrates that there is no factual issue to
be tried, certain of those stern requirements applicable in a normal case are
relaxed or altered in their operation.” (D’Amico v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) Representations in a declaration
submitted in opposition to a summary judgment that contradict prior deposition
testimony “are insufficient to defeat summary judgment and [are] properly
stricken.” (Collins v. Hertz. Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 64, 79.)
 
Expert Testimony
 
“The requirements for expert
testimony are that it relate to a subject sufficiently beyond common experience
as to assist the trier of fact and be based on matter that is reasonably relied
upon by an expert in forming an opinion on the subject to which his or her
testimony relates. Such evidence is admissible even though it encompasses the
ultimate issue in the case.  Evidence Code section 801, subdivision (b) allows an expert
to testify “[b]ased on matter (including his special knowledge, skill,
experience, training, and education) perceived by or personally known to the
witness or made known to him at or before the hearing, whether or not
admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon by an expert
in forming an opinion upon the subject to which his testimony relates, unless
an expert is precluded by law from using such matter as a basis for his opinion.”  (People v. Polk (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 340, 353, internal
quotations omitted.)
 
            Evidence Code
section 720, subdivision (a)
provides: “A person is qualified to testify as an expert if he has special knowledge, skill, experience, training, or
education sufficient to qualify him as an expert on the subject to which his
testimony relates. Against the objection of a party, such special
knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education must be shown before the
witness may testify as an expert.”  An
expert’s qualifications must be related to the specific subject of the expert’s
testimony; qualifications in a related subject are insufficient.  (Lowery v.
Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc. (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 119, 125.)


          &ldquo;In Sargon Enterprises, Inc. v. University of So. Calif. (2012) 55 Cal.4th
747, the California Supreme Court explained that “under Evidence Code sections 801, subdivision (b), and 802, the trial court acts as a gatekeeper to exclude expert
opinion testimony that is (1) based on matter of a type on which an expert may
not reasonably rely, (2) based on reasons unsupported by the material on which
the expert relies, or (3) speculative. 
But courts must also be cautious in excluding expert testimony. The
trial court’s gatekeeping role does not involve choosing between competing
expert opinions. The gatekeeper’s focus must be solely on principles and
methodology, not on the conclusions that they generate.”&rdquo; (Lowery, supra, 49 Cal.App.5th at p. 124
[cleaned up].) 
 
Plaintiff presents the Declaration of Mark Burns, her expert
who inspected the restroom on March 24, 2021. Mr. Burns stated that “photographs
from the date of incident show a skid mark on the floor which would not be
present without water on the floor.” (Burns Decl. ¶ 11.) However, he provides
no explanation or basis for his speculation.
 
Dangerous Condition - Analysis
 
The case of Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030,
which involved a slip and fall at a market, is instructive. There, the
plaintiff alleged she slipped on “oil or grease.” (Id. 1032.) However, the
plaintiff unequivocally stated that she saw nothing on the floor prior to after
her fall. Additionally, defendant’s employee inspected the surrounding area
after the fall and did not find any substance on the floor. (Id. at 1035.) The
court also disregarded testimony from an expert who opined that the manner in
which the plaintiff fell was consistent with a slip caused by a foreign
substance. The court affirmed summary judgment for the defendant store, finding
that the plaintiff could not produce evidence there was a substance on the
floor; thus, there was no triable issue of fact regarding constructive notice.
(Id. at 1036 [“The mere possibility that
there was a slippery substance on the floor does not establish causation.”].) 
 
Actual or Constructive Notice
 
            A property
owner is not the insurer of the safety of its guests. (Ortega, supra,
26 Cal.4th at p 1205.)  The owner’s
actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition is key to
establishing liability.  (Hall v. Rockcliff Realtors (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 1134, 1139-40.)  Whether a
defendant had constructive notice of the condition that created the risk of
harm depends on whether, under all the circumstances, the condition was of such
a nature and existed long enough that defendant had sufficient time to discover
it and, using reasonable care: (1) repair the condition; or (2) protect against
harm from the condition; or adequately warn of the condition.  A defendant must make reasonable inspections
of the property to discover unsafe conditions. 
If an inspection was not made within a reasonable time before the
accident, this may show that the condition existed long enough so that the
owner using reasonable care would have discovered it.  (CACI No. 1011.)  It is
generally a question of fact for the jury as to whether, under all the
circumstances, a defective condition existed long enough such that a reasonable
person, exercising reasonable care, would have discovered it.  (Hale v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1954)
129 Cal.App.2d 124, 128-129 (Hale).) 
 
            In Girvetz v. Boys’ Market (1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 827, 829 (Girvetz),
the Court of Appeal stated: 
The defendant market owner was not an insurer
of the safety of his patrons, but owed them the duty to exercise reasonable
care in keeping the premises safe for his invitees. To impose liability for
injuries suffered by an invitee due to the defective condition of the premises,
the owner or occupier must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to
discover the condition, which if known to him, he should realize as involving
an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises. His negligence in such cases
is founded upon his failure to exercise ordinary care in remedying the defect
after he has discovered it.  Whether,
under all the circumstances, the defective condition had existed long enough so
that a reasonable man exercising reasonable care would have discovered it, is
ordinarily a question of fact to be decided by the jury. The fact alone that a
dangerous condition existed at the time the accident occurred will not warrant
an inference that the defendant was negligent. There must be some evidence,
direct or circumstantial, to support the conclusion that the condition had
existed long enough for the proprietor, in the exercise of reasonable care, to
have discovered and remedied it.  
 
And “[w]here the
only evidence is that the foreign object has been on the floor of the market
for a minute and a half, it must be held that it is insufficient to support an
inference that the defendant proprietor failed to exercise the care required of
him.”  (Id. at p. 831.)  On the other hand, where the evidence
fails to show how long the dangerous condition existed prior to the injury,
“evidence of the owner’s failure to inspect the premises within a reasonable
period of time is sufficient to allow an inference that the condition was on
the floor long enough to give the owner the opportunity to discover and remedy
it. [Citation.]” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1203; Sapp
v. W.T. Grant Co. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 89, 91-92 (Sapp) [whether 15
to 25 minute interval between inspections was commensurate with the exercise of
reasonable care was a question properly left to the trier of fact].)
 
            A review
of relevant California case law provides a helpful spectrum to determine
whether there was sufficient time for a defendant to conduct a reasonable
inspection of the area.  On one end of
the spectrum is Girvetz, supra, where the Court of Appeal found
one and one-half minutes is, as a matter of law, too short a period of time to
establish constructive notice.[3]  (Girvetz, 91 Cal.App.2d at p.
832.)  Towards the other end of
the spectrum are cases holding that ten to twenty minutes between the
inspection and the fall requires a jury’s determination of the reasonableness
of the inspection.[4] For
example, in Louie v. Hagstrom’s Food Stores, Inc., 81 Cal.App.2d 601,
607 (Louie), the plaintiff slipped in a pool of syrup spilled on the
floor of defendant’s grocery store. No employee examined the relevant area for
fifteen to twenty-five minutes before the accident.  The court held that whether the dangerous
condition existed long enough so that a person exercising ordinary care would
have discovered it was a question for the jury. 
Similarly, in Hale, supra, plaintiff while shopping in
defendant’s store slipped on a banana. 
The banana may have been on the floor for 30 to 45 minutes.  Again it was held that whether defendant
should have discovered and removed the banana within this time was a jury
question.  In Sapp, supra, 172
Cal.App.2d at p. 94, the court asked: “Was a twenty minute interval between
inspections of the aisles commensurate with the exercise of ordinary care by
defendant?”  The court answered: “This is
a question that was properly left with the jury to decide.”  
 
            Although
not a formal inspection of the bathroom floor, Defendant offers evidence that
its employee did not observe any water, liquid substance, or unsafe condition
on the floor while he was in the restroom, immediately before Plaintiff fell.
Plaintiff does not present any contrary evidence creating a triable issue of
fact. Rather, Plaintiff argues about a caution sign being present in the
bathroom for nine years, including at the time of the fall. (PAMF 23.)[5]
This evidence, however, does not establish a triable issue of fact that
Defendant had constructive or actual notice of the presence of water causing
the subject incident. Accordingly, construing the evidence in the light most
favorable to Plaintiff, including all reasonable inferences, the Court finds
there are no triable issues of fact that Defendant had actual or constructive
notice of a dangerous condition.[6]
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Forest
Lawn Memorial-Park Association’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant
shall file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


