 Case Number:  22STCV19643    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV19643




MOTIONS:  


Deem
  Matters Admitted




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Micah Sanford and Jamie Cookes  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiffs Micah Sanford and
Jamie Cookes (Plaintiffs) move to deem matters in Requests for Admissions, Set
Two, admitted against Defendants Norma L. Gonzalez and Dany Steve Gonzalez
(Defendants). Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any
party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings
on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery
heard before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the
trial of the action. (Code Civ. Proc.§ 2024.020 (a).) 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete
discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer
to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has
been set.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050 (a).) The motion must be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration. (Id.) 
 
The
Court has discretion to grant a motion under section 2024.050 but must take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested including but not
limited to: “(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery; (2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier; (3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party; (4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050 (b).) 
 
A trial court abuses its discretion in hearing a discovery motion past
the deadlines in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 when it does not
require the party to file a motion for leave to reopen discovery under section
2024.050. (Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta
Packaging Products, Inc. (2008)
165 Cal.App.4th 1568, 1588.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            On November 30, 2023 the Court continued
the trial in this case from December 14, 2023 to January 16, 2024. The minute
order states: “All discovery/motion cut-off is closed. The pre-trial motion cut
off shall remain in effect.” (Min. Order, 11/30/23.) This motion is set to be
heard six days before trial, and thus is untimely as a discovery motion. Therefore, the
Court only has discretion to rule on this motion if Plaintiffs file a motion
for leave to reopen discovery under section 2024.050. Since Plaintiffs have not
filed a motion to reopen discovery, the Court cannot rule on the motion to deem
admitted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to deem matters admitted is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 