 Case Number:  24TRCV01099    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANITA
  GONZALES, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01099




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 18, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Anita Gonzales
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Vehicle Inspection
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
The motion to compel plaintiff’s deposition
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to
appear at a mutually agreeable time and place within twenty days. 
The motion to compel plaintiff’s vehicle
inspection is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered
to produce the vehicle for inspection at a mutually agreeable time and place
within forty-five days. 
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel
Strategic Legal Practices, APC are ordered to pay monetary sanctions to
defendant in the amount of $750 within thirty days.  The obligation is joint and several.
BACKGROUND
            On March 2, 2024, plaintiff Anita
Gonzales filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Co., Inc. for
Song-Beverly Act violations as to a 2022 Honda HR-V purchased on January 21,
2022. 
            On July 11, 2024, plaintiff filed a
FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Deposition
CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” 
CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)        The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)        The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
Inspection of Vehicle
Under CCP §2031.010, “(a) Any party
may obtain discovery within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 2019.010), by inspecting, copying, testing, or
sampling documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically
stored information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to
the action.
(b) A party may demand that any
other party produce and permit the party making the demand, or someone acting
on the demanding party’s behalf, to inspect and to copy a document that is in
the possession, custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.”
DISCUSSION
Defendant
Honda requests that the Court compel plaintiff to appear for deposition and to
produce all non-privileged documents at deposition and to produce the subject
vehicle for inspection.
            Defendant
explains that on August 8, 2024, defendant served plaintiff with notice of
deposition for deposition to occur on September 3, 2024 and a Request for
Vehicle Inspection for an inspection date of September 4, 2024. 
            On August
29, 2024, plaintiff served an objection to the deposition notice claiming
unavailability and that plaintiff would meet and confer to reschedule the
deposition on a date and time that was mutually convenient.  On August 31, 2024, defense counsel sent an
email to plaintiff’s counsel asking that counsel provide alternative dates as
to when plaintiff would be available for deposition.  On September 3, 2024, defense counsel sent an
email to plaintiff’s counsel that although no objection was received, the
inspection would not go forward on September 4 because defendant had a conflict
on that date and asked for three available dates in the next three months.  On September 4, 2024, defense counsel sent
another email asking that plaintiff’s counsel provide three alternate dates for
plaintiff’s deposition and three alternative dates for the vehicle
inspection.  On September 10, 2024,
defense counsel sent plaintiff’s counsel an email asking for three alternate
dates for the deposition and inspection. 
As of the filing of the motion on October 2, 2024, plaintiff had not
provided any available dates.  
            Defendant
does not argue good cause as to the requests for production of documents in the
deposition notice.
            In
opposition, plaintiff contends that she served a valid objection to the
deposition notice based on her unavailability on September 3 and that defense
counsel failed to meet and confer in good faith.  Plaintiff further asserts that “[a]s is
customary between counsel,” plaintiff was willing to provide dates for her
deposition and the scheduling of the vehicle inspection in exchange for the
availability of defendant’s PMK witnesses for deposition, and that to date,
plaintiff has not deposed defendant’s PMK witnesses.  Plaintiff asserts that she has “always” been
willing to produce the vehicle for inspection. 

The Court
rules as follows:  As to the motion to
compel deposition, the Court finds that defendant served a valid and proper
deposition notice and that plaintiff failed to serve a valid objection based on
her unavailability.  Although not being
available may be a reason to not attend as a practical matter, it is not a
valid objection under CCP §2025.410. 
Further, defendant provided plaintiff with ample opportunities to offer
available dates, but she failed to do so. 
Defendant also sufficiently attempted to meet and confer in multiple emails
without any response from plaintiff’s counsel. 
The Court expects Plaintiff’s counsel to comply with deposition notices.  The suggestion that a party may delay
providing acceptable dates until the other side reciprocates with deposition dates
that the party desires is not acceptable behavior by counsel.  The Court expects all counsel to manage their
respective professional obligations and cases so that they are not so
overburdened that they cannot reasonably schedule events in the cases that they
have accepted.  Counsel must do a far
better job recognizing that their professional obligations include ethe ability
to timely handle the cases they have so that their cases may be timely prosecuted.
The motion to compel plaintiff’s
deposition is GRANTED.
As to the motion to compel vehicle
inspection, the Court finds that defendant’s notice for a vehicle inspection
was proper, and that plaintiff did not file any objections.  The Court notes though that defendant
cancelled the noticed inspection date. 
Defense counsel asked for available dates within the next three months,
but plaintiff has not responded, although plaintiff represents that she is
willing to produce the vehicle for inspection. 

The
motion to compel vehicle inspection is GRANTED. 
Sanctions
Under CCP §2025.450(g)(1), “If a
motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
Defendant requests $635 ($230/hr.) in
sanctions against plaintiff and her counsel of record for the motion to compel
deposition.  As for the motion to compel
vehicle inspection, the notice is defective as to sanctions because it does not
set forth as to whom sanctions is sought as required under CCP §2023.040.  Plaintiff argues that sanctions are not
warranted.  The Court finds that
sanctions are warranted against plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel in the amount
of $750 ($230/hr. x 3 hrs.; $60 filing fee) for the motion to compel
deposition. 
 
ORDER
The motion to compel plaintiff’s
deposition is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
ordered to appear at a mutually agreeable time and place within twenty days. 
The motion to compel plaintiff’s
vehicle inspection is GRANTED.  Plaintiff
is ordered to produce the vehicle for inspection at a mutually agreeable time
and place within forty-five days. 
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel
Strategic Legal Practices, APC are ordered to pay monetary sanctions to
defendant in the amount of $750 within thirty days.  The obligation is joint and several.
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.