  Case Number:  20SMCV01277    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   THE MAYME A. CLAYTON LIBRARY AND MUSEUM, et al.,    Plaintiffs, v.  MARVIN BOATENG, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  20SMCV01277     Hearing Date: October 26, 2023   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT MARVIN BOATENG’S    MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR    IN THE ALTERNATIVE, FOR SUMMARY    ADJUDICATION    MOVING PARTY:   Defendant Marvin Boateng  RESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiffs The Mayme A. Clayton Library and Museum (“MCLM”) and Renai v. Clayton, Jr.   BACKGROUND This case arises from a dispute over ownership and control of a collection of African American books, films and other works of art.  The collection is owned by Plaintiff The Mayme A. Clayton Library and Museum (“MCLM”), and Plaintiff Renai Clayton, Jr. is one of MCLM’s directors.  MCLM had a one dollar a year lease with LA County, at the former Culver City courthouse, located at 4130 Overland Avenue, Culver City, CA (the “Property”).   Plaintiffs allege that Defendants1 engaged in a scheme to kick MCLM out of its decades-long housing at the Property.  The scheme was designed to force MCLM to move its art collection to Defendant California State University Dominguez Hills (“CSUDH”), so that Defendants could illicitly profit from the collection’s funding capabilities from various governmental agencies.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants wanted CSUDH to gain possession of MCLM’s collection, so that Defendant Mark Ridley-Thomas could use his public position and influence on the LA County Board of Supervisors to send public monies directly to CSUDH.  In return, CSUDH would kick back financial perks to Thomas and the other Defendants. The operative (second amended) complaint alleges claims for (1) Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization (“RICO”) violations, (2) breach of governing documents, (3) breach of undivided loyalty, (4) tortious interference and (5) misrepresentations.   The facts relevant to this motion are as follows:  From May 2013 through August 11, 2020, Defendant Marvin Boateng was a Director and Treasurer of the MCLM.  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 1.)  In May 2020, CSUDH signed a collection loan agreement with MCLM to house its collection (the “Agreement”).  (UMF No. 2.)  The Agreement was for a loan and conferred no rights of ownership to anyone other than the MCLM organization.  (UMF No. 3.)   Plaintiff Renai Clayton participated in the negotiation of the terms of the Agreement, and insisted that Lloyd Clayton be added as one of the signatories to the Agreement.  (UMF No. 2.)  Lloyd Clayton in fact signed the Agreement as the Board Chair of MCLM.  (UMF No. 3.)   Boateng attests he never offered or accepted any financial gifts or compensation of any kind in exchange for voting to agree to move the MCLM collection to CSUDH.  (UMF Nos. 4, 8.)  Boateng avers that during his tenure as director and treasurer of MCLM, he was not engaged in any acts of self-dealing or breach of a duty of undivided loyalty to MCLM.  (UMF No. 14.)  Boateng attests he never pressured the MCLM board, including Lloyd Clayton, to move the collection to CSUDH.  (UMF No. 6, 7.)       On September 10, 2020, Boateng notified the Attorney General (“AG”) of the internal dispute between the board members of MCLM and requested guidance from the AG’s office regarding his responsibilities as to the financial records of MCLM.  On October 29, 2020, the AG notified non-profit counsel for MCLM that it had no objection to the Agreement.  (UMF No. 12.)  This hearing is on Boateng’s motion for summary judgment or in the alternative, for summary adjudication.  Boateng moves for summary adjudication of (1) the RICO claim on grounds Plaintiffs cannot show an enterprise, existence of a continuing unit and a pattern of racketeering activity, (2) the claim for breach of governing documents because Boateng did not breach any governing documents, (3) the claim of breach of undivided loyalty because Boateng did not breach his fiduciary duty, (4) the claim for tortious interference because Boateng did not interfere with any economic relationship between MCLM and the County, (5) the misrepresentation claim because Boateng made no misrepresentation nor did he conceal any material facts, and (6) the claim for punitive damages because there is no showing of malice, oppression or fraud.       LEGAL STANDARD The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Ritchfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Minor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)   “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67).   As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element or to establish a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  A moving party may prevail by establishing “the absence of evidence to support the [responding party’s] case.”  (Leslie G. v. Perry & Assoc. (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 472, 482.)  The defendant must show the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence and also that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain the evidence.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Ritchfield (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) A moving defendant may rely upon factually devoid discovery responses to shift the burden of proof.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App. 4th 573, 581, 590.)  Thus, in Union Bank, the Court found that the defendant had met its burden of proof for summary judgment, by relying upon plaintiff’s discovery responses, which contained no facts supporting the fraud causes of action at issue in that case.  (Id. at 581, 592-593.)   Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  The responding party may not simply rely on mere allegations or denials of the pleadings but must set forth specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists with respect to the claim at issue.  (Aguilar, 25 Cal.4th at 844.) DISCUSSION Continuance The Court first addresses Plaintiffs’ request for a continuance on the ground that certain depositions have not yet been taken.  Plaintiffs claim that they have diligently sought to depose (but for reasons outside their control, have not been able to depose) Anthony Elliott, Ruth Jackson, Anthony Samad and CSUDH’s person most knowledgeable.  However, Plaintiffs have not shown that any of these depositions are essential to opposing the motion.   In seeking a continuance of a summary judgment motion, a plaintiff has essentially two options. The first option is to comply with¿section 437c, subdivision (h), which states, “If it appears from the affidavits submitted in¿opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.”  Where a plaintiff cannot make the showing required under¿section 437c, subdivision (h), a plaintiff may seek a continuance under the ordinary discretionary standard applied to requests for a continuance.¿(Mahoney v. Southland Mental Health Associates Medical Group¿(1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 167, 170 [272 Cal. Rptr. 602].)¿This requires a showing of good cause.¿(Id.¿at pp. 170–171.)¿ ¿“[I]n deciding whether to¿continue a¿summary judgment to permit additional discovery, courts consider various factors, including (1) how long the case has been pending; (2) how long the requesting party had to oppose the motion; (3) whether the continuance motion could have been made earlier; (4) the proximity of the trial date or the 30-day discovery cutoff before trial; (5) any prior continuances for the same reason; and (6) the question¿whether the evidence sought is truly essential to the motion.” (Chavez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc.¿(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 644.) Under either option, Plaintiffs are required to explain how the additional discovery is essential to opposing the motion for summary judgment.  Plaintiffs have not carried their burden to show how each of the foregoing depositions would aid in their opposition.  Accordingly, the Court denies the request for continuance.  RICO Claim Boateng argues that Plaintiffs have not adequately alleged the elements of a RICO claim.  To state a cause of action under RICO (18 U.S.C. § 1961 et seq.) a plaintiff must plead facts to show: “(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity.” (Sedima, S.P.R.L.¿v.¿Imrex Co.¿(1985) 473 U.S. 479, 496, fn. omitted.)  Boateng argues Plaintiffs have not met the “enterprise”, “pattern” and “racketeering activity” elements.  The Court addresses only the “pattern” element as it is dispositive of Plaintiffs’ RICO claim against Boateng.   A pattern requires at least two acts of racketeering activity.  (Occidental, 235 F. Supp. 3d at 1177.)  Moreover, where, as here, RICO claims are asserted against multiple defendants, a plaintiff must allege at least two predicate acts by each defendant.  (In re WellPoint Inc. Out-of-Network UCR Rates Litig. (C.D. Cal. 2012) 903 F. Supp. 2d 880, 914; Occidental, 235 F. Supp. 3d at 1177.)  The predicate acts must not only be aimed at the same purpose but they must “amount to, or …. otherwise constitute a threat of continuing racketeering activity.”  (H.J. Inc. v. Nw. Bell Tel. Co. (1989) 492 U.S. 229, 237-38.) Crucially, courts routinely reject RICO claims founded on a single course of conduct involving a single alleged scheme and a limited number of alleged victims because such allegations do not meet the continuity requirement.  For example, in Edmondson & Gallagher v. Alban Towers Tenants Ass’n (D.C. Cir. 1995) 48 F.3d 1260, the court rejected RICO claims despite the plaintiffs’ allegations of “bribery, extortion [and] wire and mail fraud” because those alleged multiple predicate acts formed “only a single scheme – to prevent or delay the sale of [real property], or to secure a ransom for allowing the sale to proceed.”  (Id. at 1264, 1265.)  It did not matter that the number of predicate acts (fifteen) was sufficient or even that they occurred over a span of three years since the scheme ultimately amounted to a single course of conduct with a “single discrete goal.”  (Id. at 1265; see also Nugent v. St. Agnes Med. Ctr. (9th Cir. 2002) 53 F. App’x 828, 829 (“Where, as here, a scheme involves but a single alleged fraud with a single victim, there is no threat of continuity.”); Efron v. Embassy Suites (Puerto Rico), Inc. (1st Cir. 2000) 223 F.3d 12, 20 (alleged wire and mail fraud over a 21 month period did not suffice when entire scheme amounted to a single fraudulent course of conduct against a single victim); Sil-Flo, Inc. v. SFHC, Inc. (10th Cir. 1990) 917 F.2d 1507, 1516 (multiple predicate acts failed to show a pattern where the acts constituted a “single scheme” to accomplish “one discrete goal, directed at one individual with no potential to extend to other persons or entities”). Here, Plaintiffs have alleged a single course of conduct resulting in a single injury to a single victim.  Plaintiffs allege MCLM was harmed by Boateng’s efforts to force it to transfer its collection to CSUDH, which Plaintiff claims were motivated by a kickback scheme.  These allegations amount to a single course of conduct aimed at a single alleged goal: to force MCLM to transfer its collection to CSUDH, and they are aimed at a single victim: MCLM.  Such allegations do not meet the continuity requirement and are no different from the ones rejected in Edmonson.       Accordingly, Plaintiffs have failed to show the pattern element.  Therefore, the Court grants the motion for summary adjudication of the RICO claim against Boateng.   Breach of Governing Documents Boateng argues that Plaintiff cannot show he breached the governing documents.  The Court disagrees. Plaintiff alleges that Boateng breached the governing documents by (1) staying past his three year term as a board member and tabling elections for replacement directors (SAC ¶¶ 87(a)(1), 87(b)(1)); (2) holding “false” board meetings with board members whose terms had expired (SAC ¶87(b)(1)), (3) failing to contribute $1000 in annual dues plus securing an additional $2,000 in cash or in-kind support for MCLM annually (SAC ¶87(c)(1)), (4) misappropriating funds by hiring his friend Anthony Elliott to perform accounting services (Id.), (5) holding board meetings without a Clayton family member or designee (SAC ¶87(d)(1)), (6) not allowing other board members access to MCLM’s records (SAC ¶87(e)(1)), and (7) allowing Defendants Mark Ridley-Thomas, Dr. Anthony Samad and CSUDH to purchase his vote through the promises of gifts, jobs or other financial benefits (SAC ¶87(f)(1)). Boateng’s motion relies exclusively on his declaration.  That declaration denies some but not all of these allegations.  Specifically, Boateng does not address whether he stayed past his three year term as a board member, whether he held “false” board meetings, whether he failed to contribute annual dues, whether he refused to allow certain board members access to MCLM’s records, and whether he held board meetings without a Clayton family member or designee.  ¿ A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a¿cause of action, an affirmative defense, a¿claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c, subdivision (f)(1).)  Here, the motion for summary adjudication is applicable to only part of the breach of governing documents claim and, therefore, fails.      Breach of Undivided Loyalty Boateng argues that Plaintiffs have failed to show he breached his duty of undivided loyalty to MCLM.  The Court disagrees.   Plaintiff alleges that Boateng breached his fiduciary duty by (1) conspiring with Defendants Ridley-Thomas, Samad, CSUDH to move the MCLM Collection to CSUDH in return for private financial benefit, (2) refusing to acknowledge expired terms or fill vacancies, (3) concealing his personal interests relating to the Agreement during Board meetings, (4) communicating private MCLM board business to Defendants Samad and Ridley-Thomas, (5) conducting unsanctioned meetings without a Clayton family member or designee, and (6) committing self-dealing by hiring Anthony Elliot for personal financial benefit.  (SAC ¶ 94.) Again, Boateng’s declaration only deals with part of the claim.  The declaration does not address alleged breaches relating to the failure to acknowledge expired terms or fill vacancies, the conduct of meetings without a Clayton family member or designee, and the communication of private MCLM board business to Ridley-Thomas.  Accordingly, because the motion does not dispose of a whole claim, it fails.   Tortious Interference Boateng argues that Plaintiffs have failed to show he tortiously interfered with the contract between MCLM and the County of Los Angeles.  The Court agrees. The elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations are: (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party, (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract, (3) defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship, (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship, and (5) resulting damage.  (I-CA Enteprrises Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257, 289.)  The dispute centers on whether Plaintiff has shown intentional acts on the part of Boateng to include a breach or disruption of the relationship.   Boateng points out that Plaintiffs’ claim for tortious interference does not identify him by name or specify how he interfered with the contractual relationship between the MCLM and the County of Los Angeles.  But the claim incorporates the foregoing allegations in the SAC which make clear that Plaintiffs are alleging Boateng disrupted the relationship by conspiring to move the MCLM collection to CSUDH in exchange for personal financial benefits. Notwithstanding, Boateng avers he was “neither promised nor accepted any perks, indirect bribes or other financial compensation by anyone at CSUDH or LA County to move the MCLM collection.”  (UMF Nos. 4, 8.)  This is sufficient to shift the burden to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue exists on whether Boateng engaged in an intentional act designed to induce a disruption of the contractual relationship between MCLM and the County of Los Angeles.   To establish a triable issue of material fact, Plaintiffs must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Plaintiffs may not simply rely on mere allegations or denials of the pleadings but must set forth specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists with respect to the claim at issue.  (Aguilar, 25 Cal.4th at 844.)  Plaintiffs have not met their burden. Plaintiffs “believe” Boateng “either misapplied or misplaced significant funds in the amount of $450,000.”  They also point to a PayPal account to which they claim MCLM money was diverted.  Finally, they claim Boateng has not turned over financial information from 2012-2018.  These arguments are either not supported by any admissible evidence or do not prove that Boateng engaged in a kickback scheme. Accordingly, the Court grants the motion for summary adjudication of the tortious interference claim against Boateng.     Misrepresentation Boateng argues Plaintiffs have not shown how any of the wrongdoing attributed to him give rise to a claim for fraud.  The Court agrees. The elements of fraud are (1) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment or nondisclosure), (2) scienter or knowledge of its falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) justifiable reliance and (5) resulting damage.  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The dispute here centers on whether Plaintiffs have adequately pleaded facts which show who, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) However, the familiar¿who-what-where-when-how requirement for fraud claims is somewhat relaxed when, as here, the claim is based on an allegedly fraudulent omission.  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Imp. System & Planning Ass'n, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384¿(who-what-where-when-how rule “is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations . . .¿[I]t is harder to apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what means’ something didn’t happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never happened?”].) Here, Plaintiffs allege omissions, not affirmative misrepresentations.  Specifically, they allege the board members, including Boateng, failed to disclose they were voting to move the MCLM collection to CSUDH in exchange for kickbacks from Defendants Ridley-Thomas and CSUDH; they had no intention of abiding by the bylaws, and they were self-dealing in approving payments to friends or personal subsidiaries.  (SAC ¶ 109.) Notwithstanding, Boateng’s declaration denies any of these material omissions.  Boateng avers he has “never been offered nor has he ever accepted any financial gifts or compensation of any kind in exchange for voting to agree to move the MCLM collection to CSUDH.”  (UMF No. 4.)  Boateng “did not receive any direct or indirect benefit from anyone for MCLM use of the accounting services of Anthony Elliott.”  (UMF No. 13.)  Boateng has not “breached any of [MCLM’s] governing documents.”  (UMF No. 15.)      This is sufficient to shift the burden to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue exists.  Plaintiffs have not met their burden. Plaintiffs “believe” Boateng “either misapplied or misplaced significant funds in the amount of $450,000.”  They also point to a PayPal account to which they claim MCLM money was diverted.  Finally, they claim Boateng has not turned over financial information from 2012-2018.  These arguments are either not supported by any admissible evidence or do not prove that Boateng engaged in a kickback scheme.   Punitive Damages Boateng argues that Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages must fail because he has not acted with malice, oppression or fraud.  The Court agrees.   Cal. Civ. Code section 3294 provides the basis upon which punitive damages can be recovered.¿ Punitive damages may only be sought where there is clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud:¿  (c)(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended to cause injury to the plaintiff or   despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and   conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.¿  (c)(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust   hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.¿  (c)(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a   material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the     defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise¿ causing injury.¿¿  (Civ. Code §3294.)¿ Section 3294 was amended in 1987 to increase the burden of proof required in order to allege a punitive damages claim as well as to raise the level of misconduct necessary for an award of punitive damages.¿ The California Supreme Court has ruled that the insertion of the word “despicable” in section 3294 created a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”¿ (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)¿ “Despicable” means conduct that is “so vile, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”¿ (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)¿ “Such conduct has been described as having the character of outrage frequently associated with [a] crime.”¿ (Id.)¿ Punitive damages are disfavored by public policy and are allowed only under the most extreme circumstances and in the “clearest of cases.”¿ (Woolstrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 9.)¿ “To contain the generosity and emotionality of juries, appellate courts have set the threshold high in defining situations in which punitive damages can be given.¿ Conduct which may be characterized as unreasonable, negligent, grossly negligent or reckless does not satisfy the highly culpable state of mind warranting punitive damages.¿ Conduct which warrants punitive damages must be of such severity or shocking character [as] warrants the same treatment as accorded willful misconduct – conduct in which defendant intends to cause harm.”¿ (Id. at 10 (internal quotations and citations omitted).)¿¿ Here, the undisputed facts are that Boateng did not engage in a kickback or other self-dealing scheme.  The only issue is whether Boateng failed to honor bylaws by acknowledging expired terms or failing to fill vacancies, by conducting meetings without a Clayton family member or designee, and by communicating private MCLM board business to Ridley-Thomas.  These acts do not rise to the level of conduct frequently associated with a crime.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion for summary adjudication as to the punitive damages claim.      CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Mark Boateng’s motion for summary judgment and GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART his motion for summary adjudication.   IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: October 26, 2023    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  