

 
            This action
arises over a dispute on a promise to transfer stock in Defendant Partanna
Global Inc., (Partanna) by Defendant Sam Marshall (Marshall) to Plaintiff James Webster (Plaintiff or Webster). On June 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Complaint alleging causes of action for (1.) breach of contract, (2.) specific
performance, (3.) interference with contractual relations, (4.) inducing a
breach of contract, (6.) implied in fact contract, (7.) promissory estoppel,
(8.) unjust enrichment, and (9.) quantum meruit.   
 
Defendants Marshall and Partanna (Defendants)
demur to all the causes of action in the Complaint based a failure to state a
claim. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer.   
 
             The demurrer is overruled as to the
first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and ninth causes of action; the demurrer
is sustained with leave to amend as to the second cause of action to allege
specific performance as remedy and sustained without leave to amend as to the
eighth cause of action for unjust enrichment. 
 
            Defendants’
request for judicial notice of Exhibits 1-2 are denied. (Evid. Code, § 452.)
Defendants request for judicial notice of Exhibit 1 – the November Advisor
Agreement – relies on Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 743.
As explained in Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut v. Navigators
Specialty Insurance Company (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 341: “Scott is
inapposite because the document being judicially noticed in that case was a
government document and was accordingly governed by Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (c), under which judicial notice may be taken of ‘[o]fficial acts
of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States
and of any state of the United States.’ (Scott, at p. 752, 154
Cal.Rptr.3d 394.) Scott does not provide authority allowing a court to
take judicial notice of a contract between private parties.” (Id. at
354.)
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
First
Cause of Action – Breach of Contract by Marshall
 
            Defendants demur to the first cause of action on the
grounds that Plaintiff Webster fails to allege a any enforceable written
contract. 
 
To prevail on a breach of contract cause of action, a plaintiff
must prove: (1) the existence of a contract; (2) plaintiff's performance or
excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant's breach; and (4) resulting damages to
plaintiff. (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges on
March 6, 2023, Marshall entered into a written transfer agreement (March
6 Agreement) with Plaintiff whereby “Marshall
[agreed] to arrange for [Plaintiff] to have a direct or indirect interest in 2%
of the total capital stock of Partanna.” (Compl., ¶ 27.) The
parties subsequently negotiated the form of interest that would be transferred;
the parties agreed that there would a direct transfer of shares of 75,000
shares and the remaining 2% interests would likely come from Plaintiff’s acquisition
of an LLC, which was controlled by Marshall and that owned a portion of
Partanna. (Compl., ¶ 30.) Partanna had confirmed
that the initial direct transfer of 75,000 shares was permitted under
Partanna’s Right of First Refusal and Co-Sale Agreement (dated December 2, 2022).
(Compl., ¶ 36.) The Complaint alleges that Defendant
Marshall breached this March 6 Agreement by failing to effectuate the transfer
of ownership as required under the parties’ contract. (Compl., ¶¶ 82-83.) 
 
            Defendants first argue that this cause of action fails
because the alleged contract lacks valid consideration. Although the March 6 Agreement
contains language that it is “[f]or good and valuable consideration,” Defendant
notes that this is the only language addressing consideration in exchange for
the stock transfer. In response to the language in the March 6 Agreement,
Defendant argues that this stock transfer is simply additional consideration
for Plaintiff’s performance of the November Advisor Agreement. (Compl., ¶ 11.) Thus,
according to Defendants, the March 6 Agreement is nothing more than a gift without
consideration. (See, e.g., Dow v. River Farms Co. of Cal. (1952) 110
Cal.App.2d 403, 408 [holding that a promise to make a gift is unenforceable for
lack of consideration]; Passante v.
McWilliam (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1240
[“[T]he stock promise to the attorney was merely a promise to make a gift, and
therefore, it was unenforceable. Past consideration cannot support a contract;
consideration must result from a bargain.”].)
 
            The Complaint adequately alleges that the consideration
provided by Webster was the expanded scope of services requested beyond what
was negotiated for in the November Advisor Agreement. (Compl., ¶¶ 13, [“Because
Mr. Marshall and Partanna had asked Mr. Webster to expand the scope of his
services, he requested two percent (2%) of Partanna’s stock as compensation.”],
15 [“Based on these repeated
representations, Mr. Webster continued to provide services beyond the scope of
services in the November 30 Advisor Agreement.”].)
The Complaint also alleges that Plaintiff provided ongoing services after
signing the March 6 Agreement as well. (Compl., ¶¶ 31-32.) Based on the foregoing
allegations, the Complaint adequately alleges consideration for the March 6
Agreement. 
 
            Second, Defendants argue that the March 6 Agreement is merely
an agreement to agree. They contend that the March 6 Agreement merely outlines
the terms of a future arrangement but does not create a binding enforceable
agreement. 
 
            “Preliminary
negotiations or agreements for future negotiations—so-called agreements to
agree—are not enforceable contracts.” (City of Oakland v. Department of
Finance (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 431, 447.) Generally,
“where any of the essential elements of a promise are reserved for
the future agreement of both parties, no legal obligation
arises . . ..” (Copeland v.
Baskin Robbins U.S.A. (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 1251, 1256.) 
 
            “[T]he enforceability
of a contract containing a promise to agree depends upon the relative
importance and the severability of the matter left to the future; it is a
question of degree and may be settled by determining whether the indefinite
promise is so essential to the bargain that inability to enforce that promise
strictly according to its terms would make unfair the enforcement of the
remainder of the agreement. (Citations.) Where the matters left for future
agreement are unessential, each party will be forced to accept a reasonable
determination of the unsettled point or if possible the unsettled point may be
left unperformed and the remainder of the contract be enforced.” (Coleman
Engineering Co. v. North Am. Aviation, Inc. (1966) 65 Cal.2d 396, 405.)
 
            Here, the Court finds that the Complaint alleges the essential
elements of the contract between the parties. That is, there was an agreement
to exchange Plaintiff’s services for payment in the form of a stock transfer of
ownership. To be sure, the March 6 Agreement leaves to future negotiations the
form in which the 2% ownership interest will take to effectuate the performance,
but, at the pleading stage, this does not render the agreement unenforceable. 
 
            Finally, Defendants argue that the March 6 Agreement
violated supposed fiduciary duties that Plaintiff Webster purportedly owed to Partanna
and is thus unenforceable. 
 
            This argument turns on the resolution of factual issues. Defendants
seek a determination at the pleading stage that the March 6 Agreement was not
“fair and reasonable” to Partanna or Marshall. Encompassed in this assertion
are the unpleaded facts that “Webster did not advise Partanna or Marshall of”
certain issues regarding the March 6 Agreement. (Dem., 15:10-11.)  At the pleading stage this argument is not
well taken. 
 
            Further, the Complaint alleges no facts to support the existence
of an attorney-client relationship between Webster and Defendants – which is
the basis of Defendants’ claim of a fiduciary relationship. In asserting that there
was an attorney-client relationship with Defendants, Defendants argue “that
Webster functioned as legal counsel because the work Webster performed had a
distinctly legal character: developing “an intellectual property strategy,”
(Compl. ¶ 12.); selecting outside “expert counsel,” (Id.); ensuring “fully
negotiated NDAs were signed with key partners,” (Id. at ¶ 17)—typical
activities for in-house counsel. Webster even asked to be paid through his
company “Litigation Strategies.” (Compl., Ex. 9, p. 1.) 
 
The
Opposition denies the existence of an attorney-client relationship and further
asserts the cherry-picked allegations do not support finding the existence of
an attorney-client relationship.  Indeed,
the Complaint indicates that both parties were represented by their own counsel
in this negotiation, undermining the argument that Plaintiff was acting in a
representative capacity for Marshall or Partanna. (Opp. 7:5-8:12 [Compl., ¶¶
15, 18-21, 30 [“Mr. Marshall’s counsel at the Daspin law
firm approved the transaction and was engaged to give effect to Mr. Marshall
and Mr. Webster’s intentions, including the structure that Mr. Webster’s
counsel was to propose.”].) The Complaint does
not demonstrate the existence of an attorney-client relationship to support Defendants’
claim of breach of Plaintiff’s fiduciary duties. 
 
Defendants’
arguments as to the first cause of action all fail. The demurrer to the first
cause of action is overruled. 
 
Second
Cause of Action – Specific Performance against Marshall
 
            Plaintiff’s
second cause of action seeks specific performance against Marshall of the March
6 Agreement and the March 29 Transfer. (Compl., ¶ 37.) Defendants challenge
this “cause of action” on three grounds.
 
            First, Defendants
argue that “because there is no enforceable contract” there can be no specific
performance. (Dem. 16:9-10.) As discussed above, the Complaint alleges the
existence of a contract. 
 
Secondly, Defendants argue that
specific performance is not a separate cause of action. In this respect, the
demurrer is well taken. “There are no separate causes of action for specific
performance or injunctive relief, which are instead remedies.” (Green Valley
Landowners Assn. v. City of Vallejo (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 425, 433, fn. 8;
see, e.g., Wong v. Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1360, fn. 2 [explaining
that specific performance and injunctive relief are equitable remedies and not
causes of action for injuries].) 
 
Finally,
the Court will address Defendants’ third ground for demurrer to this cause of
action, which informs whether the Court should grant leave to amend to allow
Plaintiff to plead specific performance as a remedy. 
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff is
not entitled to specific performance because performance is impossible, citing
Civil Code section 3390. 
 
In Casady
v. Modern Metal Spinning (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d
728, 729, the court held “Where the defendant’s performance depends on the
consent or approval of one not a party to the contract who is free to withhold
his consent, specific performance of the contract will not be decreed where it
does not appear that such consent or approval has been or can be obtained.” (Id.
at 731.)
 
            Here,
Defendants argue that performance is impossible because
Defendant “Marshall
required consent or approval of third parties to perform the March 6 Agreement,
and Partanna would have required approval of third-party investors to effect
the March 29 Transfer.” (Dem., 17:4-6.) However, these conditions are not
alleged in the Complaint. In contrast, the Complaint alleges that were was
alternative means by which Defendant Marshall could effectuate the transfers
without requiring this third-party company approval. (Compl., ¶¶ 58-59.)
Further, the Complaint alleges that Defendant Marshall had Partanna’s Board’s
approval to transfer stock to an LLC to be held for the benefit of third
parties. (Compl., ¶ 74; see also ¶¶ 27-32 [alleging that the March 6 Agreement
contemplated this indirect transfer of ownership through an LLC.].) 
 
Thus, from the face of the pleadings,
the Court cannot find that the March 6 Agreement was impossible to perform. The
Court grants Plaintiff leave to amend to seek specific performance as an alternative
remedy for breach of contract. 
 
Third
Cause of Action – Intentional Inference with Contractual Relations against
Partanna
 
            Plaintiff’s
third cause of action alleges Partanna intentionally interfered with the contractual
relations between Plaintiff Webster and Defendant Marshall. (Compl., ¶¶ 91-95.)

 
            “To prevail
on a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations, a
plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of a valid contract between
the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant's knowledge of that
contract; (3) the defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33
Cal. 4th 1140, 1148.) Even if “the plaintiff need not prove that a defendant
acted with the primary purpose of disrupting the contract,” the plaintiff still
“must show the defendant's knowledge that the interference was certain or
substantially certain to occur as a result of his or her action.” (Id.) 
 
            Defendants
demur to this cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff
failed to allege the existence of any valid contract, and also failed to allege
any intentional act.
 
            As discussed above, Defendants’
first challenge to this cause of action fails as Plaintiff has adequately alleged
the existence of a contract. 
 
            On demurrer, Defendants also argue
that the claim fails because Plaintiff’s own exhibits to the Complaint indicate
that Partanna and Marshall were still working towards effecting the transfer,
that is, they were trying to help, not disrupt. (Compl., Ex. 25 [emails].) Defendants
argue that this Exhibit 25 “flatly contradict the ‘intentional acts’ [Plaintiff]
alleges. (Reply 12:3-14.) As a preliminary matter, is not clear what was being discussed
in Exhibit 25 and the allegations in the Complaint do not cite this Exhibit. Thus,
this Exhibit does not support Defendants’ proposition that Partanna was working,
in good faith, to effectuate the transfer its stock. 
 
Further,
the Complaint alleges Partanna encouraged the parties to effectuate the transfer
as electronic issuance of stock certificates but then Partanna interfered with
the transfer by, among other things, discouraging the completion of the
transfer by telling Defendant Marshall that his relationship with Partanna
would be negatively affected if the transfer of stock went through. (Compl., ¶
50.) Further, the Complaint avers Partanna falsely claimed it was unable to
proceed with the issuance of evidence of Plaintiff’s ownership after the electronic
transfer and that a company signature was required, despite prior assurances
that it had already approved of the transfer. (Compl., ¶¶ 59-60.) Thereafter, Partanna’s
counsel took over as Marshall’s counsel and engaged in a pattern of delay and
disruption to the performance of the stock transfer. (Compl., ¶¶ 61-64.) 
 
These
allegations are sufficient to state a claim that Partanna intentionally disrupted
the contractual relationship. The demurrer to the third cause of action is
overruled. 
 
Fourth
Cause of Action – Inducing a Breach of Contract against Partanna
 
            In demurring to this cause of action, Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for “inducing breach of contract” is
not a separate cause of action but a “species of intentional interference with
contractual relations.” (1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 568, 585.) But that case did not hold that the tort of inducing
breach of contract was not a separate cause of action.
 
To
the contrary, a claim of inducing breach is distinct from a claim of interference
with contractual relations. (Pacific
Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1129 [distinguishing inducing
a contract’s breach from interference that makes plaintiff’s performance more
burdensome].) A person may be liable in tort for intentionally interfering with a
contractual relationship or inducing another to breach the contract. (Applied
Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd., supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 514 Applied
Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514 [interference
with contractual]; Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19
Cal.4th 26, 55 [inducing breach of contract]; 1-800 Contacts, Inc. v.
Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568, 585-586 [inducing breach of
contract].) 
 
While these two claims are similar, they have
different elements.  As our Supreme Court
noted:  “[W]hile the tort of inducing
breach of contract requires proof of a breach, the cause of action for
interference with contractual relations is distinct and requires only proof of
interference.” (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co.
supra, 50 Cal.3d at 1129.)
 
            The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Fifth
Cause of Action – Intentional Inference with Prospective Economic Advantage
against Partanna
 
            Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action alleges Partanna
intentionally interfered with his prospective economic advantage. 
 
“The
tort of intentional or negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage imposes liability for improper methods of disrupting or diverting the
business relationship of another which fall outside the boundaries of fair
competition. [Citation.] It is premised upon the principle, ‘ “[e]veryone has
the right to establish and conduct a lawful business and is entitled to the
protection of organized society, through its courts, whenever that right is
unlawfully invaded.” ’ ” (Settimo Associates v. Environ Systems, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 842, 845.) The elements of the tort include “(1) an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153, 1164–1165.)
 
To meet the third element, a plaintiff must demonstrate
intentional acts by the defendant, that are wrongful apart from the
interference itself, designed to disrupt the relationship; this element
requires a showing that the defendant “engaged in conduct that was wrongful by
some legal measure other than the fact of interference itself” such as “conduct
that is recognized as anticompetitive under established state and federal
positive law.” (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995)
11 Cal.4th 376, 393; see also S Products, Inc. v. Matsushita Electric Corp.
of America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 168.) An act is not made independently
wrongful merely because of improper motives. (Korea Supply Co., supra,
29 Cal.4th at p. 1158.)
 
            Defendants argue that the Complaint fails to allege any
unlawful act by Partanna. As addressed in the third cause of action, Plaintiff
has alleged independently wrongful
conduct by Partanna. 
            
Defendants
also contend that Plaintiff has not alleged that any “actual disruption of the
relationship” resulted. In support of this argument, Defendants points to the allegations
in the Complaint “that Partanna and Marshall stood ready to work on completing
the transfer as late as Webster’s demand letter.” (Dem. 18:12-14 [citing Compl.
¶ 64].) But this requires a determination of contested fact. Defendants’
argument is not well taken where the Complaint alleges that Partanna’s actions significantly
contributed to the non-performance of the contract.
 
The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Sixth
Cause of Action – Breach of Implied in Fact Contract against Partanna and
Marshall
 
            Defendants
demur to this cause of action on the grounds that this alleged implied in fact
contract overrides the express terms of a written contract and, therefore,
fails to state a claim. 
            
            “ ‘[T]he vital
elements of a cause of action based on contract are mutual assent (usually
accomplished through the medium of an offer and acceptance) and consideration.
As to the basic elements, there is no difference between an express and implied
contract. While an express contract is defined as one, the terms of which are
stated in words (Civ. Code, § 1620), an implied contract is an agreement, the
existence and terms of which are manifested by conduct (Civ. Code, § 1621)....
[B]oth types of contract are identical in that they require a meeting of minds
or an agreement [citation]. Thus, it is evident that both the express contract
and contract implied in fact are founded upon an ascertained agreement or, in
other words, are consensual in nature, the substantial difference being in the
mode of proof by which they are established.’ ” (Pacific Bay Recovery, Inc.
v. California Physicians' Services, Inc. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 200,
215-216.)
 
            Here, Defendants argue that this claim fails because it
directly contradicts the terms of the written November Advisor Agreement. As
argued by Defendants, “[t]here cannot be a valid express contract and an
implied contract, each embracing the same subject, but requiring different
results.” (Starzynski v. Capital Public Radio, Inc. (2001) 88 Cal. App.
4th 33, 38.) Defendants contend that the alleged implied in fact contract directly
conflicts with the written Advisor Agreement which “embrac[es] the same
subject,” providing for equity in exchange for services. 
 
Plaintiff
Webster argues the implied contract does not embrace “the same subject” as the
prior Agreement; the new contract addressed expanded services. (Compl., ¶¶
13-15.) Specifically, the implied in fact contract is an expansion of the
“services beyond the scope of the November 30 Advisor Agreement.” (Compl., ¶
117.) 
 
The
demurrer is not well taken where Defendants seek to contradict the allegations
in the Complaint by relying on a denied request for judicial notice of the
November Advisor Agreement. 
 
Further,
Defendants argue that the Complaint indicates that there was no conduct to demonstrate
an implied contract because Plaintiff’s counsel recommended not doing any
expanded work without a signed agreement and Partanna did not recognize any agreement
except the November Advisor Agreement. (Dem., 19:1-9 [citing Exs. 10, 13.) This
argument is unpersuasive because the cited exhibits to the Complaint do not
demonstrate a lack of consent to an implied contract though conduct. 
 
The
demurrer to the sixth cause of action is overruled.[1]
 
Seventh
Cause of Action – Promissory Estoppel against Partanna and Marshall
 
            The
Complaint alleges
that “Partanna and Marshall clearly and unambiguously promised Plaintiff that
he would be given two percent of Partanna’s stock if he agreed to expand his
services beyond those contemplated by the November 30 Advisor Agreement.”
(Compl. ¶ 124.)
 
            The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are “(1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his reliance.” (US Ecology, Inc. v. State of California
(2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 887, 901; Joffe v. City of Huntington Park (2011)
201 Cal.App.4th 492, 513; see also Aceves v. U.S. Bank N.A. (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 218, 225.)
 
            Defendants
argue that the Complaint’s allegations are conclusory and fail for the same
reasons that the other claims fail, e.g., it is unreasonable to rely on an
agreement to agree. (Dem., 19:25-20:1.) 
 
            The Complaint
alleges sufficient ultimate facts to demonstrate a clear unambiguous
promise. (Compl., ¶¶ 14-17.)  Further, reliance
on this promise was not unreasonable. 
 
            The
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled. 
 
Eighth
Cause of Action – Unjust Enrichment against Partanna and Marshall
            
            Defendants demur to
this cause of action on the grounds that there is no cause of action for unjust
enrichment. They are correct.
 
Generally, California requires a person to make
restitution if he or she is unjustly enriched at the expense of another. (First
Nationwide Savings v. Perry (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1657, 1662.) “The fact
that one person benefits another is not, by itself, sufficient to require
restitution. The person receiving the benefit is required to make restitution
only if the circumstances are such that, as between the two individuals, it is unjust
for the person to retain it.” (Id. at p. 1663.)
 
            However, the Court of
Appeal, in the Second District and elsewhere, has repeatedly stated that “[t]here is no cause of action in California labeled
‘unjust enrichment.’” (City of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 458, 477 [Second District]; see American Master Lease LLC v.
Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1481 [Second District]
[“the restitutionary remedies of unjust enrichment and disgorgement are
available for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty.”]; Jogani v.
Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 901, 911 [Second District] [“[Unjust
enrichment] is a general principle underlying various doctrines and remedies,
including quasi-contract.”]; De Havilland v. FX Networks, LLC (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th
845, 870 [Second District] [unjust enrichment is not a cause of action; it is
just a restitution claim]; Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370 [there “is no cause of action in California
for unjust enrichment”]; Castillo v. Toll Bros., Inc. (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 1172, 1210 [“California does not recognize unjust
enrichment as a separate cause of action”].)[2]
 
            The unjust enrichment remedy sought here is adequately
encompassed in the remedies sought in Plaintiff’s other causes of action. Thus,
this unjust enrichment “cause of action” adds nothing to the Complaint. (Compl.,
¶¶ 128-142; Opp. 14:16-15:2 [combining opposition argument on the eighth and
ninth causes of action]; Jogani v.
Superior Court, supra, 165 Cal.App.4th at
911 [unjust enrichment claim based on same allegations as common count claim
was duplicative and subsumed by common count claim].)  The demurrer to the
eighth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Ninth
Cause of Action – Quantum Meruit
 
            To recover in quantum meruit, a plaintiff must show “(1)
the plaintiff acted pursuant to an explicit or implicit request for the
services by the defendant, and (2) the services conferred a benefit on the
defendant.” (Port Medical Wellness. v. Connecticut General Life Ins.
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 153, 180.) “[I]n order to recover under a quantum meruit theory,
a plaintiff must establish both that he or she was acting pursuant to either an
express or implied request for such services from the defendant and that the
services rendered were intended to and did benefit the defendant.” (Day v.
Alta Bates Med. Ctr. (2002) 98 Cal. App. 4th 243, 248.)


            On
demurrer, Defendants contend that Plaintiff cannot prevail on this cause of action
because the scope of the Advisor Agreement was broad
and it governed all of the services Plaintiff provided. (Defs.’s RJN, Ex. 1.)
As noted above, an argument based on this judicial notice is not proper on
demurrer because the Court has denied the request for judicial notice. 
 
            The Complaint here alleges that
Plaintiff provided services at Defendants’ request and Plaintiff has not been
paid for these services. (Compl., ¶¶ 136-140.) The claim seeks reasonable value
of services rendered. (Compl., ¶ 141.) 
 
            Thus, the demurrer to the ninth
cause of action is overruled. 


Conclusion
 
The demurrer
is overruled as to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and ninth
causes of action. The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the
second cause of action to allege specific performance as remedy. The demurrer
is sustained without leave to amend as to the eighth cause of action.  Plaintiff shall have leave to
amend. The amended complaint shall be filed and served on or before November 30,
2023. 


