 Case Number:  23STCV10653    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
25, 2023                                            
 
CASE NAME:           Arcelia H. Villalobos, et al. v. Blue
Cross of California dba Anthem Blue 
Cross
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV10653

 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Arcelia H. Villabos,
individually and as executory of the Estate of Salvador A. Villalobos
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
Demurrer
1.      First
Cause of Action for failure to state facts sufficient under CCP § 430.10(e).
2.      Second
Cause of Action for failure to state facts sufficient under CCP § 430.10(e) and
uncertainty under CCP § 430.10(f).
3.      Third
Cause of Action for failure to state facts sufficient under CCP § 430.10(e).
Motion to Strike
1.      Complaint,
Paragraph 28, lines 23-24: “As a result, AHV is also entitled to punitive
damages.”
2.      Complaint,
Prayer for Relief, Page 8, Section 3, line 6: “For punitive damages on the
third claim for relief;”
3.      Complaint,
Prayer for Relief, Page 8, Section 5, line 9: “For attorneys fees and costs of
suit;”
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      The
court SUSTAINS the Demurrer in its entirety with leave to amend;
2.      The
motion to strike is OVERRULED as moot.
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On May 8, 2023, Plaintiffs Arcelia H. Villalobos,
individually and as Executor of the Estate of Salvador A. Villalobos, (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue
Cross (Defendant). The Complaint has three causes of action for: (1)
Declaratory Judgment; (2) Breach of Contract; and (3) Breach of the Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff and her husband,
decedent, were insured through Medicare and through a Medicare supplemental
plan provided by Defendant via decedent’s employer. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant refused to reimburse approximately $50,000 in medical bills that
Plaintiff paid for out of pocket. These services occurred at a Mexican hospital
to decedent due to a brain bleed while on vacation in Mexico. Plaintiff alleges
she also paid $36,000 to the Mexican treating physician and Defendant did not
reimburse those costs either. Plaintiff alleges decedent’s son-in-law submitted
claims for reimbursement to Defendant, of which Defendant only reimbursed
ambulance fees, and a medical billing company located in Florida apparently
submitted bills to Defendant for the same services Plaintiff paid for to the
Mexican providers. Plaintiff alleges Defendant did not pay Plaintiff but paid
this medical billing company. The medical billing company in turn sent a new
bill to Plaintiff at four times the amounts set forth in the Mexican hospital’s
original billing statement, noted an insurance payment of $47,762.24, and
demanded an additional $100,626.95.[1]
 Plaintiff contends she paid the hospital
bill in full and owes nothing further. 
 
Defendant filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike on
August 7, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff timely filed an opposition on October 11, 2023. 
 
Defendant timely filed a reply on October 18, 2023.
 
Timeliness
 
As a threshold matter, the court addresses the timeliness of
Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike.
 
Defendant can demur within the same period of time it has to
answer the complaint – i.e., 30 days after service, unless extended by
stipulation or court order. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. (CCP) § 430.40(a).) If the
parties cannot meet and confer by the deadline, the demurring party is granted
an automatic 30-day extension of time to file a responsive pleading, by filing
and serving a declaration, on or before the date the responsive pleading is
due, stating that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and
explaining why the parties could not meet and confer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).) Because
the statutory language setting the time limit after service of the complaint
states “may” and not “must” the court can still consider a general demurrer. (CCP
§ 473(a)(1); McAllister v. County of
Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 280; Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 750 [concluding that the
late-filed demurrer did not affect plaintiff’s “substantial rights” because
plaintiff did not take steps to obtain a default judgment or otherwise
demonstrate prejudice from the delay.])
 
Here, Plaintiff did not demonstrate prejudice by Defendant’s
late-filing of the demurrer and motion to strike. First, there is no proof of
service filed. Defendant notes that Plaintiff served it with summons and
complaint on or about May 16, 2023. (Demurrer, p 2:8-9.) Assuming personal
service, Defendant’s responsive pleading deadline would have been June 15,
2023. Second, Defendant indicates it first attempted to meet and confer with
Plaintiff on June 28, 2023. (Declaration of Jassamyn Vedro (Vedro Decl.) ¶ 3.) Plaintiff
counsel responded on July 31, 2023 and the parties attempted to meet and confer
concerning the demurrer and motion to strike. (Id. at ¶ 4.) Third, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the instant
demurrer and motion to strike and did not otherwise request entry of default.
Indeed, Plaintiff did not raise untimeliness in her opposition. 
 
Accordingly, the court exercises its discretion to rule on
the merits of the demurrer and motion to strike.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., (CCP) § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint
is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
761, 768.)¿ 
 
Irrelevant matter includes: allegations not essential to the claim or defense,
allegations “neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient
claim or defense,” or a demand for judgment “requesting relief not supported by
the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.” (CCP § 431.10(b).)  
 
 
 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. §430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a)(2) & (3). The meet and confer requirement also applies to motions to
strike. (CCP § 435.5.) As noted above, Defendant sufficiently indicated its
attempt to meet and confer via telephone with Plaintiff counsel. (Vedro Decl. ¶
4.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Demurrer
 
Second Cause of
Action – Breach of Contract
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff failed to allege specific
obligations arising from the Policy or obligations that Defendant allegedly
breached and that Plaintiff did not attach the policy.[2]
 
“To establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98.) “A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms
– set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.
[Citation.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must
‘allege the substance of its relevant terms.’” (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
972, 993.) 
 
After reviewing the Complaint, Plaintiff did not
sufficiently allege breach of contract. First, Plaintiff did not attach a copy
of the subject insurance policy, set out its terms verbatim, or allege the
substance of its relative terms.[3]
Second, Plaintiff cites no authority supporting her argument that because the
contractual provisions “happen[] to be extremely short and simple” she need not
plead them further.[4]
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to
the second cause of action with leave to amend.
 
 
 
First Cause of
Action & Third Cause of Action
 
Here, the other two causes of action necessarily refer to
the second cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff asks the court for
declaratory judgment pertaining to the subject policy. Plaintiff also asks the
court to find Defendant breached the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
pertaining to the subject policy.
 
Since the court sustained the second cause of action with
leave to amend, the first and third cause of action are also SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant seeks to strike portions of the Prayer for Relief
in the Complaint that pertain to punitive damages and attorneys fees.
 
In light of the ruling on demurrer, the motion to
strike is MOOT.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      The
court SUSTAINS the Demurrer in its entirety with leave to amend;
2.      The
motion to strike is OVERRULED as moot.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             October
25, 2023                    __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


