  Case Number:  23STCV07061    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
25, 2023                                            
 
CASE NAME:           William Velis v. Pacific Bell Telephone
Company, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV07061

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Pacific Bell Telephone Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff William Velis
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order Compelling Arbitration;
2.      An
Order Dismissing or Staying the Action Pending Arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
action is STAYED pending arbitration.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff William Velis (Plaintiff) filed
a Complaint against Defendants Pacific Bell Telephone Co. and AT&T
Services, Inc. (Defendants). The Complaint has eight causes of action for:
1.      Disability
Discrimination in Violation of FEHA;
2.      Retaliation
for Requesting a Reasonable Accommodation for a Disability in Violation of FEHA;
3.      Failure
to Engage in a Timely, Good Faith Interactive Process;
4.      Failure
to Provide a Reasonable Accommodation for a Disability;
5.      Failure
to Take all Reasonable Steps Necessary to Prevent Discrimination and
Retaliation;
6.      Failure
to Provide Time Off in Violation of CFRA;
7.      Retaliation
for Requesting Time Off in Violation of CFRA; and
8.      Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy.
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff worked for Defendants
as a Planning & Designing Engineer from about 2011 to March 2023. Plaintiff
broke his hand on January 5, 2023 and required medical treatment. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants fired him when he requested time off to heal.
 
Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of Defendant
AT&T Services, Inc. on April 11, 2023.
 
Moving Defendant timely filed the instant motion on August
1, 2023. Plaintiff timely filed an opposition on October 12, 2023. Moving
Defendant timely filed a reply on October 18, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Under California law, the trial court has authority to compel
arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such
arbitration exists and one of the parties refuses to arbitrate. 
Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the
controversy exists.”  The statute further sets forth four grounds upon
which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to compel
arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a pending
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered depository
institution. 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In determining whether an
arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only
the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions,
in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that controversy
is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular
dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The
court should order them to arbitrate unless it is
clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional Peace
Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿ 
 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿ 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement
 
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1) whether
there was an agreement to arbitrate between the parties, and (2) whether the
agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿  
 
1.     
Agreement Between Parties:
The moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to
this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear
the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant met its initial burden because it
attached a copy of the Management Arbitration Agreement (MAA). (Giordano Decl.,
Exhibit 2.) The parties do not contest Plaintiff completed the “Review
Complete” which constituted his signature. 
 
Therefore, there is an agreement to arbitrate.
 
2.      The
Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue:
Moving Defendant contends the MAA covers the subject dispute
because Plaintiff filed an employment action that is not otherwise excluded by
the MAA. Plaintiff does not oppose this.
 
Here, the court agrees that the MAA covers Plaintiff’s
claims against Moving Defendant. Notably, the MAA states that “covered claims
include without limitation those arising out of or related to your employment
or termination of employment with the Company and any other disputes regarding
the employment relationship, trade secrets, unfair competition, compensation,
breaks and rest periods, termination, defamation, retaliation, discrimination
or harassment and claims arising under the Uniform Trade Secrets Act, Civil
Rights Act of 1964, Americans with Disabilities Act, Age Discrimination in
Employment Act, Family Medical Leave Act, Fair Labor Standards Act, Genetic
Information Non-Discrimination Act, and state statutes and local laws, if any,
addressing the same or similar subject matters, and all other state and local
statutory and  common law claims.” (Giordano
Decl., Exhibit 2.) The MAA specifically carves out class actions, claims for
workers compensation, state disability insurance, unemployment insurance
benefits, and Employee Retirement Income Security Act claims or claims before
an administrative agency. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
filed an employment action under FEHA and the CFRA which arose under his
employment with Moving Defendant. 
 
Therefore, the agreement applies to the subject dispute.
 
Defenses to Arbitration
 
Once it is determined that a valid arbitration agreement
exists, the burden shifts to the opposing party to “prove by a preponderance of
the evidence any defense to the petition.” (Lacayo
v. Catalina Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review
denied (Nov. 13, 2019)). 
 
Plaintiff raises two issues: 1. The Arbitration Agreement
should not be enforced because it is an “opt-out” agreement; and 2. The
Arbitration Agreement should not be enforced because it is ambiguous as to
parties.
 
Opt-Out
 
Plaintiff contends that the MAA is unenforceable because it is
a prohibited opt-out agreement. Moving Defendant argues that California
enforces opt-out provisions in arbitration agreements.[1]
 
Moving Defendant sent the MAA to Plaintiff on January 25,
2021.[2]
(Giordano Decl., Exhibit 1.) Plaintiff had until March 26, 2021 to opt-out
using the links Moving Defendant provided. (Ibid.)
The timeline to opt-out, the link to opt-out, and an email to contact in case
of difficulties opting-out are also provided in the MAA. (Giordano Decl.,
Exhibit 2.) Plaintiff did not argue that he did not see the opt-out procedure,
that it was hidden, or that the timeframe to opt-out was too short. Plaintiff
also does not contest that he opened the MAA and clicked the “review complete”
button. (See Giordano Decl., Exhibit
5.) Taken together, it is reasonable to conclude Plaintiff agreed to the MAA
because he did not opt-out. (See, e.g., Gentry
v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443 (Gentry) at p. 468.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s argument that the opt-out provision
renders the MAA unenforceable fails.
 
Ambiguity
 
Plaintiff contends the MAA is ambiguous as to which parties
it applies. Moving Defendant argues Plaintiff creates ambiguity where none
exists.
 
Whether a contract is ambiguous is a question of law. (Aragon-Haas v. Family Security Ins.
Services, Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 232, 239.) For a contract to be
ambiguous, it must be susceptible to two or more reasonable interpretations. (See,
e.g., Sterling Builders, Inc. v. United
Nat. Ins. Co. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 105, 111.) Additionally, contract terms
must be examined in context of the entire contract – not in a vacuum. (Id. at p. 112.) 
 
Here, the court agrees with Moving Defendant. First, the MAA
states that it applies “to any claim that you may have against any of the
following: (1) any AT&T company, (2) its present or former officers,
directors, employees or agents in their capacity as such or otherwise; (3) the
Company’s parent, subsidiary and affiliated entities, and all successors and
assigns of any of them . . . .” (Giordano Decl., Exhibit 2.) In the context of the
entire contract, this clause clearly refers to claims. Additionally, the summary
at the start of the MAA states “you and the AT&T company that employs you .
. . .”[3]
(Ibid.) In the context the entire
contract, it is clear that “the AT&T company that employs you” means Moving
Defendant. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s argument that the MAA is ambiguous
fails.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
action is STAYED pending arbitration.
 
OSC re: status of Arbitration on May 21, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             October
25, 2023                    __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


