Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCV05572
 Plaintiff's Name: (not specified)
 Defendant's Name: Cohasset Luxury Apartments LLC, Rapport Property Management LLC, Navid Yadegar, David Yadegar, Charles J. Price Jr., Marina Price Anduray, Charles Anduray, and "Doe" defendants 1-20
 People-Names: Navid Yadegar, David Yadegar, Charles J. Price Jr., Marina Price Anduray, Charles Anduray
 Company-Names: Cohasset Luxury Apartments LLC, Rapport Property Management LLC
 Places: Cohasset Luxury Apartments building, Los Angeles
 Dates: March 5, 2024, May 2, 2024, October 1, 2024
 Events: Hearing on Defendants' Motion to Quash and Demurrer, Service of summons
 Money: (none specified)
 Intentions: To determine whether the defendants' motion to quash and demurrer should be granted
 Facts: Defendants failed to issue or serve a new summons with the First Amended Complaint, Cohasset Luxury Apartments LLC and Rapport Property Management LLC are owned by Navid Yadegar and David Yadegar, the apartment building has been and continues to be infested with cockroaches and rodents, and has physical defects rendering it uninhabitable
 Disputes: Whether the defendants' motion to quash and demurrer should be granted
 Acts: Service of summons, issuance of a new summons, failure to maintain the property adequately
 Agreements: (none specified)
 Laws: Code of Civil Procedure ยง 418.10, Civil Code Section 1942.4, Business and Professions Code Section 17200, Los Angeles Municipal Code Tenant Anti-Harassment Act
 Case Citations: Kremerman v. White, Kappel v. Bartlett, Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg, Summers v. McClanahan, Judicial Council of Cal. com. to Code Civ. Proc., Gillette v. Burbank Community Hosp., Cyrus v. Haveson, Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs., Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of Sierra Madre, Perkins v. Superior Court, Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey, Burks v. Poppy Const. Co., Christensen v. Superior Court, Barker v. Fox & Associates, Stoiber v. Honeychuck, Johnson v. Prasad, Vasquez v. Residential Investments, Inc., Chase v. Wizmann, El Escorial Owners' Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc., Lynch v. Peter & Associates etc.
 Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure ยง 418.10, Civil Code Section 1942.4, Business and Professions Code Section 17200, Los Angeles Municipal Code Tenant Anti-Harassment Act
 Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
 Significant Statements: "Plaintiffs properly served the original summons and complaint," "Defendants were served with an original summons and complaint and subsequently served with an amended complaint before they appeared in the case," "The Court does not consider whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the allegations but only whether the complaint sets forth sufficient facts to put the defendant on notice," "The Court finds that these alter ego allegations are sufficient," "The Court finds the allegations sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude Defendant's conduct is outrageous."
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has denied the defendants' motion to quash and overruled their demurrer. The defendants had argued that the plaintiff's failure to serve a new summons with the First Amended Complaint was sufficient grounds to quash the summons. However, the judge found that the plaintiff had properly served the original summons and complaint, and that the defendants were not entitled to a new summons with the amended complaint. The judge also found that the plaintiff's allegations of breach of implied warranty of habitability, negligence, and intentional infliction of emotional distress were sufficient to proceed with the claims.

The judge also addressed the defendants' demurrer, which argued that the plaintiff's causes of action were duplicative and failed to state a claim. The judge found that the plaintiff's nuisance claim was not wholly redundant of the negligence claim, and that the nuisance claim did not simply repeat the negligence allegations. The judge overruled the demurrer and allowed the plaintiff's claims to proceed.