  Case Number:  22STCV37218    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  55  
 
In this case, TOWNS END DEVELOPMENT,
INC. (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against VIRGINIA VALDEZ (Defendant), alleging
that Plaintiff entered into a written contract to purchase a three-unit
apartment building from Defendant who later decided not to sell. 
At this time, Plaintiff has filed a motion to compel
compliance with deposition subpoenas served on non-parties Coldwell Banker
Hallmark Realty, Olivia Lopez, and Marlene Cagatao, and for sanctions in the
amount of $7,055.50. No opposition has been filed. 
Legal Standard
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a
party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written
deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business records. Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.010. A deposition subpoena may command the attendance and
testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.020. The Court may order a third party to comply with a
deposition subpoena upon any terms or condition as the court shall declare.
Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision
a provides that “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” According to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision d, misuse of the discovery process
includes “making . . . unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a
motion to compel or to limit discovery.”
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346 states: “A
written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to
a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing
from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent
unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic
service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition
record.”
Analysis
Attorney Carlson represents Coldwell, Lopez, and Cagatao
for purposes of responding to the subpoenas. Mink Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 8. The proof
of service attached to the motion demonstrates that attorney Carlson was served
with a copy of the motion to compel, which the Court concludes is sufficient
given Carlson’s representation that he represents the non-parties.
Lopez and Cagatao worked for Coldwell Banker, the
listing firm for the property at issue in this case. Their signatures appear on
the acceptance of the offer to purchase the property, along with that of
Defendant. Mink Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 1.The attachments to the motion demonstrate
that Plaintiff served the subpoenas on Coldwell, Lopez, and Cagatao but they
failed to comply.  Mink Decl., ¶¶ 3-9,
Exs. 2-7. Nor have any of the three non-parties filed an opposition to this
motion. 
Based on these facts, the Court finds good cause and
grants the motion to compel. 
Sanctions
Plaintiff seeks sanctions of $7,055.50 against Coldwell,
Lopez, Cagatao and their attorney Carlson. The amount requested is based on
10.5 hours and contemplates two hours for a reply and three hours for a hearing,
at an hourly rate of $485. Given that no opposition was filed and this is a straightforward
motion that will not require three hours of court time, the Court finds that a
reasonable amount of sanctions is $3,637.50 (for 7.5 hours of work), plus $1,963
in costs.  
Conclusion
The motion is granted. Within 30 days of notice of
this order, Coldwell Banker shall produce the requested documents, Lopez and
Cagatao shall sit for their depositions, and the non-parties and/or their
attorney shall pay Plaintiff the sanctions. 