 Case Number:  24STCV05572    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Hearing on Defendants’ Motion to Quash and
Demurrer 
 
Defendants’ Motion to Quash
is denied. Defendants’ Demurrer is overruled. 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs, current tenants of the Cohasset Luxury
Apartments building, brought this habitability action against defendants,
Cohasset Luxury Apartments LLC, Rapport Property Management LLC, Navid Yadegar,
David Yadegar, Charles J. Price Jr. individually and as successor co-trustee of
the Charles J. Price Family Trust Dated July 1, 2004; Marina Price Anduray, and
as successor co-trustee of the Charles J. Price Family Trust Dated July 1,
2004, Charles Anduray, and doe defendants 1 to 20.
The causes of action are 1) Breach of Implied Warranty
of Habitability; 2) Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; 3)
Negligence; 4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 5) Private
Nuisance; 6) Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4; 7) Violation of Business
and Professions Code Section 17200; and 8) Violation of Los Angeles Municipal
Code Tenant Anti-Harassment Act.
On 3/5/2024, Plaintiffs filed the Complaint. 
On 5/2/2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”)
The motions now before the Court are specially
appearing defendants Cohasset Luxury Apartments LLC, Rapport Property
Management LLC, Navid Yadegar, and David Yadegar (collectively “Defendants”)
Motion to Quash and Demurer to the FAC. Plaintiffs oppose. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Under Code of Civil Procedure § 418.10, subdivision (a)(1),
“[a] defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within
any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over them.”
Without valid service of summons, the court never
acquires jurisdiction over a defendant. See Kremerman v. White (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 358, 371 (“[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service
of process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction. Thus, a default
judgment entered against a defendant who was not served with a
summons in the manner prescribed by statute is void” [internal quotes and
citation omitted]).
A defendant is under no duty to respond in any way to
a defectively served summons. Kappel v. Bartlett (1988)
200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466. It makes no difference that the defendant had
actual knowledge of the action. Such knowledge does not dispense with statutory
requirements for service of summons. Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997)
53 CA4th 801, 808.
“When a defendant challenges the court’s personal
jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process, the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove ... the facts requisite to an effective service.” Summers
v. McClanahan (2006) 140 CA4th 403, 413.
 
MOTION
TO QUASH
ANALYSIS
Defendants move to quash service on the grounds that
Plaintiffs failed to issue or serve a new summons with the FAC. Motion at pp.
5:26-27, 6:1-16.
“Once jurisdiction over a defendant is obtained by
service of a copy of the summons and a copy of the complaint, amendment of the
complaint does not require either a new summons or a new service of summons
upon him. The amended complaint alone is served, usually upon his attorney.”
Judicial Council of Cal. com. to Code Civ. Proc., § 412.10 (citations omitted).
“On its face the comment suggests that service of an amended summons is
discretionary in the instance of amended pleadings involving original parties
defendant….” Gillette v. Burbank Community Hosp. (1976) 56
Cal.App.3d 430, 433 (citing Judicial Council of Cal. com. to Code Civ. Proc., §
412.10.) 
While W. H. Marston Co. v. Kochritz (1926) 80
Cal.App. 352, 361 (W.H.) “states in dictum, ‘[i]f any defendants have
not appeared, a summons must be issued upon the amended complaint and served
upon such defendants[,]’” that issue was not before the court. Gillette 56
Cal.App.3d at 433 (quoting W. H., supra, 80 Cal.App. at 361). In W.H.,
the amended complaint named an additional party, not merely an original party
who had yet to appear. W. H., supra, 80 Cal.App. at p. 362; see People
v. Scheid (1997) 16 Cal.4th 1, 17 (“Language used in any opinion is of
course to be understood in the light of the facts and the issue then before the
court, and an opinion is not authority for a proposition not therein
considered.”) (citations omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
In Cyrus v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal.App.3d
306, 315 (Cyrus), the court held that “[a]mendment of the complaint
after service of summons does not require either a new summons or a new service
on an existing party defendant. Once jurisdiction of such a party is
obtained by service of the summons and original complaint, the amended pleading
alone is served.” (Citations omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). In Cyrus,
the defendants had been initially served with a summons and unverified
complaint but were subsequently served with a verified complaint and a second
copy of the summons. Id. at. p 312-313. The defendants, seeking to set
aside a default judgment, argued that filing a verification to the complaint
after it had been filed amended the pleading and required that a new summons be
issued on an amended complaint and served with it. Id. at. p 315-316.
The court rejected this argument because it concluded no new summons was
required. Ibid.
It is uncontested that Plaintiffs properly served the
original summons and complaint. See Reply at p. 5:9-16; Opposition at p.
8. As provided in their Motion, Defendants’ only grounds to quash is that no
new summons on the FAC has been filed or served. Defendants’ Motion at p.
6:1-16; Declaration of Kari L. Probst (Probst Decl., ¶ 5). 
Here, as in Cyrus, Defendants were served with
an original summons and complaint and subsequently served with an amended
complaint before they appeared in the case. See Cyrus, supra, 65
Cal.App.3d at p. 313. Because Defendants were properly served with the original
summons and complaint, Plaintiffs were not required to serve a new summons on
Defendants with the FAC. See id. at p. 315. 
In their reply, Defendants, for the first time, raised
the issue of whether service of the FAC, and not only an amended summons, was
proper. Reply at p. 5:17-27. Because Defendants fail to explain why this was
not raised in their motion, the Court declines to consider this argument. See
In re Tiffany Y. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 298, 302 (“The general rule is
that points raised in a reply brief for the first time will not be considered
unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them before.” [Citations
omitted] [internal quotation marks omitted]).
Because Defendants’ sole grounds for the motion to
quash was Plaintiffs’ failure to issue and serve a new summons with the FAC,
and no such summons was required, Plaintiffs have met their burden of
establishing jurisdiction by properly serving the original complaint and
summons and the FAC. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Quash is denied. 
 
DEMURRER
LEGAL STANDARD
When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of
Sacramento (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21. In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. “A
demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. As
such, courts assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. Ibid. However, it does not accept as true
deductions, contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. Stonehouse Homes LLC
v. City of Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 538. 
 
ANALYSIS 
I. Privity
First, Defendants argue that they have no liability
for breach of implied warranty of habitability or other contract-based causes
of action because Defendants did not sign leases with any of the Plaintiffs.
Defendant notes that some of the leases were not attached to the FAC.
“After a property is sold or transferred, the
transferee takes subject to the existing lease; this new owner steps into the
landlord’s shoes and becomes the successor landlord, assuming the terms and conditions
of the lease the tenant had with the prior owner.” DLI Properties, LLC v.
Hill (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th Supp. 1, 8 (citations omitted). “Absent a
contrary agreement of the parties, a sale by a lessor of real property during
an unexpired term does not of itself abrogate the lease…. The grantee then
becomes the landlord by operation of law….” Kirk Corp. v. First Am. Title Co.
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 785, 809 (citations omitted) (internal quotation marks
omitted). 
In an action based on a written contract, a plaintiff
may plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language. Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th
189, 198-199.
In support of their argument, Defendants cite the
basic proposition that a party cannot be charged upon a contract to which it is
not a party. However, Defendants offer no authority refuting a purchaser of
property’s assumption of existing leases. As the purchaser, Cohasset stands in
the shoes of the original landlord who signed the leases. Whether the other
Defendants have any liability under the leases depends on whether Plaintiffs
can successfully pierce the corporate veil of defendant entities. 
While some Plaintiffs did not attach copies of their
leases to the FAC, they adequately pleaded their legal effect. See FAC
¶¶ 30, 32. Defendant further argues that there is no evidence that all of the
Plaintiffs have leases and suggests that some of the Plaintiffs are squatters.
Reply at p. 3. This is a factual question that is not appropriate for
resolution on demurrer. 
 
II. Alter Ego
Next, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ causes of
action for breach of implied warranty of habitability, tortious breach of
implied warranty of habitability, failure to abate, unlawful business practice,
and violation of the Tenant Act fail against Rappaport, Navid Yadegar, and
David Yadegar because only the owner of the property is the landlord.
Defendants argue that of the moving defendants, only Cohasset, as the property
owner, has any liability for breach of lease or related statutory violations.
Demurrer at pp. 7:21-10:16. Plaintiffs argue that Defendants fail to address
the alter ego theory presented in the complaint. Opposition at p. 4:7-28, 5:
1-8; FAC ¶ 18. 
“The alter ego doctrine arises when a plaintiff comes
into court claiming that an opposing party is using the corporate form unjustly
and in derogation of the plaintiff’s interests.” Mesler v. Bragg Management
Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 300.) “There is no litmus test to determine when
the corporate veil will be pierced; rather the result will depend on the
circumstances of each particular case. There are, nevertheless, two general
requirements: ‘(1) that there be such unity of interest and ownership that the
separate personalities of the corporation and the individual no longer exist
and (2) that, if the acts are treated as those of the corporation alone, an
inequitable result will follow.’” Ibid. (quoting Automotriz etc. de
California v. Resnick (1957) 47 Cal.2d 792, 796). 
On demurrer, the Court does not consider whether the
plaintiff will be able to prove the allegations but only whether the complaint
sets forth sufficient facts to put the defendant on notice. Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 610. “It is not even essential,
apparently, that … the alter ego doctrine always be specifically pleaded in the
complaint in order for it to be applied in appropriate circumstances.” First
Western Bank & Trust Co. v. Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 910, 915. Plaintiffs
need only allege “ultimate rather than evidentiary facts” to support alter ego
theory. Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 221, 236 (“Rutherford Holdings”) (citations omitted)
(internal quotation marks omitted). “The distinction between conclusions of law
and ultimate facts is not at all clear and involves at most a matter of degree.”
Burks v. Poppy Const. Co. (1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 473. “What is important
is that the complaint as a whole contain sufficient facts to apprise the
defendant of the basis upon which the plaintiff is seeking relief.” Perkins
v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6. 
Plaintiffs allege in the FAC that in October of 2023,
Cohasset Luxury Apartments LLC (“Cohasset”) purchased the apartment at issue.
FAC ¶¶ 10,11. Since then, the property has been managed by Rapport Property
Management LLC (“Rapport”). FAC ¶ 11. Plaintiffs allege both companies are
owned by Defendants Navid Yadegar and David Yadegar (“the Yadegars”), the only
members and managers of each LLC. FAC ¶¶ 12. Plaintiffs allege that each of the
named defendants is the alter ego of one or more of the other defendants. FAC
¶18. Plaintiffs seek to pierce the veil of the various entity defendants based
on Defendants’ failure to properly structure, operate, capitalize, and manage
the entities and Defendants’ use of entity funds for improper purposes.
Ibid. 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ alter ego is simply
a conclusion and is insufficient to permit Plaintiffs to proceed beyond the
pleadings stage. Reply at p. 4:3. 
The Court finds that these alter ego allegations are
sufficient. The alter ego allegations contained in Paragraph 18 of the FAC
include factual allegations, not only legal conclusions. Defendants cite to no
authority that alter ego allegations need to be pled with more specificity. In
fact, Plaintiffs were required to allege only “ultimate rather than evidentiary
facts” necessary to support alter ego theory. See Rutherford
Holdings, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 236. 
 
III. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
(IIED). 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs have failed to allege
sufficient facts to sustain an IIED claim because Plaintiffs do not
specifically identify which Defendants committed specific acts against specific
Plaintiffs. Demurrer at p. 11:20-23. 
To state an IIED claim, a plaintiff must allege facts
showing: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct.” Christensen v. Superior Court (1991)
54 Cal.3d 868, 903 (citations omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
“Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” Id.
at p. 903. “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a
relation or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s interest;
(2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or
(3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are
likely to result in illness through mental distress.” Smith v. BP Lubricants
USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 147 (citations omitted) (internal
quotation marks omitted). “[W]hether conduct is outrageous is ‘“usually” a
question of fact.’” Id. at p.148. Barker v. Fox & Associates
(2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 333, 356. 
In Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d
903, 912 (“Stoiber”), the court reversed a demurrer sustained by the
trial court, where the plaintiff alleged that the landlord knowingly failed to
address inhospitable and dangerous conditions. The alleged conditions included
a heavy cockroach infestation, broken interior walls, broken flooring, falling
ceiling, deteriorated electrical wiring, lack of proper plumbing connection to the
sewage system, sewage under the bathroom floor, leaking roof, broken windows,
and fire hazards. Id. at p. 912. The court held that whether the
landlord’s failure to address these issues constituted extreme and outrageous
conduct was a factual question. Id. at. p. 922. 
Here, as alleged in the FAC, Defendants have known
that the apartment units have been and continue to be invested with cockroaches
and rodents (rats, mice, or both), that the units are subject to chronic water
leaks and excessive mold growth, and that the units have physical defects
rendering them uninhabitable. FAC ¶ 21. Plaintiffs further allege that
Defendants intentionally failed to repair and maintain the apartments, with
reckless disregard for the probability of causing Plaintiff’s severe emotional
distress. FAC ¶ 58. 
The Court finds the allegations sufficient for a
reasonable jury to conclude Defendant’s conduct is outrageous. See Stoiber,
supra, Cal.App.3d at p. 922. 
IV. Negligence
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs negligence claims
fail against Rapport and the Yadegars because they owed no legal duty to the
Plaintiffs as tenants; insufficient facts are alleged showing a duty owed by
these defendants or a breach of that duty. Defendants further argue that the
negligence cause of action is duplicative of the implied warranty of
habitability and Civil Code Section 1942.4 claims. 
The elements of a cause of action for negligence are
duty, breach, causation, and damages. Johnson v. Prasad (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 74, 78.
First, a landlord owes its tenants a duty to maintain
the property in a reasonably safe condition. Vasquez v. Residential
Investments, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 269, 280. As explained above,
whether Rapport and the Yadegars are liable as landlords depends on whether
Plaintiffs can prove their alter ego theory. Therefore, the FAC alleges
sufficient facts to show Defendants owed a duty.
Second, the FAC alleges that Defendants breached that
duty by failing to maintain the property adequately. FAC ¶ 21.
Finally, the Court finds that the
negligence claim is not wholly redundant to other claims alleged in the FAC.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.
V. Nuisance
Defendants argue that the nuisance claim fails to
state a claim because it is duplicative of the negligence claim.
To prevail on a claim for private nuisance, “a
plaintiff must first prove an interference with the plaintiff’s use and
enjoyment of his or her property. Second, the invasion of the plaintiff’s
interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, i.e., that
it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage. Third, the
interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it
must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration or
amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of
the land.” Chase v. Wizmann (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 244, 253 (Chase)
(cleaned up).
 In El
Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337,
1349 (El Escorial), the court held “[w]here negligence and nuisance
causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance
claim is a negligence claim.” There, the nuisance cause of action consisted of
five one-sentence paragraphs that incorporated the allegations from the
negligence cause of action and cited the broad statutory definition of
nuisance. Id. at. p 1349. 
The Court of Appeal recently criticized El Escorial
in Lynch v. Peter & Associates etc. (Aug. 20, 2024, No. G063021)
___Cal.App.5th___ 2024 Cal. App. https://www.courts.ca.gov/cms/opinions.htm?Courts=Y,
(Lynch), which reversed a trial court’s grant of summary
judgment. The Court held, “[n]uisance is an entirely separate cause of action
from negligence, and the analysis should focus on whether the plaintiff has
alleged all necessary elements of the claim…. Even if the nuisance claim relies
on the same facts about lack of due care supporting the negligence claim, it
does not mean the claims are identical or duplicative. Indeed, many pleadings
allege numerous causes of action based on the same facts. This does not mean
the causes of action are all the same.” Ibid.
While Plaintiffs’ nuisance and negligence claims are
based on the same facts, the nuisance claim does not simply repeat the
negligence allegations. Plaintiffs specifically allege that the infestations,
water damage, and other physical defects common to all of their claims
substantially and unreasonably interfered with their use and enjoyment of their
property. FAC ¶¶ 64, 65, 67. Accordingly, the Court finds that the nuisance
claim is not wholly redundant of the negligence claim and overrules the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action. 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ Motion to Quash
is Denied. Defendants’ Demurrer is overruled. Defendants have twenty days to
answer. 

