 Case Number:  22STCV09612    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 



GARY HUERTA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL SIMMS, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV09612




Hearing Date:


March 8, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEFENDANTS
  MICHAEL SIMMS AND CARMEN SANTILLAN’S MOTION TO COMPEL THIRD PARTY GREEN
  ACCOUNTING AND CONSULTING’S COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR
  PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT
  OF $4,093.00
 



Background
On March 18, 2022,
Plaintiff Gary Huerta (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Michael Simms (“Simms”), Carmen Santillan (“Santillan”), Plant Ranch, Inc., and
Cena Kitchen, LLC.  Simms and Santillan are
jointly referred to herein as “Defendants.” 
Plaintiff filed the
operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on August 29, 2023, alleging causes
of action for (1) constructive fraud, (2) accounting, (3) conversion, (4)
breach of the operating agreement, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, (6)
declaratory relief, and (7) dissolution. 
In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that Plant Ranch was formed as a California limited liability
company in April of 2016 with
Plaintiff, Santillan, and Simms each owning 1/3 of the company. (TAC, ¶
10.) Originally named Cena Vegan, the business was formed to become a
wholesale distributor of plant-based proteins. (TAC, ¶ 10.) The business was
split into two entities in July of 2019. (TAC, ¶ 11.) Cena Vegan was renamed
Plant Ranch, Inc. and a new company, Cena Kitchen, LLC, was formed. (TAC, ¶
11.) Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Simms and Santillan
have completely failed to act in the best interest of Plant Ranch by suspending
Plaintiff, failing to take any action in furtherance of the successful
management of the company, find investments or scale up the business, and by
refusing and rejecting the Shark Tank opportunity. Likewise, they have failed
to act in the best interest of Cena Kitchen by diverting cash revenues for
themselves to the detriment of Plaintiff and thereby exposing Cena Kitchen to
claims of tax evasion and violations of other laws.” (TAC, ¶ 29.) 
In his declaration in
support of the instant motion, Defendants’ counsel states that given
third-party Green Accounting and Consulting’s (“GAC”) extensive knowledge of
Cena Kitchen, LLC and Plant Ranch, Inc.’s finances and bookkeeping practices,
Defendants prepared a Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records (the
“Subpoena”) to be served on GAC, containing fifteen individual Requests for
Documents (collectively, the “Requests”). (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) 
Defendants’ counsel states that “[b]efore serving GAC, Defendants
first served a Notice to Consumer on Plaintiff pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3,” and that
“Plaintiff did not object to GAC providing documents in response to the
Requests.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)[1]
Defendants’ counsel states that “[a]s such, on September 8, 2023, Defendants
caused GAC to be personally served with the Subpoena, which required GAC to
respond/produce responsive documents by October 2, 2023.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶
6, Ex. B.) 
Defendants’ counsel states that “GAC did not produce any documents by
October 2, 2023, nor did it respond to the Subpoena in any way, e.g., by
submitting written objections, indicating an intent to respond on a delayed
timeframe, etc.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendants’ counsel further states
that “[b]etween October 10 and November 17, 2023, I attempted to reach GAC’s
principal, Mik Spann, via phone at his last known number provided to me by
Defendants…Mr. Spann did not answer the phone, nor did he return any of the 4
voicemails left.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.) Defendants’ counsel states that
“[o]n November 27, 2023 and November 29, 2023, I inquired via email regarding
GAC’s noncompliance with the Subpoena. Like the phone calls, Mr. Spann did not
respond to either written communication.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C.) 
On January 24, 2024,
Defendants filed an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) statement in advance
of a February 5, 2024 IDC. Defendants’ IDC Statement provides, inter alia,
that “Defendants personally served a Subpoena for Business Records on Non-Party
Green Accounting and Consulting (‘GAC’) on 9/8/23; GAC did not respond or
comply at all…” On February 5, 2024, an IDC was held in this matter. The
Court’s February 5, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia, “[t]he
matter is called for hearing. Defendant fulfilled his IDC obligation and can
proceed with the motions to compel the non-party to comply with the subject
subpoena.” 
Defendants now move for
an order compelling GAC’s full and complete compliance with the
Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records. Defendants also seek an
order imposing monetary sanctions against GAC in the amount of $4,093.00. The
motion is unopposed. 
Discussion 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) provides as follows: 
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.” 
In addition, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (a),
“[i]f a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.” 
As set forth above, Defendants indicate that
on September 8, 2023, they caused GAC to be personally served with the
Subpoena, which required GAC to respond/produce responsive documents by October
2, 2023. (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. B.) Defendants state that GAC did not
produce any documents by October 2, 2023, nor did it respond to the Subpoena in
any way. (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendants’ Subpoena to GAC provides that the
records to be produced are “Continued on Attachment 3.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 3,
Ex. A, ¶ 3.) Attachment 3 to the Subpoena contains fifteen requests for
documents. (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, Attachment 3.) 
Attachment 3 to the Subpoena defines “YOU” as “Green Accounting and
Consulting, and any and all of its subsidiaries, parents, and/or affiliates,
and all of its agents, executives, directors, employees, and any other person
or entity acting for or on its behalf.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A,
Attachment 3.) The Request for Documents in the Subpoena seek “[a]ll
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and [HUERTA, any PERSON RELATING TO PLANT RANCH, any
PERSON RELATING TO CENA, any PERSON RELATING TO SIMMS, and any PERSON RELATING
TO SANTILLAN] from January 1, 2018 through the present.” (Ibid., Requests Nos. 1-5.)  
The Request for Documents also seek “[a]ll DOCUMENTS transmitted to
YOU from HUERTA from January 1, 2018 through the present which RELATE TO [PLANT
RANCH, CENA, SIMMS, and SANTILLAN.].” (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, Attachment
3, Requests Nos. 6-9.) In addition, the Request for Documents seek “[a]ll
DOCUMENTS transmitted to HUERTA from YOU from January 1, 2018 through the
present which RELATE TO [PLANT RANCH and CENA].” (Ibid.,
Request Nos. 10-11.) 
In addition, the Requests for Documents seek “[a]ll COMMUNICATIONS
between YOU and HUERTA from January 1, 2018 through March 1, 2022 which RELATE
TO a food services and/or manufacturing business other than CENA and PLANT
RANCH,” and “[a]ll DOCUMENTS transmitted between YOU and HUERTA from January 1,
2018 through March 1, 2022 which RELATE TO a food services and/or manufacturing
business other than CENA and PLANT RANCH.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A,
Attachment 3, Requests Nos. 12, 14.) The Requests for Documents also seek
“[a]ll COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and HUERTA from January 1, 2018 through March
1, 2022 which RELATE TO a prospective food services and/or manufacturing
business other than CENA and PLANT RANCH,” and “[a]ll DOCUMENTS transmitted
between YOU and HUERTA from January 1, 2018 through March 1, 2022 which RELATE
TO a prospective food services and/or manufacturing business other than CENA
and PLANT RANCH.” (Ibid., Requests No. 13,
15.)  
Defendants assert that good cause exists to compel GAC’s compliance
with the Subpoena. Defendants assert that “the documents and communications
sought relate directly to the parties and claims at issue, i.e., Plaintiff’s
claims against Defendants related to their purported financial improprieties,
and Cross-Complainant’s cross-claims against Huerta related to his financial
improprieties.” (Mot. at pp. 4:26-5:1.)[2] Defendants
also assert that GAC, “vis-à-vis its principal, Mik Spann, possesses first-hand
knowledge of relevant information and responsive documents and communications.”
(Mot. at p. 5:11-12.) Defendants’ counsel states that “Huerta’s document
production in this case reveals numerous communications between Mr. Spann,
Plaintiff, and Defendants.” (Gladstein Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. E.) 
Based on the foregoing, and in light of the lack of any opposition,
the Court finds that Defendants have demonstrated good cause to compel GAC’s
compliance with the Subpoena. 


 
Request for Sanctions 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a) provides that “in making an order pursuant to motion made…under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion
award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one
or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” In addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (j) provides that “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
As the instant motion is unopposed, the Court does not find that
sanctions against GAC are warranted under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a) or Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (j). 
In the
motion, Defendants also cite to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.010, subdivision (d),
which provides that “[m]isuses of the
discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following:…(d) Failing to respond or
to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” However, Defendants do not
appear to cite further authority supporting their request for monetary
sanctions against GAC in such a circumstance.[3]

In light
of the foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ request for sanctions. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
the Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel GAC’s compliance with the
Subpoena. The Court denies Defendants’ request for sanctions. 
The Court orders Defendants
to give notice of this order.
 
DATED: 
March 7, 2024                                
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court
 


