 Case Number:  23STCP04614    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 







In Re: 
 
AMERICAN ANNUITY FUNDING, LLC,
 
                        Petitioner,
 
 
 
 


Case No.:


23STCP04614




Hearing Date:


March 8, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
FIRST AMENDED
  PETITION FOR APPROVAL OF TRANSFER OF STRUCTURED SETTLEMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS 
 



 
Background 
Petitioner American Annuity Funding, LLC
(“Petitioner”) filed a Petition for Approval of Transfer of Structured
Settlement Payment Rights in this action on December 26, 2023. 
On February 26, 2024, Petitioner filed a
First Amended Petition for Approval of Transfer of Structured Settlement
Payment Rights. 
Petitioner seeks “approval of the transfer
of certain structured settlement payment rights by its payee Robert Suarez, Jr.
(‘Payee’) to Petitioner or its assignee.” (Amended Notice at p. 2:5-7.) The
hearing on the instant petition was continued from February 28, 2024 to March
8, 2024. 
Discussion
Petitioner
submits the Declaration of Robert Suarez Jr. in support of the petition. Robert
Suarez Jr. (“Payee”) states that “I have agreed to sell my interest in
certain payments I am due under an existing structured settlement to Petitioner
American Annuity Funding, LLC as follows: 120 monthly life contingent payments
each in the amount of $1,500.00 starting on 1/6/2025 and continuing through
12/6/2034, as set forth in the Transfer Agreement, which is attached to the
Notice of Hearing as Exhibit Two.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 2.)
The Court notes that Petitioner’s Amended
Notice of Hearing filed on January 29, 2024 does not have any attachments. The
transfer agreement attached as Exhibit 2 to the First Amended Petition
provides, inter alia, that “Seller agrees to sell, assign and transfer
to Purchaser and/or its assigns, all of her [sic] right, title and interest in
the following payments, which she [sic] is due to receive under the Settlement
Agreement: $1,500.00 monthly Life Contingent payments from 1/6/2025-12/6/2034;;
[sic] (the ‘Assigned Payments’) Purchaser shall pay seller the sum of
$85,000.00 (the ‘Assigned Price’) in return for selling, transferring and
assigning to Purchaser the Assigned Payments as listed herein.” (First Amended
Petition, Ex. 2.) 
Under Insurance Code section 10136, subdivision (b), ten or
more days before the payee executes a transfer agreement, the transferee shall
provide the payee with a separate written disclosure statement, accurately
completed with the information that applies to the transfer agreement in at
least 12-point type. Petitioner attaches as Exhibit 3 to the First Amended
Petition a copy of the disclosure statement. The disclosure complies with Insurance Code section 10136, subdivision (b) by stating
all the information and other disclosures required by this section. (First
Amended Petition, Ex. 3.) Payee states that he “received and read the separate
written disclosure required by California Insurance Code
section 10136(b), at least 10 days before I signed the Transfer Agreement.”
(Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 9.) 
The
transfer agreement also complies with Insurance Code section
10136, subdivision (c) by containing the required information and further
disclosures. (First Amended Petition, Ex. 2.) However, the Court notes that the
transfer agreement does not appear to clearly show that it was signed by Payee.
Portions of the last page of Exhibit 2 to the First Amended Petition are
illegible. 
Under Insurance Code section 10137, “[a]
transfer of structured settlement payment rights is void unless a court reviews
and approves the transfer and finds the following conditions are met: (a) The
transfer of the structured settlement payment rights is fair and reasonable and
in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support
of his or her dependents. (b) The transfer complies with the
requirements of this article, will not contravene other applicable law, and the
court has reviewed and approved the transfer as provided in Section 10139.5.” Under Insurance Code section 10139.5,
factors to consider include, inter alia, (1) the reasonable preference
and desire of the payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking into
account the payee’s age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent
maturity level; (2) the stated purpose of the transfer; (3) the payee’s
financial and economic situation; and (4) the terms of the transaction,
including whether the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all
or a portion of his or her future payments.
Payee is
over the age of 18. (Suarez Jr. Decl. p. 1:4.) Payee states that he is a “36 years old,
single male with two minor children.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 4.) Payee states
that he has no child support obligations. (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 5.) Payee “entered
into the original structured settlement agreement as a result of a third party
action [he] brought for a wrongful death case on or around 1990. The original
settlement was intended as compensation; [he is] not being treated for injuries
and as such [he has] no need to provide for future medical expenses related to
the settlement.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Payee states that he “average[s]
$110,000.00 annually [sic] income and project[s] to make over $200,000.00 in
2024 including commissions.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 4.) Payee states that “[i]f
approved, [he] will receive $85,000.00 from this transaction.” (Suarez Jr.
Decl., ¶ 6.) Payee intends to “use the money [he] receive[s] from American
Annuity Funding, LLC to do renovations to [his] current real estate holdings.”
(Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 6.) Payee asserts that it is “in [his] best interest, and
in the best interests of [his] family, to enter into this transaction with the
Petitioner and sell a portion of the annuity payments [he is] scheduled to
receive in the future in order to accomplish these goals at the present time.” (Suarez
Jr. Decl., ¶ 6.) Payee also states that he previously assigned a portion of his
structured settlement payment rights on five prior occasions. (Suarez Jr.
Decl., ¶ 7.) 
The Court
finds that the transaction appears to be fair and reasonable and in the best
interest of Payee. However, Petitioner still does not appear to indicate “[w]hether the transferee attempted previous transactions
involving the payee’s structured settlement payments that were denied, or that
were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past
five years,” or “[w]hether, to the best of the transferee’s knowledge after
making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement
payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the
transferee, that were denied, or which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a
decision on the merits, within the past five years.” (Ins. Code, § 10139.5,
subds. (b)(11)-(12); see Court’s February
28, 2024 Order.)  
Petitioner also does not
appear to indicate “[w]hether, when the settlement was completed, the future
periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended
to provide for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee
still needs the future structured settlement payments to pay for future
necessary living expenses.” (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (b)(6).) 
In
addition, Insurance Code section 10138 prohibits
certain provisions. Insurance Code section 10138,
subdivisions (a)(9) and (a)(10) provide that “[a] transfer agreement, as
defined in subdivision (o) of Section 10134, shall
not include any provision described in the paragraphs below. Any inclusion of a
prohibited provision, with respect to a seller who is a California resident,
shall make the provision void and unenforceable…(9) If the payee is
domiciled in California at the time that the transfer agreement is signed by
the payee, any forum selection provision providing for jurisdiction to be in a court
outside of California for any action arising under the contract. (10) If
the payee is domiciled in California at the time that the transfer agreement is
signed by the payee, any choice-of-law provision that provides for controlling
law to be other than California law in any action arising under the contract.” 
Here, Payee
states that he lives in California. (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 4.) However, the transfer
agreement provides that “[a]ny disputes between the parties will be governed,
interpreted, construed, and enforced in accordance with the laws of the state
of domicile of the Purchaser, which state is the proper venue to bring any
cause of action arising out of a breach of the Agreement. The parties agree to
the jurisdiction of any court of competent jurisdiction located in the state of
domicile of the Purchaser.” (First Amended
Petition, Ex. 2, ¶ F.) The “Purchaser” in the transfer agreement is American Annuity
Funding, LLC, and the transfer agreement provides that “[y]ou must cancel in
writing and send your cancellation to 20423 State Rd 7 STE F6-159, Boca
Raton, Fl 33498.” (First Amended
Petition, Ex. 2, emphasis added.) In addition, the disclosure statement
provides, “[s]end
your cancellation to: American Annuity Funding, LLC, 20423 State Rd 7 STE
F6-159, Boca Raton, FL 33498.” (First Amended Petition, Ex. 3.) Thus, it
appears that the transfer agreement contains a forum
selection provision providing for jurisdiction to be in a court outside of
California, as well as a choice-of-law provision that provides for
controlling law to be other than California law. (Ins. Code, § 10138,
subds. (a)(9)-(a)(10).) 
The
transfer agreement appears to comply with provisions set forth in Insurance Code section 10139.3.
Under Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (a)(2), the
petitioner is required to advise the payee in writing to seek independent
professional advice regarding the transfer and payee must either receive such
advice or waive, in writing, the opportunity to receive such advice. In his
supporting declaration, Payee states that “I have been advised by American Annuity
Funding, LLC of my right to seek independent counsel and financial advice in
connection with the petition for court approval of the transfer agreement. I
have been further advised that if I retain counsel, a licensed certified public
accountant, or a licensed actuary in connection with a petition for an order
approving the transfer agreement, that American Annuity Funding, LLC shall pay
the fees of said counsel, accountant, or actuary, regardless of whether the
transfer agreement is approved, and regardless of whether the attorney,
accountant, or actuary files any document or appears at the hearing on the
application for transfer, in an aggregate amount not to exceed one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500). I hereby waive that advice and do not wish to
retain such an independent advisor.” (Suarez
Jr. Decl., ¶ 10.) Payee also states in his declaration that “I understand the
nature and terms of the transaction, and I am entering into the transaction
with American Annuity Funding, LLC of my own free will and volition.” (Suarez
Jr. Decl., ¶ 12.) In addition, Payee states that “I do not wish to exercise the
right to cancel.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 13.) 
As set forth
above, Payee states in his supporting declaration that he is “36 years old,
single male with two minor children.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 4.) Pursuant to Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (c)(3), “[e]very
petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights,
except as provided in subdivision (d), shall include, to the extent known after
the transferee has made reasonable inquiry with the payee, all of the
following:…(3) The names, ages, and place or places of residence of the
payee’s minor children or other dependents, if any.” Such information still
does not appear to have been provided. (See February 28, 2024 Order.) 
Pursuant to
Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (f)(2), “[n]ot less than 20 days prior to the scheduled hearing on any
petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights
under this article, the transferee shall file with the court and serve on all
interested parties a notice of the proposed transfer and the petition for its
authorization,” and shall include with that notice, inter alia, “[a]
copy of the proposed transfer agreement and disclosure form required by
paragraph (3) of subdivision (a),” “[a] copy of the disclosure
required in subdivision (b) of Section 10136,”
“[n]otification that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or
otherwise respond to the transferee’s petition, either in person or by counsel,
by submitting written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing,”
and “[n]otification of the time and place of the hearing and
notification of the manner in which and the time by which written responses to
the petition must be filed, which may not be less than 15 days after service of
the transferee’s notice, in order to be considered by the court.” (Ins.
Code, § 10139.5, subds. (f)(2)(B), (D), (J), (K).) 
On February 26,
2024, Petitioner’s counsel filed a declaration stating that “[o]n January 9,
2024, I submitted for filing and served a Notice of Hearing and a First Amended
Petition. I am attaching a copy of said notice as Exhibit ‘1’ hereto. I also
caused the same to be served via UPS on all interested parties.” (Shafai Decl.,
¶ 2.) However, the Court notes that the “Notice of Hearing” attached as Exhibit
1 to Mr. Shafai’s declaration lists a hearing date of July 24, 2024. 
Conclusion
In light of
the foregoing, the First Amended Petition is denied without prejudice. 
Petitioner is ordered to provide notice of
this order.
 
DATED:  March 8, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 