 Case Number:  23STCV02134    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ CHARLES BERNAL, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. CHRISTOPHER MAGGIORE, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV02134 Hearing Date: October 10, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER (1) GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL DISCOVERY RESPONSES AND (2) GRANTING MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Charles Bernal (“Bernal”) and Artist Worldwide Agency, LLC (“AWA”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) seek the following: (1) to deem AWA’s Requests For Admission, Set Three, admitted against defendant Christopher Maggiore (“Defendant”), (2), compel Defendant to provide verified responses to AWA’s Requests for Production (“RPDs”), Set Three, and (3) compel Defendant to provide verified response to AWA’s Special Interrogatories, Set Three. (Mots. Exhs. 1.) Additionally, Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions. Plaintiffs contend Defendant has failed to serve responses to the propounded discovery to date. In opposition, Defendant’s counsel argues that since the date of Defendant’s medical emergency in June 2024, Defendant has been unable to effectively communicate with counsel to provide answers and responses to the discovery requests. However, on September 24, 2024, Defendant communicated with his counsel and assured that he would be able to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. Defendant contends the motions should be denied contingent on all outstanding discovery be responded to within 14 days of the hearing on the motions to compel, and that Defendant’s deposition should take place prior to November 15, 2024. Defendant furthers argues that Plaintiffs did not meet and confer. In reply, Plaintiffs contend Defendant relies on inapplicable law, that there is no meet and confer requirement, and that Plaintiffs seek to have the requests deemed admitted rather than give Defendant a further opportunity to respond. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s purported medical condition lacks legitimacy, and that note regarding Defendant’s medical condition is dubious, vague, and suspiciously dated.  II. MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES Legal Standard For a motion to compel initial discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290; 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a); § 2031.300, subd. (a).)¿ Discussion There is no meet and confer requirement for a motion to compel initial discovery responses. The reference to motion to compel further responses codes are inapplicable here. Defendant concedes that no responses have been provided to date to discovery propounded on April 25, 2024, and that Defendant is capable of working with his counsel to provide verified responses. In terms of Defendant’s request regarding his deposition, the relevant motion to compel Defendant’s deposition is set for October 21, 2024; the Court will not address any contentions related to the deposition at this juncture. Defendant’s request for this Court to deny the motions on a contingency basis makes no practical sense, especially in this context. Plaintiffs’ motions for Defendant to serve verified responses, without objections, to AWA’s Special Interrogatories, Set Three and RPDs, Set Three are therefore GRANTED.  Sanctions Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) Plaintiffs request $1,872.50 for each motion to compel. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ counsel has not justified his high hourly rate of $725 per hour. A declaration that he has been practicing for eleven and a half years, alone, is not sufficient information. Although the Court will grant monetary sanctions, it will be in a reduced amount, especially for these simple and straightforward motions. Plaintiffs are awarded three hours of attorney time collectively for the motions and to appear at the hearing (awarded only once), at the requested reduced rate of $450.00 per hour, for a total of $1,350.00 in attorney fees. Further, Plaintiffs are awarded two motion filing fees of $60.00, for a total of $120.00 as costs. Conclusion & Order Defendant Christopher Maggiore is ordered to serve verified responses to AWA’s Special Interrogatories, Set Three and RPDs, Set Three, without objections, within twenty (20) days. (CCP §§ 2030.290(a),(b), 2031.300(a),(b).) Sanctions are imposed against defendant Christopher Maggiore and his counsel of record, jointly and severally. Defendant Christopher Maggiore and/or his counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $1,470.00, within twenty (20) days.  III. MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED Legal Standard Where there has been no timely response to a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The party who failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Discussion AWA served its Requests For Admission, Set Three, on Defendant on April 25, 2024. There is no evidence that Defendant has served substantially compliant responses prior to the hearing on the motion, nor has Defendant provided a proposed response to the RFAs. As such, pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c), the court “shall” make an order that the matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, in addition to the imposition of mandatory monetary sanctions. Conclusion and Order AWA’s Requests For Admission, Set Three, is deemed admitted against defendant Christopher Maggiore. (CCP §2033.280(b).) Plaintiffs are awarded $450 for the motion as attorney’s fees, and $60.00 for the motion filing fee as costs. Sanctions are imposed against defendant Christopher Maggiore and his counsel of record, jointly and severally. Defendant Christopher Maggiore and/or his counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $510.00, within twenty (20) days.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 9, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 