 Case Number:  24SMCV05059    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Beverly
Hills Courthouse | Department 205
 
 



PARVIN MESRI,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
DIANA SHAMOEIL, et al.,
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 24SMCV05059
  Hearing Date: 1/13/25
  Trial Date: N/A   
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
MOTION FOR TRIAL SETTING PREFERENCE PURUSANT TO CCP § 36 



 
Background
 
On October 15,
2024, Plaintiff Parvin Mesri (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Diana Shamoeil (“Shamoeil”), Rochelle Sterling and Donald T. Sterling, as
Trustees of the Sterling Family Trust (the “Sterling Defendants”), Beverly
Hills Properties LLC dba Sterling International Towers (“BHP”), and Does 1-20,
alleging causes of action for: (1) assault, (2) battery, (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (4) negligence, (5) negligent hiring and
supervision, and (6) premises liability. Plaintiff alleges that on May 11,
2024, she was visiting a friend at the Sterling International Towers when she
was attacked with no security supervision. (Compl., ¶¶ 15-17.) Plaintiff
alleges that she suffered severe injuries as a result of the attack. (Compl., ¶
17.) 
On December 16,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Trial Setting Preference. 
On December 30,
2024, the Sterling Defendants and BHP (collectively, “Defendants”) filed an
opposition to the motion. 
On January 6,
2025, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
Motion for Trial Preference
Standard
 
            “On petition of
any party over 70, section 36, subdivision (a), provides that the granting of
calendar preference is mandatory in some circumstances.” Fox v. Superior
Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 533. A court must grant a trial
preference under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a) where the following two factors are
present: (1) the party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole; and
(2) the health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation. Ibid. Where a motion
for trial preference is granted, the clerk shall set the case for trial not
more than 120 days from that date. Koch-Ash v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 689, 694. “[S]ection 36, subdivision (a) . . . is mandatory and
absolute in its application and does not allow a trial court to exercise
inherent or statutory general administrative authority it would otherwise
have.” Id. at p. 692. 
            The purpose of
Code Civ. Proc. § 36 is “to avoid an irrevocable loss of a qualifying
plaintiff’s substantive right to a trial during his or her lifetime and to
potential recovery of damages that would not survive plaintiff’s pretrial
death.” Koch-Ash v. Superior Court, supra, 180 Cal.App.3d 689,
694. A motion for trial preference does not require a doctor’s declaration and
“may be supported by nothing more than an attorney’s declaration based upon the
information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.”
Fox v. Superior Court, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534,
citation omitted [explaining that an attorney declaration under CCP § 36.5 can
consist entirely of hearsay and conclusions.]. “An affidavit submitted in
support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be
signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information
and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The
affidavit is not admissible for any purpose other than a motion for preference
under subdivision (a) of Section 36.” Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5. 
            “The application of section 36, subdivision (a), does not
violate the power of trial courts to regulate the order of their business. Mere
inconvenience to the court or to other litigants is irrelevant.” Swaithes v.
Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085. “[W]hen ruling on a motion
for preference in trial setting, the trial court must consider the total
picture, including the court’s calendar, dilatory conduct by the [moving
party], prejudice to the defendant in the event of an accelerated trial date,
and the likelihood of an eventual mandatory dismissal if the request for a
preferential trial date is denied.” Mitchell v. Frank R. Howard Memorial
Hospital (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1404.
Analysis
 
Evidence in Support of the Motion
            In support of the motion,
Plaintiff’s counsel, Taylor S. Kruse, Esq. (“Kruse”), provides a declaration.
Counsel states that: this case arises out of an attack that took place at the
premises owned, maintained, leased, rented and otherwise controlled by
Defendants. (Kruse Decl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff was attacked with a skateboard on the
premises and suffered severe injuries as a result. (Kruse Decl., ¶ 1.) All
Defendants in this matter have been served. (Kruse Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A, B.)
Plaintiff is 82 years old and suffers from poor health. (Kruse Decl., ¶ 4.)
This poor health includes the injuries suffered in the subject accident, as
well as a prior broken clavicle which affects her breathing and chronic
cardiovascular conditions. (Kruse Decl., ¶ 5.) Counsel states that “Plaintiff’s
substantive right to trial during her lifetime is at risk if she is not granted
a trial preference . . . .” (Kruse Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Evidence in Opposition to the Motion
            In opposition to the motion, counsel
for Defendants, Greg A. Garbacz (“Garbacz”), provides a declaration. Mr.
Garbacz indicates that since being served, Defendants have began preparing
written discovery to serve on Plaintiff and investigating the circumstances of
the alleged assault incident. (Garbacz Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendants anticipate the
need to conduct additional discovery and are preparing dispositive motions
“regarding individual liability issues and other grounds that will require
adequate time for preparation, filing, and hearing pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 437c.” (Garbacz Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6.) Setting trial within 120 days
would severely prejudice Defendants’ ability to prepare their defense and
exercise their due process rights in this matter. (Garbacz Decl., ¶ 8.) 
            Plaintiff Has Not Shown That a
Trial Preference is Warranted 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has not made a showing that
a trial preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest in the
litigation. Although the Court finds that Plaintiff has provided evidence that
she is over the age of 70, and the Court finds that she has a substantial
interest in this action, Plaintiff has not satisfied CCP § 36(a)(2). Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel attests to injuries suffered from the incident, as well as
a prior broken clavicle which impacts her breathing and unspecified chronic
cardiovascular conditions. (Kruse Decl., ¶ 5.) However, counsel has not
unequivocally stated that Plaintiff’s health “is such that a preference is
necessary to prevent prejudicing . . . [Plaintiff’s] interest in the
litigation. Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a)(2). The Court fails to see how
such conditions, without an attestation that Plaintiff will be prejudiced
absent a trial preference, warrants a preferential trial setting. Plaintiff has
not satisfied CCP § 36(a), which is the basis upon which the motion is brought.

Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Setting Preference Pursuant to CCP § 36
is DENIED. 
 
Dated: January 13, 2025
__________________________________________
Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge of the Superior Court