  Case Number:  23TRCV03435    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s FACMoving Party: Defendant Loyola Marymount UniversityResponding Party: Plaintiff C.J.LRULINGThe Court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn October 18, 2023, Plaintiff C.J.L (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Loyola Marymount University (“Defendant”) and DOES 1-25, inclusive.On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”). The motion was granted on September 9, 2024.On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an FAC, alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence and (2) Premises Liability.On October 2, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion. Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 11, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on October 17, 2024.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn September 27, 2023, Plaintiff visited Defendant’s campus as part of a children’s enrichment program. (FAC, ¶¶ 24-26.) While on campus, a light pole fell and struck Plaintiff, causing life -threatening injuries. (FAC, ¶ 27.)Defendant uses reclaimed water from irrigation systems to irrigate its campus landscape. (FAC, 8.) Reclaimed water is often highly acidic, which exacerbates the corrosion of steel poles, such as the one that fell and struck Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 14.)Plaintiff alleges that in January 2003, pole manufacturers began placing warnings on all poles that they must be inspected and repaired annually. (FAC, ¶ 16.) However, since at least September 27, 2013, Defendant has not implemented a formal policy for maintenance of metal light poles on its campus. (FAC, ¶ 20.)Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s lack of maintenance procedures is despicable and malicious because Defendant had actual knowledge that the light poles were in dangerous condition but failed to follow industry standard for their repair and maintenance. (FAC, ¶ 76.) Plaintiff alleges that a year prior to the accident, several light poles fell on Defendant’s campus after a golf cart collided with them. (FAC, ¶ 21.) Additionally, at least seven months before Plaintiff’s accident, another light pole fell outside of a campus parking structure. (FAC, ¶¶ 22.) Despite these incidents, Defendant did not change any of its practices, procedures, or guidelines related to the maintenance of the light poles. (FAC, ¶¶ 21-22.)In fact, Defendant did not order an inspection of the poles until after Plaintiff’s injury. (FAC, ¶ 30.) The third-party inspector recommended the immediate removal of at least twenty-five poles to eliminate safety concerns. (FAC, ¶ 32.) Plaintiff argues that Defendant could have easily conducted this inspection sooner, because it only cost Defendant $16,000, a miniscule amount compared to Defendant’s current endowment of $706,500,000. (FAC, ¶¶ 33-34.)Defendant now seeks to strike portions of the FAC which seek punitive damages and describe its conduct as malicious, oppressive, or despicable.LEGAL STANDARDAny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.) In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc.v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725 [examining Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1)].) “A conscious disregard of the safety of others may constitute malice within the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code. In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) “As amended to include [despicable], the statute plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. [Citations.] In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth. [Citations.] In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation. [Citation.]” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. [Citation.] Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim. [Citation.]” (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (footnote omitted).) DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentDefendant argues that Plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory and do not support a request for punitive damages. At most, Plaintiff alleges negligence.Opposing Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff argues that Defendant misleadingly quotes her FAC to omit Plaintiff’s supporting factual allegations. Plaintiff contends that her FAC, when viewed as a whole, contains sufficient factual allegations to justify punitive damages.Reply ArgumentDefendant reiterates that the factual allegations in the FAC, at most, rise to negligence, not malicious or oppressive conduct. Further, Plaintiff’s opposition relies on testimonial evidence that the court cannot consider during a motion to strike.Merits of the MotionA. Meet and ConferCode of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subd. (a) provides that before filing a motion to strike, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.Defense counsel declares that the parties met on September 9, 2024 and October 2, 2024 to discuss the potential motion to strike, but the parties were unable to reach an agreement. The court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirement.B. Punitive DamagesPlaintiff asserts that she has stated a prima facie case for punitive damages because Defendant acted in conscious disregard of her safety by failing to change its maintenance practices after two incidents involving fallen light poles. When a plaintiff seeks punitive damages on this basis, they must “establish that the defendant was aware of the probable consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895.)California courts have previously held that defendants who have notice of a long-standing dangerous condition and fail to repair or address it may be liable for punitive damages. (Penner v. Falk (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 858, 867.; Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 288.)In Penner, the trial court granted a motion to strike the plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages without leave to amend, but the court of appeals reversed. (Penner, supra, 153 Cal.App.3d at p. 867.) In Penner, the plaintiff was assaulted and robbed in the common hallway of his apartment by two non-tenants. (Id. at p. 861.) He alleged that the landlords were aware that in the two years prior to his assault, multiple other assaults and robberies were committed in the common areas of the apartment building and that tenants made many reports of unauthorized persons entering the building. (Id. at p. 863.) Despite these reports, the landlords did not take any measures to prevent unauthorized access to the building or take other steps to make it safe for residents. (Ibid.) The court of appeals found that these allegations were sufficient to state a prima facie case for punitive damages, and thus, the trial court erred in granting the motion to strike. (Id. at p. 867.) Notably, however, this case was decided before the 1987 revision to Section 3294, which imposed additional requirements on plaintiffs attempting to establish malice through conscious disregard of their rights. (College Hospital Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at 899.) Such plaintiffs must also show that the defendant acted in a “despicable” and “willful” manner. (Ibid.) Through the revisions, the legislature limited punitive awards to the most “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible” of cases. Under this heightened standard, the Penner plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages would likely fail because mere failure to repair a defect, absent significant additional facts, does not rise to the level of malice.In Nolin, the plaintiff suffered a slip and fall accident because the defendant negligently maintained a gas station. (Nolin, supra, 95 Cal.App.3d at p. 282) The plaintiff in Nolin sought punitive damages on the basis that the defendant gas station knew there was an ongoing issue with a pump that spilled gasoline in the area but chose not to repair it or warn customers of its danger out of fear that it would negatively impact business. (Id. at pp. 283-284.) Witnesses testified that at least two patrons and several store employees had previously fallen because of the defective pump. (Id. at p. 284.) The store manager also testified that she tried to put up warning signs and advise patrons over the loudspeaker of the fall risk, but her supervisor ordered her to stop these practices because they might tarnish the store’s image. (Id. at p. 283.) The court of appeals found that the defendant acted in conscious disregard of patrons’ safety because multiple employees reported the hazard to management, but management ignored it to save money and preserve the store’s reputation. (Id. at p. 289.) Thus, the jury was justified in imposing punitive damages on the defendant. (Ibid.) When analyzing these facts under the revised statute, a jury could find the defendant’s active steps to conceal the danger from patrons the defendant’s conduct to be “despicable” or “vile,” thereby justifying the imposition of punitive damages.Here, Plaintiff’s allegations do not rise to the level of conduct shown in Penner or Nolin. Plaintiff does not allege the active concealment of danger that was shown in Nolin. Plaintiff also does not allege that Defendants had notice of a long-standing dangerous condition in the manner the Penner complaint did. The Penner plaintiff alleged that there were reports of multiple assaults and robberies committed in the building by non-tenants, the same crimes which he later suffered because the landlords failed to take corrective measures. Here, Plaintiff only alleges two prior incidents, one of which was primarily caused by a cart colliding with a pole. Neither incident resulted in any injuries. At most, Plaintiff’s allegations sound of recklessness, not malicious, despicable, or oppressive conduct. Thus, Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages.Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety.C. Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Plaintiff indicates that documents produced during discovery may support Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. Thus, the court finds that there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety with leave to amend.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety with leave to amend.Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.