  Case Number:  24STCP01028    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  74 Glasswerks
LA, Inc. v. Yuntong Glass Merch-Electro Technology Co., LTC.
 
BACKGROUND
On
April 2, 2024, Glasswerks LA, Inc. (“Petitioner”) filed the instant petition to
confirm arbitration award. As of June 13, 2024, no opposition to the petition
has been filed. 
LEGAL STANDARD
 “Any party to an arbitration in which an award
has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the
award. The petition shall name as respondents all parties to the arbitration
and may name as respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) “A petition under this chapter shall: (a) Set
forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate
unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement. (b) Set forth
the names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the
award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1285.4.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is duly served and
filed, the court shall confirm the award as made…unless in accordance with this
chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award
or dismisses the proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.) Any response to the
petition is required to be filed and served within 10 days after service of the
petition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.)  
DISCUSSION  
The court finds that Petitioner
has established that the procedural requirements have been met. There being no
response, the court finds that the arbitration award is proper to confirm. “If
[an] award is confirmed, judgment must be entered in conformity therewith.” (Jones
v. Kvistad (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 836, 840.)  
CONCLUSION 
Based on the foregoing, the court grants Petitioner’s petition
to confirm arbitration award.  
The court orders Petitioner to file and serve a proposed
judgment within 10 days of the date of this order.  
Petitioner is ordered to give notice of this ruling.