  Case Number:  22VECV01358    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Mid-Century
  Insurance Company,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Jainson’s
  International, Inc.
        
  Defendant.


   Case
  Number             Department
      22VECV01358  
   107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
 
(1)  Compel Further Responses to Requests for
  Admissions; Request for Sanctions



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
The following factual allegations are drawn from the
Motion and are contested by Defendant.
 
In 2017 and 2018, plaintiff Mid-Century Insurance
Company (“Plaintiff”) provided defendant Jainson’s International, Inc.
(“Defendant”) with workers’ compensation insurance policies, for which
Defendant promised to pay Plaintiff premiums. (Motion p. 3.) Defendant
defaulted on its premiums payments and an outstanding balance remains. (Ibid.) 
 
On September 15, 2022, Plaintiff initiated this
lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”). 
 
On September 19,
2023, Plaintiff propounded a set of requests for admissions on Defendant, to
which Defendant responded on March 18, 2024. (Motion p. 4.)
 
On April 30, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further responses to the requests
for admission (the “Motion”). On May 23, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition
(the “Opposition”) to the Motion. No reply to the Opposition was timely filed.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness of Filings

 
All motions to compel further responses to written discovery
must be brought within 45 days of receiving the challenged responses, or as
otherwise agreed upon in writing, plus five days if service was effected by
mail.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1013, 2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1), 2033.290, subd. (c).)¿ This deadline is jurisdictional, and courts are
without authority to grant untimely motions.¿ (Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)¿Per California Code of
Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least
16 court days before they are set for hearing, “and if the notice is served by
facsimile transmission…, the required 16-day period of notice before the
hearing shall be increased by two calendar days.” Oppositions thereto should be
filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any
oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s set of requests for
admission were served on Plaintiff by mail on March 18, 2024. (Motion Exh. B.)
Fifty days after this date was May 7, 2024. Thus, the Motion, filed on April
30, 2024, which is more than 16 court days before the hearing, was timely
brought. Nine court days before the hearing, which is set for June 3, 2024, was
May 20, 2024. Thus, the Opposition, which was filed on May 23, 2024, is
untimely.
 
It is within the discretion of this court to consider or deny
untimely filings, and we decline to not consider the Opposition on account of
its untimeliness.
 

The Meet and Confer Requirement

 
Motions to compel further responses to requests for admission
must always be accompanied by a “meet and confer” declaration evidencing a
“reasonable and good faith attempt an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040, 2033.290, subd.
(b)(1).)
 
Plaintiff attaches to the Motion a declaration signed by its
attorney under penalty of perjury that describes his efforts to meet and confer
with Defendant’s counsel prior to the filing of the Motion. (Hettena Decl.
¶¶ 4–6.) We remind Defendant and its counsel of their obligation to meet
and confer with Plaintiff in good faith before the filing of a motion to compel
further. 
 
III. LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Any party may obtain discovery… by a written request that
any other party to the action admit the genuineness of specified documents, or
the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or
application of law to fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter that
is in controversy between the parties.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.010.)
“Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the
requests are directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the
requesting party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have
appeared.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2033.250, subd. (a).) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.220 reads,
 
(a)  
Each answer in a response to requests for
admission shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.
 
(b)  
Each answer shall:
 
(1)  
Admit so much of the matter involved in the
request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably
and clearly qualified by the responding party.
 
(2)  
Deny so much of the matter involved in the
request as is untrue.
 
(3)  
Specify so much of the matter involved in the
request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient
information or knowledge.
 
(c)  
If a responding party gives lack of information
or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a request for
admission, that party shall state in the answer that a reasonable inquiry
concerning the matter in the particular request has been made, and that the
information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to
admit the matter.
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290 reads, in relevant
part,
 
(a)  
On receipt of a response to requests for admissions,
the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further
response if that party deems that either or both of the following apply:
 
(1)  
An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete.
 
(2)  
An objection to a particular request is without
merit or too general.
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff brings
the Motion to compel further responses to eight of the requests for admission
that it propounded on Defendant. Each of the eight requests for admission
relates to insurance issued by Plaintiff to Defendant. Defendant’s response is
the same to each one: “[Defendant] lacks information and knowledge as to the
relationship between Farmers, its insurer, and the unknown entity [Plaintiff]
as used in this request, and after a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter,
has found that the information known or readily available is insufficient to
enable responding party to admit the matter, and thus [Defendant] denies.”
 
Plaintiff brings
the Motion “on the ground that said Requests for Admission are relevant to the
subject matter of this action, are within Defendant’s knowledge, and do not
relate to privileged matters” and that “Defendant’s refusal to adequately
answer Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions is without substantial
justification.” (Notice of Motion pp. 2–3.) In the body of the Motion,
Plaintiff does not make any further argument in support of its Motion, though
it does quote California Code of Civil
Procedure section 230.220, which relates to responses to interrogatories.
(Motion p. 4.) In response to each challenged request for admission in the
separate statement, Plaintiff again quotes California Code of Civil Procedure
section 230.220 and then states, “[h]ere, there is no discrepancy between the
two entities of Farmers Insurance and [Plaintiff]. Farmers Insurance
encompasses [Plaintiff], which is stated as such in the top right of thee
Statement of Account Defendant provided within Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Further, these requests are
directly related to the Defendant’s company that are within the Defendant’s
knowledge. They are pertaining to the facts of Defendant’s defenses. Therefore,
Defendant must either ‘admit’ or ‘deny’ each request.” (Separate Statement pp.
2–8.)
 
Plaintiff attaches to the Motion a copy of its requests for admissions,
which attaches copies of documents related to a worker’s compensation insurance
policy effective in 2018. (Motion Exh. A.) Plaintiff contends that it is
apparent from the face of these documents that the insurance policy was issued
by Plaintiff to Defendant. (Separate Statement pp. 2–8.) We disagree. While
Plaintiff is named throughout the documents, along with others, such as Truck
Insurance Exchange, Plaintiff’s role in the policy is not clear; each page is
on Farmer’s Insurance letterhead; and the relationship between Plaintiff and
Farmer’s Insurance as it relates to Defendant is unclear. We also note that the
first document is not an effective version of the policy, as it is not countersigned
on the Worker’s Compensation Information Page and it is a term of the policy,
at the bottom of the page beginning with the heading “ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS,”
that the policy “shall not be effective unless countersigned on the Information
Page by a duly authorized representative of [Plaintiff].” (Motion Exh. A.)
Additionally, Plaintiff does not submit with the Motion a certified copy of the
2018 policy documents. Plaintiff’s attorney’s declaration certifies that copy
of requests for admissions attached to the Motion is “a true and correct copy”
of the requests that were served on Defendant, but the policy documents are
attached to the requests and are not themselves certified. (Hettena Decl.
¶ 2.) Therefore, we disagree with Plaintiff’s argument in the Motion that
Defendant’s answers to the interrogatories are necessarily within Defendant’s
knowledge or that the answers Defendant served on Plaintiff are “without
substantial justification.” (Notice of Motion pp. 2–3.)
 
Defendant was required, upon receipt of Plaintiff’s requests for
admission, (1) to admit so much of the matter involved in each
request as is true, (2) to deny so much of the matter involved in each request
as is untrue, and (3) to specify so much of the matter involved in each request
as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient information
or knowledge. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2033.220, subd.
(b).) By responding to each of the interrogatories at issue in the Motion that
Defendant lacks sufficient information or knowledge to determine the truth of
each request for admission for the specific reason that it cannot determine the
relationship between Farmer’s Insurance and Plaintiff, that it has conducted a
reasonable inquiry into the matters addressed by each request for admission,
and it otherwise denies each request for admission, Defendant has fulfilled its
obligations under California Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.220.
Defendant’s responses are complete and compliant with California Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.220.
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES the Motion.
 
V. SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of
$680.00. (Notice of Motion p. 2; Hettena Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendant does not
seek sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
A court “shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response” without substantial justification, unless “other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿2033.290, subd. (d).)
 
Because we deny the Motion, Defendant successfully opposed the Motion and
sanctions against it are not warranted. Because Defendant does not seek
sanctions, we do not issue any.
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 
 
 
 
Dated:             June
3, 2024                                                   _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court