  Case Number:  20STCV21744    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                    Monday,
December 18, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 13
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Estate of Kenneth Ravizza, et al. v. Abbott Laboratories, et al.
            20STCV21744
1.      St.
Jude Medical, LLC and Pacesetter Inc.’s Motion to Seal Exhibits   
2.      Gina
Aiello Jordt’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            St.
Jude Medical, LLC and Pacesetter Inc.’s Motion to Seal Exhibits is granted. 
 
            Gina
Aiello Jordt’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac is granted.
 
Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed their Complaint on
June 9, 2020. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs are the
successor in interest and surviving spouse and children of decedent Kenneth
Ravizza. Plaintiffs allege that decedent died in 2018 when he suffered cardiac
arrest. Plaintiffs allege that an implantable cardioverter defibrillator
(“ICD”) that he had received seven years earlier did not restore proper cardiac
rhythm because a Durata 7121Q lead, a conductive wire that connected the ICD to
his heart, failed.
 
            Plaintiffs allege the following
causes of action: 1. Strict Liability – Manufacturing Defect; 2. Strict
Liability – Failure to Warn; 3. Negligence – Manufacturing Defect; 4.
Negligence – Failure to Warn; 5. Negligence Per Se; 6. Breach of Express
Warranty; 7. Breach of Implied Warranty; 8. Survival Action.
 
Motion to Seal Exhibits
 
“A record must not be filed under seal without a court
order. The court must not permit a record to be filed under seal based solely
on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.”  Cal Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(a).
 
“A party requesting that a record be filed under seal
must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The
motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  California Rules of Court, Rule
2.551(b)(1).  California Rules of Court,
Rule 2.551(b)(4) also provides that the party requesting that a record be filed
under seal must lodge it with the court when the motion or application is made
and, pending the determination of the motion or application, the lodged record
will be conditionally under seal.  
 
“The court may order that a record be filed under seal
only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record;
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”
Cal
Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d).
 
Defendants move for an order sealing the following
documents which were filed in connection with Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication: “(1) the unredacted
version of the Declaration of Keith Victorine (“Victorine Declaration”); (2)
the Product Analysis Report for Decedent Kenneth Ravizza’s (“Decedent”) Durata
Model 7121Q lead (Exhibit 55 to Defendants’ Appendix of Evidence); (3) the Traveler
for Decedent’s Durata Model 7121Q lead (Exhibit 81 to Defendants’ Appendix of
Evidence); (4) certain medical records produced by Plaintiffs (Exhibit 96 to
Defendants’ Appendix of Evidence); (5) the unredacted version of Defendants’
Memorandum of Points and Authorities; and (6) the unredacted version of
Defendants’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts.” (Notice of
Motion, page 3, lines 11-17.)  
 
The motion is supported by a memorandum of points and
authorities and evidence submitted by Defendants. Defendants identify the
following overriding interest that supports sealing and overcomes the public
right of access: the preservation of trade secrets. See, NBC Subsidiary Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1222, fn. 46. 
 
The Court finds that Defendants made a competent
showing to support a finding that the overriding interest identified by
Defendants overcomes the public right of access to the identified documents and
that the overriding interest supports sealing the documents. Defendants have adequately
shown that there is a probability that the parties’ interests will be
prejudiced if the documents are made public. The Court also finds that the
proposed sealing order is narrowly tailored. Defendants have proposed sealing
only the specific documents noted above in support of the motion for summary
judgment and/or summary adjudication. The Court finds that there are no less
restrictive means to achieve the identified overriding interest.  
 
Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, Defendants’
Motion to Seal Exhibits Submitted in Support of Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is granted. 
 
Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant
part:
“(d) The application must state:
(1) The applicant's residence and office address;
(2) The courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3) That the applicant is a licensee in good standing
in those courts;
(4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court;
(5) The title of each court and cause in which the
applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this
state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or
not it was granted; and
(6) The name, address, and telephone number of the
active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
(e) An applicant for permission to appear as counsel
pro hac vice under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the
State Bar of California with the copy of the application and the notice of
hearing that is served on the State Bar.”
 
The applicant has met all the requirements mandated in
Rule 9.40. The application to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice is therefore
granted. 
 
Gina Aiello Jordt is admitted as counsel pro hac vice
in the pending matter.
 
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 