 Case Number:  23TRCV00214    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                   Monday,
December 18, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 14
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Ifeoma
Nkwocha, et al. v. Toh The, et al.   
23TRCV00214
1.      Toh The’s Motion for Protective Order
2.      Annick M. Oulai’s Motion for Protective Order        
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Toh The and Annick M. Oula’s Motions
for Protective Order are granted.    
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on January 25, 2023.
Plaintiffs were involved in an auto accident with a vehicle driven by Annick M.
Oulia and co-owned by Toh The.
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendants submitted meet and confer declarations in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 2030.090(a) and CCP § 2016.040. (Decls.,
Yvonne Birch, ¶¶ 1-7.) 
 
Motion for Protective Order 
 
The Court is authorized to limit discovery through a
protective order.  The order may be
granted on motion of any party or other person affected by the discovery
sought.  CCP §§ 2017.020(a), 2019.020(b),
2019.030(a).  A protective order may be
obtained to limit the frequency or extent of use of any discovery method on any
of the following grounds:  (1)  “The discovery sought is unreasonably
cumulative or duplicative …;  (2)  “(The information) is obtainable from some
other source that is more convenient, less burdensome or less expensive;  (3) 
“The selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive,
taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.”  CCP § 2019.030(a)(1)-(2). 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.040 states:
“(a) Subject to the right of the responding party to
seek a protective order under Section 2030.090, any party who attaches a
supporting declaration as described in Section 2030.050 may propound a greater
number of specially prepared interrogatories to another party if this greater
number is warranted because of any of the following:
(1) The complexity or the quantity of the existing and
potential issues in the particular case.
(2) The financial burden on a party entailed in
conducting the discovery by oral deposition.
(3) The expedience of using this method of discovery
to provide to the responding party the opportunity to conduct an inquiry,
investigation, or search of files or records to supply the information sought.
(b) If the responding party seeks a protective order
on the ground that the number of specially prepared interrogatories is
unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the burden of justifying the
number of these interrogatories.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.090 states:
“(a) When interrogatories have been propounded, the
responding party, and any other party or affected natural person or
organization may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to,
one or more of the following directions:
(1) That the set of interrogatories, or particular
interrogatories in the set, need not be answered.
(2) That, contrary to the representations made in a
declaration submitted under Section 2030.050, the number of specially prepared
interrogatories is unwarranted.
(3) That the time specified in Section 2030.260 to
respond to the set of interrogatories, or to particular interrogatories in the
set, be extended.
(4) That the response be made only on specified terms
and conditions.
(5) That the method of discovery be an oral deposition
instead of interrogatories to a party.
(6) That a trade secret or other confidential
research, development, or commercial information not be disclosed or be
disclosed only in a certain way.
(7) That some or all of the answers to interrogatories
be sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the court.
(c) If the motion for a protective order is denied in
whole or in part, the court may order that the party provide or permit the
discovery against which protection was sought on terms and conditions that are
just.
(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order
under this section, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”
 
Defendants move for a protective order that Plaintiffs
Ifeoma Nkwocha and Silverline Onwualu special interrogatories propounded upon
Defendants “each consisting of 167 interrogatories, need not be answered; or,
alternatively (2) if the Court determines any one or more interrogatory should
be answered, that the time for defendant to respond be extended at least 30
days after the determination of this motion.”  (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 1-4.)  The motion is made on the ground that a
protective order is required “to protect defendant from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, and/or undue burden and expense because the 167
special interrogatories propounded by each plaintiff are excessive and
duplicative and, contrary to the representations made in counsel’s Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.050 declaration, the number of interrogatories is
unwarranted.” (Notice, page 2, lines 9-14.) 
 
The Court determines that the number of special
interrogatories propounded by each Plaintiff, a whopping 167 each, to each
Defendant is excessive. This action is an uncomplicated motor vehicle accident
case. Plaintiffs fail to establish good cause to subject Defendants to 167
interrogatories each. The number of interrogatories is excessive and would
simply cause undue burden upon Defendants. 
 
As noted above, “[i]f the responding party seeks a
protective order on the ground that the number of specially prepared
interrogatories is unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the burden of
justifying the number of these interrogatories.” CCP § 2030.040(b).  Plaintiffs fail to meet this burden. 
 
Plaintiffs merely conclude the number is warranted
because they suffered significant injuries and there are two Plaintiffs and two
Defendants involved.  Plaintiffs claim
that this is not a garden variety or run of the mill motor vehicle case but present
no facts which show otherwise.  Plaintiffs
also rely on the broad scope of discovery.  While the scope of discovery is liberal, the
legislature also specifically provided the mechanisms listed above pursuant to
CCP §§ 2030.040 and 2030.090.  Thus, clearly,
the scope of discovery, while broad, is not absolute and unlimited. The Court
finds that the discovery mechanisms listed above in Sections 2030.040 and
2030.090, as to the propounding of excessive interrogatories, are specifically
relevant in a situation such as this where a party seeks to inundate another
party with burdensome discovery requests in a case with very simple facts and
issues.
 
Thus, Defendants have adequately demonstrated that the
subject discovery is unwarranted, oppressive, imposes an undue burden, and is solely
intended to harass, annoy, embarrass, or oppress Defendants. Defendants’ motion
for protective order is granted. Defendants need not answer more than 35
special interrogatories each.  Plaintiffs
may re-serve 35 special interrogatories each or identify the 35 specific
special interrogatories that require a response within the special
interrogatories that have already been served. Defendants are to serve responses within 20
days after Plaintiffs have re-served 35 interrogatories or after Plaintiffs
have provided notice of the 35 special interrogatories that require a response
within the interrogatories that have already been served.
 
Sanctions 
 
Defendants’ requests for monetary sanctions are
granted. 
 
Defendants’ requested amount of monetary sanctions of
$942.18 each is reasonable. 
 
Thus, Plaintiff Ifeoma Nkwocha and Silverline Onwualu
and their attorneys of record – Christian I. Oronsaye, Kingsley Opia Enwemuche,
and Ivy Crest Attorneys, APC – are ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of
$942.18 to Defendant Toh The and sanctions in the amount of $942.18 to
Defendant Annick M. Oulai. 
 
Sanctions are payable within 30 days of this date.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.