 Case Number:  23TRCV01312    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                   Monday, December 18, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 17  



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Laguna
Del Rey, LLC v. Giulia A. Sabatelli, et al.
23TRCV01312
1.     
Laguna Del Rey,
LLC’s Application for Entry of Judgment   
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Laguna Del Rey, LLC’s Application for Entry of
Judgment is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 25, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. This is a residential unlawful detainer action
with respect to property identified as 6200 Vista Del Mar, Playa Del Rey, CA
90293.   
 
Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement
 
CCP § 664.6 states: “If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of
the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”
 
Plaintiff contends that the
Unlawful Detainer
Stipulation and Judgment (“Stipulation”) was fully executed by the parties on
July 20, 2023. (Decl., Johan Montoya, Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff states that Defendant breached the
terms of the Stipulation.  According to
Plaintiff, Defendant failed to comply with the requirements of the Stipulation
regarding payment and vacating the premises.  Defendant eventually did vacate the premises
but did not make payment for the amount in arrears. (Id. at ¶¶ 2-8.)  The Court notes that Defendant failed to file
any written opposition to the motion. 
 
Therefore, the Court
determines that Plaintiff has met its burden to establish that a breach of the
agreement exists such that a judgment, pursuant to the terms of the stipulation,
may be ordered.  
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Entry of Judgment is granted. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.