 Case Number:  23AHCV01201    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



RENYONG DONG, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EAST
   WEST BANK, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01201
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET
   ONE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   5, 2024



 
On May 30,
 2023, plaintiff Renyong Dong (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendant East West Bank (“Defendant”) arising from a trip
 and fall on a walkway connected to a parking lot. On September 28,
 2023 Defendant served Special Interrogatories (Set One) on Plaintiff.  No responses were received.  On November 7,
 2023, defense counsel sent Plaintiff’s
 counsel a letter requesting responses no later than November 17, 2023.
Defendant
did not receive a response and filed this motion on December 1,
 2023. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.)  A party that fails to serve timely responses
waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the
protection of attorney work product. (Id.) 
Plaintiff
did not oppose the motion and it is undisputed responses were not served.  Accordingly,
 Defendant’s Motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff
is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to Defendant’s
Special Interrogatories (Set One) within 10 days of the date of this Order. 
The Code of Civil Procedure provides
that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) The Court finds evidence of neither. 
Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against Plaintiff
and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $485
for 1
hour at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $425.00
and $60.00
in filing fees, to be paid within 10 days of the date of this Order.
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 5th
day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 