  Case Number:  23AHCV00890    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
XIAOYE
   ZHANG, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00890
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR DISCHARGE AND FOR AWARD OF ATTORNEY’S FEES AND
   COSTS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
  5, 2024




 


 


 



 
          Introduction
On April 20, 2023, plaintiff
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Wells Fargo”) filed this interpleader action. Wells
Fargo alleges that on March 8, 2022, defendant Xiaoye Zhang (“Zhang”) opened a
deposit account at Wells Fargo ending with account number -6989 (“Account”). On
January 9, 2023, $30,000 was wired from a deposit account held by defendant
Shirley A. Miller (“Miller”) to Zhang’s Account. Miller requested a recall of
the Wire and claimed that it was procured by fraud. On January 10, 2023, Wells
Fargo restrained Zhang’s Account and notified Zhang of Miller’s fraud claim;
Wells Fargo requested authority from Zhang to release the money to Miller and
received no response. On information and belief, Wells Fargo alleges that Zhang
contends that the Wire was authorized and any restraint on her Acount should be
lifted, leading to the filing of this complaint-in-interpleader.
On October 26, 2023, Wells
Fargo filed this motion for an order: (1) permitting the deposit of $30,000
with the Court minus $11,020.88 in fees and costs and (2) discharging it from
liability
Legal Standard
Interpleader is a procedure
which permits a party holding money or property to which conflicting claims are
being made by others to join the adverse claimants and force them to litigate
their claims among themselves. (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b).) “An
interpleader action is traditionally viewed as two suits: one between the
stakeholder and the claimants to determine the stakeholder's right to
interplead, and the other among the claimants to determine who shall receive
the funds interpleaded ... As against the stakeholder, claimants may raise only
matters which go to whether the suit is properly one for interpleader; i.e.,
whether the elements of an interpleader action are present.” (State Farm
Fire & Cas. Co. v. Pietak (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 612.)  
Once the stakeholder’s
right to interplead is established, and he or she deposits the money or
personal property in court, he or she may be discharged from liability to any
of the claimants. (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.5.) This enables the stakeholder to
avoid a multiplicity of actions, and the risk of inconsistent results if each
of the claimants were to sue him or her separately. (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 874; City of Morgan Hill v. Brown
(1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1114, 1122.) In ordering the discharge of such party, the
court may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and reasonable
attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been deposited with the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.6, subd. (a).) 

Discussion
Here, Miller only opposes Wells
Fargo’s right to attorneys’ fees and costs. Wells Fargo requests fees and costs
in the total amount of $11,020.88. Miller argues this is excessive considering
it is more than a third of the proceeds at issue. Miller relies on Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Zinnel (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 393, 401, in
which the court of appeal reversed a grant of attorneys’ fees after noting that
Wells Fargo held onto $90,000 for five months before filing the interpleader
action, and held the funds for another eight months until the final order
dismissing the complaint, without ever depositing the money with the court. 
On reply, Wells Fargo argues that the
amount of fees and costs sought is reasonable because the bulk of the work was
performed by Michael Rapkine, who charges a reasonable rate of $322 an hour and
also wrote off numerous time entries. Wells Fargo also argues that Zinnel
is distinguishable and that “legislative intent supports a more flexible
interpretation of interpleader procedures.” (Reply, p. 3.) However, Wells Fargo
fails to discuss any “legislative intent.” Instead, Wells Fargo points out that
the trial court’s fee award in Zinnel subtracted $43,000 in fees from the
$90,000 in dispute, whereas here, the amount requested is only $11,020.88 out
of $30,000, and is therefore proportionately less.  (Reply, p. 3.) While that may be true, other
facts in Zinnel are quite similar. Like in Zinnel, Wells Fargo
waited several months after the dispute arose before filing the interpleader
action. Also, as in Zinnel, Wells Fargo waited several months to file this
motion for discharge on October 26, 2023, and several more months will have
passed by the time any order is issued. 
Miller identified specific billing and
cost entries that are allegedly “either unrelated to the preparation and filing
of the complaint or the Motion, or amount to unnecessary nickel-and-diming of
an elderly fraud victim.” (Opp., p. 6.) While Wells Fargo certainly incurred unavoidable
filing fees and costs involved with filing this interpleader action and serving
Zhang through publication, the Court agrees with Miller that the billing and
cost entries identified by Miller are excessive. Therefore, the Court subtracts
the total amount of those identified entries, $2,132.60, from Wells Fargo’s
request for fees and cost. 
          Conclusion
The motion for discharge is GRANTED in
part. Wells Fargo is authorized to deposit the proceeds of $30,000 with the
clerk, minus fees and costs in the amount of $8,888.28, within 30 days. Upon
deposit, Wells Fargo is discharged from liability in this action and a judgment
of dismissal shall be entered in its favor. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 5th
 day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.