 Case Number:  23AHCV02028    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



THOMAS TRAN
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LI
  LIN, et al.
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02028
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT LI LIN’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PURSUANT TO
   C.C.P. § 425.16; DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

February
   5, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
September 1, 2023, plaintiff Thomas Tran (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendant Li Lin (“Defendant”) asserting causes of action for: (1)
negligence, (2) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (3) negligent
infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”), (4) breach of oral contract. (5)
conversion. (6) constructive eviction, (7) damages for renting unpermitted unit
(California Civil Code section 1924.4), and (8) quantum meruit for services. 
On
December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). 
On
January 9, 2024, Defendant filed this demurrer and a special motion to strike
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16. 
On
January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs. 
On
January 29, 2024, Defendant filed reply briefs. 
II.         
PLAINTIFF’S
ALLEGATIONS IN THE FAC
Plaintiff alleges that in September
2022, Defendant offered to rent her “unit” on 8246 Yarrow Street in Rosemead,
California (the “Subject Property”) to Plaintiff if Plaintiff would perform
renovation work on said unit. (FAC, ¶¶ 2, 4.) Plaintiff would allegedly pay
$500 per month and would be able to stay in the unit until the end of 2023. (FAC,
¶ 4.) Subsequently, in October 2022, Plaintiff allegedly performed 43 hours of
work at an hourly rate of $75 on the following: “installation of toilet, water
heater, faucet, shower, curtains, bathroom sink, mirror, molding [sic], kitchen
sink, assembled and mounted closet cabinet, blinds, electrical work, paint wall
and ceiling, cleaned and organized studio.” (FAC, ¶ 5.) 
Plaintiff moved into the unit on
October 20, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 6.) On November 12, 2022, a dispute arose between Plaintiff
and a neighbor about parking. (FAC, ¶ 6.) On December 5, 2022, Defendant asked
Plaintiff to move out. (FAC, ¶ 6.) Plaintiff refused because that was not the
agreement they made. (FAC, ¶ 6.) 
On January 8, 2023, Defendant allegedly
locked the gate to the Subject Property to prevent Plaintiff from accessing the
unit. (FAC, ¶ 9.) The gate was unlocked after Plaintiff called the police and
Defendant was ordered to unlock the gate. (FAC, ¶ 10.) On or around January 29,
2023, Defendant allegedly entered the unit and removed Plaintiff’s personal
belongings, including a refrigerant tank, tools, a metal cabinet with hand
tools, small appliances, clothing, a night stand, and a Samsung tablet. (FAC, ¶
10.) Plaintiff asked Defendant where his personal items were removed to and Lin
informed him that they were left at a neighbor’s property; however, when
Plaintiff contacted the neighbor, the neighbor denied that he had received
Plaintiff’s personal belongings. (FAC, ¶ 10.) 
On February 1, 2023, while Plaintiff
was working, Defendant “had the unit’s toilet, molding [sic] and floor tiles
removed; displaced the Refrigerator [sic], kitchen sink and cabinet.” (FAC, ¶
11.) These acts were allegedly done to make the unit uninhabitable and
constructively evict Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 11.) When Plaintiff contacted the
police, Defendant claimed that Plaintiff had vacated or abandoned the unit and
promised to a police officer that she would restore the toilet and other items,
although she never did so. (FAC, ¶ 12.) 
III.       
MOTION
TO STRIKE
Defendant
moves to strike the entire FAC pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16 on the grounds that the FAC is predicated on: (1) Defendant’s unlawful
detainer action (Case No. 23PDUD00050) (the “Unlawful Detainer Action”) filed
on January 10, 2023, and dismissed on February 21, 2023, and (2) a temporary
restraining order (Case No. 23PDR000032) (“TRO”) which was obtained by Defendant
on January 10, 2023, and expired on February 1, 2023. Defendant requests the
Court take judicial notice of “said case files” and documents attached as
Exhibits A and B, which are copies of the complaint in the unlawful detainer
and the application for the TRO. 
“Litigation
of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step process. First, the moving
defendant bears the burden of establishing that the challenged allegations or
claims arise from protected activity in which the defendant has engaged.
Second, for each claim that does arise from protected activity, the plaintiff
must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal merit.’ If the plaintiff cannot make
this showing, the court will strike the claim.” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009.) 
To satisfy the first prong of the two-prong test, the defendant’s acts
underlying the cause of action must themselves have been in furtherance of the
right of petition or free speech. (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29
Cal. 4th 69, 76-78.) The defendant’s acts are protected activity – that is,
made in furtherance of protected petition or free speech in connection with a
public issue – if they fit into one of the following categories under the
section 425.16(e): (1) oral or written statements made before a legislative,
executive, judicial or any other official proceeding; (2) oral or written
statements made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law; (3) written or oral statements made in a place open to the
public or in a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest; and
(4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional rights
of petition or free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of
public interest. (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e); City of Cotati, supra,
29 Cal.4th at p. 78.)¿
In
determining whether a cause of action is based on protected activity, we
“examine the principal
thrust
or gravamen of a plaintiff's cause of action to
determine whether the anti-SLAPP statute applies.” (Optional Capital, Inc.
v. Akin Gump Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 95, 110 [citation
omitted].) “We assess the principal thrust by identifying ‘[t]he allegedly
wrongful and injury-producing conduct ... that provides the foundation for the claim.’” (Id.
at p. 111 [citation omitted].) In other words, section 425.16 does not apply if
Defendant’s constitutionally protected activity is “merely incidental” or
“collateral” to the unprotected activity. (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal.5th 376, 395.) “Allegations of protected activity that merely provide
context, without supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the
anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Ibid.) 
In Ulkarim v. Westfield LLC (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 1266, 1279, the Second District Court of Appeal held that a
tenant's complaint against a landlord filed after the service of a notice of
termination and the filing of a complaint for unlawful detainer does not arise
from those particular activities if the gravamen of the tenant's complaint
challenges the decision to terminate the tenancy or other conduct in connection
with the termination apart from the service of a notice of termination or
filing of an unlawful detainer complaint. 
This decision followed others which similarly held that neither
breaching an agreement nor wrongfully terminating a tenancy is an activity
taken in furtherance of the constitutional right of petition or free speech. (Marlin
v. Aimco Venezia, LLC (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 154, 161; Clark v. Mazgani (2009)
170 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1286-1287.)  “The
pivotal distinction” in the case law “is whether an actual or contemplated
unlawful detainer action by a landlord ... merely ‘preceded’ or ‘triggered’ the
tenant's lawsuit, or whether it was instead the ‘basis’ or ‘cause’ of that
suit.” (Clark, supra, 170 Cal.App.4th at p. 1289.)  
Here,
Defendant fails to meet its burden to show that the first prong is satisfied. “At
the first step, the moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all
allegations of protected activity, and the claims for relief supported by them.”
(Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 396.) Remarkably, Defendant does
not include any analysis of how Plaintiff’s causes of actions (or specific
allegations) are predicated on Defendant’s protected activity, i.e., filing the
Unlawful Detainer Action or applying for the TRO. Instead, Plaintiff broadly
states that “Plaintiff’s causes of action . . . are all predicated on
[Defendant];s actions taken in furtherance of her right of petition in the
underlying lawsuit.” (Motion, pp. 12-13.) This interpretation of the FAC
ignores the allegations stating that Defendant’s wrongful conduct that: (1) occurred
prior to both proceedings, or (2) is unrelated to either proceeding. For
instance, the conduct underlying Plaintiff’s claim for breach of contract is Defendant’s
demand for Plaintiff to move out. The demand occurred in December 2022, but the
Unlawful Detainer Action was not filed until January 10, 2023. (See Trilogy
at Glen Ivy Maintenance Association v. Shea Homes, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 361 [lawsuit may not trigger protection under the anti-SLAPP
statute if the underlying conduct involves legal obligations that allegedly
arose and were breached before any litigation activities were undertaken]. As
another example, Plaintiff’s claim for conversion relates to Defendant’s
removal of Plaintiff’s personal property in January 2023. It is unclear how this
conduct would even be related to the Unlawful Detainer Action or TRO. Defendant
fails to show how the Unlawful Detainer Action or TRO is a necessary element for
any of Plaintiff’s claims. Accordingly, Defendant has not met her initial
burden to show that Plaintiff’s claims arise from protected activity and the
Court need not determine whether Plaintiff has a probability of prevailing on
the merits of his claims. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)  
The special motion to strike the entire
complaint is DENIED. 
“Alternative”
Motion to Strike Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 435 
In
the alternative, Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s
fees in connection with Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim. Plaintiff
concedes the issue in his opposition brief. Accordingly, the motion to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for attorneys’ fees is GRANTED. 
As
for Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim, Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails
to allege conduct that demonstrates “oppression, malice, or fraud” pursuant to
Civil Code section 3294. “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious
conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a
level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’ [Citation.]” (Lackner
v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.) “As amended to include
[despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an
intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and
conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of
‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable
conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Id.)

Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s conduct was malicious with the required
specificity. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant intentionally failed to repair
and restore the unit’s bathroom shower when it was flooded with sewage and left
it to fester for weeks. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 34, 61.) Defendant also
allegedly took Plaintiff’s personal property worth over $10,000, removed it,
and lied about its whereabouts. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 42, 54.) Defendant
also allegedly removed all plumbing, appliances, flooring, and “molding” to
make the unit uninhabitable. (FAC, ¶ 50.) Given these allegations, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has adequately stated a prima facie claim for punitive
damages. 
The
motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages is DENIED. 
IV.        
DEMURRER
          As an initial
matter, it is unclear which ground for demurrer applies to the FAC or
individual causes of action. In its notice, Defendant states that the FAC is
vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible, and fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute any of the causes of action, before stating that Defendant demurs to
all causes of action. Defendant does not adhere to California Rules of Court rule
3.1320, which requires each ground of demurrer to be stated “in a separate
paragraph” and “whether it applies to the entire complaint. . . or specified
causes of action.” However, based on the remainder of Defendant’s memorandum of
points and authorities, it appears that Defendant is demurring on the grounds
that Plaintiff’s FAC fails to state sufficient facts to constitute any cause of
action. 
Demurrer for Failure to State
Sufficient Facts 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate facts alleged, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law). (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d
584, 591; 290 Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 439, 452.) 
Because a demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a pleading, the plaintiff must show that the pleading alleges
facts sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Sufficient
facts are the essential facts of the case “with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.” (Gressley v. Williams (1961)
193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) Where the pleading fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Zelig v. County of Los Angeles
(2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Second Cause of Action: Breach of
Implied Warranty of Habitability 
Defendant repeatedly argues that Defendant did not owe
Plaintiff a duty to repair in February or March 2023 because Plaintiff failed
to pay rent after December 20, 2022. Defendant cites to no legal authority for
the novel proposition that a landlord is absolved of their statutory duty to
provide a habitable dwelling if a tenant fails to pay rent. (Civ. Code, § 1941,
1941.1.) 
          Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant received notice of
any uninhabitable conditions and that even if there was notice, Defendant was
entitled to a reasonable amount of time to make the repairs. Defendant ignores
the allegation that Defendant individually rendered the unit uninhabitable by
removing appliances and fixtures and allowed the shower to flood with sewage
water. (FAC, ¶ 34.) Defendant’s ancillary claim that she was entitled to have a
reasonable time to make repairs under Civil Code section 1954 is irrelevant as
an issue of fact not determined on a demurrer. (Demurrer, p. 8.) 
          First and
Third Cause of Action: General Negligence and NIED
Defendant demurs to the First and Third
Causes of Action on the grounds that Plaintiff’s negligence-based claims are
duplicative of his habitability claim. (Demurrer, pp. 6-7.) However, a
plaintiff is permitted to plead alternative theories. The court of appeals held
in Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 858 that duplicative causes of action are not ground on which a
demurrer can be sustained. (Id. at 890.) In its reasoning, the court
examined the legislative history of CCP section 430.41, which states the
grounds for objections to pleadings including demurrers. (Ibid.) The court
compared former CCP section 453, which was repealed in 1982, to current section
436(a). (Ibid.) Former section 453 authorized the striking of “irrelevant and
redundant” matter from a pleading, whereas current section 436(a) now only
empowers the court to “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (Ibid.) The court reasoned that “[t]he elimination
of the reference to redundancy may have rested on the irreproachable rationale
that it is a waste of time and judicial resources to entertain a motion
challenging part of a pleading on the sole ground of repetitiveness. (See¿Civ. Code, § 3537¿[“Superfluity does not vitiate”].) This
is the sort of defect that, if it justifies any judicial intervention at all,
is ordinarily dealt with most economically at trial, or on a dispositive motion
such as summary judgment.” (Ibid.) 
 Defendant
also incorporates her arguments regarding her duty to repair which, as stated
above, the Court rejects. (Demurrer, p. 7.) 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the First
and Third Causes of Action is OVERRULED.
Fifth Cause of Action: Conversion of
Personal Property
Defendant argues that Plaintiff does
not have a claim for conversion because she legally disposed of his abandoned
property pursuant to Civil Code section 1980 et seq. To support this assertion,
Defendant misquotes paragraph 55 of the FAC and states that she “contacted
Plaintiff regarding his personal property left at the residence and removed the
property.” (Demurrer, p. 8.) However, Paragraph 55 states the opposite, which
is that “Plaintiff reached out to [D]efendant” after his belongings were
removed. (FAC, ¶ 55.) On reply, Defendant even admits that any “notice of
belief of abandonment” was “unalleged in the complaint.” (Reply, p. 5.)
Therefore, the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
Fourth Cause of Action: Breach of Oral
Contract 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
breach of contract claim fails because Plaintiff “will be unable to allege or
prove the performance of the contract because Plaintiff only alleged that he
paid rent to reside at the property up through December 20, 2022.” This
argument, which is unsupported by any legal authority, ignores the allegation
that Defendant breached the contract first on December 5, 2022. 
On reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s cause of action also fails because “there are no damages resulting
from [her] resquest that Plaintiff move out.” (Reply, p. 3.) This is an issue
of fact. Plaintiff adequately alleges that he has suffered “immeasurable amount
of financial and emotional/mental damages in an amount no less than $50,000” as
a result of Defendant’s breach. (FAC, ¶ 51.) 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED
Sixth Cause of Action: Constructive
Eviction 
          Defendant’s
moving papers only argue that the sixth cause of action is subject to the
special motion to strike. (Demurrer, p. 9.) As discussed above, the special
motion to strike is denied. Therefore, the demurrer on this ground is
OVERRULED.  
          On reply,
Defendant argues for the first time that any alleged lockout would not result
in any actual damages. (Reply, p. 5.) Defendant also argues that “if Plaintiff
moved out in January 2023 (FAC ¶ 73), then he cannot obtain damages for
habitability issues at the premises arising in February and March 2023.”
Nowhere in the Complaint, let alone paragraph 73, does Plaintiff allege that he
moved out in January 2023. 
          The demurrer to the Sixth Cause
of Action is OVERRULED> 
Seventh Cause of Action: Damages for
Renting an Unpermitted Unit
          Defendant did
not discuss this cause of action in the moving papers, but argues on reply that
Plaintiff fails to allege facts that allow her to “understand the time period
for which Plaintiff complains of the habitability issues.” (Reply, p. 5.) To
the extent there is any confusion or uncertainty in the allegations, this is a
matter remedied in discovery. (Khoury v. Maly's of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Defendant also argues that Plaintiff cannot recover
damages because he “consented” to the lack of amenities and did not pay rent
after December 20, 2022. (Reply, pp. 5-6.) However, a landlord is not entitled
to collect or request rent from a tenant in an unpermitted unit. (See Gruzen
v. Henry (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 517, 519.) 
          The demurrer
to the Seventh Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
Eighth Cause of Action
          Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot sue for quantum meruit because Plaintiff received consideration
for the services provided, “namely, staying at the unit.” (Demurrer, p. 9.)
This is a misreading of the FAC, which alleges that in exchange for installing
amenities and fixtures, Plaintiff was supposed to reside in the until the end
of 2023 and pay a reduced monthly rent of $500. (FAC, ¶ 6.) 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff
cannot recover for the services he provided as an unlicensed contractor, but
whether Plaintiff is licensed is an issue of fact outside the pleadings.
(Demurrer, p. 10.) 
The demurrer to the Eighth Cause of
Action is OVERRULED. 
V.          
CONCLUSION
The special motion to strike pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16 is DENIED.
The motion to strike attorney’s fees is GRANTED.
The motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED. 
The demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED in its entirety. 
Dated this 5th day of February,
2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 