  Case Number:  21GDCV01353    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
andrew bergman, et al.,
    
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
isaac blocher, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 21GDCV01353
 
  Hearing Date: November 8, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motions to compel further responses   



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiffs
Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve
Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa,
Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian
Walters, and Carlos Zoller (“Plaintiffs”) commenced this action against
Defendant Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Aneaka English, Blocher Holdings LLC,
Consortium Title, LLC, Wholesale Listings Ltd. Co., LLC, Wholesale Real Estate,
LLC, WSRE South Carolina, LLC aka WSRE S. Carolina, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC,
Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling Real Estate, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC,
Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, and E.S. Real Estate Consortium
Corp.  Shepherds, LLC is named as a
nominal defendant. 
Plaintiffs
allege that they are members and investors of Shepherds LLC.  Isaac and Kristie Blocher are alleged to be
the members of Blocher Holdings LLC (now dissolved) and Blocher Holdings LLC
served as the manager for Shepherds LLC. 
Isaac Blocher is also alleged to be the manager of Shepherds LLC.  
Plaintiffs
allege that Isaac Blocher made false promises to Plaintiffs to induce their
investment into Shepherds LLC, such as promising he would generate income for
Plaintiffs, be a professional investment mortgage broker and private lender, be
a good steward to Plaintiffs’ investment, etc. 
(SAC, ¶42.)  In reliance on Isaac
Blocher’s representations, Plaintiffs invested a total of $2,437,488 into
Shepherds LLC.   Plaintiffs allege that Isaac Blocher invested
nearly all of Plaintiffs’ funds with Aneaka English and transferred nearly $2.1
million from the company’ bank account into Aneaka English’s bank account.  Plaintiffs allege that Aneaka English
subsequently stole the money.  Plaintiffs
allege that this and other conduct by Isaac Blocher amounted to grossly
negligence and/or reckless investing and behavior.  
The second
amended complaint (“SAC”), filed September 5, 2023, alleges causes of action
for: (1) breach of fiduciary
duty – count one – direct cause of action; (2) breach of fiduciary duty – count
two – derivative cause of action; (3) conversion – count one – direct cause of
action; (4) conversion – count two – derivative cause of action; (5) fraud –
count one – direct cause of action; (6) negligence – count one – direct cause
of action; (7) negligence – count two – derivative cause of action; (8) breach
of written contract – count one – direct cause of action; (9) breach of written
contract – count two – derivative cause of action; (10) breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing – direct cause of action; (11) violation of Bus.
& Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. – count one – direct cause of
action; (12) violation of Bus. & Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. –
count two – derivative cause of action; (13) accounting – count one – direct
cause of action; and (14) accounting – count two – derivative cause of action. 
B.     Cross-Complaint

On
October 20, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Aneaka English aka Aneaka Ukah,
Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC,
WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, and WSRE South Carolina LLC
(“Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Andrew
Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve
Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa,
Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian
Walters, Carlos Zoller, Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Blocher Holdings, LLC,
and Shepherds, LLC.  The cross-complaint
alleges causes of action for: (1) accounting; (2) declaratory relief; (3)
violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.; and (4)
interpleader. 
On
February 16, 2024, the Court sustained without leave to amend Cross-Defendants
Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve
Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa,
Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian Walters,
and Carlos Zoller’s demurrer to and granted without leave to amend the motion
to strike the cross-complaint filed on October 20, 2023.  That same day, the Court dismissed without prejudice
the cross-complaint as to these Cross-Defendants.  
On
October 25, 2024, the Court granted without leave to amend Shepherds’ motion
for judgment on the pleadings.  The same
day, the Court dismissed with prejudice the cross-complaint as to Shepherds. 
Thus, the only
remaining Cross-Defendants are Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, and Blocher
Holdings, LLC.  
C.     Relevant
Background re: Bankruptcy 
On
September 23, 2024, Defendants Isaac Blocher and Kristie Blocher filed a Notice
of Bankruptcy (Chapter 7).  
On October 3,
2024, Defendants WSRE S. Carolina LLC, WSRE Georgia LLC, and WSRE Florida LLC
each filed a Notice of Bankruptcy (Chapter 7). 

On October 18,
2024, Defendant Aneaka Ukah aka Aneaka English filed a Notice of Bankruptcy
(Chapter 11). 
On November 7,
2024, Defendants Selling N Atlanta LLC, Selling N Charleston LLC, and Selling N
Richmond LLC filed Notices of Bankruptcy (Chapter 7). 
According to 11 U.S.C. § 362(a), the
filing of a bankruptcy petition operates as a stay in actions against the
debtor, enforcement of judgment against a debtor, any acts to obtain possession
of property, any act to create/perfect/enforce a lien against property of the
estate or against the property of the debtor, to collect assets against the
debtor, to setoff any debt owing to the debtor, or commencing or continuing a
proceeding before the United States Tax Court. 

D.    Motions
on Calendar 
On October 14,
2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a motion to compel Defendant Selling
N. Atlanta, LLC’s (“SNA”) further responses to Requests for Admissions – set
one (“RFA”).  On October 28, 2024, SNA
filed an opposition brief. 
On October 14,
2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a motion to compel Defendant Selling
N. Charleston, LLC’s (“SNC”) further responses to RFA.  On October 28, 2024, SNC filed an opposition
brief.  
On October 14,
2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a motion to compel Defendant Selling
N. Richmond, LLC’s (“SNR”) further responses to RFA.  On October 28, 2024, SNR filed an opposition
brief.  
On October 30,
2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a combined reply brief for the three
motions.  
DISCUSSION

Plaintiff moves
to compel SNA, SNC, and SNR’s further response to the RFAs. 
In light of the
Notices of Bankruptcy filed with the Court, the action is stayed as to these
Defendants.  As such, the motions to
compel further responses are taken off-calendar.  Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk may refile the
motions once the bankruptcy stay has been lifted.  To the extent that there are any issues
regarding the 45-day limit to file motions to compel further, such deadline
limitations will not be applied against Plaintiff for refiling the motions
following the lifting of the stay.
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk’s motions to compel Defendants
Selling N Atlanta, LLC, Selling N Charleston, LLC, and Selling N Richmond, LLC’s
further responses to Requests for Admissions – set one are taken off-calendar
in light of the Notice of Bankruptcy.  
The Court sets a Status Conference re: Bankruptcy for
April 23, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.  
Plaintiff
shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED:
November 8, 2024                                       ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court    