 Case Number:  23BBCV02576    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
C.C.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
el
  monte union high school district,
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV02576
 
  Hearing Date:  November 8, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Demurrer; motion to strike 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff C.C. (“Plaintiff”) alleges that
he was a high school student at South El Monte High School (“High School”),
which is part of Defendant El Monte Union High School District (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff alleges that he was a minor at the
time of his claims in this action.  
Plaintiff alleges that on March 22, 2023,
he was assaulted, battered, and stabbed by another student while on campus of
the High School.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant had prior notice of the existence of inappropriate, harassing,
violent conduct occurring at the High School or the dangerous propensities of
the assailant, and were therefore aware of the potential danger and direct
threat to students including Plaintiff.    
The complaint, filed January 26, 2024, alleges
causes of action for: (1) negligence based on Government Code, §§ 815.2, 815.6,
and 820; and (2) negligent hiring, supervision, training, and retention based
on Government Code, §§ 815.2, 815.6, and 820. 

On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
Amendment to the Complaint, stating that when he filed the complaint, he was a
minor, but he is now an adult and no longer needs a guardian ad litem to
continue the litigation. As such, the complaint’s case caption has been amended
from “C.C., a minor, by and through his guardian ad litem, S.R.” to “C.C.”  
B.    
Motions
on Calendar
On October 7, 2024, Defendant filed a
demurrer and motion to strike portions of the complaint.  
On October 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed
opposition briefs. 
DISCUSSION RE
DEMURRER
            Defendant
demurs to the 2nd cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision,
training, and retention in the complaint, arguing that it fails to plead
sufficient facts to state a cause of action.  Defendant argues that the 2nd cause
of action is a direct, common law claim against Defendant, which is precluded
as a matter of law since government tort liability must be based upon
statute.  Defendant also argues that the
Education Code sections cited by Plaintiff fail to show a mandatory duty owed
by Defendant to Plaintiff.  
Under the statutory scheme in
California, all government tort liability must be based on statute.  (Duarte
v. City of San Jose (1980) 100 Cal.App.3d 648, 653.)  Government Code § 815, enacted in 1963,
abolished all common law or judicially declared forms of liability for public
entities, except for such liability as may be required by the federal or state
Constitution.  (Cochran v. Herzog Engraving Co. (1984) 155 Cal. App. 3d 405,
409.)  Accordingly, in the absence of
some constitutional requirement, public entities may be liable only if a
statute declares them to be liable.  (Id.) 
Further, in order to state a cause of action for government tort
liability, every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability must be
pleaded with particularity, including the existence of a statutory duty.  (Zuniga
v. Housing Authority (1995) 41 Cal. App. 4th 82, 96.)  Since the duty of a public entity can only be
created by statute, the statute claimed to establish the duty must be
identified.  (Id.)  
“[A] school district
and its employees have a special relationship with the district's pupils, a
relationship arising from the mandatory character of school attendance and the
comprehensive control over students exercised by school personnel, ‘analogous
in many ways to the relationship between parents and their children.’”  (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 869.)  “Because of this special relationship, imposing obligations
beyond what each person generally owes others under Civil Code section 1714,
the duty of care owed by school personnel includes the duty to use reasonable
measures to protect students from foreseeable injury at the hands of third
parties acting negligently or intentionally.[] This principle has been applied
in cases of employees' alleged negligence resulting in injury to a student by another
student [citation], injury to a student by a nonstudent [citation] and—on facts
remarkably close to the present case—injuries to a student resulting from a
teacher's sexual assault [citation].”  (Id.
at 870 [internal quotation marks and footnote omitted]; see also Regents of University of California v. Superior Court
(2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 619 [“Similarly, a duty to warn or protect may be found
if the defendant has a special relationship with the potential victim that
gives the victim a right to expect protection.”].)  
            In
the 2nd cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that he is bringing the
claim based on Government Code, §§ 815.2 (vicarious liability for
employee/agent negligence), 815.6 (public entity liable where there is a
mandatory duty), and 820 (public employee liability).  (Compl., ¶39.)  Plaintiff also alleges that the 2nd
cause of action is based on Education Code, §§ 44660, 44662, 44664, 44830,
44870, 44932, 56031, and 56345, which provide for specific qualifications for
the hiring, supervising, evaluating, and assessing of teachers.  (Id., ¶9.)[1]  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s employees
were school officers and agents acting in the course and scope of their
employment.  (Id., ¶40.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to
adequately supervise Plaintiff and the violent attacker while they were on
campus during school hours.  (Id.,
¶41.)  He alleges that Defendant’s employees
were incompetent and unfit to be Defendant’s employees.  (Id., ¶42.)  He alleges that Defendant had a duty to
supervise Plaintiff and all students, take reasonable steps to protect
students, and investigate their staff and employees.  (Id., ¶43.)  Plaintiff alleges that the negligent acts or
omissions of Defendant included: (a)-(b) failing to screen all potential
employees to ensure they could properly supervise students and the violent
attacker; (c) failing to provide proper training to all teachers,
administrators, or supervisory personnel before placing Plaintiff and the
violent attacker under the direct supervision of said administrators, teachers,
and supervisory personnel who had a duty to supervise Plaintiff at all times
relevant; (d) failing to supervise teachers, administrators, or supervisory
personnel adequately, or to provide adequate follow-up measures to ensure they
were appropriately protecting students like Plaintiff, supervising Plaintiff
and the student assailant at all relevant times including, but not limited to,
during school hours on school grounds; (e) filing to take reasonable, adequate,
and appropriate measures to ensure that its teachers, administrators, and
supervisory personnel were fit to supervise minor students like Plaintiff, the
violent attacker, and other students, particularly after Defendant had reason
to know that such acts of threats, harassment, assault, and battery had
occurred to other student(s) on school grounds in the past; (f) failing to take
reasonable, adequate, and appropriate measures to ensure that Plaintiff would
be safe on school grounds during school hours; (g) failing to properly or
sufficiently warn, train, or educate teachers and students regarding the
detection and reporting of harassment, bullying, threats, and abuse, as well as
other similar tortious and criminal conduct within the High School by other
students, teachers or other supervisory adults; and (h) failing to take
reasonable and effective action to terminate or discipline EMUHSD employees or
agents for poor or improper student supervision.  (Id., ¶45.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached its
duties, which proximately caused Plaintiff’s injuries.  (Id., ¶¶46-48.) 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff is attempting to impose direct, common-law liability against
Defendant (citing to paragraphs 23 and 24 in the complaint), such that the
demurrer must be sustained.  However,
Plaintiff has identified Government Code, §§ 815.2, 815.6, and 820 as the basis
for liability against Defendant.  (See
e.g., C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th
861, 879 [“[A] public school district may be vicariously liable under section
815.2 for the negligence of administrators or supervisors in hiring,
supervising and retaining a school employee who sexually harasses and abuses a
student.”].)  Plaintiff has alleged facts
that Defendant’s officials/administrators had reason to know of the threats,
harassment, assault, and battery of the attacker as it had occurred to other
students on the school ground in the past, and that Defendant failed to provide
adequate supervision or properly warn and train its teachers and students about
such tortious and criminal conduct. 
(Compl., ¶45.)  Thus, the demurrer
to the 2nd cause of action will not be sustained on the basis that
it lacks a statutory basis. 
            Next,
Defendant argues that Education Code, §§ 44660, 44662, 44664, 44830, 44870,
44932, 56031, and 56345 are not applicable and fail to show a mandatory
duty.  Defendant argues that these
sections discuss general actions and do not specifically obligate Defendant to
preclude the actions alleged here (i.e., Plaintiff being stabbed in the hallway
during school hours).  In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that Education Code, § 44807 and California Code of
Regulations, Title 5, § 5531 state mandatory duties.  (The Court notes that Plaintiff does not rely
on Education Code, §§ 44660, 44662, 44664, 44830, 44870, 44932, 56031, and
56345 in its opposition brief.  Rather
Education Code, § 44807 and California Code of Regulations, Title 5, § 5531
were alleged in connection with the 1st cause of action for
negligence in the complaint at paragraph 8.) 
            Government Code, § 815.6 states: “Where
a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is
designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public
entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure
to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it exercised
reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.” 
“Thus, the government may be liable when (1) a mandatory duty is imposed
by enactment, (2) the duty was designed to protect against the kind of injury allegedly
suffered, and (3) breach of the duty proximately caused injury.”  (State Dept. of State Hospitals v.
Superior Court (2015) 61 Cal.4th 339, 348.) 
The California Supreme Court stated: 
Courts have delineated what is necessary to establish a mandatory duty.
“First and foremost, ... the enactment at issue [must] be obligatory,
rather than merely discretionary or permissive, in its directions to the public
entity; it must require, rather than merely authorize or permit, that a
particular action be taken or not taken.” [Citation.] “It is not enough,
moreover, that the public entity or officer have been under an obligation to
perform a function if the function itself involves the exercise of discretion.”
[Citation.] Moreover, “[c]ourts have ... [found] a mandatory duty only if the
enactment ‘affirmatively imposes the duty and provides implementing
guidelines.’ ” [Citation.] “ ‘ “[T]he mandatory nature of the duty must be
phrased in explicit and forceful language.” [Citation.] “It is not enough that
some statute contains mandatory language. In order to recover plaintiffs have
to show that there is some specific statutory mandate that was violated
by the [public entity].” ’ [Citations.]” [Citation.]
(State Dept. of State Hospitals v. Superior Court
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 339, 348–349 [citations omitted].)  
            Education Code, § 44807 states: 
Every teacher in the public schools shall hold
pupils to a strict account for their conduct on the way to and from school, on
the playgrounds, or during recess. A teacher, vice principal, principal, or any
other certificated employee of a school district, shall not be subject to
criminal prosecution or criminal penalties for the exercise, during the
performance of his duties, of the same degree of physical control over a pupil
that a parent would be legally privileged to exercise but which in no event
shall exceed the amount of physical control reasonably necessary to maintain
order, protect property, or protect the health and safety of pupils, or to
maintain proper and appropriate conditions conducive to learning. The
provisions of this section are in addition to and do not supersede the
provisions of Section 49000.
(Edu. Code, § 44807.)  California Code of Regulations, § 5531
states: “All social activities of pupils, wherever held, if conducted under the
name or auspices of a public school or of any class or organization thereof,
shall be under the direct supervision of certificated employees of a district
or an office of a county superintendent of schools.”  
            The
mandatory duty expressed in section 44807 is with respect to conduct to and
from school, on the playground, or during recess.  The allegations of the complaint do not make
specific allegations of when Plaintiff was attacked and whether this was on his
way to and from school or during recess; at most, he alleges that he was
stabbed during school hours while in the hallway during school hours.  (See Compl., ¶¶13-14.)  In addition, section 5531 only states that
social activities under the auspices of a public school shall be under the
direct supervision of the district employees, but this section does not
specifically impose a mandatory duty that was intended to protect against the
risk or injury suffered by Plaintiff.  As
such, the Court will sustain the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action
with leave to amend so that Plaintiff may allege further facts and statutory
grounds that impose a mandatory duty on Defendant.  
DISCUSSION RE
MOTION TO STRIKE 
            Defendant
moves to strike the 2nd cause of action and any prayer for relief
related to the 2nd cause of action. 
In light of the ruling on the demurrer, the motion to strike is taken
off-calendar as moot. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Defendant El Monte Union High School
District’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
            Defendant El Monte Union High School
District’s motion to strike is taken off-calendar as moot in light of the
ruling on the demurrer. 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
this order. 
 
 
DATED:  November 8, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court   


