 Case Number:  23BBCV01209    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
unite
  welding enterprises, inc.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
e
  roane construction management, inc, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01209
 
  Hearing Date:  November 8, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to strike 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Unite Welding Enterprises, Inc.
(“Unite”) alleges Defendants E Roane Construction Management, Inc., Edward Dean
Roane, Dillon Construction Inc., and Christopher David Dillon are officers, directors,
principals, and/or agents of Defendant Dillon Roane A Joint Venture, Inc. (collectively,
“Construction Defendants”).  Unite
alleges that Defendant Canplan Industries, LLC (“Canplan”) is the owner of the
real property located at 1305 West Elm Avenue, Coalinga California, 93210
(“West Elm Property”) and that Defendant Arabo , LLC (“Arabo”) is the owner of
the property located at 1950 Mercantile Lane, Coalinga, California 93210 (“Mercantile
Property”).  Unite alleges that Defendants
Agassi Halajyan and Michael Keheian are the owners of Arabo and/or Canplan. 
Unite alleges that Unite and Construction
Defendants had completed several unrelated projects previously.  On June 30, 2021, Unite and Defendants
entered into an oral agreement whereby Defendants promised to pay Unite for
labor and materials purchased for labor, services, equipment, and materials for
work on an existing structure owned by Defendants at the West Elm
Property.  Unite alleges that it
anticipated doing a significant amount of repair work on Canplan’s property and
that they would be paid for labor and services. 
During the pendency of the West Elm project, Defendants requested that
Unite provide labor, services, equipment, and materials for work at Arabo’s
Mercantile Property.  Unite alleges that
after it completed work at the West Elm Property, it ordered materials for the
Mercantile Property project, but Defendants ordered Plaintiff to cease all work
on both properties.  Unite alleges that
it provided invoices for Defendants in the amount of $173,524, but Defendants
refused to pay for services rendered.  
The second amended complaint (“SAC”),
filed May 17, 2024, alleges in the caption causes of action for: (1) breach of
contract; and (2) common counts (open book, reasonable value, and account
stated).  In the body of the SAXC, the
causes of action are for: (1) breach of contract; (2) open book; (3) reasonable
value; and (5) account stated; there is no fourth cause of action.  
On August 2, 2023, the defaults of Dillon
Roane, a Joint Venture, Inc. and Dillon Construction, Inc. were entered.  
On October 2, 2024, the defaults of Arabo,
LLC and Canplan Industries, LLC were entered. 

On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed
The Building Group, LLC from the FAC.  
B.    
Cross-Complaint
On September 3, 2024, Cross-Complainants Dillon
Roane A Joint Venture, Inc., Dillon Construction Inc., Christopher David
Dillon, and Edward Deane Roane filed a first amended cross-complaint (“FAXC”) against
Arabo, LLC, Agassi Halajyan, and Michael Keheian for: (1) breach of contract;
(2) fraud; (3) unfair competition; (4) civil conspiracy to defraud; and (5)
violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et seq. 
On January 17, 2024, Cross-Complainants
dismissed The Building Group, LLC from the cross-complaint. (The Building Group
was a cross-defendant in the initial cross-complaint.) 
C.    
Relevant
Background and Motion on Calendar
On September 3, 2024, Defendants Christopher
David Dillon, Edward Deane Roane, Dillon Roane A Joint Venture Inc., and Dillon
Construction Inc. (“Contractor Defendants”) filed an answer to the SAC.  
On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion to strike portions of Defendants’ answer to the SAC. 
On October 28, 2024, Contractor Defendants
filed an opposition to the motion. 
On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
moves to strike the prayer for damages in the Contractor Defendants’ answer,
which seeks attorney’s fees as permitted by law.  
CCP § 1021 states that attorney’s fees are
recoverable if allowed under statute and/or by agreement.   
Plaintiff argues that the contract it is
relying upon in its breach of contract claim does not include an attorney’s
fees clause and there is no other contract in the action with an attorney’s
fees clause between Plaintiff and Contractor Defendants.  Plaintiff argues that there is also no
statutory basis identified for Contractor Defendants to recover attorney’s
fees, such that the request for fees in the answer should be stricken. 
In opposition, Contractor Defendants argue that the SAC alleges that the parties entered
into an oral agreement, such that there was no allegation whether the oral
contact included or did not include attorney’s fees.  
Contractor
Defendants’ answer does not allege facts that attorney’s fees are appropriate
pursuant to the oral contract (i.e., that one of the material terms of the oral
contract included an agreement for attorney’s fees).  Alternatively, Contractor Defendants have not
identified and alleged a statute under which attorney’s fees are permitted.  As such, the motion to strike is
granted.  The Court will allow Contractor
Defendants one opportunity to amend the answer to allege a contractual or
statutory basis for attorney’s fees, if possible. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Plaintiff Unite
Welding Enterprises, Inc.’s motion to strike portions of Contractor Defendants’
answer to the SAC is granted with 20 days leave to amend. 
            Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  November 8, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court   