 Case Number:  23BBCV00939    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
farzin
  maly, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
first
  american title insurance company, 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00939
 
  Hearing Date:  November 8, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel compliance with
  deposition subpoena for production of business records 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiffs Farzin Maly and Bahareh M.
Moghaddam (“Plaintiffs”) are married and allege that they are the co-owners of
the property located at 11318 Dona Pegita Drive in Studio City.  Plaintiffs allege that on August 12, 2021,
they were issued a homeowner’s policy of title insurance from Defendant First
American Title Insurance Company (“Defendant”) in connection with their
acquisition of title to the property.  Plaintiffs
allege that on October 19, 2021, they discovered the existence of an easement
on the contents of the deed recorded November 9, 1961 in favor of Southern
California Edison (“SCE”) over the southeasterly 25 feet of the property.  Plaintiffs allege that they contacted Defendant
on October 21, 2021 to file a claim of loss, but Defendant failed to respond,
such that Plaintiffs hired an attorney. 
On March 28, 2022, Plaintiffs, through counsel, contacted Defendant and
filed another claim of loss.  On May 12,
2022, Defendant denied Plaintiffs’ claim. 
Plaintiffs allege that they went back and forth with Defendant and sent
requested documents to Defendant.  
Plaintiffs allege that on August 31, 2022,
Defendant accepted liability for Plaintiffs’ loss.  The parties each obtained their own real
estate appraisers to assess Plaintiffs’ damages.  Defendant’s appraiser reported damages of
$60,000 for the SEC easement, while Plaintiffs’ first appraiser estimated
$700,000 and their second appraiser estimated $578,000.  On December 19, 2022, Defendant sent
correspondence that it stood by its original assessment of damages and then
denied Plaintiffs’ amended claim for $578,000. 

The complaint, filed April 28, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; and (2) breach of covenant of
good faith and fair dealing.     
B.    
Motion
on Calendar
On September 6, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to compel Thang Le & Associates Structural Engineers, Inc. to comply
with deposition subpoena for production of business records and for sanctions
in the amount of $1,660.  
The Court is not in receipt of an opposition
brief.  
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant
moves to compel nonparty Thang
Le & Associates Structural Engineers, Inc. (“TL”) to comply with deposition
subpoena for production of business records. 
Defendant argues that TL is a material witness in this action as
Plaintiff Maly stated at his deposition that before he learned of the SCE
easement, he had hired TL to perform structural engineering services in
connection with plans to remodel and put an addition on the house at the subject
property.  Defendant argues that Maly
testified that he prepared and provided architectural plans to TL, instructed
TL to stop working on the project after learning about the SCE easement
(September 2021), and incurred $13,000 in debt to TL who issued an invoice to
Maly in December 2023.  (Wright Decl.,
Ex. K.)  Defendant argues that TL is also
identified as the engineer on Maly’s March 20, 2024 application for a building
permit for renovations on the property (despite the existence of the SCE
easement).  (Id., Exs. L-M.)  
            Defendant personally served the
deposition subpoena for production of business records on TL on June 4, 2024,
seeking the production of documents by June 24, 2024.  The subpoena sought documents, including: (1)
all communications with Maly concerning or relating to the property; (2) all documents,
including communications, concerning or relating to the property, including
TL’s files concerning the property, and including all correspondence, maps,
surveys, plans, reports, invoices, checks, notes, emails, text messages, memos,
photographs, and drawings; and (3) all communications with Rouzbeh Zarrinbakhsh
or Shireen Tavakoli (Plaintiffs’ counsel)  concerning or relating to the property.  (Wright Decl., Exs. A-B.)  The Notice of Issuance of the Subpoena to TL
was also served on Plaintiff’s counsel.  (Id.,
Ex. C.)  Defendant argues that TL did not
produce any documents and did not object to the subpoena; Plaintiffs also did
not object.  On June 26, 2024 and July 5,
2024, defense counsel emailed TL regarding the subpoena, but did not receive a
response.  (Id., Exs. D-E.)  On July 16, 2024, defense counsel called and
left a message for TL, but did not receive a response.  (Id., ¶7.)  On July 24, 2024, defense counsel sent
another email to TL, and TL responded that they would be out of the country for
a few weeks, the request was sent to their lawyer, and they had nothing to do
with the case.  (Id., Exs. F-H.)  Defense counsel inquired of Plaintiffs’
counsel if they were representing TL, to which Plaintiffs’ counsel responded
they were not.  (Id., Ex. G.)  On July 25, 2024, defense counsel sent
another to email to TL asking if TL would comply with the subpoena, but defense
counsel did not receive a response.  (Id., Ex. H.)  
            Defendant seeks TL’s compliance with
the deposition subpoena, arguing that there is good cause of the production of
documents related to Plaintiffs’ claims and Defendant’s defenses.  It argues that the documents will aid in
ascertaining the timing of Plaintiffs’ discovery of the SCE easement, the
impact of the easement on the property and on Plaintiffs’ alleged plans to
renovate the property, and Plaintiffs’ alleged damages sought in the
action.  
            The motion to compel compliance with
the deposition subpoena for production of business records is granted.  The motion is not opposed and no objections
were raised with respect to the subpoena by TL or by Plaintiffs’ counsel.  Defendant has established good cause for the
documents requested.  As such, the motion
is granted. 
            Defendant seeks $1,660 in sanctions
against TL (= 3 hours for the motion + 1 anticipated hour for the hearing at
$400/hour, plus $60 in filing fees).  The
Court will award sanctions in favor of Defendant as requested.    
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant First American Title Insurance
Company’s motion to compel Thang Le & Associates Structural Engineers, Inc.
to comply with deposition subpoena for production of business records is granted.  Defendant is ordered to personally serve the
deposition subpoena on Thang Le & Associates Structural Engineers, Inc.
with a copy of this order.  Thang Le
& Associates Structural Engineers, Inc. is ordered to produce documents
within 20 days of notice of the order.  
Thang Le & Associates Structural
Engineers, Inc. is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,660 to
Defendant, by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order. 
            Defendant
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  November 8, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court   