  Case Number:  EC059084    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  A LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH CENTRAL
DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT A
 

TENTATIVE RULING
MARCH 5, 2024

MOTION TO QUASH
Continued from
March 1, 2024

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # EC059084




 
MP:  


 
Floyd
  J. Mayweather, Jr. (Non-Party) (“Mayweather”)




RP:  


KH
  Capital, LLC (Judgment Creditor) (“KH Capital”)



 
NOTICE:
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling
will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”
   
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or
by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
PRESENTATION:
 
The Court
received the instant motions filed by Non-Party Floyd J.
Mayweather, Jr.
("Mayweather") on December 26, 2023; the opposition addressing both
motions filed by Judgment Creditor KH Capital, LLC ("KH") on December
26, 2023; and the reply filed by Mayweather on February 23, 2024.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED:
 
Mayweather seek: (1)
an order quashing service of application and order for appearance and
examination enforcement of judgment to third person (ORAP), (2) an order quashing service of subpoena duces tecum,
and (3) an order granting attorney’s fees and costs associated with bringing
these motions.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Standard of Review 
 
Witness Subpoena
and Residency
 
Civil Code (“CC”) §1989 – states: “A witness, including a witness
specified in subdivision (b) of Section 1987, is not obliged to attend as a
witness before any court, judge, justice or any other officer, unless the
witness is a resident within the state at the time of service.  Residency limitation in CC §1989 applies not
only to witnesses who are obliged to attend as witnesses in court proceedings,
but also to witnesses who are obliged to give testimony by deposition before
deposition officers. Toyota Motor Corp. v. Superior Court (2011), 197
Cal. App. 4th 1107, modified, (Cal. App. 2d Dist. July 28, 2011).
 
A
"residence" is the place where one lives, even temporarily,
regardless of the person's intent to remain in the particular state. However, a
person's domicile is the place where one resides with the intent to remain
indefinitely. DeYoung v. DeYoung (1946) 27 Cal.2d 521, 524; see also
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group, June 2022 Update), ¶ 3:151 ["Domicile vs. residence"].)
 
On
occasions where the term "residence" is employed in statutes, it
involves physical presence in a place without requiring the intent to make it
one's home which is involved in the domicile concept. It can mean dwelling in a
place for some continuance of time for business or other purposes. It does not
depend on the manner of living which may be housekeeping or lodging. The word
"residence" has been held to be equivalent to "abode" or
even "address.”  In re Morelli
(1970), 11 Cal. App. 3d 819, overruled in part, Cedars-Sinai Imaging Medical
Group v. Superior Court (2000), 83 Cal. App. 4th 1281.  In other words, as our California Supreme
Court has opined:  A person may only have
one domicile at a time, but he may have more than one residence if
residence is not construed to mean domicile.  Burt v. Scarborough (1961) 56 Cal. 2d
817, 822.
 
Quash Subpoena 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) § 1987.1 authorizes a trial court to quash a subpoena when necessary. This
section provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
Merits
 
Mayweather moves to
quash the ORAP and subpoena duces tecum filed and served upon him by judgment
creditor KH Capital on the grounds that he was improperly served, and the Court
does not have jurisdiction over him. 
 
Mayweather contends
KH Capital served an ORAP and subpoena duces tecum on November 17, 2023,
ordering him to appear in Los Angeles Superior Court on December 29, 2023. On
December 19, 2023, KH Capital  filed a
proof of service with the Court that included an attached “Affidavit of
Service” indicating personal service was made on Mayweather on November 17,
2023, in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Motion, Exhibit 1.) Mayweather contends the proof
of service is improper and deficient in part because it purported to be a Nevada
affidavit of personal service under a California case caption page. (Newell
Decl., ¶ 6.) Mayweather contends that he is a
resident of Nevada rather than California and attaches a Nevada driver’s
license. (12/27/2023 Notice of Errata re: Exhibit “2” to Motion.) Mayweather further
asserts that KH Capital personally serving him in Las Vegas with its ORAP for
an examination to be held in Los Angeles violates Cal. Code Regs. Tit. 22, §
51033. Mayweather argues that, as a Nevada resident, the Los Angeles Superior
Court does not have jurisdiction over him in this matter.  Without jurisdiction, the service on him is ineffective.
 
In opposition, KH
Capital argues it filed the ORAP for Mayweather on October 24, 2023,  (Manasserian Decl., ¶ 4), and was based on
the personal and/or business relationship existing between Mayweather and
Judgment Debtor Shaoul Amar. (Ibid.) On October 30, 2023, the Court
granted the application and issued an order requiring Mayweather to appear for
examination on December 29, 2023. (Manasserian
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 1.) On November 15, 2023, KH Capital issued Mayweather a
subpoena duces tecum for personal appearance and production of documents.
(Manasserian Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 2.) On November 17, 2023, a registered process
server personally served Mayweather with the examination order and subpoena at
a meet and greet event in Las Vegas. (Manasserian Decl., ¶ 9.) The process
server was photographed with Mayweather at the event. (Ibid.) Proof of
Service and the photograph are attached. (Manasserian Decl., Exs. 3 and 4.) 
 
KH Capital contends
that Mayweather is a California resident and attaches 11 articles stating that
Mayweather purchased a residence in Beverly Hills in September 2017.
(Manasserian Decl., Exs. 16-26.) KH Capital also alleges that Mayweather has
regularly availed himself of the jurisdiction of California courts, and
attaches a copy of a petition for letters of special administration filed in a
probate matter (20STPB09888, Estate of Josephine Harris) This was filed by
Mayweather on November 25, 2020 in the Superior Court of California, County of
Los Angeles, Stanley Mosk Courthouse. (Manasserian Decl., ¶ 30, Ex. 17.) KH
Capital also attaches a cross-complaint filed by Mayweather in 19VECV00170, Zinni
Media Concept Limited v. Floyd Mayweather, Jr., et al. in the Van Nuys
Courthouse. (Manasserian Decl., ¶ 32, Ex. 18.) The case summary for that action
is attached. (Manasserian Decl., Ex. 19.)
 
In reply, Mayweather first contends
that KH Capital’s argument regarding the legal actions Mayweather was or
currently is still involved in are unrelated and irrelevant to the issue of
whether Mayweather is a California resident. Mayweather requests that the Court
strike and/or disregard all references referring to said legal actions, along
with exhibits and live links thereto, specifically: Opposition: Page 4, Lines
16-23; Page 11, Lines 4-21; and Supporting Declaration of Armen Manasserian
Paragraphs 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34.  Second,
Mayweather contends that the articles purporting to evidence his 2017 purchase
of a home in Beverly Hills are hearsay and are not proof of his residency in
California.
 
As an initial matter, the Court finds
that Mayweather is a proper subject of a subpoena duces tecum and ORAP. Code of
Civil Procedure (“CCP”) § 708.120(a) states: “Upon ex parte application by a
judgment creditor who has a money judgment and proof by the judgment creditor
by affidavit or otherwise to the satisfaction of the proper court that a third
person has possession or control of property in which the judgment debtor has
an interest or is indebted to the judgment debtor in an amount exceeding two
hundred fifty dollars ($250), the court shall make an order directing the third
person to appear before the court, or before a referee appointed by the court,
at a time and place specified in the order, to answer concerning such property
or debt. The affidavit in support of the judgment creditor’s application may be
based on the affiant’s information and belief.” 
 
Additionally, CCP § 708.130(a) states:
"Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before the court or
referee in examination proceeding under this article in the same manner upon
trial of an issue.” Furthermore, a judgment creditor may subpoena witnesses to
appear and produce documents at a post-judgment examination. Shrewsbury
Management, Inc. v. Superior Court (2019) 32 Cal. App. 5th 1213, 1224-25.)
KH Capital, as judgment creditor, contends Mayweather is indebted to the
judgment debtor in an amount exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250), and
has knowledge about the physical location of judgment debtor’s residence and
jewelry businesses. Therefore, Mayweather is properly subject to an examination
as a third-party witness and is the proper target of a subpoena duces tecum.  The nature of the declaration associated with
the proof of service does not necessarily result in defective service, nor has the
moving party provided any authority that such a defect invalidates service.   Furthermore, moving party’s citation to the
California Code of Regulation (“CCR”) is unhelpful.  The California Code of Regulation are rules
that pertain to administrative agencies in California and not to the Constitutional
courts of the state.   22 CCR §51033
relates to Medi-Cal Audit Hearings and other sections cited appear to apply to
the California Franchise Tax Board.  
 
As to whether Mayweather meets the
residency requirement of CCP § 1989, the Court finds that KH Capital puts
forth sufficient evidence to demonstrate Mayweather meets the residency
requirement. 
 
CCP § 1989 states, “A witness,
including a witness specified in subdivision (b) of Section 1987, is not
obliged to attend as a witness before any court, judge, justice or any other
officer, unless the witness is a resident within the state at the time of
service.” (CCP § 1989.) 
 
The articles attached to the
Manasserian Declaration as Exhibits 16-26 evidence that Mayweather purchased a
home in Beverly Hills, California, in September 2017. Mayweather does not
dispute that he owns the Beverly Hills home in his reply and instead states
that an individual cannot be subject to jurisdiction in every state in which he
owns a home. Mayweather appears to conflate residency with domicile. For
purposes of CCP § 1989, the subpoena section envisages nothing more than
an abode that gives the ‘resident’ a sojourning connection with the area of a
type and duration related to the status of a witness and which makes it not a
hardship for him to attend the legal proceedings at which he is commanded to
appear. In re Morelli (1970) 11 Cal. App. 3d 819, 831. It is important
that the Legislature in adopting this section chose to use the phrase “residence”
rather than “domicile.”  Here, the fact
that Mayweather has owned a home in Beverly Hills for roughly six years,
combined with the fact he has appeared in a relatively recent court cases in the
Los Angeles Superior Court, are enough to establish residency for purposes of
making Mayweather subject to CCP § 1987.  
The Court does note that in making this determination it is not
considering 20STPB09888, Estate of Josephine Harris.  That is a probate matter and jurisdiction is
determined by the decedent and not any litigant.   The Court does not believe any petition associated
with that matter should be considered for purposes of residency.
 
Accordingly, the
Court denies the instant motions to quash.
 
Sanctions 
 
The Court may award
sanctions pursuant to a motion made under CCP § 1987.1 in the amount of
reasonable expenses in making the motion if the Court finds that the motion was
made in bad faith or without substantial justification. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.2.) 
 
Mayweather’s
counsel, Quincy Newell, requests no less than $5,000.00 towards attorney fees
and costs associated with the motions to quash. Given that the Court has denied
the motions to quash, Newell’s request for attorney fees is denied. 
 
KH Capital’s
counsel, Armen Manasserian, requests a total of $14,065.00 in connection with
responding to Mayweather’s motions. Counsel contends he spent 19.4 hours at a
rate of $725/hour. (Manasserian Decl., ¶ 21.)
 
Here, although the
Court denied Mayweather’s motions to quash, it finds that Mayweather’s motions
were not brought in bad faith or without substantial justification. Therefore,
Manasserian’s request for attorney fees is also denied. 
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the
parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or
the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form
will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into
the court’s records.
 
ORDER
 
Floyd Mayweather's
Motions to Quash ORAP and subpoena duces tecum came on regularly for hearing on
March 1, 2024 and was continued on the Court’s motion to March 5, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE
MOTION TO QUASH ORAP IS DENIED.
 
THE
MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM IS DENIED.
 
EACH
PARTY’S REQUEST FOR ATTORNEY FEES IS DENIED.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, MOVING PARTY TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE: March 5, 2024                                                            
                                                                       
F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                       
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles