  Case Number:  23PSCP00401    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Petitioner 2 FIFTHS FINANCE’S PETITION FOR APPROVAL OF TRANSFER OF
STRUCTURED SETTLEMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
On September 11, 2023, petitioner filed the instant petition. 
 
Legal Standard
 
California Insurance Code section 10139.5 provides that a
transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not effective unless the
transfer has been approved in advance in a final court order based on the
following express findings by the court that: 
 
1.              
The transfer is in the best
interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the
payee’s dependents. 
2.              
The payee has been advised in
writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the
transfer and has either received that advice or knowingly waived that advice in
writing. 
3.              
The transferee has provided
the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Section 10136 and the
transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138. 
4.              
The transfer does not
contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other government
authority. 
5.              
The payee reasonably
understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth
in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136. 
6.              
The payee understands
and does not wish to exercise the payee’s right to cancel the transfer
agreement. 
 
(Ins. Code § 10139.5(a).) 
 
When determining whether the proposed transfer should be
approved, including whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the
payee’s best interest, the court shall consider the totality of the
circumstances, including, but not limited to: (1) the reasonable preference and
desire of the payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking into account
the payee’s age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level;
(2) the stated purpose of the transfer; (3) the payee’s financial and economic
situation; (4) the terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is
transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her
future payments; (5) whether the future periodic payments were intended to pay
for future medical care of the payee related to the incident that was the
subject of the settlement; (6) whether the payee has other means of income or
support sufficient to meet the payee’s future financial obligations for support
of payee’s dependents, such as child support; (7) whether there were previous
transactions involving payee’s structured settlement payments; and (8) whether
the payee and his or her dependents are facing a hardship situation. (Ins. Code
§ 10139.5(b).)  
 
Section 10139.5 provides the following with respect to
information required in the petition. 
 
(c) Every
petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights,
except as provided in subdivision (d), shall include, to the extent known after
the transferee has made reasonable inquiry with the payee, all of the
following: 
1.     The payee’s name, address, and age. 
2.     The payee’s marital status, and, if married or separated,
the name of the payee’s spouse. 
3.     The names, ages, and place or places of residence of the
payee’s minor children or other dependents, if any. 
4.     The amounts and sources of the payee’s monthly income and
financial resources and, if presently married, the amounts and sources of the
monthly income and financial resources of the payee’s spouse. 
5.     Whether the payee is currently obligated under any child
support or spousal support order, and, if so, the names, addresses, and
telephone numbers of any individual, entity, or agency that is receiving child
or spousal support from the payee under that order or that has jurisdiction
over the order or the payments in question. 
6.     Information regarding previous transfers or attempted
transfers, as described in paragraph (11), (12), or (13) of subdivision
(b).  The transferee or payee may choose to provide this information by
providing copies of pleadings, transaction documents, or orders involving any
previous attempted or completed transfer or by providing the court a summary of
available information regarding any previous transfer or attempted transfer,
such as the date of the transfer or attempted transfer, the payments transferred
or attempted to be transferred by the payee in the earlier transaction, the
amount of money received by the payee in connection with the previous
transaction, and generally the payee’s reasons for pursuing or completing a
previous transaction.  The transferee’s inability to provide the
information required by this paragraph shall not preclude the court from
approving the proposed transfer, if the court determines that the information
is not available to the transferee after the transferee has made a reasonable
effort to secure the information, including making an inquiry with the payee. 
(d) With
respect to the information required to be included in every petition for
approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights pursuant to
paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) of subdivision (c), that information
shall be deemed to be included in the petition if it is provided at the
scheduled hearing on the proposed transfer through oral testimony or
documentary evidence filed with the court and made a part of the record
consistent with the rules of evidence and procedure. 
 
(Ins. Code, § 10139.5(c).) 
 
Discussion
 
A.B. (“Payee”) is the recipient of certain structured settlement payments
under which MetLife Tower Resources (“Payment Obligor”) is the obligor and
pursuant to which the Payment Obligor purchased an annuity contract from
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (“Payment Issuer”) to fund the aforesaid
obligation pursuant to a structured settlement agreement. Payee has entered
into a transfer agreement (“Transfer Agreement”) and agreed to transfer to
Petitioner future payments totaling $159,536.00 (“Transferred Payments”) in
exchange for a purchase price and immediate lump sum payment of $70,125.00. 
 
AB is 27 years old, single, and has no dependents. (Petition, Ex. C.) AB
“entered into the original structured settlement agreement due to a wrongful
death. The original settlement was not intended as compensation for my
injuries; I am no longer being treated for those injuries and as such I have no
continuing need to provide for future medical expenses.” (Id. at p. 37
of 432 of PDF.) AB, who is now retired from the Navy, will use the $70,125.00
from to start a landscaping business.
 
After reviewing
the petition, the court determines that while the amended petition generally
satisfies the requirements of Ins. Code section 10139.5. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the petition is granted. 