 Case Number:  23PSCV00365    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
DEFENDANT
CASA COLINA, INC., DBA CASA COLINA HOSPITAL AND CENTERS FOR HEALTHCARK'S
NOTICEOFMOTIONANDMOTIONTO STRIKEPORTIONSOF PLAINTIFFS'IRST AMENDED COMPLAINT is
GRANTED.[1]
 
(2)  
DEMURRER OF
DEFENDANT JALAL BADDAY, M.D., TO PLAINTIFFS' FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. 
 
(3)  
MOTION OF
DEFENDANT JALAL BADDAY, M.D., TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS' FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT is MOOT. 
 
(4)  
DEFENDANT
HUSSEIN ABIDALI, D.O.'S  MOTION TO STRIKE
PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS' FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT is GRANTED with leave
to amend. 
 
(5)  
DEFENDANT
HUSSEIN ABIDALI, D.O.'S DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend. 
 
Background
 
This is an elder abuse case. Plaintiff EVANGELINE MUNOZ
(“decedent” or “Ms. Munoz”), in and through her Successor-In-Interest, Jenny
Macias, and JENNY MACIAS allege the following against Defendants CASA COLINA
HOSPITAL; CASA COLINA HOSPITAL & CENTERS FOR HEALTHCARE dba CASA COLINA
HOSPITAL; CASA COLINA, INC (hereinafter, “Casa Colina”).; JALAL BADDAY, M.D
(“Dr. Badday”).; HUSSEIN ABIDALI, D.O (“Dr. Abidali”): Ms. Munoz was a resident
of Casa Colina from March 27, 2022 to April 22, 2022 where she was admitted for
rehabilitative care following a stroke. (Complaint ¶27.) Dr. Badday was Ms. Munoz’s attending
physician. (Complaint ¶22.) Due to her
poor appetite, Ms. Munoz required one-on-one supervision to ensure she
adequately ate. (Complaint ¶30.)
Additionally, Ms. Munoz was to be monitored for a urinary tract infection
(“UTI”) and perform bladder scans every six hours. (Complaint ¶29.) On April 6, 2022, decedent
was diagnosed with depression, and prescribed medication, which severely
reduced her appetite severely. (Complaint ¶31.) Thus, Ms. Munoz’s physicians began discussing
the possibility of a G-tube insertion due to their concern of her lack of
eating. (Complaint ¶33.) On April
14, 2022, Dr. Abidali performed the G-tube placement, but it was later
determined that the tube was improperly place, leading to an infection. After
an emergency surgery, Ms. Munoz suffered at least one additional stroke,
leading her to become severely impaired and put in a semi-vegetative state,
where she remained in a semi-vegetative state until her passing on September
11, 2022. (Complaint ¶¶61, 63.) 
 
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed suit for:
            
1. Elder Abuse (Welfare And
Institutions Code § 15600, Et Seq.) 
2. Negligence 
3. Willful Misconduct 
4. Wrongful Death. 
 
On March 16, 2023, Casa Colina a motion to strike, which the
court on 6/13/23 granted with leave to amend. 
 
On May 3, 2023, Dr. Badday filed a demurrer to the original
complaint. 
 
On June 13, 2023, the court: GRANTED with leave to amend
Casa Colina’s MTS and SUSTAINED with leave to amend Dr. Badday’s demurrer
(rendering MTS moot). 
 
On July 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended
Complaint (FAC). 
 
On July 28, 2023, Dr. Badday filed the instant motion. 
 
On August 2, 2023, Casa Colina filed a Joinder to Dr.
Badday’s motion to abate Plaintiffs’ action. 
 
On August 4, 2023, Casa Colina filed a motion to strike. 
 
On August 7, 2023, two demurrers x MTs were filed: one by
Dr. Badday and the other by Dr. Abidali.
 
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a non-opposition to
Casa Colina’s motion to strike.
That same day, Plaintiffs filed a ‘COMBINED OPPOSITION TO
DEFENDANT HUSSEIN ABIDALI, D.O.’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT.’
 
On August 25, 2023, the court continued the hearings on the
demurrer and motion to strike(s). 
 
On August 28, 2023, Dr. Abidali filed his Reply in support
of his demurrer and MTS. 
That same day, Plaintiffs filed their ‘COMBINED OPPOSITION
TO DEFENDANT JALAL BADDAY D.O.’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT.’
 
On September 8, 2023, Casa Colina filed a ‘Notice of
Correction of Name of Defendant’ as Casa Colina was erroneously sued and served
as CASA COLINA HOSPITAL; CASA COLINA HOSPITAL & CENTERS FOR HEALTHCARE dba
CASA COLINA HOSPITAL; and CASA COLINA, INC, but these entities do not exist and
should be removed as parties.
 
On September 20, 2023, the court granted Dr. Badday’s motion
to abate proceedings (as to the wrongful death COA). That same day, Plaintiffs
filed their second amended complaint (SAC) naming Daniel Munoz as a named
Plaintiff.[2] 
 
On September 2, 2023, Dr. Badday filed is Reply to
Plaintiffs’ opposition to Dr. Badday’s demurrer and motion to strike portions
of the FAC. 
 
Legal Standard
 
In pertinent part, a demurrer may be asserted on any one or
more of the following grounds: (e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (Code of Civ. Proc., §430.10.) A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear
on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Blank v.
Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion
 
I.               
Dr. Badday[3]

 
Dr. Badday again demurs to the 1st cause of
action for elder abuse and 3rd cause of action for willful
misconduct. 
 
1.    
1st COA for Elder Abuse / EADACPA
 
Previously, the court sustained the
demurrer because the COA sounded in professional negligence. More specifically,
the court observed that the allegations references to the “standard of care”
indicated negligence was at issue. The court proceeded to note that
“[e]ven assuming arguendo that the conduct to have made different medical
decisions amounts to neglect, when statutory remedies are invoked, the facts
must be pleaded with particularity. Here, however, Plaintiffs conclusively
allege that because a different medical decision should have been made, that
Dr. Badday neglected decedent.” (6/13/23 Ruling.) 
 
Now, upon a FAC, the court still finds that the FAC
sounds in professional negligence, warranting sustaining the demurrer without
leave to amend. 
 
The FAC alleges, in pertinent
part, the following against Dr. Badday:
 
As Ms. MUNOZ’s attending physician at
CASA COLINA HOSPITAL, Dr. BADDAY failed to provide and ensure that Ms. MUNOZ
received basic custodial needs. Dr. BADDAY withheld medical care from
Ms. MUNOZ by failing to have her transferred to the ICU or a different
hospital for a higher level of care when Ms. MUNOZ began showing
signs of sepsis from an abdominal wound infection and a UTI. On April 16,
2022, based on the clinical presentation of vomiting and loose stool and
fever, Dr. BADDAY knew there was an issue with Ms. MUNOZ’s G-tube placement
surgery and still made the decision to continue feedings knowing that it
was highly probable that her problems would continue.  Dr. BADDAY neglected to have Ms. MUNOZ
transferred to a higher level of care for evaluation of her G-tube placement
and abdominal area and possible abdominal infection.  Dr. BADDAY neglected to conduct any
further tests to determine whether Dr. ABIDALI had injured any part of Ms.
MUNOZ’s abdomen during the G-tube placement surgery.  Ms. MUNOZ exhibited all symptoms of
complications with the G-tube surgery but Dr. BADDAY ignored them.  Dr. BADDAY knew that if he did not address
the cause of Ms. MUNOZ’s changes of condition, vomiting, loose stools, and
fever, it was highly probable that she would develop an infection, she would
become septic, and she would be at risk of losing her life. By failing to
discharge Ms. MUNOZ in a timely manner, when she first showed signs and
symptoms of infection and improper G-tube function, Dr. BADDAY consciously
disregarded her health and put her in risk of further decline.  He failed to provide necessary healthcare to
Ms. MUNOZ by making new orders to find the cause of her issues and/or
transferred her to a higher level of care. 
 
(FAC ¶¶99-102, emphasis added.)[4] 
 
The allegations are not that
Dr. Badday ignored decedent, not that Dr. Badday refused to give
treatment, but that Dr. Badday made different medical decisions, perhaps
contrary to what he should have done. But making a certain medical
decision that deviates from clinical recommendations is the very crux of
a medical malpractice COA. (See CACI 501 [A medical practitioner is negligent if he or she “fails to use the level of skill, knowledge, and care in diagnosis and treatment that other reasonably careful [insert type of medical practitioners] would use in the same or similar circumstances. This level of skill, knowledge, and care is sometimes referred to as ‘the standard of
care.’”], emphasis added.) And as previously noted,
the EADACPA excludes liability for acts of professional negligence, simple or even
gross negligence by health care providers. (Delaney
v. Baker (1999) 20
Cal.4th 23, 32; Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32
Cal.4th 771, 788.) What the EADACPA covers are acts of egregious abuse,
but there are no such allegations here. (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at
p. 32.) 
 
To the extent Plaintiffs file an opposition, it merely
reiterates allegations in the complaint. 
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the 1st
COA for elder abuse WITHOUT leave to amend. The court denies leave to amend as
despite a previous opportunity for leave to amend, the FAC failed to make
sufficient allegations. 
 
Should Plaintiffs
seek leave to amend to file a third amended complaint (TAC), Plaintiffs are to
meet their burden during the hearing. With that, they are to (i) provide
specific allegations that they intend to add that are sufficient for an elder
abuse COA and (ii) provide case law wherein physicians, under similar facts,
can be held liable for an elder abuse COA. 
 
2.    
Willful Misconduct
 
As previously discussed, willful misconduct requires a form
of intentional injury. Absent a showing of elder abuse (which
encompasses willful misconduct (i.e, reckless, malicious, despicable,
injurious), this COA also fails. 
 
Conclusion
 
All in all, the elder abuse act is clear: the COA covers
something “more than inadvertence, incompetence, unskillfulness, or a
failure to take precautions.” (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at pp. 31-32.)
The act covers a “conscious choice of a course of action with knowledge of the
serious danger to others involved in it.” (Ibid.) Aside from conclusory
allegations of Dr. Badday making a certain decision knowing the danger
involved, there are no specific, particular facts of intentional conduct.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
leave to amend, rendering the MTS Moot. 
 
II.             
Dr. Abidali 
 
Dr. Abidali demurs to the 1st
through 3rd COAs. 
 
1.    
Elder Abuse
 
The pertinent allegations as to
the 1st COA against Dr. Abidali are as follows:
 
As Ms.
MUNOZ’s surgeon, Dr. ABIDALI failed to provide and ensure that Ms. MUNOZ
received basic custodial needs.  Dr.
ABIDALI failed to protect Ms. MUNOZ from health and safety hazards by
puncturing her colon while performing the G-tube surgery and placing
the G-tube too tightly on her abdomen. 
Additionally, Dr. ABIDALI failed to provide medical care by ensuring
the surgery went well by performing an ultrasound or x-ray to
confirm that there were no issues caused by the surgery. Dr. ABIDALI failed to secure the G-tube correctly, and
secured it too tightly to Ms. MUNOZ’s abdomen which he knew would cause
leakage of the G-tube feedings and gastric contents onto Ms. MUNOZ’s
abdomen.  As a result, it was highly
probable that Ms. MUNOZ would develop cellulitis on the areas of her abdomen
exposed to acidic gastric contents. 
 
(FAC ¶¶103-104,
emphasis added and underline added.) 
 
Dr. Abidali demurs to the elder
abuse COA on the grounds that, inter alia, Plaintiffs have not pled that
decedent and Dr. Abidali were in a custodial relationship. 
 
The EADACPA does not apply unless
the defendant health care provider had a substantial caretaking or custodial
relationship. (See Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148.)
“That is a
relationship a where a certain party has assumed a significant measure of
responsibility for attending to one or more of an elder’s basic needs that
an able-bodied and fully competent adult would ordinarily be capable of
managing without assistance.” (Id. at p. 158.) “Ultimately, the focus of
the statutory language is on the nature and substance of the relationship
between an individual and an elder or a dependent adult. This focus supports
the conclusion that the distinctive a distinctive contemplated by the Act
entails more than casual or limited interactions.” (Id)
(emphasis added). Furthermore, the phrase ‘care or custody” evokes a bond that
contrasts with a casual or temporally limited affiliation . . . It is difficult
to imagine under what circumstances an individual could ‘abandon’ a []
dependent adult absent the existence of a caretaking or custodial
relationship (e.g., a degree of dependence and reliance that would make
abandonment possible).” (Id. at p. 161.)[5]  
 
Here, the court agrees with Dr.
Abidali that there are insufficient facts to create a custodial relationship. The
only basis alleged for Dr. Abidali’s supposed custodial relationship with
Decedent is his status as a treating physician/surgeon while Decedent was a
resident at Casa Colina Hospital. (FAC ¶ 21, 37-38, 103-104.) “There is no
basis to infer that Decedent depended on Dr. Abidali, as opposed to the staff
at Casa Colina Hospital, in any way distinct from an able-bodied and fully
competent adult’s reliance on the advice and care provided by his or her
medical providers.” (Demurrer p. 9:17-22.) Recklessly inserting decedent’s
G-tube, cutting or puncturing her colon, and then abandoning decedent (Opp. p.
9:12-14) is a limited interaction as it is limited to the
insertion of the G-tube. 
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS
the demurrer as to the 1st COA, with leave to amend.
 
2.     3rd COA for Willful Misconduct 
 
The basis of the COA against
Dr. Abidali is that he didn’t correctly place the G-tube. But a surgery that
did not go well is the basis of a medical negligence COA. The FAC fails to
allege willful misconduct as to Dr. Abidali as there is no positive intent to
actually harm Decedent or action with a positive, active, and absolute
disregard of its consequences alleged. At most, the allegations rise only to
the level of professional negligence. 
 
To the extent Plaintiffs file
an opposition, it cites to case law and recites the allegations. 
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS
the demurrer as to the willful misconduct COA with leave to amend. (The court
need not address whether this COA is otherwise duplicative of the negligence
COA as the court is already sustaining the demurrer as to this COA with leave
to amend.)[6]
 
 
 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Section 425.13 still applies to
prevent punitive damages for claims arising out of the provision of medical
services. (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 37-40.) The policy behind section
425.13 supports a broad application: [T]he Legislature's goal in enacting
section 425.13 . . . was to require ‘greater certainty of the propriety of
imposing punitive damages by clear and convincing evidence of fraud, malice, or
oppression,’ and to provide health care providers with ‘additional protection
by establishing a pretrial hearing mechanism by which the court would determine
whether an action for punitive damages could proceed.’ (Johnson v. Superior
Court (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 869, 878 citing Central Pathology, 3 Cal.4th at
189.)
 
Because a claim for willful
misconduct is not a separate tort from negligence, section 425.13 applies, and
punitive damages cannot be alleged against Dr. Abidali absent leave of court.
Plaintiffs have not received
leave of court. 
 
Plaintiffs fail to address
section 425.13 in the opposition.
 
Therefore, the MTS is GRANTED
with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, Dr.
Abidali’s demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety with leave to amend and
the motion to strike is GRANTED. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


