


[1] The court will not provide an analysis on this motion
(basis: Plaintiffs did not obtain leave of court pursuant to CCP section 425.13
before seeking punitive damages against a healthcare provider) because the
motion was discussed in footnote 1 of the 9/20/23 ruling. As noted there,
Plaintiffs filed a notice of non-opposition; thus, the parties should have
filed a stipulation and taken the matter off calendar. 


[2] As the SAC’s only change was naming Daniel Munoz as a
plaintiff, the court informed the parties they need not file new motions/papers
as to the SAC. 
 


[3] As the court
previously issued a ruling regarding Dr. Badday’s demurrer and MTS, the court
directs the parties to the 6/13/23 ruling for a detailed discussion of the law
and analysis. 
 


[4] To the
extent that Plaintiffs argue Dr. Badday “failed” to incorporate paragraph 33 into
its analysis, a civil plaintiff may, for the sake of convenience, incorporate
by reference previous portions of the pleading for informational purposes only.
(Cal-West Nat. Bank v. Superior Court (1986) 185 Cal. App. 3d 96, 101.)
Here, however, with 87 factual allegations consisting of 22 pages,
incorporation by reference imposes the burden on the court and Defendant to
search through the pleadings in order to identify critical aspects of the
claims and to determine whether the Plaintiffs have pled the essential facts
necessary to constitute the causes of action. That said, Plaintiffs’ allegation
that Dr. Badday knew decedent was not eating is still insufficient for elder
abuse purposes as his failure to consult a registered dietician but further evidences
that medical negligence is at best alleged. 


[5] The Winn court disapproved Mack v. Soung (2000)
80 Cal.App.4th 968, a case which held that a plaintiff’s attending physician at
a nursing home could be liable under the Elder Abuse Act. 
 


[6] The notice of the demurrer indicates that Defendant
demurs to the 2nd COA for negligence on the grounds that it fails to
state sufficient facts, but no analysis provided. Thus, the argument is deemed
waived. 

