  Case Number:  24VECV00110    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  W forero, et al.
v. reginald ladrue jr. calhoun, et al. 
 
defendant los
angeles unified school district’s motion for leave to file cross-complaint  
 
Date of Hearing:        November 12, 2024                          Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV00110
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District    
Responding Party:     No
opposition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 9, 2024, Plaintiffs Brian
Forero; Vanessa Mendez; and Katie Gomez, a minor by and through Guardian ad
Litem, Angie Gomez filed a complaint against Defendants Reginald Ladrue Jr.
Calhoun and Los Angeles Unified School District for motor vehicle negligence. 
 
On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint. Los Angeles Unified School District now seeks leave to
file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Forero. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is
GRANTED.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District moves the court for an order granting leave to file a Cross-Complaint
against Plaintiff Brian Forero. Defendant LAUSD makes the motion on the grounds
that the proposed Cross-Complaint arises out of the same transaction or
occurrence as does Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Where a defendant wishes to assert a
“related cause of action” against plaintiff, it must do so in a
cross-complaint. Failure to plead it will bar defendant from asserting it in a
later lawsuit. (CCP § 426.10 [“‘Related cause of action’ means a cause of
action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions
or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.”].) 
 
A cross-complaint against plaintiff may
be filed as a matter of right if it is filed before or at the same time as the
answer. (CCP § 428.50(a).) Otherwise, leave of court must be obtained. (CCP §
428.50(c).) Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during
the course of¿the action.¿(Id., § 428.50(c).) Indeed, where a cause of
action would otherwise be lost, leave to amend is appropriate even if the party
was negligent in not moving for leave to amend earlier.¿ “The legislative
mandate is clear.¿ A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court.”¿ Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99 (Silver
Orgs).¿[“Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other
cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad
faith.”]; Sidney v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718 [a
“strong showing of bad faith” is required].)  
 
The court finds Defendant LAUSD is
entitled to file the proposed Cross-Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 426.50. LAUSD timely filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC on
June 27, 2024. (Paige Decl. ¶2.) However, after reviewing the pleadings and
other file materials, investigating and drafting discovery regarding the
underlying events, the determination was made that the Cross-Complaint for
which LAUSD seeks leave to file, was necessary and appropriate. (Paige Decl.
¶2.) LAUSD contends that as a result of the motor vehicle collision, LAUSD
suffered property damage and loss of use of its property. (Paige Decl. ¶3.) As
the Cross-Complaint arises out of the same motor vehicle collision, LAUSD
argues it is necessary and appropriate. LAUSD further argues that no party will
suffer prejudice as a result of filing the Cross-Complaint. Trial has not yet
been set and LAUSD acted in good faith when bringing this motion as soon as
possible.  
 
Accordingly, Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant
is ordered to file and serve the proposed Cross-Complaint attached as Exhibit A
of Paige’s declaration within 10 days of this ruling.
 
 
 
 