 Case Number:  24VECV03000    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  W AMH DEVELOPMENT, LLC vs UNITED SPECIALTY
INSURANCE COMPANY
 
APPLICATION FOR pro hac vice
 
Date of Hearing:        November
12, 2024                          Trial
Date:       N/A 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV03000 
 
Moving Party:            Applicant
Bradley Hoff for Plaintiffs AMH Development LLC 
Responding Party:     None.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff AHM
Development LLC filed a complaint against United Specialty Insurance Company
for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing; (3) specific performance; (4) violation of the unfair competition
law (Business & Professions Code §17200, et seq); and (5) declaratory
relief. This action involves an insurance coverage dispute whereas Plaintiff
alleges Defendant wrongfully denied coverage for an alleged construction defect
at the home occupied by Plaintiff’s tenant. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling: GRANT 
 
Bradley Hoff submits an application for
admission pro hac vice as counsel for Plaintiff AHM Development LLC. 
 
Mr. Hoff is a member of United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Washington, and United States District Court for the
Western District of Washington. 
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court
9.40, an application for appearance pro
hac vice must be served on all parties who have appeared in the case and on
the State Bar of California at its San Francisco Office. Additionally, the
application must state:
 
(1)  
The applicant's residence and office
address;
(2)  
The courts to which the applicant has
been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)  
That the applicant is a member in good
standing in those courts;
(4)  
That the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5)  
The title of court and cause in which
the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and
(6)  
The name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
 
Mr. Hoff has fulfilled these
requirements. The declaration of Zhasmina Y. Kolarova, local co-counsel, in
support of the motion states they have paid the necessary $50.00 fee along with
a copy of the Petition upon the State Bar of California. (Kolarova Decl. ¶7.) 
 
The motion is GRANTED, contingent on
proof the State Bar has received the $50.00 fee. 
 