 Case Number:  23TRCV00110    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  P SUBJECT: Motion to Compel Neuropsychological IME of Plaintiff; and Request for Sanctions of $608.00MOVING PARTY: Defendant William Howard FarrisRESP. PARTY: Plaintiff Wayne Davidson WuI. Relief RequestedDefendant Farris seeks an order compelling Plaintiff Wu’s to appear at an independent medical examination within 30 days of notice of this hearing. Defendant Farris also seeks $608.00 in sanctions for bringing this motion.II. Moving Arguments· Defendant seeks to compel a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff Wu to evaluate Plaintiff’s traumatic brain injury. Defendant contends Plaintiff has put is mental functioning at issue. (Motion, 4:17-19.)· None of the required information under Code of Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b) apart from Dr. Thorndyke’s name and specialty.III. Opposing Arguments· Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s motion lacks the proper information as outlines in Code of Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, as Defendant fails to include the “time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Opposition, 5:6-7.) Plaintiff contends the originally noticed IME was for a neurology examination, however, it appears Dr. Thorndyke’s specialty is neuropsychology, which is a mental examination requiring leave of court. (Id., 4:27-28, 5:1-2.)· Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to establish good cause for the examination as this would be Plaintiff’s second examination, the first was with Dr. Kaloostian, a neurosurgeon, and Plaintiff is willing to stipulate not to bring a neuropsychology or psychological testimony at trial, pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc., § 2032.320. (Id., 6:11-17.)IV. Reply Arguments· No reply brief was filed as of May 31, 2024.V. Tentative RulingThe Court DENIES an order compelling Plaintiff’s appearance at an independent medical examination with Dr. Thorndyke. Further, the Court DENIES Defendant’s request for sanctions.VI. BackgroundOn January 12, 2024, Wayne Davidson Wu (“Plaintiff”) and Ceila Manuelita Wu Contreras filed a complaint against William Howard Farris (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50 motor vehicle negligence, general negligence and loss of consortium causes of action arising out of a bicycle versus automobile accident occurring on February 21, 2021.On May 11, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint.On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff Ceila Manuelita Wu Contreras and her causes of action were dismissed from the matter.On May 13, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel the neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 22, 2024. No reply brief has been filed as of May 31, 2024.VII. AnalysisLegal StandardEvery defendant in a personal injury case is entitled to take one physical examination of the plaintiff without leave of court. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.) If a defendant in a personal injury action wishes to take additional physical examinations or a mental examination of the plaintiff, and the plaintiff will not stipulate to the same, the defendant must bring a motion to compel the requested examination. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.)Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (a) allows for a mental exam of a party to an action whose mental condition is for good cause shown. Good cause exists when a plaintiff alleges continuing mental anguish and psychological distress stemming from the defendant’s actions. (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840-841.) Good cause requires a showing of “specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Id. at p. 840, fn. 5 & 6.)Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (b) provides: “A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” Moreover, Pursuant to Section 2032.320, subdivision (d), the specific diagnostic tests to be performed must be explicitly identified in the court’s order and include thetime, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination. (See Carpenter v. Sup. Ct. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260-262.)Meet and Confer Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 states, “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”A party must make “a serious attempt to obtain ‘an informal resolution of each issue.” (Townsend v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435.) “The meet-and-confer rule is designed to encourage the parties to work out their differences informally so as to avoid the necessity for a formal order.” (Sabado v. Moraga (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1, 12.) Even where events in the case reveal great animosity between the attorneys and attempts to resolve the issue may be fruitless, the parties must still make the attempt. (Ibid.) The level of effort that constitutes a reasonable and good faith “meet and confer” on a discovery dispute depends on the circumstances of the dispute, including the complexity of the discovery, the history of litigation, and the nature of the interaction between counsel. (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431-433.)Defendant presents correspondence relating to Plaintiff’s refusal to appear at the noticed IME with Dr. Thorndyke. Exh. B present a meet and confer on Plaintiff’s behalf relating to counsel’s revoking agreement for Plaintiff to appear for the examination by Dr. Thorndyke. Defendant does not show any response made in relation to Plaintiff’s meet and confer or to this motion.Therefore, the meet and confer requirement is not met as there is no showing of defense counsel’s attempt to informally resolve this issue.Merits of MotionDefendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiff’s appearance at an independent medical examination by Dr. Thorndyke.“A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.310, subd., (b).)Defendant’s motion lacks the time, place, manner, condition, scope, and nature of the examination. The only information provided by Defendant is the examiner is Dr. Thorndyke and the examination would be a neuropsychology exam within 30 days of this hearing. Defendant does not provide any specific tests to be conducted nor the amount of time the examination should take. Defendant’s Demand for Neurological Examination of Plaintiff only provides the address, date, and time originally requested, but appears to request a neurological exam, which is different than a neuropsychological exam now requested. (Warren Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. A.) This demand does not provide a list of tests to be conducted nor the amount of time the examination will take.The Court finds that Defendant has failed to properly supply the Court with the information required by Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (b).Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s appearance at the independent medical examination, as well as his request for sanctions.VIII. ConclusionAccordingly, the Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Neuropsychological IME of Plaintiff. Additionally, the Court DENIES Defendant’s request for sanctions.