  Case Number:  22TRCV00610    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  P Motions for a Protective Order Regarding Apex DepositionsThe court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.RULINGThe motion is granted and the notices of deposition as to Jason Craik and David Craik are quashed.BACKGROUNDOn July 21, 2022, plaintiffs Judith Whitesman (in and through her successor-in-interest Robert Whitesman), Robert Whitesman (for himself), Richard Whitesman, and Deena Whitesmansued defendant Avenir Memory Care Westside, itself and as alias for three other entities: Avenir Senior Living, LLC, AMCLA GP, Inc., and AMCLA LP (collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiffs allege causes of action for (1) elder abuse, (2) negligence, (3) breach of contract, (4) willful misconduct, and (5) wrongful death.Plaintiff Judith Whitesman died on June 6, 2022, aged 88 years. (Compl., ¶ 42.) From February 1, 2022 through her death, she resided at Avenir Memory Care Westside, an elder-care facility. (Id., ¶ 28.) During this period, Ms. Whitesman (“Judith” or “Decedent”) suffered from advanced Alzheimer’s disease. (Id., ¶ 28.) Plaintiffs allege Defendant neglected Judith’s care and failed to inform Plaintiffs of multiple adverse health events that occurred between February and June 2022. (Id., ¶¶ 29-34.) Plaintiffs became aware of Defendant’s lapses after Judith died. (Id., ¶ 34). They sued.The Court refers to Plaintiffs by first names when necessary for clarity, rather than out of familiarity or disrespect.On March 22, 2024, Plaintiffs noticed the depositions of David and Jason Craik, whom Plaintiffs claim had some degree of operational control over Defendants at relevant times. (Flint Decl., ¶¶ 10-11 and Exhs. 9-10; Opp., 1:22-28.) Plaintiffs selected the morning and afternoon of April 26, 2024, respectively, for each deposition. (Id., Exhs. 9-10.) Plaintiffs requested that the Craiks produce nine (9) categories of documents concurrently with their depositions. (Ibid.)On April 18, 2024, Defendants served objections to the deposition notices. (Id., Exhs. 11-12.)On May 3, 2024, Defendants moved for a protective order preventing the Craiks’ depositions.On May 22, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed.On May 28, 2024, Defendants replied.Non-jury trial is set for October 7, 2024.LEGAL AUTHORITYCode of Civil Procedure section 2017.020 provides that “[t]he court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020(a).) “The court may make this determination pursuant toa motion for protective order by a party or other affected person.” (Id.) “This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id.)Where good cause is shown, courts may enter protective orders limiting depositions. Commensurate with its general power under section 2017.020, “[t]he court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420(b).) Courts have considerable discretion in granting and crafting protective orders. (Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.) A court may quash a subpoena entirely or partially, and issue an order to protect parties, witnesses or consumers from unreasonable or oppressive demands including violations of privacy. (Code Civ. Proc., §1987.1.)DISCUSSIONDefendants argue the Craiks are “apex” officers for defendant business entities, protected from deposition unless they have “unique or superior personal knowledge” regarding the case, which they do not. (Not. of Mot., 2:3-5.)Plaintiffs oppose Defendants’ motion based on their contention that the Craiks do possess unique or superior personal knowledge that justifies Plaintiffs’ taking their depositions.(Plaintiffs qualify Craiks’ status as apex employees several times in their opposition – e.g., by arguing they must sit for deposition “even if” they are apex employees. (Opp., 5:13-14.) But they do not directly argue the point, nor would the Court find such an argument persuasive.)The “apex doctrine” protects high-ranking government officials and corporate officers from deposition unless the deposing party makes a heightened showing of good cause. (Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1289 (Liberty Mutual); Westly v. Superior Court (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 907, 910 (Westly).) Per Liberty Mutual, the governing case regarding corporate officers, a party deposing an officer must demonstrate “good cause that the official has unique or superior personal knowledge of discoverable information … .” (Liberty Mutual, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1288-89.) Put differently: “it amounts to an abuse of discretion to withhold a protective order when a plaintiff seeks to depose a corporate president, or corporate officer at the apex of the corporate hierarchy, absent a reasonable indication of the officer’s personal knowledge of the case and absent exhaustion of less intrusive means of discovery.” (Id., 1287.)“An exception will be made to [the apex] rule only when the deposing party makes two showings. First, the deposing party must show that the [proposed deponent] ‘has direct personal factual information pertaining to material issues in the action ... .’ [Citation.] Second, the deposing party must also show ‘the information to be gained from the deposition is not available through any other source.’ [Citation.]” (Contractors’ State License Bd. v. Superior Court (2018) 232 Cal.App.5th 125, 132, quoting Westly, supra, at p. 911.)A. Prong One: “Direct Personal Factual Information” or “Unique or Superior Personal Knowledge”a. Material IssuesDefendants argue the Craiks have no knowledge of material issues because “[i]t is undisputed that neither [of the Craiks] had any involvement whatsoever in Ms. Whitesman’s care”. (Mot., 6:1-2.)Plaintiffs argue Defendants misidentify the relevant material facts.Plaintiffs do not contend the Craiks were involved with Judith’s care. But because Plaintiffs have brought an elder abuse claim, certain enhanced remedies depend on a showing of ratification by a corporate officer of an employee’s conduct. (Opp., 8:4-17.) Specifically, Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657(c), permitting punitive damages against an employer for elder neglect, adopts the test for punitive damages stated in Civil Code section 3294(b):“An employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages ... based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”(Civ. Code, § 3294(b), [paragraph break for clarity].)Plaintiffs contend they must show the Craiks had personal knowledge of certain facts to prove Plaintiffs’ entitlement to punitive damages, by any of these standards. (See Opp., 8:18-9:23 [identifying ratification as Plaintiffs’ primary theory].)Plaintiffs also contend they must establish a joint venture in order to hold all the defendant entities liable, given Defendants’ anticipated arguments that they are separate entities and the wrongdoing of one cannot be ascribed to any others. (Opp., 9:24-10:23.)b. David Craik’s KnowledgePlaintiffs have not shown David Craik has unique and superior knowledge about Defendants’ “operations” or the corporate hierarchy Plaintiff is seeking to prove. At best, Plaintiff asserts that the Craiks are officers or directors of the corporate entities who received licenses from DSS to operate Avenir facilities within California.In support of the assertion that David Craik has unique or superior knowledge of discoverable information, Plaintiffs point to the deposition of Farooq Moosa, the executive director of the facility where Judith lived, who testified he was “brought in and hired by David Craik to work at the Facility.” (Opp., 13:2-23, citing P.Exh. 6 [Moosa Deposition Transcript], 19:20-20:9.)Moosa also testified in his deposition:“Q: ... [W]hat’s your responsibility as President and CFO of Avenir Senior Living, Incorporated when you are made aware of clinical issues?[Objection interposed.]A: I would have discussions with the – I’d be made aware of it. I would report it back to Mr. Craik or and, you know, anyone that needs to be made aware of the issue.”(Moosa Dep., 28:11-22.)The fact that an executive director of a facility reports to “Mr. Craik” does not show David Craik’s personal involvement with Avenir’s individual facility employees, or the operations of the facility. It merely shows that there was some information that the executive director of the facility provided to senior management of the corporation.Plaintiffs also contend Moosa directly informed Craik about issues with Judith’s care because of a relevant administrative citation. On this issue, it appears from the transcript that Moosa testified he informed Craik about the issues after Judith’s death. This by itself does not demonstrate Craik had knowledge of material facts or was even in a position to ratify the acts of a facility employee.c. Jason Craik’s KnowledgePlaintiffs have not made an equivalent showing for Jason Craik. They only argue he is “at the very least ... a managing agent” and had an ownership interest in on or more defendant. (See Opp., 14:18-15:26.) Plaintiffs have not carried their burden on the first prong of the inquiry as to Jason Craik.B. Apex Prong Two: Availability from Other SourcesNotwithstanding either Craik’s knowledge, however, Plaintiffs have made no showing the information they seek is not available by less intrusive means. In fact, they waived the argument. Defendants raise this second prong in their motion; Plaintiffs do not discuss it at all in their opposition.It is Plaintiffs’ burden to satisfy both of the standards demanded under the apex doctrine. They neglected to argue the second. Defendants’ motion is granted based on their uncontested contention that there are less intrusive means via which Plaintiffs can obtain the information they seek.The operations of the corporation may be appropriately understood by deposing a person most knowledgeable within the corporate structure, and the hierarchy by a request for production of documents. If Plaintiff wants to assert ratification of an employee’s particular act, Plaintiff may use a less intrusive method of discovery than deposition. Defendant’s motion is granted as to David Craik and Jason Craik.C. Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.250Defendants also contend that both deponents live in Canada. If that is the case, then Plaintiffs’ deposition notice – which demanded the deponents appear for deposition in San Bernardino – does not satisfy Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.250, requiring natural person deponents to be deposed within seventy-five (75) miles of their residences.This objection also goes unanswered in Plaintiffs’ opposition.In support of Defendants’ motion, he declared that he lives in Canada. (J. Craik Decl., ¶ 1.) David Craik also attests to his place of residence in Canda. (D. Craik Decl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff does not respond with any contrary evidence or argument.Defendants have shown the subpoena fails as to Jason and David Craik on this separate sufficient ground.RULINGThe motion is granted. The Court quashes the outstanding deposition subpoenas for David and Jason Craik.This order is made without prejudice for Plaintiffs to bring a subsequent motion to compel compliance with a newly issued subpoena, but only if Plaintiffs can show they exhausted all less intrusive means of discovery in the interim and that David or Jason Craik has unique information not otherwise available to Plaintiffs.Moving Parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.