 Case Number:  23TRCV01785    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered defendant’s demurrer, plaintiff’s opposition, defendant’s reply, the court rules as follows: the demurrer to the second and third causes of action in the second amended complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn June 5, 2023, Plaintiff Yuan Fu (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Rita Yu-Mei Chuang alleging causes of action for: (1) Medical Malpractice; and (2) Breach of Contract.On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant Rita Yu-Mei Chuang alleging causes of action for: (1) Medical Malpractice; and (2) Breach of Contract.On August 8, 2023, Defendant Rita Yu-Mei Chuang, D.D.S. (erroneously sued as Rita Yu-Mei Chuang) (“Defendant”) filed a demurrer to the second cause of action in the FAC.On February 27, 2024, after hearing, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend.On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Medical Malpractice; (2) Breach of Oral Contract; and (3) Breach of Written Contract.On April 19, 2024, Defendant filed and served a demurrer to the second and third causes of action in the SAC on the grounds that such causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief to which Defendant replied on May 24, 2024.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn January 21, 2021, Plaintiff first visited Defendant’s office for an orthodontic treatment to close a gap between two teeth to improve chewing. (SAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff was asked to sign a form titled “Agreement of Orthodontic Services” and “Treatment and Insurance Agreement – Further Fee Disclosures” (collectively, the “Agreement”). (SAC, ¶ 7; Exh. A.) For the treatment, Plaintiff was charged a fee of $6,950.00. (SAC, ¶ 8.) At another visit in March of 2021, Defendant negligently damaged one of Plaintiff’s teeth which required emergency dental repair. (SAC, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff was not reimbursed for the fees incurred for the emergency dental work. (SAC, ¶ 9.)Plaintiff provided full payment for her treatment and alleges that Defendant failed to close the gap between the two teeth Plaintiff initially had visited for. (SAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff further alleges that during her treatment by Defendant, Plaintiff suffered severe temporomandibular pains (SAC, ¶ 11), Defendant refused to remove dental attachments (SAC, ¶ 12), and Defendant refused to provide Plaintiff with her treatment records. (SAC, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff requested to participate in arbitration pursuant to the Agreement, however, Defendant refused. (SAC, ¶ 16.) Accordingly, Plaintiff commenced the instant lawsuit. (SAC, ¶ 17.)III. LEGAL STANDARDA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsDefendant contends that each cause of action in the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and that each cause of action is uncertain.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiff argues that the SAC pleads sufficient facts to constitute causes of action for breach of contract.Moving Party’s ReplyOn reply, Defendant argues that the allegations in the SAC are insufficient to state a cause of action for breach of contract against Defendant.Merits of the DemurrerA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met. Defendant’s counsel, Shirley Carpenter Bridwell (“Bridwell”), presents a declaration stating that the parties engaged in a meet and confer discussion on April 18, 2024 concerning the SAC but were unable to resolve the issues now before the Court. (Bridwell Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Defendant has satisfied the requirements of CCP § 430.41(a).B. UncertaintyInitially, the Court will address the contention of Defendant that the SAC is uncertain. A demurrer for uncertainty will “not be sustained if the allegations are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues that must be met, even if the allegations of the complaint may not be as clear and detailed as might be desired.” (Bacon v. Wahrhaftig (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 599, 606.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will not lie where the ambiguous facts alleged are presumptively within the knowledge of the demurring party.” (Ibid.)Here, the Court does not find that the SAC is uncertain and therefore OVERRULES the demurrer of Defendant on the grounds of uncertainty. The SAC apprises Defendant of the issues that must be met and sets forth the purported grounds for the alleged breaches of oral and written contract.C. Second Cause of Action for Breach of Oral ContractTo state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) “The elements of a breach of oral contract claim are the same as those for a breach of a written contract: a contract; its performance or excuse for nonperformance; breach; and damages.” (Stockton Mortgage, Inc. v. Tope (2014) 233 Cal.App.4th 437, 453.)If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)Plaintiff alleges that on June 21, 2021, Plaintiff first visited Defendant’s office for a simple orthodontic treatment to close a gap between two teeth to improve chewing and, during such visit, Defendant verbally agreed to provide Plaintiff the treatment to close the single dental gap using the Invisalign technology. (SAC, ¶¶ 24-25, 28.) Plaintiff alleges that she paid Defendant’s fee pursuant to the oral agreement. (SAC, ¶¶ 27-28.) Plaintiff alleges that she has performed all her obligations and duties under the oral agreement with Defendant including making full payment of $6,521.00 for treatment on January 21, 2021. (SAC, ¶ 29.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached the oral agreement by failing to close the single dental gap, refusing to continue treatment to address such issues, and refusing to refund the treatment fees. (SAC, ¶ 32.) Plaintiff alleges that she has been damaged. (SAC, ¶ 33.)The Court finds that Plaintiff has not stated a cause of action for breach of oral contract. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant promised to provide Plaintiff with treatment to close the single dental gap. Here, Plaintiff indicates that she was provided with treatment, but that the treatment was ineffective, and Defendant refused to continue treatment. Thus, based on the allegations of the SAC, it appears that Plaintiff takes issue with the quality of the purported treatments and Defendant’s cessation of such treatments. In theory, a Plaintiff could allege that a medical care provider agreed to a specified course of conduct and failed to deliver that care. However, that isnot what Plaintiff alleges. Here, there is no assertion that Defendant did not provide Plaintiff with treatment in an attempt to close the single dental gap pursuant to the oral agreement. The allegation that the treatment was unsuccessful is not a breach of contract under the circumstances described.The Court therefore finds that the second cause of action for breach of oral contact is insufficiently alleged and the demurrer is SUSTAINED.D. Third Cause of Action Breach of Written ContractThe Court finds that the third cause of action is insufficiently alleged. While Plaintiff has alleged the existence of the Agreement (SAC, ¶ 35), her performance thereunder (SAC, ¶ 37), Defendant’s breach (SAC, ¶ 40), and damages (SAC, ¶ 40), the Court notes that the Agreement does not provide for a particular course of treatment or a particular outcome. Instead, the Agreement sets forth the necessity of payment, the interaction between the provider and an insurer, and general complications that may be expected with orthodontic treatments. Thus, Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant breached the Agreement by failing to close the single dental gap, causing loose spaces, and refusing to refund treatment fees (SAC, ¶ 40), are not explicit obligations contemplated by the Agreement.Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that the Agreement was breached because Defendant refused to participate in arbitration pursuant to the Agreement. (SAC, ¶ 43.) Plaintiff alleges that pursuant to the arbitration clause in the Agreement, she requested that Defendant participate in arbitration, but Defendant failed to respond to such request. (SAC, ¶ 43.) The arbitration clause in the Agreement provides that “[i]n the event of disagreement regarding the resolution of any treatment or financial dispute, both parties will nominate one arbitrator each, who will then agreement on a third arbitrator, and the third arbitrator alone shall decide the matter so as to be fair to both parties and avoid excessive legal expense. The arbitrator shall also decide the proportionate responsibilities for the arbitration fee.” (SAC, Exh. A.)Plaintiff, however, has not alleged that she fully performed under the arbitration clause and merely alleges that she “complied with her obligation by making a demand on Defendant to participate in arbitration.” (SAC, ¶ 44.) The arbitration clause does not require a demand but rather requires that each party shall nominate one arbitrator each. Plaintiff does not allege such fact.The Court therefore finds that the third cause of action for breach of written contract is insufficiently alleged and the demurrer is SUSTAINED.E. Leave to AmendThe Court finds that there remains the reasonable possibility of successful amendment as to the contractual claims. Plaintiff may allege facts that, if proven, would state a cause of action for breach of written contract for failing to comply with the arbitration clause and that there was a specified course of conduct agreed to and with which Defendant failed to deliver.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant to the second and third causes of action in the SAC with 20 days leave to amend.