 Case Number:  22STCV01148    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  MOTION of Plaintiff TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE, AGAINST COLLEGE
VISTA POST-ACUTE dba COLLEGE VISTA, LLC; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE
SUM OF $5,505.00 AGAINST DEFENDANT COLLEGE VISTA POST-ACUTE dba COLLEGE VISTA,
LLC AND ITS ATTORNEYS OF RECORD GIOV ANNIELLO LAW GROUP.
 
The motion is granted.
On or before 1/18/24, Defendant COLLEGE VISTA
POST-ACUTE shall serve further responses, and produce documents, without
objections, and in full compliance with the California Discovery Act, CCP
§2016.010 et seq., as to the requests for documents identified in moving
party’s separate statement filed with the motion.
On or before that same date, Defendant COLLEGE VISTA
POST-ACUTE and GIOV ANNIELLO LAW GROUP jointly and severally shall pay
discovery sanctions in the sum of $5,505.00 to Plaintiff, the Court finding the
absence of substantial justification.    E.g.,
CCP   § 2023.030. 
 
On 1/11/22, MARINA SAFARIAN (“Plaintiff”), as
successor-in-interest to ARTHUR SAFARIAN, an elder resident at a skilled
nursing facility, filed a Complaint against COLLEGE VISTA POST-ACUTE, et
al. (“defendants”).  On 8/1/23,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint, alleging elder abuse consisting
of reckless neglect at a skilled nursing facility, including largely ignoring
the care plan and failing to provide proper wound care, leading to
deterioration of his medical conditions and serious pain and suffering. 
Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant COLLEGE
VISTA POST-ACUTE to serve further document responses and production, as to
request numbers 18-37, 50, 51, 53, and 86, and for sanctions. Defendant opposes
the motion and seeks sanctions against Plaintiff. 
The disputed document requests seek Defendant’s
policies and procedures regarding  Defendant’s handling of treatments, medicines,
infections, diabetes, resident readmissions, resident transfers, medical
records, care plans, monitoring, records, condition changes, communications,
wound management, billing, pain management, clinical procedures, administrative
procedures and retention procedures. Defendant does not dispute that Plaintiff
has good cause to seek production of these relevant documents. While Defendant claims
that Plaintiff will use the documents sought in this case for future
litigation, the fact that a party seeking relevant discovery might have an
unauthorized motive or may “gain an incidental additional benefit from
information it is legally entitled to receive is not grounds for denying it
access to that information ….”.  Home
Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 46 Cal. App. 4th 1286, 1294.
Defendant nevertheless argues that it should not have
to produce the documents unless Plaintiff signs Defendant’s proposed stipulated
protective order. Defendant’s responses to the discovery requests state that
the documents requested by Plaintiff require a protective order before
production because they seek confidential or proprietary information. Parties may
choose to enter into stipulated protective orders permitting limited use of
discovered information deemed to contain confidential or proprietary
information, to avoid the need for court rulings but where parties are unable
to stipulate, and must resort to the courts, parties seeking protective orders must
filed a notice motion and have the burden to show good cause.  Nativi v. Deutsche Bank Nat’l Trust Co.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 317-18; Titmas v. Sup. Ct. (2001) 87 Cal. App. 4th 738, 743.  A case cited by defense counsel distinguishably
did not address any inherent power of a court to issue a protective order
without a noticed motion (opp., 5:28).  See
Northpoint Homeowners Assn. v. Superior Court (1979) 95 Cal. App. 3d
241, 245 (“they authorized the making of an inspection and subsurvey of the oil
well for the purpose of gathering information, not for the purpose of
preserving the oil well as evidence.”). 
Moreover, that opinion predated the current Discovery Act, as did the
opinion it relied upon.  Discovery-related
opinions decided before the current Civil Discovery Act of 1986 may have been
superseded.  Liberty Mutual Fire Ins.
Co. v. LcL Administrators, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1106.
Also, the party claiming a qualified privilege, such
as confidential commercial information, has the burden of showing that the
information falls within the privilege.  
Lipton v. Sup. Ct.  (1996)
48 Cal. App. 4th 1599, 1618-19 (addressing reinsurance discovery that may
involve confidential commercial information about insurer financial condition).
The Court cannot force a stipulated protective order
on parties, as it is voluntary by definition. 
There is no motion for protective order before the Court. And Defendant fails
to show a right to protection from disclosure of the requested documents
because opposing counsel’s declaration, filed 11/14/23, does not address
proprietary or confidential documents, and there is no other proof filed in
opposition. 
Moreover, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the controlling
regulations (22 CFR §§ 72523(b) and 72527) entitles Plaintiff to Defendant’s
policies and procedures and Defendant has no statutory or case law to the
contrary. Defendant does not attempt to defend its other objections to the
discovery requests (vague, ambiguous, overbreadth, violates Copyright laws) and
the Court finds no merit in those objections.   
Contrary to Defendant’s contention, the Court
concludes there was no substantial justification for Defendant’s opposition to
the motion and refusal to produce the documents without a protective order. Sanctions
against Defendant and counsel therefore are appropriate. The Court finds that the
fee billing rate and hours set forth by Plaintiff’s counsel are reasonable for
this matter. Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle of Los Angeles (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 256, 262 (holding that monetary discovery sanctions must
be reasonable in amount). Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff
has no merit and is denied. 
 