 Case Number:  22STCV09937    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
 Motion of Plaintiff for Order Appointing
Referee.
 
The motion is denied, without prejudice to renew the
motion and/or to file any proper motion for sanctions.  
 
 
On 3/22/22, Plaintiff SCARLET SHEPPARD filed a
Complaint alleging that defendants wrongfully instituted a frivolous lawsuit
against her, a former employee of defendants, for purposes of retaliating and
preventing her from exercising her rights to freedom of speech and to petition
the Court with a case for wrongful employment termination, and defendants
ultimately dismissed their case.  The
causes of action are:  1) Wrongful Use of
Civil Proceedings/Malicious Prosecution; and 2) Abuse of Process. 
Plaintiff brings a form motion to appoint a discovery
referee-- Suzanne G. Bruguera (Ret.) -- to be present during depositions taken
or defended by defendants’ counsel Erik Syverson. Plaintiff’s motion is based upon
her counsel Peggy A. Farrell’s declaration detailing Mr. Syverson’s severe and
improper abuses and uncivil and discourteous behavior towards Ms. Farrell during
the deposition of Defendant Joseph Lackey on April 17, 2023, and portions of
the deposition transcript that support Ms. Farrell’s declaration.  Defendants did not file any opposition to the
motion.
The Court admonishes counsel in this case to behave
civilly, including during depositions.  See, e.g., L.A.S.C.L.R. 3.26 (“guidelines
adopted by the Los Angeles County Bar Association are adopted as civility in
litigation recommendations….”);  ibid.,
Appendix 3A(e)(6) – (11) (civility guidelines regarding depositions)). The Court
is deeply disappointed by the uncivil and unprofessional behavior of Mr.
Syverson at Mr. Lackey’s deposition, as reflected in the deposition transcript
excerpts provided to the Court. The Court expects Mr. Syverson to review the
local rules regarding civility and endeavor to live up to those rules at the continued
deposition of Mr. Lackey as well as any future depositions in this case. 
Plaintiff’s counsel Ms. Farrell stated that she only
obtained two hours of deposition testimony from Mr. Lackey due to the behavior
of Mr. Syverson. Defendants do not challenge this estimate. The Court therefore
exercises its discretion to order that Plaintiff has only used two hours of
deposition time for Mr. Lackey. Furthermore, the Court orders counsel to lodge
with the Court the transcript of every future deposition for the Court’s review
within 30 days of the deposition. 
The Court denies the motion for a discovery referee without
prejudice to renew the motion or a request for sanctions if counsel’s behavior does
not change at the future depositions. 