  Case Number:  20TRCV00077    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka      Monday, September 30, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 11  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Tony Taleff v. Marcia Lynn Sattgast Taleff, et al.
20TRCV00077
1.     
Tony Taleff’s
Motion for Replevin 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Tony Taleff’s Motion for Replevin is denied without
prejudice.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January 22, 2020.
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint was filed on February 24, 2022. Plaintiff’s
Second Amended Complaint was filed on October 6, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that
during the course of the parties’ dissolution of marriage proceedings, numerous
instances of alleged wrongdoing were uncovered.
 
Plaintiff filed this “motion for replevin.” However,
procedurally, the proper term is a writ of possession. The Court notes that
Plaintiff also filed an application for writ of possession in connection with
this “motion.” Thus, the Court will treat this “motion” as an application for
writ of possession. The Court is also unclear as to the “co-declaration” of
Tony Taleff and Vera Taleff. Vera Taleff is not a party to this action.
 
Writ of Possession
 
CCP § 512.010 sets forth the requirements in an
application for writ of possession.  CCP
§ 512.010(b) states: “The application shall be executed under oath and shall
include all of the following:
 (1) A showing
of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to
possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a
written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 (2) A showing
that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in
which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the
best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the
detention.
 (3) A
particular description of the property and a statement of its value.
 (4) A
statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part
of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take
possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there.
 (5) A statement
that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant
to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
Pursuant to CCP § 512.040(b): “The writ will be issued
if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the other
requirements for issuing the writ are established. The hearing is not for the
purpose of determining whether the claim is actually valid. The determination
of the actual validity of the claim will be made in subsequent proceedings in
the action and will not be affected by the decision at the hearing on the
application for the writ.” Pursuant to CCP § 511.090, a “claim has probable
validity where it is more likely than not that plaintiff will obtain judgment
against defendant on that claim.”
 
Further, “[a]t the hearing, the court shall make its
determinations upon the basis of the pleadings and other papers in the record;
but, upon good cause shown, the court may receive and consider additional
evidence and authority produced at the hearing or may continue the hearing for
the production of such additional evidence, oral or documentary, or the filing
of other affidavits or points and authorities.” 
CCP § 512.050.
 
Plaintiff applies for a writ of possession to possess
the following: “Three 1882 S20 Coronet Head Double Eagle Liberty Gold coins
Book value approx $63,000 each Gold pendants and chains estimated at 1500.00[.]”
(Application for Writ of Possession, ¶ 4.) Here, however, Plaintiff has failed
to set forth all the essential elements required in CCP § 512.010(b). 
 
Plaintiff has failed to set forth an evidentiary basis
for the grounds for Plaintiff’s claim. Plaintiff’s contention that the property
is his separate property is conclusory. Plaintiff set forth a redacted part of
an order from Case Number BD497594. However, without the full context of the
statement, it cannot be determined what exactly the Court ordered, and, in any
event, the Court made a statement that as to the “gold coins,” they were not in
fact either separate or community property of the parties. First, this
statement does not definitively establish that they are the same coins referred
to by Plaintiff and second the statement that they are not separate or
community property undermines Plaintiff’s contention that they are his separate
property. In addition, Plaintiff failed to set forth facts to show that the
property is being wrongfully detained. Finally, Plaintiff failed to set forth a
“statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine,
pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.”
CCP § 512.010(b)(5).
 
Finally, throughout the application, motion and
declaration, Plaintiff makes numerous references which appear to indicate that
the property is not his property at all, but, in fact, belongs to Vera Taleff
who is not a party to this action. Thus, it is unclear whether Plaintiff Tony
Taleff actually is entitled to immediate possession of this property since the
property apparently belongs to a non-party named Vera Taleff. Therefore,
Plaintiff failed to establish the probable validity of his claim to possession
of the property. 
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s Motion for Replevin or Application
for Writ of Possession is denied without prejudice. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.