 Case Number:  21STCV16686    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka       Monday, September 30, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 12  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Kristy
Redmond, et al. v. Lennox Apartment, et al.   
21STCV16686

1.     
Jaime Fabian’s,
Guardian Ad Litem for Claimant Destiny Fabian, Petition for Approval of
Compromise of a Claim for Minor 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Jaime Fabian’s, Guardian Ad Litem for Claimant Destiny
Fabian, Petition for Approval of Compromise of a Claim for Minor is granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on May 3, 2021. Plaintiffs’
Second Amended Complaint was filed on June 10, 2022. Plaintiffs’ Third Amended
Complaint (“TAC”) was filed on June 23, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the following
facts. Plaintiffs suffered bed bug bits in their apartment. The apartment was
sprayed by Amen Pest Control, Inc. Defendant Mabry Management, Company was the
management company that was managing the subject property. Defendant Lennox
Apartment owns the apartment complex. Demurring Defendant Beach Front Property
Management, Inc. was substituted in for DOE 1 on December 16, 2022. Demurring
Defendant Runway Vista LLC was substituted as DOE 2 on January 31, 2023. The
connection that these Defendants have with the apartment is not specified at
all in the TAC. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1. Battery 2. Negligence 3. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress 4. Private Nuisance 5. Public Nuisance.  
 
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of
Minor
 
A claim by or against a minor may be settled through
compromise only with the approval of the court. 
A petition for approval must be presented to the court by the minor’s
guardian.  CCP § 372; Probate Code Secs.
2500-2507; 3413-3605.
 
The court should consider the following factors: the
circumstances of the accident, particularly the facts bearing on the payor’s
liability and the minor’s damages; the amount of the proposed settlement; the
method of payment; the nature of the injury and the minor’s current medical
status (the petition should include a recent medical report); and the amount of
attorney’s fees being requested.  Before
the hearing, the court should make a preliminary determination of whether the
proposed settlement and the method of payment appear reasonable in relation to
the potential liability and the nature and extent of injuries.  It is especially important to determine
whether the minor’s condition is permanent, and whether it is stable or likely
to worsen.  The court should also make a
preliminary determination as to whether the costs, expenses, and attorneys’
fees appear reasonable.
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition for compromise of pending action. The Court determines that the
petition is reasonable as to the settlement amount. The Court finds that the
settlement is in the best interest of the minor. The proposed petition for
compromise of the pending action and the proposed disposition of the proceeds
of the settlement funds is hereby approved.
 
Thus, for the foregoing reasons,
Petitioner’s Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of Minor is granted.  
 
Petitioner is ordered to
give notice of this ruling. 