  Case Number:  20STCV47565    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


January 9, 2025




CASE NUMBER


20STCV47565




MOTION


Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement




MOVING PARTY 


Defendant Hartford Gold Group




OPPOSITION


Plaintiff Robert Scheff



 
MOTION
            Defendant
the Hartford Gold Group, LLC (“Defendant”) moves to enforce a settlement
agreement with Plaintiff Robert Scheff (“Plaintiff”) under Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6.  Plaintiff
opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
In its order of
August 14, 2023, the Court approved the settlement of Plaintiff’s claims
against Defendant under the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 (PAGA).  The settlement, which the Court approved,
specifies, in relevant part, Plaintiff “agrees to indemnify and hold harmless [Defendant]
from any liability, damage, loss, or expense (including reasonable attorneys
fees and expenses of litigation) in connection with any claims, actions, suits,
demands, or judgments in connection with any claims by Paychex asserted against
[Defendant] arising out of or relating to [Plaintiff], his claims, or his
employment with [Defendant], including but not limited to in connection with Robert
Scheff v. Paychex Business Solutions, LLC, Case No. CGC-21-596794,
including but not limited to for contribution, indemnity, subrogation and/or
liability.”  (Declaration of Matthew L.
Eanet, Exhibit A, pp. 16-17.)  In the Scheff
v. Paychex Business Solutions, LLC (Super Ct. S.F. County, 2021, No. CGC-21-596794)
(Scheff), Defendant Paychex Business Solutions, LLC (“Paychex”)
cross-complained against Defendant. 
Defendant contends Plaintiff failed to indemnify Defendant in its defense
against Paychex’s cross-complaint as the terms of the settlement require.  
Plaintiff does not
dispute Plaintiff is obligated to defend Defendant in Scheff.  (Opposition to Motion to Enforce Settlement
Agreement, p. 2.)  However, Plaintiff
contends, if Defendant refuses to accept the counsel Plaintiff selects to
represent Defendant in that matter, Plaintiff need not indemnify Defendant.  Plaintiff first proposed attorney Albert
Robles (“Robles”) represent Defendant. 
Defendant rejected Robles because Defendant contended Robles was not
responsive to Defendant and because Robles communicated with Plaintiff
regarding the defense of Defendant.  Plaintiff
then proposed attorney Milton Grimes (“Grimes”) represent Defendant.  However, Defendant contends Grimes is
unsuitable as there is a pending felony matter against Grimes - - United
States v. Grimes (C.D. Cal., 2024, No. 2:24-cr-00190-SB), and
Grimes has an extensive record of discipline in State Bar Court.  
Defendant has the better
of this argument because it has a right to conduct its own defense and request
reimbursement from Plaintiff for defense costs. 
(Watsonville v. Corrigan (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1542, 1549 (Watsonville).)  As such, Plaintiff’s refusal to indemnify
Defendant for the cost of an attorney Defendant selects is improper.
In support of his
opposition, Plaintiff cites Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008)
44 Cal.4th 541 (Crawford), which is not on point.  In that case, the Supreme Court of California
noted that an indemnitor need not reimburse an indemnitee for defense costs the
indemnitee incurred without the indemnitor’s permission, “contrary to the
policy . . . .”  (Crawford v. Weather
Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 557.)  Plaintiff cites no provision in the parties’ agreement
that requires Plaintiff to obtain Defendant’s permission prior to incurring
defense costs.  Indeed, the agreement
states Plaintiff must reimburse Defendant for “reasonable attorneys fees and
expenses of litigation . . . ,” without specifying Defendant is obligated to obtain
Plaintiff’s permission before incurring such costs.  (Eanet Decl., Exhibit A, pp. 16-17.)  
Plaintiff cites a
portion of the California Supreme Court’s decision in Crawford in which
the Court quoted the decision in Buchalter v. Levin (1967) 252
Cal.App.2d 367 (Buchalter).  In Buchalter,
the Court of Appeal construed an agreement in which co-defendants in litigation
authorized one defendant to conduct their joint defense.  The Court concluded in those circumstances
the defendant who agreed to defend the other co-defendants was not liable to
reimburse another defendant for that defendant’s use of separate counsel.  (Buchalter, supra,  252 Cal.App.2d at pp. 374-375.)  As the Court noted in Watsonville, “significant
in [Buchalter] was the contracting parties' express mutual
understanding that the indemnitor would assume the defense because the
indemnitees wished to avoid the expense and burden of an anticipated lawsuit
and would not agree to purchase the subject real property absent the agreement
containing the indemnification condition. 
In that light, it was proper for the trial judge to construe the
parties' agreement to limit the indemnitor's obligation to the undertaking of
the defense and payment of the judgment, while excluding reimbursement of
defense costs resulting from the indemnitees' decision to hire separate
counsel.”  (Watsonville, supra,
149 Cal.App.4th p. 1552.)  The agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant is not analogous to the agreement at issue in Buchalter.  Plaintiff is obligated to reimburse Defendant
for the reasonable attorney fees Defendant incurs in Scheff.  
For the reasons
discussed above, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to the extent Defendant
seeks a determination Plaintiff must reimburse Defendant for the reasonable
attorney fees it incurs in Scheff. 
If the parties are unable to agree to the reimbursement to which
Defendant is entitled, the Court directs Defendant to file a motion to recover
its attorney fees.  Such a motion will
permit the Court to then determine the reasonable amount of attorney fees that was
incurred.  As Defendant cites no
authority for the proposition that Defendant is entitled to recover its
attorney fees in connection with this motion, the Court denies Defendant’s
request for such fees.
Defendant is
ordered to give notice of this order and to file proof of service thereof.
 