  Case Number:  23STCV01106    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MINJI JO
  
         vs.
 
NSEW GA, INC.; NSEW HOLDING NA CORP.; NSEW NORTH
  AMERICA, LLC; PAUL KWAK; and MICHELLE KWAK; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive.

 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV01106
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 7, 2024




 
            Plaintiff’s motion
to vacate this Court’s order of dismissal is GRANTED.
 
            On January 18, 2023, Plaintiff Minji Jo (“Plaintiff”) filed
a Complaint against Defendants NSEW GA, Inc.; NSEW Holding NA Corp.; NSEW North
America, LLC; Paul Kwak; and Michelle Kwak; and Does 1 through 50, inclusive,
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of oral contract, (2) intentional
misrepresentation, and (3) conversion.
 
            On November 27, 2023, pursuant to this Court’s Order to
Show Cause re: Failure to File Proof of Service, Plaintiff filed proof of
personal service on Defendant Paul Kwak. This proof of service indicates that
Leroy Richardson, who is not a registered California process server, personally
served Defendant on August 14, 2023. Plaintiff has not filed any other proof of
service indicating service on any other named Defendant.
 
            Also on November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Request for
Entry of Default / Default Judgment as to Defendant.
 
            At the hearing on November 29, 2023, this Court set a
hearing on the Order to Show Cause re: Default Judgment for March 13, 2024. The
Court ordered Plaintiff to file its default judgment prove-up package with the
Court on or before February 13, 2024.
 
            On February 13, 2024, this Court continued the hearing on
the Order to Show Cause re: Default Judgment until June 5, 2024.
 
            The Plaintiff’s counsel failed to prepare and file the
default judgment packet and failed to make an appearance at the June 5, 2024
hearing. Accordingly, at the June 5, 2024 hearing, this Court ordered
Plaintiff’s Complaint dismissed without prejudice.
 
            Plaintiff now moves to vacate this Court’s Order of
Dismissal.
 
Legal Standard
 
            The court has broad discretion to vacate the entry of
default, default judgment or a dismissal, but that discretion can be exercised
only if the defendant establishes a proper ground for relief, by the proper
procedure and within the set time limits.¿Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§473(b), a motion to set aside/vacate cannot be brought more than six (6)
months after the entry of default or dismissal and must be made within a
“reasonable time” if discretionary relief is sought.
 
Whenever
an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of
judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit of fault attesting to his/her mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
neglect, the court “shall” vacate the resulting default, default
judgment or dismissal. (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).) The only limitation is that
the court may deny relief if it finds that the default, default judgment or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise
or neglect, but that the attorney is attempting to “cover up” for his/her
client. (Rogalski v. Nabers Cadillac (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 816.) If the
attorney is willing to take the blame and pay the costs, the court must set
aside the entry of default, default judgment or dismissal.   
 
Discussion 
 
            First, the motion is timely made within six (6) months.
The Court entered its order dismissing Plaintiff’s Complaint on June 5, 2024.
Plaintiff filed the instant motion to vacate the Court’s order of dismissal
less than two (2) months later, on August 1, 2024.
 
            Further, Plaintiff’s Counsel, Jisoo Hwang, filed a
declaration in support of Plaintiff’s motion that accepts full responsibility
for the mistake or inadvertence that caused this Court to dismiss Plaintiff’s
Complaint. (Hwang Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s Counsel states that he failed to
appear for the Order to Show Cause hearing set for June 5, 2024 because of a
calendaring mistake. (Hwang Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s Counsel also states that
he “further failed to file default judgment packet [sic] against two
defendants, PAUL KWAK and MICHELLE KWAK.” (Id., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s
counsel requests the Court to vacate the order of dismissal and allow Plaintiff
to file a proposed default judgment packet. (Id., ¶ 7.)
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff’s Counsel’s declaration is
sufficient to warrant mandatory relief under 473(b). Accordingly, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion vacate the Court’s order to dismiss Plaintiff’s
Complaint.
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated:  November    
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 

 