 Case Number:  24STCV18386    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LESTER MAYORGA
  
         vs.
 
TESLA, INC.; and DOES 1-100, inclusive

 


 Case No.:
  24STCV18386
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: November 7, 2024




 
            Defendant Tesla,
Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
 
            This is a “Lemon Law” action arising from a purchase of
an allegedly defective car. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff Lester Mayorga
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Tesla, Inc. (“Defendant” or
“Tesla”) alleging causes of action for: (1) violation of subdivision (d) of
Civil Code section 1793.2; (2) violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code
section 1793.2; (3) violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section
1793.2; (4) breach of express written warranty (Civ. Code § 1791.2(a); § 1794);
(5) breach of implied warranty of merchantability (Civ. Code § 1791.1; § 1794).
 
            On August 28, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to
compel the dispute into arbitration, and to stay judicial proceedings during
the pendency of arbitration.
 
            The motion is unopposed. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) reflects a liberal federal policy favoring
arbitration and the fundamental principle that arbitration is a matter of
contract. (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion¿(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339
(Concepcion).) The Supreme Court’s recent decision in Morgan v.
Sundance emphasizes that this policy is not designed to place arbitration
agreements on unequal footing as other contracts, but only to make arbitration
agreements as enforceable as other kinds of legally-binding contracts. (Morgan
v. Sundance, Inc., 596 U.S. 411, 419.)
 
Similarly,
Under California¿law,¿public policy favors arbitration as an efficient and less
expensive means of resolving private disputes.¿(Moncharsh¿v.¿Heily¿&¿Blase¿(1992)
3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9; Concepcion,¿supra, 563 U.S. at p. 339.) In
interpreting the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Morgan, the California
Supreme Court also held that “California policy, like federal policy, puts
arbitration agreements on equal footing with other types of contracts.” (Quach
v. California Commerce Club, Inc., 16 Cal.5th 562, 569.)¿“To further that
policy, Code of Civil Procedure, section 1281.2 requires a trial court to
enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited
exceptions¿applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives
the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration
agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group¿(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967 (Acquire
II), citing Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a)-(c).) “[U]nder¿both
the FAA and California law, ‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation
of any contract.’”¿(Higgins v. Sup. Ct.¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238,
1247.)
 
Accordingly,
whether an agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) or
the¿FAA, courts resolve doubts regarding the scope of arbitrable issues in favor
of arbitration.¿(Moncharsh,¿supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 9;¿Comedy Club,
Inc. v. Improv West Assocs.¿(9th Cir. 2009) 553¿F.3d¿1277, 1284; see also¿Engalla¿v.
Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.¿(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation]
and a requirement that an arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis
of state law standards that apply to contracts in general [citation]”].)¿
 
The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and the opposing party bears the
burden of proving any fact necessary to its defense by the same evidentiary
standard.¿(Gatton v. T-Mobile USA, Inc.¿(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 571,
579.) 
 
Finally,
“[i]f a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has
ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) Similarly, under the FAA, the Court is
required to stay the proceedings for a case that has been referred to
arbitration, upon application of one of the parties, during the pendency of
such arbitration. (9 U.S.C. § 3.)
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s dispute to
arbitration on the basis of two separate agreements Plaintiff signed as a
condition of purchasing a 2021 Tesla Model 3 (the “Subject Vehicle”), which is
the subject of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant. Both of these agreements,
Defendant contends, contain enforceable arbitration agreements that allow
either party to compel a dispute concerning the purchase or condition of an
automobile pursuant to such agreements to arbitration, if either party so
elects. The Court is satisfied that Defendant has presented sufficient evidence
of the existence of an enforceable arbitration agreement that covers
Plaintiff’s claims.
 
Existence of an
Agreement to Arbitrate
 
            In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must first
determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and
general principles of California contract law help guide the court in making
this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) “With respect to the moving party’s burden to
provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is
generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the
court.” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th
1152, 1160.)
 
            Defendant asserts that Plaintiff executed two separate
enforceable pre-dispute arbitration agreements on November 15, 2020 during
Plaintiff’s purchase of the Subject Vehicle. In support of this assertion,
Defendant presents the declaration of Raymond Kim—a Business Resolution Manager
at Tesla who is familiar with the service and sales of Tesla vehicles at the
time of of the subject transaction involving Plaintiff. (Kim Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
Kim
testified that “Plaintiff initially ordered a 2021 Tesla Model 3 with VIN
5YJ3E1EA7MF867778 (the ‘Subject Vehicle’) from Tesla on or about November 15,
2020” and that, by executing this purchase, “Plaintiff electronically accepted
the terms and conditions of the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (‘MVOA’) online,
a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit ‘1’ that I
obtained from the electronic document storatge kept in the ordinary course of
business.” (Id., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.) Kim elaborated that Plaintiff placed his
order “by clicking a button that read ‘Place Order’ or Tesla’s website. …
Immediately below the ‘Place Order’ button would have appeared text in bold
font advising Plaintiff that by clicking ‘Place Order’ he would be agreeing to
the terms and conditions of the [Motor Vehicle Order Agreement]. The Motor
Vehicle Order Agreement appeared in bold font and was displayed as a
hyperlink.” (Id., ¶ 4.)
 
The
Motor Vehicle Order Agreement contains an arbitration provision that reads as
follows:
 
Agreeement
to Arbitrate. Please carefully read
this provision, which applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. […].
 
If
you have a concern or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and
your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com.
 
If
not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or
relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be
decided by a juge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration
administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer
Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as
claims related to satements about our products.
 
We
will pay all AAA fees for any arbitration, which will be held in the city or
county of your residence. To learn more about the Rules and how to begin an
arbitration, you may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org.
 
The
arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla, and may not
consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot
hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on behalf of others
purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring
claims against the other only in your or its individual capacity and not as a
plaintiff or class member in any class or representative action. If a court or
arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot be
enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy, then that claim or
remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in court and any other
claims must be arbitrated.
 
If
you prefer, you may instead take an individual dispute to small claims court.
 
You
may opt out of arbitration within 30 days after signing this Agreement by
sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970,
stating your name, Vehicle Identification Number, and intent to opt out of the
arbitration provision. If you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate
overrides any different arbitration agreement between us, including any
arbitreation agreement in a lease or finance contract.
 
(Kim Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. 1
(emphasis and formatting in original).)
 
            Although the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement allows the
customer to opt out of the arbitration agreement by sending a written waiver
letter to Tesla, Kim testified that Plaintiff failed to do so. (Kim Decl., ¶
7.)
 
            Further, Kim testified that Plaintiff also entered an
arbitration agreement when he “took delivery of the Subject Vehicle on or about
December 25, 2020, at which time Plaintiff executed a Retail Installment Sale
Contract (‘RISC’) for the purchase of the Subject Vehicle on credit, a true and
correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit ‘2’.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 3; Exh.
2.) This form sales contract “is largely pre-printed, with the only details
that need to be filled in being the financial details of the transaction,
Plaintiff’s identifying information, the vehicle identifying information, and
the signatures of the Plaintiff. Included in the pre-printed portion of the
RISC in an arbitration provision.” (Id., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff was provided
time by Tesla to read this contract, including the arbitration provision, prior
to signing it. (Id., ¶ 9.) Once Plaintiff did sign the contract at or
near the time of sale, it was electronically saved to the electronic document
storage system connected to the Subject Vehicle’s VIN number.
 
            The Retail Installment Sale Contract contains an
arbitration provision that reads as follows:
 
 
ARBITRATION PROVISION
PLEASE REVIEW – IMPORTANT – AFFECTS YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS
1.     
EITHER YOU
OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPTUE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT
IN COURTOR BY JURY TRIAL.
2.     
IF A
DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS
REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US
INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL
ARBITRATIONS.
3.     
DISCOVERY
AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A
LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE
AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.
 
Any
claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including
the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the
arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. […]
 
(Kim Decl., ¶ 12; Exh. 2.)
 
            The Motor Vehicle Order Agreement submitted by Defendant
seems to contain Plaintiff’s personally identifying information—including his
name, phone number, and email—and indicates that the Subject Vehicle was placed
pursuant to such agreement on November 15, 2020. As indicated by Defendant’s
declarant, Plaintiff would not have been able to place such vehicle purchase
order without agreeing to the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement, which included the
above described arbitration agreement. (Kim Decl., ¶ 4.) Further, the Retail
Installment Sale Contract seems to bear Plaintiff’s signature, which is
sufficient evidence to meet the initial burden to show the existence of an
arbitration agreement. (See Espejo v. Southern Calfiornai Permanente Medical
Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060.)
            
            Noting that the Order Agreement expressly states that
“this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement
between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance
contract[,]” the Court find that Defendant has satisfied its burden of
establishing that the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement contains an existing
agreement to arbitrate between the parties. 
 
Applicability of the
Federal Arbitration Act
 
            “A party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has
the burden of showing FAA preemption.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Mgmt. LLC
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 684.) California law provides that parties may
expressly designate that any arbitration proceeding should move forward
underthe FAA’s procedural provisions rather than under state procedural law. (Cronus
Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 394.)
Otherwise, the FAA provides for enforcement of arbitration provisions in any
“‘contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce.’ (9
U.S.C. § 2.)” (Allied-Bruce Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 277.) Accordingly, “[t]he party asserting the FAA bears the
burden to show it applies by presenting evidence establishing the contract
with the arbitration provision has a substantial relationship to interstate
commerce[.]” (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 234
(italics added).) Moreover, as noted above, the California contract law applies
to the validity of the arbitration agreement. (Winter v. Window Fashions
Professionals, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)
 
            Here, Defendant has satisfied the requirement to
establish that the FAA applies by presenting sufficient evidence that the
arbitration agreement was included in a contract involving interstate commerce.
Both the Order Agreement and Sale Contract related to the sale of motor
vehicles. Defendant points to Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, where the California Supreme Court analyzed whether a
similar arbitration agreement included in an automobile sales contract was
unconscionable under the terms of the FAA. Defendant also cited to
persuasive federal authority stating that even when used in intrastate
commerce, “cars are themselves instrumentalities of commerce, which Congress
may protect.” (United States v. Oliver (9th Cir. 1995) 60 F.3d 547, 551.)
Accordingly, the FAA applies and will preempt California law if in conflict.
 
Scope of the
Arbitration Clause
 
            Both arbitration provisions in the agreement Plaintiff
agreed to as a virtue or ordering and purchasing the Subject Vehicle include
broad scopes. According to the arbitration provision in the Order Agreement,
Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate “any dispute between [Plaintiff] and Tesla, Inc.”
(Kim Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. 1.) According to the Sale Contract, Plaintiff agreed to
arbitrate “[a]ny claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or
tohwerise … between [Plaintiff] and [Tesla] … which arises out of or relates to
your credit application, purchase or conditions of this vehicle, this contract
or any resulting transaction or relationship ….” (Kim Decl., ¶ 12; Exh. 2.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff brings five (5) different causes of
action which each arise under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (the
“Song-Beverly Act”). As Defendant properly contends, each of Plaintiff’s
claims, on their face, directly arise out of the relationship between Plaintiff
as purchaser/consumer and Tesla as the manufacturer/warrantor. Accordingly,
plaintiff’s claims are within the scope of the operative arbitration agreement
contained within the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement.
 
Enforceability of
Agreement
 
            “Once … [an
existent arbitration agreement] is presented to the court, the burden shifts to
the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any challenges to the
enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those challenges.” (Baker
v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
As
stated above, both under California and Federal law, courts are obligated to
treat arbitration agreements as equally enforceable as any other contractual
agreement. (Morgan v. Sundance, Inc., 596 U.S. 411, 419; Quach v.
California Commerce Club, Inc., 16 Cal.5th 562, 569.) Accordingly, “under¿both
the FAA and California law, ‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.’”¿(Higgins v. Sup. Ct., supra, 140
Cal.App.4th at p. 1247.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not presented any defense to the enforcement of the arbitration
agreement in this case. Accordingly, Plaintiff has not established any basis to
deny enforcement of the arbitration agreement in the Motor Vehicle Order
Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant, which covers the claims in this
matter.
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration.
 
Stay of Proceedings
 
As stated above,
“[i]f a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has
ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding,
stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with
the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) And similarly, under the FAA, a Court is required
to stay the proceedings for a case that has been referred to arbitration, upon
application of one of the parties, during the pendency of such arbitration. (9
U.S.C. § 3.)
 
Here,
Defendant requests the Court to stay judicial proceedings during the pendency
of the arbitration in this case. Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS
Defendant’s request to stay judicial proceedings pending the competion of
contractually mandated arbitration.
 
Conclusion
 
            In all, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Aribtration. And the Court GRANTS Defendant’s request to stay judicial
proceedings pending the completion of the contractually mandated arbitration.
 
            Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  November    
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  
 
For more information, please contact the court clerk
at (213) 633-0517.  Your understanding is
appreciated.
 