 Case Number:  24STCV06324    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Leslee Deanes, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
24STCV06324




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Brent L. Davis,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: May 31, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party: Specially Appearing Defendant Brent
L. Davis 
Responding Party: Plaintiff Leslee Deanes
 
T/R:     SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANT BRENT L.
DAVIS’ MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS GRANTED.
 
Davis TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers
and opposition.
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (CCP §
418.10(a)(1).)  “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
Defendant Davis moves to quash service of
summons on the ground that he was not properly served. The proof of service
reflects that Davis was served on March 15, 2024 by personal service. Davis
represents that he was not personally served. Davis asserts that he learned of
the complaint because a the summons and complaint were left on the ground in
front of his door. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that service is proper
because the proof of service creates a presumption of proper service. The Court
finds that Davis has rebutted this presumption. 
Davis’s motion to quash is GRANTED.
 