 Case Number:  BC714990    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




briana wolf

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
popchest, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC714990




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   19, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  defendant valerian bennett



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Al Mohajerian             
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Valerian Bennett
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Al Mohajerian (“Defendant’s
Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel of record for defendant Valerian
Bennett (“Defendant”). 
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿ 
The court
finds that Defendant’s Counsel has not complied with California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.  Although Defendant’s
Counsel filed, on December 27, 2023, the notice of motion and motion directed
to Defendant on Judicial Council form MC-051, Defendant’s Counsel did not file
(1) a declaration made on the mandatory “Declaration in Support of Attorney’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel” form (Judicial Council form MC-052), or (2) a
proposed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil,”
made on Judicial Council form MC-053. 
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362, subds. (c), (e).)  Further, the proof of service attached to the
motion states only that the supporting declaration, which was not made on the
mandatory Judicial Council form, was served on (1) defendant Popchest, Inc.,
and (2) counsel for plaintiff Briana Wolf. 
Thus, Defendant’s Counsel has not filed a proof of service establishing
that the “Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” was
served on Defendant, at Defendant’s current address, and all other parties who
have appeared in this action. 
The court
exercises its discretion to continue the hearing on Defendant’s Counsel’s
motion to be relieved as counsel for Defendant in order to give Defendant’s
Counsel an opportunity to file all the papers required by California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362.  
The court
orders that the hearing on Al Mohajerian’s motion to be relieved as counsel for
defendant Valerian Bennett is continued to February 28, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., in
Department 53. 
The court
orders Al Mohajerian (1) to serve on defendant Valerian Bennett, and all other
parties who have appeared in this action, the “Notice of Motion and Motion to
be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” filed on December 27, 2023, (2) to file with
the court and to serve on defendant Valerian Bennett, and all other parties who
have appeared in this action, a declaration in support of this motion made on
the mandatory “Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel” form (Judicial Council form MC-052), (3) to file with the court and
to serve on defendant Valerian Bennett, and all other parties who have appeared
in this action, a completed proposed order relieving counsel, prepared on
the mandatory “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel” form
(Judicial Council form MC-053), and (4) to file with the court a proof of
service of (i) the “Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel –
Civil” (MC-051), (ii) the “Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel” (MC-052), (iii) the “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to
Be Relieved as Counsel,” (MC-053), and (iv) a notice of this ruling, on
defendant Valerian Bennett and all other parties who have appeared in this
action, by no later than January 26, 2024. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 19, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court