 Case Number:  22STCV27977    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




james van der beek

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
stitcher media llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV27977




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   19, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Stitcher Media, LLC
and Sirius XM Radio, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff James Van Der Beek
Motion for Summary Judgment
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion.
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on plaintiff James Van Der Beek’s evidentiary
objections, filed on November 6, 2023, as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-3.
The court rules on defendants Stitcher Media, LLC and Sirius XM Radio,
Inc.’s evidentiary objections, filed on November 15, 2023, as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-3.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants Stitcher Media, LLC (“Stitcher”) and Sirius XM Radio, Inc.
(“Sirius XM”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move the court for an order granting
summary judgment in their favor and against plaintiff James Van Der Beek
(“Plaintiff”) on Plaintiff’s Complaint, which alleges two causes of action for
(1) breach of contract, and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.
Defendants move for summary judgment on the grounds that (1) the
parties did not enter into a contract because they did not execute a signed,
written agreement as required, (2) the parties did not enter into a contract
because there was no meeting of the minds regarding numerous material terms,
and (3) even if the parties did reach an agreement, it does not satisfy the
Statute of Frauds.  

1.     First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
“‘A cause of action for breach of contract requires proof of the
following elements:          (1)
existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance;                 (3)
defendant’s breach; and (4) damages to plaintiff as a result of the
breach.’”  (Miles v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.)  
The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the first cause of action for breach of contract has no merit because Defendants
have shown that an element of the cause of action (the existence of a contract
between Defendants and Plaintiff) cannot be established.
“It is essential to the existence of a contract that there should
be: [¶] (1) Parties capable of contracting; [¶] (2) Their consent; [¶] (3) A
lawful object; and, [¶] (4) A sufficient cause or consideration.”  (Civ. Code, § 1550.)  “‘ “Mutual assent is determined under an
objective standard applied to the outward manifestations or expressions of the
parties, i.e., the reasonable meaning of their words and acts.” ’”  (Moritz v. Universal City Studios LLC (2020)
54 Cal.App.5th 238, 246.)  “When it is
clear, both from a provision that the proposed written contract would become
operative only when signed by the parties as well as from any other
evidence presented by the parties that both parties contemplated that
acceptance of the contract’s terms would be signified by signing it, the
failure to sign the agreement means no binding contract was created.  [Citations.] . . . .  On the other hand, if the respective parties
orally agreed upon all of the terms and conditions of a proposed written
agreement with the mutual intention that the oral agreement should thereupon
become binding, the mere fact that a formal written agreement to the same
effect has not yet been signed does not alter the binding validity of the oral
agreement.”  (Banner Entertainment,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 359 [emphasis in
original] [internal citations omitted].) 
Defendants have submitted the April 28, 2022 document entitled “Untitled
Dawson’s Creek Rewatch Podcast – Proposal” (the “April 28 Proposal”) that
Plaintiff has alleged Defendants breached. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 35-37; Def. Index of Exhibits (“Def. Ex.”) Ex. 1 to Ex. A,
Pl. Dep [April 28 Proposal].)  The first
page of the April 28 Proposal states that it “is for discussion purposes only,
is not a binding commitment in any respect, and is not to be interpreted in any
respect as a binding commitment to negotiate, enter into or consummate the
agreement contemplated herein.”  (Def.
Ex. 1, p. JVDB000024, to Ex. A, Pl. Dep. [April 28 Proposal] [internal italics
omitted].)  It further states that “[t]he
parties will be bound only by a definitive agreement signed by an authorized
representative of each party.”  (Ibid.
[internal italics omitted])  In sending
the April 28 Proposal to Plaintiff’s transactional attorney, Danny Miller
(“Miller”), Stitcher’s Associate Director of Business Development, Leah
Reis-Dennis (“Reis-Dennis”)          (1)
stated that she was attaching the April 28 Proposal, and (2) stated that, upon
confirmation that it “look[ed] good on [Miller’s] end,” she would “pass it off
to [Defendants’] partnerships team to kick things off, and [the] legal team to
start contract drafting[.]”  (Undisputed
Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 3 [Miller is Plaintiff’s transactional attorney];
Reis-Dennis Decl., ¶ 1 [Reis-Dennis is the Associate Director of Business
Development for Stitcher]; Def. Ex. 1 to Ex. A, Pl. Dep., p. JVDB000015 [April
28, 2022 email from Leah Reis-Dennis to Miller].) 
The April 28 Proposal includes other language referencing the
execution of a formal agreement.  For
example, the defined “Start Date” is September 1, 2022 “or signature of
agreement[.]”  (Def. Ex. 1, p.
JVDB000024, to Ex. A, Pl. Dep. [April 28 Proposal].)  It also provides for 25 percent payment of
the minimum guarantee “on execution of the agreement[.]”  (Id. at p. JVDB000025.)  The definition of “sensitive categories” was
to “be defined in the agreement[.]”  (Id.
at p. JVDB000026.)  Further, the
concluding paragraph labeled “Other” states that “[t]he agreement shall contain
other customary terms and conditions including representations, warranties,
indemnities, audits and accounting, and events of default” by the parties.  (Id. at p. JVDB000027.)  The parties did not sign a longform agreement,
and Defendants elected not to move forward with the podcast.  (Funk Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Further, Defendants have submitted communications between the
parties, in which they communicated the need to draft a longform agreement or
referenced a final agreement.  (UMF Nos. 14,
37; Def. Ex. 4, p. 1 to Ex. A, Pl. Dep. [Feb. 2, 2022 email from Miller stating
“Please circulate a short/longform and let’s dive into the paperwork” and Feb.
4, 2022 email from Reis-Dennis stating “If all [with the deal summary] looks
good, please let [her] know and [she’ll] get this sent over to [the] legal team
to kick off the longform”]; Def. Ex. 4, p. JVDB 000015 to Ex. A, Pl. Dep.
[April 28, 2022 email from Reis-Dennis stating “we are ready to call terms
officially closed and (finally!) get the longform started”]; Def. Ex. 9, p.
JVDB00195 to Ex. B, Pl. Dep. [April 11, 2022 email from Miller stating “Once
the advertising categories are cleared, we’ll get the final version from
them”].) 
The court finds that this evidence is sufficient to show that
Plaintiff cannot establish that the parties entered into a contract because
Defendants have shown that they, in expressing that the parties would only be
bound by the execution of a definitive agreement, did not mutually intend to be
bound by the terms of the April 28 Proposal. 

As set forth above, Defendants have submitted evidence showing
that the parties intended only to be bound by a formal and “definitive” agreement
(described by the parties in their communications to be the “longform”
agreement).  Because Defendants have
presented evidence showing that the parties did not sign and execute a definitive
longform agreement as contemplated, the court finds that Defendants have shown
that they did not enter into a contract with Plaintiff.  (Funk Decl., ¶ 5; Banner
Entertainment, Inc., supra, 62 Cal.App.4th at p. 359 [“when parties
to a proposed contract have themselves fixed the manner in which their assent
is to be manifested, an assent thereto, in any other or different mode, will
not be presumed”].)
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of the existence of a
contract between Plaintiff and Defendants.
Plaintiff contends that, together, the April 28 Proposal and the
email sent by Reis-Dennis constitute a valid, binding contract between the
parties.  (Opp. p. 13:15-16.)  In support of this argument, Plaintiff
asserts that the parties objectively manifested their intent to be bound to the
terms of the April 28 Proposal because (1) Reis-Dennis made various comments
indicating that the terms were “closed;” (2) Defendants performed under the
April 28 Proposal by working to locate a senior producer and requesting
Plaintiff’s payroll information; and (3) Plaintiff performed under the April 28
Proposal by writing for the podcast, developing a list of guests, and
soliciting bids for the construction of a studio.  
The court finds that Plaintiff’s evidence is not sufficient to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendants
outwardly manifested their assent and intent to be bound by the April 28
Proposal. 
First, the court acknowledges that Plaintiff has submitted various
emails from Reis-Dennis, in which she stated that the negotiations were
closed.  Specifically, Reis-Dennis stated
(1) on April 28, 2022, that Defendants were “ready to call terms officially
closed” in an email to Miller, and (2) on May 11, 2022, that she was “excited
to announce that [Defendants] closed terms on the Dawson’s Creek Rewatch
Podcast hosted by” Plaintiff in an internal email.  (Pl. Appendix of Evidence (“Pl. AOE”), Vol.
1, Ex. 5, p. 28; Pl. AOE, Vol. 6, Ex. 34, p. 393.) However, in those emails,
Reis-Dennis also stated that Defendants would be working to begin drafting the
longform agreement or requested that the longform be drafted.  (Pl. Appendix of Evidence (“Pl. AOE”), Vol.
1, Ex. 5, p. 28 [requesting Miller to confirm that the April 28 Proposal
“look[ed] good” and stating that she would “pass it off to . . . [the] legal
team to start contract drafting”]; Pl. AOE Vol. 6, Ex. 43, p. 393 [“Seth—can we
kick off a longform?”].)  
Thus, the court finds that the representations made by Defendants’
Reis-Dennis that the terms were “closed” (1) are not inconsistent with the
language of the April 28 Proposal that the parties be bound only by the
execution and signing of a “definitive agreement” by authorized representatives
of each party, and (2) are insufficient to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the parties’ mutual assent. 
Second, Plaintiff contends that Defendants began to perform under
the terms of the April 28 Proposal because they worked to locate a senior
producer and co-host near Austin, Texas and because they requested Plaintiff’s
payroll information.  
As to the assertion that Defendants worked to locate a senior
producer and co-host near Austin, Texas and secured advertisers, the court
finds that Plaintiff did not submit sufficient evidence to support such a
finding.  Plaintiff generally cited to
exhibits 34, 35, 38, 39, 10, and 11 in support of this assertion, but did not
cite to the specific pages of those exhibits as required by the California
Rules of Court.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1350, subd. (d)(3) [“Citation to the evidence in support of each material
fact [in the separate statement] must include reference to the exhibit, title,
page, and line numbers”].)  Thus, the
court has not been provided sufficient information to verify that Plaintiff has
submitted evidence showing that Defendants began to perform pursuant to the
terms of the April 28 Proposal. 
Moreover, the court’s review of the exhibits shows they do not appear to
support Plaintiff’s contention.  The
internal emails and Slack messages (1) indicate that a job description for the
senior producer might have been started, (2) state that Defendants’ employees
were “pitching” co-hosts, and (3) show that Defendants’ employees were
discussing the concept for Plaintiff’s podcast with each other.  (Pl. AOE, Vol. 6, Ex. 34, p. 392; Pl. AOE,
Vol. 7, Ex. 35, p. 396; Pl. AOE, Vol. 7, Ex. 38; Pl. AOE., Vol. 7, Ex.
39.)  However, these communications do
not adequately show that Defendants “worked to locate a senior producer and
co-host near Austin, Texas, [and] secured advertisers[.]”  (Pl. Material Fact No. 46.) 
In support of his assertion that Defendants formally set up
Plaintiff’s payroll information, Plaintiff has submitted (1) the deposition
testimony of Reis-Dennis, who testified that she requested “loanout
info[rmation]” in order to set up payments to Plaintiff, and (2) the May 2,
2022 email from Reis-Dennis, in which she asked Miller to “send over
[Plaintiff’s] loanout info [sic] (LLC name and mailing address), as well
as the best email for [Defendants] to send supplier/payment setup info [sic][.]”  (Pl. AOE, Vol. 4, Ex. 23, Reis-Dennis Dep.,
pp. 85:21-23; Pl. AOE, Vol. 5, Ex. 27, p. 314.) 
However, when testifying, Reis-Dennis clarified that she requested this
information so that Defendants could pay Plaintiff “[i]f the agreement was
signed.”  (Pl. AOE, Vol. 4, Ex. 23,
Reis-Dennis Dep., p. 86:9-16.)  Further,
Plaintiff has not presented any evidence or argument showing that Reis-Dennis’s
request for information to set up payments in the future (1) is inconsistent
with the earlier statements that the parties would be bound only upon the
execution of a longform agreement, or (2) constitutes an outward manifestation
that Defendants intended to be bound by the terms of the April 28 Proposal
without such a longform agreement.  The
court also notes that Plaintiff did not present evidence showing that
Defendants paid him pursuant to the terms of the April 28 Proposal and
therefore did not present evidence showing that Defendants performed their
obligations under the provisions regarding payment therein.  
Third, although Plaintiff has submitted his own declaration, in
which he states that he began to perform his obligations under the April 28
Proposal, Plaintiff has not explained how his conduct represents an outward
manifestation to be bound thereby on the part of Defendants.  (Van Der Beek Decl., ¶ 12 [Plaintiff
“developed a list of guests and episode ideas, wrote content and material,
began working on a podcast studio by scouting locations and soliciting bids”].)

Finally, the court notes that Plaintiff has also argued that
Defendants’ contention that no longform agreement was drafted is inconsistent
with their employees’ internal communications. 
Specifically, Plaintiff points to a Slack message in which one of
Defendants’ employees stated that the parties “did get to the agreement stage”
but that Defendants “didn’t send” the longform. 
(Pl. AOE Vol. 7, Ex. 40.) 
However, even if Defendants had drafted the longform agreement, Plaintiff’s
evidence shows that it was not sent to Plaintiff and therefore could not have
been signed by him.  (Ibid.)  
The court finds that the evidence and arguments presented by
Plaintiff are insufficient to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the parties’ intent to be bound by the April 28 Proposal.  As set forth above, mutual assent is
determined under an objective standard upon consideration of “the outward
manifestations or expressions of the parties, i.e., the reasonable meaning of
their words and acts.”  (Moritz, supra,
54 Cal.App.5th at p. 246 [internal quotations omitted].)  The evidence submitted by the parties shows
that (1) the April 28 Proposal included an outward expression of the parties
that they would “be bound only by a definitive agreement signed by an
authorized representative of each party[,]” and (2) the statements made by
Defendants as to the “closing” of the terms were made in connection with
references to the drafting of a longform agreement, therefore constituting
outward expressions that Defendants intended to be bound only upon execution of
a definitive (i.e., longform) agreement. 
(Pl. AOE Vol. 4, Ex. 24 [April 28 Proposal]; Pl. AOE Vol. 1, Ex. 5, p.
28; Pl. AOE, Vol. 6, Ex. 34, p. 393.)  Plaintiff has not submitted evidence showing
that the parties executed a longform agreement in the manner contemplated by
the April 28 Proposal. 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to
show that there exists a triable issue of material fact as to the element of
mutual assent and therefore has not shown that there is a triable issue of
material fact as to the existence of a contract between the parties.
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“‘ “The [implied] covenant of good faith [is] implied by law in
every contract.” ’”  (Thrifty Payless,
Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,
1244.)  “The covenant is read into
contracts and functions ‘ “as a supplement to the express contractual
covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while
not technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other
party’s rights to the benefits of the contract.” ’”  (Ibid.)
The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the second cause of action for breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing has no merit because Defendants have shown that an element of the
cause of action (an underlying contract between the parties) cannot be
established for the reasons set forth in connection with the first cause of
action for breach of contract.  (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032 [“There is no obligation to deal fairly or in good faith
absent an existing contract”]; Thrifty Payless, Inc., supra, 218
Cal.App.4th at p. 1244 [covenant is read into contracts].) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of an underlying
contract between the parties for the reasons set forth in connection with the
first cause of action for breach of contract.
3.     Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that (1)
Defendants have met their burden to show that the first and second causes of
action have no merit, and (2) Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to either the first or second causes
of action. 
Thus, the court finds that all the papers submitted show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that Defendants are
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment. 
ORDER
            The court grants defendants Stitcher
Media, LLC and Sirius XM Radio, Inc.’s motion for summary judgment on plaintiff
James Van Der Beek’s Complaint. 
            The court orders defendants Stitcher
Media, LLC and Sirius XM Radio, Inc. to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed
judgment no later than 10 days from the date of this order. 
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re entry of judgment for hearing on August 23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in
Department 53. 
The court orders defendants Stitcher Media, LLC and Sirius XM Radio,
Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 19, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court