  Case Number:  18STCV00849    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




karine aladzhanzian

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
delpro llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


18STCV00849




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   19, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  motion for determination of good faith settlement
(2)  
  plaintiff’s
  petition for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant vahe
  aladzadzhian
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Delpro, LLC,
Enterprise Van Lines, Inc., and Inez Torrez Martinez, Jr.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff and petitioner Karine
Aladzhanzian             
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(2)  
Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim for Minor Claimant Vahe Aladzadzhian
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with the motion for
determination of good faith settlement. 
No opposition papers to that motion were filed. 
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with the petition for approval
of compromise of claim for a minor.  No
opposition papers to the petition were filed. 
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT
Defendants Delpro, LLC, Enterprise Van Lines, Inc., and Inez Torrez
Martinez, Jr. (“Defendants”) move the court for an order determining that the
settlement entered into by and between Defendants, on the one hand, and
plaintiffs Karine Aladzhanzian, Vardevar Aladzadzhian, and Vahe Aladzhanzian, a
minor by and through his guardian ad litem Karine Aladzhanzian, individually
and as successors-in-interest to Ara Aladzhanzian (“Plaintiffs”), on the other
hand, was made in good faith pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 877
and 877.6.
Defendants have agreed to settle this action with Plaintiffs for the
total amount of $500,000, subject to (1) the court’s finding that the
settlement was made in good faith, and     
 (2) the court’s approval of the
petition for minor’s compromise as to minor plaintiff Vahe Aladzhanzian.  (Hunter Decl., ¶ 4.) 
“[Code
of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by the Legislature in 1980 to
establish a statutory procedure for determining if a settlement by an alleged
joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith and to provide a bar to
claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable contribution or partial
or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown.”¿ (IRM Corp. v. Carlson
(1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)¿ Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6,
subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an
action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of
the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or
more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”¿ “The party asserting the lack
of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 877.6, subd. (d).)¿ 
When
a motion for determination of good faith settlement is uncontested, a
“barebones” motion that sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a
declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case, is sufficient to
support a good faith determination.¿ (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior
Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)¿¿¿ 
The court
has not received opposition papers from any other party involved in this
action.  The court finds that (1)
Defendants’ motion and supporting declaration of Tiffany B. Hunter set forth
the ground of good faith for the parties’ settlement, and (2) Defendants’
motion and the declaration of Tiffany B. Hunter, together, set forth a brief
background of the case.  (Mot., pp.
1:21-2:28 [setting forth factual background]; Hunter Decl., ¶¶ 3,
5-12.)  The court finds that Defendants’
motion and supporting evidence are sufficient to support a good faith
determination and therefore grants Defendants’ motion.  (City of Grand Terrace, supra,
192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.) 
PETITION FOR APPROVAL OF COMPROMISE OF
CLAIM FOR MINOR VAHE ALADZADZHIAN
Plaintiff and petitioner
Karine Aladzhanzian (“Petitioner”) seeks court approval of the settlement made
on behalf of minor claimant Vahe Aladzadzhian. 
Defendant Navistar, Inc. has agreed to pay a total of $100,000 to settle
this action, of which $25,000 is allocated to minor claimant.  (MC-350, ¶¶ 10, 11; MC-350, Attachment
11b(6).)  Of the $25,000 allocated to
minor claimant, $6,250 will be paid to counsel for attorney’s fees, and the
remaining $18,750 will be deposited in an insured account, subject to withdrawal
only on authorization of the court. 
(MC-350, ¶¶ 13, 16, 18, subd. (b)(2).) 
The
compromise of a minor’s disputed claim for damages is valid only after it has
been approved, upon the filing of a petition, by the court.¿ (Prob. Code, §
3500.)¿ The petition must be verified by the petitioner, must contain a full
disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of
the compromise, and must be prepared on judicial council form MC-350.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)¿ 
The court has reviewed the petition
and finds the settlement to be fair and reasonable, and in the best interest of
minor claimant Vahe Aladzadzhian.  The
court also finds that the declaration of Armen Akaragian is sufficient to
support the request for $6,250 in attorney’s fees (representing 25 percent of
the $25,000 settlement). 
The court therefore grants
Petitioner’s petition. 
 
ORDER
The court grants defendants Delpro, LLC, Enterprise Van Lines, Inc.,
and Inez Torrez Martinez, Jr.’s motion for determination of good faith
settlement. 
The
court determines that the settlement entered
into by and between plaintiffs Karine Aladzhanzian, Vardevar Aladzadzhian,
and Vahe Aladzhanzian, a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem Karine
Aladzhanzian, individually and as successors-in-interest to Ara
Aladzhanzian, on the one hand, and defendants Delpro, LLC, Enterprise
Van Lines, Inc., and Inez Torrez Martinez, Jr., on the other hand, is in good faith
within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a). 
All other
joint tortfeasors or co-obligors are barred from any further claims against
settling defendants Delpro, LLC, Enterprise Van Lines, Inc., and
Inez Torrez Martinez, Jr. for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).)¿ 
The court
grants plaintiff and petitioner Karine Aladzhanzian’s Petition for Approval for
Compromise of Claim on behalf of minor claimant Vahe Aladzadzhian. 
The court
sets an Order to Show Cause re filing of Receipt and
Acknowledgment of Order for the Deposit of Money into Blocked Account (Judicial
Council Form MC-356) as to minor claimant Vahe Aladzadzhian for hearing on April
23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders defendants Delpro, LLC, Enterprise Van Lines, Inc.,
and Inez Torrez Martinez, Jr. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 19, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court