  Case Number:  24STCV13838    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, October 1, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV13838
CASE NAME:                        Anne Kramer v. Estate of Kim H. Perman, et al.
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants the Estate of Kim H. Pearman; Kim H. Pearman, a Law
Corporation; Robert Pearman
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Anne Kramer
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to Complaint
with Motion to Strike
OPPOSITION:                        17 September 2024
REPLY:                                  23
September 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’
demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled and sustained as moot as to
the fourth cause of action. On its own motion, the court strikes the claim for
fraud in the caption page of the Complaint without leave to amend. The court
denies Defendants’ motion to strike the request for punitive damages from the
Complaint. Defendants must file an Answer by October 31, 2024.  An OSC Re: Filing of Answer is set for
November 7, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. and the Case Management Conference is continued
to December 19, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Defendants to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On June 3, 2024, Anne
Kramer (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against the Estate of Kim H. Pearman;
Kim H. Pearman, a Law Corporation; Robert Pearman; and Does  1 to 25. 
 
The Complaint alleges following
four causes of action:
1)    
Professional Negligence; 
2)    
Breach of Contract; 
3)    
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 
4)    
Fraud. 
 
The Estate of Kim H. Pearman and Kim H. Pearman (collectively
“Defendants”) have filed a demurrer to the Complaint. Defendant Robert Perman,
along with Defendants, moves to strike the Complaint’s request for punitive
damages. Plaintiff opposes the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
LEGAL STANDARDS
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th
861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the
demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
Demurrer[1]
 
I.         Discussion
 
A.        Summary of
Allegations in Complaint 
 
This action arose
out of the Defendants’ legal representation of Plaintiff.  Defendants allowed Plaintiff’s case to be
dismissed for failure to prosecute, lied to Plaintiff about the dismissal, and
waited years before seeking to set aside the dismissal, and continued to lie to
Plaintiff about a decision denying their appeal.  (Compl., ¶ 1.) 
 
After being
terminated from her job in violation of the FEHA, Plaintiff retained Defendant
Kim Pearman and his firm to represent her in a lawsuit against her former
employer. (Compl., ¶¶ 14-21.) On January 20, 2018, Defendants filed a four-page
complaint against Plaintiff’s former employer for wrongful termination due to Plaintiff’s
physical disability and medical condition. (Id., ¶ 21.) Defendants
failed to oppose the motion to bifurcate the issue of liability and damages and
failed to appear at the hearing to set the trial date, resulting in the trial
court dismissing the case on January 11, 2019. (Id., ¶¶ 22-28.) 
 
As of 2018,
Defendants knew Kim Pearman was not competent to practice law and failed to
make proper arrangements to ensure his cases were properly supervised. (Compl,
¶ 23.) 
Defendants failed
to inform Plaintiff about the court’s order or hearing dates and failed to
inform Plaintiff that her case was dismissed due to counsel’s failure to
appear. (Id., ¶¶ 26, 30, 36.) Plaintiff learned of the dismissal of her
case from her former employer’s counsel. (Id., ¶ 30.) Plaintiff
regularly inquired about the progress of her lawsuit and was always informed
that her case was “advancing properly” despite Defendants doing nothing on the
case. (Id., ¶¶ 32, 33.) Two years after the dismissal, on June 29, 2021,
Defendants sought to set aside the dismissal but withdrew the motion due to
improper service. (Id., ¶ 34.) It was not until October 26, 2021, that
Defendants refiled the motion to set aside the dismissal, but the motion was
denied due to untimeliness and failure to cite authority for such relief. (Id.,
¶¶ 37-44.) 
 
Defendants failed
to inform Plaintiff that they had refiled the motion to set aside the dismissal
or that they had sought reconsideration of the order denying the request.
(Compl., ¶¶ 45, 46.) 
 
Defendants failed
to timely file documents in the appeal, and the appeal was dismissed. (Id.,
¶¶ 48, 52.) Defendants again failed to inform Plaintiff her case had been
appealed and that the appeal had been dismissed. (Id., ¶¶ 49, 54.) “Even
after the denial of the appeal, Defendants continued to inform Plaintiff that
her case was advancing well.” (Id., ¶ 56.) It was not until November
2023, that Plaintiff met with Defendants to discuss her damages that she
learned her case was dismissed. (Id., ¶ 58.) 
 
Defendants now
demurs to the third cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and the fourth
cause of action for fraud. 
 
B.        First Cause of
Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
"The elements
of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that
breach.” (Meister v. Mensinger (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 381, 395.) A
fiduciary relationship is “any relation existing between parties to a
transaction wherein one of the parties is duty bound to act with the utmost
good faith for the benefit of the other party.” (Cleveland v. Johnson
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1338.) “Such a relation ordinarily arises where a
confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another.” (Id.)
“[B]efore a person can be charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either
knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must
enter into a relationship which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.” (Id.)   
 
Defendants do not
dispute that a fiduciary relationship exists between Plaintiff and Defendants
by virtue of the attorney-client relationship. However, Defendants assert that
a claim for breach of fiduciary duty cannot be premised on the same operative
facts as a professional negligence claim and require further allegations of
violation of trust, confidence, or loyalty. None of the cases cited by
Defendants support this proposition. 
 
In Mirabito v.
Liccardo (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 41, the appellate court found that a breach
of fiduciary claim could be premised on the fact that the defendant owed a duty
to disclose. (Id., ¶ 44.) Although, “[t]he scope of an attorney's
fiduciary duty may be determined as a matter of law based on the Rules of
Professional Conduct,” Defendants fail to cite case law requiring Plaintiff to
list all the Professional Rules that Defendants violated by not informing her
about the true status of her case. (Stanley v. Richmond (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1070, 1086.) 
 
The determination
of breach of fiduciary duty is not just based on the Rules of Professional Conduct,
but is also determined “ ‘together with statutes and general principles
relating to other fiduciary relationships, all help define the duty component
of the fiduciary duty which an attorney owes to his [or her] client.’ ” (Ibid.)


In Barbara A. v. John G. (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 369, the appellate court found
that “ ‘[a] member of the State Bar should not under any circumstances attempt
to deceive another person, . . .’ ” (Id., p. 383.) Here, Plaintiff
alleges facts to show that Defendants deceived Plaintiff about the true status
of her case.  “An attorney's duty, the
breach of which amounts to negligence is not limited to his failure to use the skill
required of lawyers. Rather, it is a wider obligation to exercise due care to
protect a client's best interests in all ethical ways and in all circumstances.”
(Day v. Rosenthal (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 1125, 1147.) Defendants failed
to show that the duty owed for purposes of showing negligence is different from
the duty used to “ ‘define the duty component of the fiduciary duty which an
attorney owes to his [or her] client.’ ” (Stanley, supra,  35 Cal.App.4th at p. 1086.) Moreover, the
Complaint sufficiently alleges that Defendants failed to use the skill required
and due care by failing to oppose the motion to bifurcate, failing to appear,
failing to timely move for dismissal, failing to provide the proper basis for
reconsideration, and by failing to properly file and argue the motion to
appeal. 
 
Lastly, “[w]hether
an attorney has breached a fiduciary duty to his or her client is generally a
question of fact.” (Stanley, supra,  35 Cal.App.4th at p. 1087.) Therefore,
whether Defendants breached their fiduciary duty is a question of fact not
subject to adjudication on demurrer. "On a demurrer a court's
function is limited to testing the legal sufficiency of the complaint.
[Citation.] 'A demurrer is simply not the appropriate procedure for determining
the truth of disputed facts.’ [Citation.]” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113-114.) 
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled. 
 
C.        Fourth Cause of
Action – Fraud
 
Defendants demur to
the fourth cause of action on the basis that the fraud cause of action is not
pled with the requisite specificity. Plaintiffs represent to the court that: 
 
The word “Fraud” was inserted in the caption by
mistake and Plaintiff did not include any actual cause of action for fraud.
This information was conveyed to the attorneys for Defendant and Plaintiff
offered to file a notice of errata. Without receiving a response to that offer,
Defendants filed a demurrer to the non-existent fourth cause of action. The
notice of errata is filed herewith and the demurrer on this issue is therefore
moot. 
 
(Opposition, at p.
2:19-26.) 
 
The record before
the court does not show that a notice of errata was filed. Therefore, the court
strikes the word fraud from the caption page without leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to
strike the Complaint’s request for punitive damages as alleged in Paragraph 70
and the Prayer for Relief. 
 
To state a claim
for punitive damages under Civ. Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific
facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿
The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory
allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Ibid.)¿¿“Malice”
is defined in Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” “Oppression” is “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions
that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.”¿ (Shade Foods, Inc. v.
Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847,
891.)¿¿ 
 
The court finds
that Plaintiff has alleged facts that are more than gross negligence, and show
actual malice and/or oppression. The Complaint alleges that Defendants knew
that Plaintiff’s case had been dismissed due to their failure to prosecute that
case and in willful and conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights, Defendants
continued to conceal from Plaintiff the true status of her case and that fact
that Defendant Kim Pearman was not competent to practice law, resulting in
Plaintiff’s appeal being denied and Plaintiff being “precluded from recovering
damages for her meritorious wrongful termination claim.” (Compl., ¶ 55.) This
conduct infringed on the Plaintiff’s right to have her interests represented by
competent counsel, her right to make informed decisions about how her case is
handled, and her right to be apprised of all major developments of her case. 
The motion to
strike punitive damages is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’
demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled and sustained as moot as to
the 
fourth cause of action. On its own
motion, the court strikes the claim for fraud in the caption 
page of the Complaint without leave to
amend. The court denies Defendants’ motion to strike the 
request for punitive damages from the
Complaint. Defendants must file an Answer by October 
31, 2024. 
An OSC Re: Filing of Answer is set for November 7, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
and the Case 
Management Conference is continued to December
19, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Defendants to give 
notice.
 


