  Case Number:  19STCV05991    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  57 Steven Gordon (“Gordon”) and Saul Brandman (“Brandman”)
formed multiple limited liability companies (“LLCs”) to hold their extensive
real  estate portfolio.  The management of each LLC was memorialized
in a “Governing Agreement.”  The
Governing Agreements were essentially identical in material respects.   Brandman
died in 2008.  His interests in the LLCs were
transferred to the Saul Brandman Foundation (“the Foundation”).   By the
terms of the Governing Agreements, Brandman’s death left Gordon as the sole Manager
of the LLCs.  The Foundation is a non-Manager
Member of the LLCs. 
Following Brandman’s death, disputes arose between
Gordon and the Foundation over the scope of Gordon’s authority, as the Manager,
under Section 12.9 of the Governing Agreements to make certain amendments to
them Agreements unilaterally without the Foundation’s consent.  Captioned “Amendments,” Section 12.9 provides
that “[a]ll amendments to th[e] Agreement will be in writing and must be
approved and signed by Each Manager, provided that no amendment may (i) alter
the distribution of Net Profits, Net Losses and distributions of the [LLC] or
(ii) require additional contributions from any Member without the written
consent of all Members adversely affected by such amendment.”  As a result of Brandman’s death, there is
only one Manager, Gordon, and so the term “Each Manager” in Section 12.9 now
necessarily refers just to Gordon. 
Gordon sued the Foundation in 2019 seeking an order
declaring his authority under Section 12.9 of the Governing Agreements to make
the amendments in question unilaterally, without the Foundation’s consent.    The
Foundation cross-complained against Gordon seeking an order declaring that Gordon
lacks that authority under the Governing Agreements.   The Foundation’s cross-complaint also sets
forth other claims against Gordon, including for breach of fiduciary duty.
In July 2024, the parties asked the Court to rule
on their competing declaratory relief claims. 
To facilitate that effort, the Court directed the parties to select a
representative Governing Agreement for one of the LLCs and submit briefs setting
forth their respective positions on how Section 12.9 should be interpreted and
applied to the amendments in question.   Having reviewed the representative Governing Agreement
the parties selected and their briefs, the Court issues the following rulings on
the parties’ declaratory relief claims.  (Although
the Foundation briefed issues related to whether Gordon’s amendments to the
Governing Agreement breached his fiduciary duty to the Foundation and violated
provisions of the Corporations Code, the Court is not addressing those issues
here. That is because those issues are separate and distinct from the claim for
declaratory relief in the Foundation’s Cross-Complaint.)
First, there is nothing in the Governing Agreements
that constrains Gordon’s authority to amend them, except for Section 12.9.  The Foundation’s citation to, and reliance
on, other provisions of the Agreements as imposing limits on Gordon’s amendment
authority is unpersuasive.  Neither the
language of those provisions nor the extrinsic evidence the Foundation
submitted supports that interpretation of the Governing Agreements.  In short, whether Gordon has the unilateral authority
to make a particular amendment as the sole Managing Member is determined
exclusively by Section 12.9.  
Second, for purposes of assessing Gordon’s
authority to make the amendments in question, the critical portion of Section
12.9 is the phrase “alter the distribution of . . . distributions . . . .”  The terms “Net Profits” and Net Losses, which
are defined elsewhere in the Agreement, are not implicated by the amendments.  That is because even if an amendment reduces
the aggregate pool of monies available for distribution in the form of Net
Profits (as some amendments arguably might do), the calculation of Net Profits
and Net Losses is a separate undertaking conducted based on the definitions of
those terms in the Governing Agreement.  Gordon’s
argument on this point is persuasive.
Third, the Foundation has, however, offered the better
interpretation of the phrase alter the distribution of . . . distributions . .
. ” in Section 12.9.    Gordon contends
that, based on its plain language, the phrase should be interpreted to mean
actions that affect “the manner” of distributions.   The Foundation contends that, based on its
plain language, that phrase should be interpreted to mean actions that affect
both “the manner” and “timing” of distributions.  In the Court’s view, the phrase is ambiguous,
and both sides’ interpretations are reasonable. 
The Foundation’s interpretation is the better one, however.   Because Section 12.9 is reasonably susceptible
to Gordon’s interpretation, Gordon could have offered extrinsic evidence to provide
further support for it.  Gordon did not
present any extrinsic evidence, however. He relied solely on the language of
Section 12.9 itself, and the Court believes that the Foundation’s
interpretation is more consistent with the language.  The Foundation provided extrinsic evidence.
But it did so to support its contention (rejected by the Court) that other provisions
of the Governing Agreements, and not just Section 12.9, constrain Gordon’s
authority to make amendments.
Fourth, applying the Court’s construction of
Section 12.9, what follows here are the Court’s determinations on whether the
specific amendments in question can be made by Gordon unilaterally or require
the Foundation’s consent.  The Court observes
that the Foundation’s objection to a number of the amendments is that they
purportedly require the Foundation to share in costs that benefit Gordon.  Even if the Foundation’s characterization of
those amendments is correct, this does not require consent Section 12.9
consent, for the reasons that Gordon has offered.  In making these rulings, the Court is not opining
on whether an amendment, either in theory or in practice, constitutes a breach
of Gordon’s fiduciary duty to the Foundation. 

·       Member-Entity
Transactions  -- Unilateral 
·       Admission
of Additional Members -- Consent, which Gordon concedes
·       Elimination
of Last to Die Provision --  Consent
·       Modification
of Tax Provision – Unilateral, which the Foundation concedes
·       Compensation
to Manager – Unilateral
·       Related
Party Transactions  -- Unilateral in general,
but specific transactions, in application, may require Consent
·       Distribution
of Real Property Sale Proceeds – Consent
·       Change
in Accounting Method -- Unilateral
·       Indemnification
Obligations   -- Unilateral 
·       Advancement
of Defense Costs  -- Unilateral
·       Purchase
of Insurance  -- Unilateral 