  Case Number:  24STCV05010    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  82 OSC RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Date:               3/25/24
(9:30 PM)
Case:                           Regina Fair v.
Glenis Cardona (24STCV05010)
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
On 3/5/24, this Court GRANTED IN PART plaintiff’s ex parte
application for a temporary restraining order and order to show cause re:
preliminary injunction and issued a written order that same date.  Specifically, the Order to Show Cause ordered
defendant to appear on this date and show cause:
 
“why you, your agents, employees, and those acting on your
behalf shall not be prohibited from transferring, or directing or causing to be
transferred, any portion of the proceeds from the sale of 1345 W. 37th
Drive Los Angeles, CA 9007, other than to transfer funds to IPX 1031, the
facilitator designated for the 1031 exchange for Regina Fair, Successor Trustee
of The Frank R. Fair Jr. Living Trust U/A dated May 21, 2022, during the
pendency of the above entitled action.”
 
(3/5/24 Order at 2.)
 
The Court also ordered a briefing scheduling concerning the
above Order to Show Cause and entered a temporary restraining order to enjoin
the same conduct at issue in the Order to Show Cause pending today’s hearing.  (3/5/24 Order at 2.)
 
The Court’s Order to Show Cause and temporary restraining
order were issued to preserve the status quo pending adjudication of
plaintiff’s claims on the merits.  Despite
plaintiff’s request for more in the ex parte application, the Court
declined to issue orders providing relief beyond that, including plaintiff’s
request that the Court require defendant to transfer certain funds or directing
a non-party (Bank of America) to act.
 
Notwithstanding the apparent clarity of the Court’s Order to
Show Cause, plaintiff filed a “Motion for Preliminary Injunction” on
3/8/24.  It is not directed to the
Court’s Order to Show Cause, but instead requests “a Preliminary Injunction to
Order Defendant to Immediately Transfer Plaintiff’s $724,182.90 to IPX 1031,
the Plaintiff’s Exchange facilitator.” (3/8/24 Mtn. at 1.) Because it is
entirely non-responsive to the Court’s Order to Show, the Court disregards it for
the purposes of today’s hearing.  
 
Insofar as plaintiff’s “response” to the Order to Show cause
is meant to be a separate motion seeking relief not contemplated by the Court’s
Order to Show Cause, it fails on numerous and independent grounds.  Plaintiff did not reserve a hearing for any
such motion, on this date or any other.  Per
the Local Rules, a motion for preliminary injunction shall be made in the
department to where the case is assigned, which is Department 28 and not this
Department. (LASC Rule 2.8(b).)  Even if
plaintiff were permitted to bring such a motion to be heard today in Department
82, plaintiff failed to timely file and serve any such motion.  (See CCP 1005 [requiring filing and
service at least 16 court days before the hearing].)  Further still, plaintiff seeks precisely the
same relief that this Court denied in connection with plaintiff’s ex parte
application on 3/5/24.  As such, this is
a motion for reconsideration that fails to demonstrate any “new or different
facts, circumstances, or law,” which is fatal. 
(CCP 1008(a).)  Indeed, such shortcomings
are jurisdictional.  (CCP 1008(e).)
 
As for the issues actually before this Court for hearing
today, the Court shall issue a preliminary injunction as set forth in the
Court’s 3/5/24 Order to Show Cause, which is not opposed.  (See Opp. at 1 [“Defendant responds
that there is no objection to the issuance as a Preliminary Injunction the
current Order herein, in the format issued ex parte on March 5. 2024 by
this Court . . .’].)  Plaintiff shall
submit a Proposed Order in accordance herewith and provide Notice.  The Temporary Restraining Order, used 3/5/24,
dissolves at the conclusion of today’s hearing per its terms.