 Case Number:  23STCV19562    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
EVELYN LOPEZ;
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
ASH HOP II,
  INC.; ASH HOP III, INC; DAN
ASHOORI; and
  DOES 1
through 100,
  inclusive;
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  23STCV19562
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  08/16/23
Trial
  Date:  Not Set
 
 



 
Hearing date:              May 01, 2024
Moving Parties:           Defendants
Ash Hop II, Inc., Paramount 3582 Inc., Lake Forest 3531 Inc. and Dan Ashoori.
Responding Parties:    Plaintiff
Evelyn
Lopez
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
The court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
The court GRANTS the Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. The court
orders plaintiff Evelyn Lopez and Defendants Ash Hop II, Inc., Paramount 3582
Inc., Lake Forest 3531 Inc., and Dan Ashoori to arbitrate the Plaintiff’s
causes of action in her First Amended Complaint. The court orders that this
action be stayed until the arbitration is completed.
 
Background
            This
employment dispute involves allegations of discrimination, retaliation, failure
to provide reasonable accommodations, and failure to pay wages and provide meal
and rest periods. On August 16, 2023, plaintiff Evelyn Lopez (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against defendants Ash Hop II, Inc, Ash Hop III, Inc,
and Dan Ashoori
(“Defendants”), alleging 11 causes of action. On December 13, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint alleging the same 11 causes of
action. On March 08, 2024, Defendants Ash Hop II,
Inc., Paramount 3582 Inc., Lake Forest 3531 Inc., and Ashoori. filed this motion
to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed an opposition on April 17, 2024, and
Defendants replied on April 24, 2024.
Evidentiary
Objections

Plaintiff’s Objections #1-8 are OVERRULED
     because Mr. Cheng is making the statements as an administrator for Defendants’
     employment and payroll practices, and he is making the statements based on
     his knowledge. As for objections # 2-8, the evidence is relevant because
     it is disputed that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate; it’s a fact of
     consequence because it speaks to the issue of whether the parties must
     arbitrate based on an agreement, and its value outweighs the dangers of
     undue prejudice to the Plaintiff because its value of the testimony is
     high considering it proves if there is an agreement to arbitrate. 
Defendants’ Objections #1-6 are OVERRULED
     because Plaintiff makes the statements based on her knowledge. 

Legal
Standard
Under CCP § 1281, a “written agreement
to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter
arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds as exist
for the revocation of any contract.” A party to an arbitration agreement may
seek a court order compelling the parties to arbitrate a dispute covered by the
agreement. (CCP § 1281.2.) The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a
petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific
performance of that contract. (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal. App.4th 83, 88.)
When presented with a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court's first task is to determine whether the parties
have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute. (Id. at 88.) “[A]bsent a clear agreement to submit disputes to
arbitration, courts will not infer that the right to a jury trial has been
waived.” (Adajar v. RWR Homes, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 563, 569,
internal citations and quotations omitted.)
Because the right to arbitration depends
upon contract, the party seeking arbitration bears the initial burden of
proving that the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the instant dispute.  (Hotels
Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.) If
the moving party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show that
the subject agreement is unenforceable. (Id.
at 761.) The court “sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony
received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)
 
Discussion
Defendants Ash
Hop I, Inc, Paramount 3582 Inc., Lake Forest 3531 Inc., and Ashoori pray for an
order from the Court compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and dismiss
the action with prejudice and to stay the action pending determination of the
arbitration.
1.      Existence of an
Arbitration Agreement
In moving for an
order compelling arbitration, Defendant submits the parties Mutual Agreement to
Arbitrate (“Arbitration Agreements” or “AA”), dated April 2, 2012, which
contains an arbitration provision that states, in relevant part, the following:
 
To arbitrate any claims or controversies during or
following your employment, whether or not they are in any way related to or
associated with your employment or the termination of your employment with the
company… The “Claims” covered by this agreement include… wrongful termination…
wages or other compensation due penalties…reimbursement of expenses;
discrimination or harassment, including but not limited to discrimination or
harassment based on race, sex, pregnancy, religion, national origin, ancestry,
age, marital status, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition,
genetic characteristics, gender expression, gender identity, or sexual
orientation; retaliation; Violation of any federal, state or other governmental
constitution, statue, ordinance or regulation, including but not limited to …
the California Labor Code, this California Civil Code, and the California wage
orders.
 
(Cheng Decl., Exhibits 1 & 2, § 3.) 
            Plaintiff
submits a declaration denying that she signed the arbitration agreements and attesting
that she does not recall ever seeing or signing the AAs. (Lopez Decl. ¶¶ 2-7.).
Plaintiff additionally contends that Defendants failed to meet their burden in
establishing the existence of an arbitration agreement because the Defendants
failed to produce any emails to or from Plaintiff relating to her alleged
receipt signing of or confirmation of signing the alleged AAs. (See Opp’n p.
5-6.) 
In reply,
Defendants reassert their arguments and argue that Plaintiff fails to
appropriately challenge the existence of the AA, contending that Plaintiff’s
declaration set forth a conclusory argument that she never saw or signed either
AA or any other documents during her five-year employment. (Reply p. 6.)
            The court finds Plaintiff’s argument
lacks merit considering Mr. Cheng’s supplemental reply, which states notably
points out that the electronic talentReef system, used by the Defendants during
the onboarding process, required Plaintiff to create her own secure and unique
username and password that was not shared with anyone, and throughout the
entirety of her employment, Plaintiff had unfettered access to all her
documents maintained in talentReef, to either read and review and also to
print. (Suppl. Cheng Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6 and 9.) Meaning that Plaintiff’s electronic
signature is an attributable action of Plaintiff. Both Mr. Cheng’s initial and
supplemental declarations sufficiently establish the existence of an
arbitration agreement between the Defendants and the Plaintiff. Cheng has
personal knowledge of the procedures of how Defendants’ employee files are
prepared and maintained. Cheng further establishes that newly hired employees
completed their employment paperwork, which included the binding AA, and that
the AA does contain a 30-day opt-out provision, which Plaintiff could have
exercised. Plaintiff provides no other evidence challenging the authenticity of
the signature.
            Based
on the foregoing, the court finds that the Defendants provide evidence
sufficient to establish the existence of an arbitration agreement. The burden
now shifts to the Plaintiff to demonstrate that the subject arbitration
agreement cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute or to
provide evidence establishing a defense to the arbitration agreement. Here,
Plaintiff does not assert any grounds for why the arbitration agreement cannot
be enforced, such as unconscionability. 
 
 
Thus, the court finds that the action is
subject to arbitration. The court therefore GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration, 
Defendants argue that this action should
be dismissed, not stayed. (Mot.at 2.) Defendants request that the court stay
the proceedings in the alternative. The Court does not find it appropriate to
dismiss the action as doing so would be erroneous. (Muao v. Grosvenor
Properties (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1085, 1093.) Accordingly, the proceedings
are STAYED.   
The court orders plaintiff Evelyn Lopez
and Defendants Ash Hop II, Inc., Paramount 3582 Inc., Lake Forest 3531 Inc.,
and Dan Ashoori to arbitrate the Plaintiff’s causes of action in her First
Amended Complaint. The court orders that this action is stayed until the
arbitration is completed.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated:
May 01, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the Superio