  Case Number:  19STCV31606    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
 



BRIAN RUCKER, et al.

   ;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
SERVPRO
   INDUSTRIES, INC.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case No. 19STCV31606




 




Department 45




 




[Tentative] RULING




 
 




Action Filed:  09/05/19
First Amended Compl. Filed: 10/26/20
Trial Date:  8/5/24




 




 




 


 



 
Hearing Date:             May 1, 2024
Moving 

 Party:             Defendant Mission
Critical Restoration Services, Inc. dba Servpro of Torrance
Responding 

 Party:       Plaintiffs 
 
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Supplemental Interrogatory, Set No. Two, and
Supplemental Request for Production of Documents, Set No. Two, from Plaintiff
Brian Rucker and Order for Sanctions in the Amount of $960 Against Plaintiff
and/or His Attorneys of Record; and 
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Supplemental Interrogatory, Set No. Two, and
Supplemental Request for Production of Documents, Set No. Two, from Plaintiff Valentina
Malofiy and Order for Sanctions in the Amount of $960 Against Plaintiff and/or Her
Attorneys of Record.
 
The court has
considered the moving papers, opposition and reply. 
The court GRANTS Defendant Mission Critical
Restoration Services’ motion to compel
responses to Supplemental Interrogatory, Set No. Two, and Supplemental Request
for Production of Documents, Set No. Two, from Plaintiff Brian Rucker. Plaintiff Rucker is ordered to respond
to these discovery requests without objections within 30 days of this Order.
The court GRANTS
Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services’ motion to compel responses to Supplemental Interrogatory,
Set No. Two, and Supplemental Request for Production of Documents, Set No. Two,
from Plaintiff Valentina Malofiy. Plaintiff Malofiy is ordered to
respond to these discovery requests without objections within 30 days of this
Order.
Also, the court GRANTS
the request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and their attorney of
record, jointly and severally, in the reduced and combined amount of $622.50.
Plaintiffs are ordered to tender payment to Defendant Mission Critical
Restoration Services’ counsel within 30 days of this Order. 
 
Background
Plaintiffs Brian
Rucker and Valentina Malofiy initiated this action on September 5, 2019.
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on October 26,
2020 against ServPro Industries, Mission Critical Restoration Services, Inc.
dba ServePro of Torrance (“Mission Critical Restoration Services, Inc.”),
Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, and Mid-Century Insurance
Company, alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Breach of
Fiduciary/Contract; (3) Declaratory Judgment/Breach of Contract; (4) First
Party Insurance Bad Faith – Tortious Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealings; and (5) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants negligently failed to correctly mitigate smoke
damage to Plaintiffs’ home, which led to the release of massive amounts of
asbestos that rendered the home unlivable. Plaintiffs have also alleged facts
supporting a bad faith insurance claim. 
On October 26,
2023, Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services filed the instant motions
to compel responses from Plaintiffs regarding its Supplemental Interrogatories,
Set Two, and Supplemental Request for Production, Set Two. Additionally, each
motion seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and their attorney of
record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $960.
On April 10, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed their joint opposition to the instant motion.
On April 24, 2024,
Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services filed its replies. 
 
Legal Standard
 
If a party to whom
interrogatories were directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(b)-(c); see Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.290 contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that
needs to be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)
If a party to whom
requests for production of documents were directed fails to serve a timely
response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and
for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b)-(c).) Code of Civil
Procedure § 2031.300 contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served. The propounding party need not demonstrate good
cause or satisfy a meet-and-confer requirement – all that needs to be shown in
the moving papers is that a set of requests for production of documents was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403-04.)
 
Discussion
A.   
Merits
As to the supplemental interrogatories and
requests for production propounded on Plaintiffs, Defendant Mission
Critical Restoration Services establishes
the following: Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services served these written discovery requests on Plaintiff
Rucker and Plaintiff Malofiy on May 19, 2023 and May 22, 2023, respectively. (McNamara
Decls. at ¶¶ 2-3, Exhs. A-B.) Plaintiffs’ responses to these discovery requests
were respectively due on June 20, 2023 and June 23, 2023. (Id at¶ 4.) However,
both Plaintiffs failed to serve their responses by their deadlines, and Plaintiffs’
counsel failed to respond despite Defendant Mission Critical Restoration
Services’ attempt to meet and confer. (Id.
at ¶¶ 4-9, Exhs. C-D.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that the
motion is moot because they are in the process of responding to these discovery
requests. (Opposition at pg. 2.) Plaintiffs only point to a updated itemized
spread sheet that has been submitted regarding their damages that is corrobated
by Plaintiffs’ bank statements. (Id.; Fluehr Decl. ¶ 2.) However,
Plaintiffs have failed to show that they have provided complete responses to
Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services’ Supplemental
Interrogatories, Set Two, and Supplemental Request for Production, Set Two. Therefore, the motions are not
moot. 
Accordingly, because Plaintiffs have failed
to serve responses to these discovery requests, the motions are granted. 
B.    
Sanctions
When a party engages in acts that constitute
a misuse of the discovery process, sanctions are authorized pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 2023.030. Requests for sanctions may be denied where a party
shows that they acted with substantial justification. (Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2023.030(a).)  
Here, Defendant Mission Critical
Restoration Services requests monetary sanctions against each Plaintiff and
their attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $960,
inclusive of costs. Counsel McNamara attests that he spent two hours preparing
the instant motion at a rate of $225 per hour. (McNamara Decl. ¶ 14.) He also
anticipates spending an hour reviewing the opposition and preparing a reply and
an additional hour in attending the hearing. (Ibid.) 
While sanctions
are warranted against Plaintiffs for failing to submit to an authorized
discovery method, the amount requested is excessive because the motions and
replies are nearly identical, they cover a simple discovery issue, and any
appearance will likely be conducted remotely. Therefore, the court reduces
Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services’ request for monetary sanction
to the combined amount of $622.50, consisting of 2.5 hours of attorney time at
an hourly rate of $225 and the filing fee of $60.
Accordingly, the
request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and their attorney of record,
jointly and severally, is granted in the reduced and combined amount of
$622.50.
 
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services’
motions to compel responses to Supplemental
Interrogatory, Set No. Two, and Supplemental Request for Production of Documents,
Set No. Two, from Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs are each ordered to respond to
these discovery requests without objections within 30 days of this Order. 
Also, the request
for monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and their attorney of record, jointly
and severally, is granted in the reduced and combined amount of $622.50.
Plaintiffs are ordered to tender payment to Defendant Mission Critical
Restoration Services’ counsel within 30 days of this Order. 
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: May 1, 2024
 
_________________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 