 Case Number:  23STLC07188    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  26   
Diaz
v. Ronile Partners, et al.DEMURRER
(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants Savo, LLC and John
Zapp aka John S. Zapp’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff Alejandro Diaz (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against
Defendants Ronile Partners, Savo LLC, and John Zapp aka John S. Zapp. The
Complaint alleges a single violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act (“the
UCRA”). Defendants Savo, LLC and Zapp filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint on January 2, 2024. Plaintiff filed an
opposition on January 30, 2024 and Defendant replied on February 16, 2024.
 
Discussion

 
Plaintiff alleges that he is a quadriplegic. (Compl., ¶1.)
Defendants Savo, LLC and Zappa are the lessors or operators of a restaurant at
615 North La Brea Avenue, Los Angeles, California. (Id. at ¶2.)  Plaintiff allegedly had difficulty at the
restaurant during a visit on July 21, 2022, because the outdoor dining tables
were not wheelchair-accessible and the round bathroom doorknob did not have a
shape that was easy to grasp with one hand and required tight grasping, tight
pinching, and twisting of the wrist to operate. (Id. at ¶5.) Removing
these architectural barriers would be readily achievable. (Id. at ¶6.) The
Complaint alleges a single cause of action for violation of Civil Code section
51. (Id. at ¶7.) 
 
Defendants Savo, LLC and Zapp
demur to the Complaint for failure to allege facts sufficient to state a cause
of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (d).) The Demurrer is
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41. (Motion, Jensen Decl., ¶¶2-3.) 
 
The Demurrer is brought pursuant to the pleading
requirements set forth at Code of Civil Procedure section 425.50, which require
an allegation of construction-related accessibility to provide:
 
(1) A plain language explanation of the
specific access barrier or barriers the individual encountered, or by which the
individual alleges he or she was deterred, with sufficient information about
the location of the alleged barrier to enable a reasonable person to identify
the access barrier.
 
(2) The way in which the barrier denied
the individual full and equal use or access, or in which it deterred the
individual, on each particular occasion.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.50, subd. (a).) The two alleged
barriers experienced by Plaintiff were the outdoor dining tables and the
bathroom doorknob. The Complaint does not provide a plain language explanation
of the outdoor table access barrier. It simply alleges that the tables were not
wheelchair accessible without describing in what manner they prevented access
by wheelchairs. Nor does the Complaint allege how this unspecified wheelchair
barrier denied or deterred Plaintiff on the day of his visit. 
 
The access barrier of the bathroom doorknob explains that it
was not easy to grasp with one hand and required tight grasping, tight
pinching, and twisting of the wrist to operate. However, the Complaint does not
allege how this barrier specifically deterred Plaintiff other than to allege
“difficulty.” Therefore, neither allegation regarding the tables nor doorknob
satisfies both pleading requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section
425.50, subdivision (a). 
 
Moving Defendants also argue that the outdoor tables are not
alleged to be elements subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act, and
therefore, relevant to a violation of Civil Code section 51. Specifically, “[t]he
1991 Standards and the 2010 Standards apply to fixed or built-in elements of
buildings, structures, site improvements, and pedestrian routes or vehicular
ways located on a site.” (28 CFR, §§ 35.151(d), 36.406.) Plaintiff responds
that case law holds that moveable objects can be barriers, however, the case
law cited discusses objects such as tables, chairs, and display shelves in
terms of creating accessible pathways. (Californians for Disability Rights
v. Mervyn’s LLC (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 571, 589.) Plaintiff does not cite
case law that specifically applies the ADA Standards to a moveable object in
and of itself. Plaintiff, therefore, must allege facts showing how the outdoor
tables at Defendants’ restaurants fall under the ADA Standards. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to the Complaint is
sustained. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment, however, the
burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Plaintiff
has filed an opposition and the Court finds a reasonable possibility that
Plaintiff can allege facts demonstrating the requisite facts regarding the
specific access barriers and how they denied Plaintiff full and equal access.
Therefore, leave to amend is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Savo, LLC and John Zapp aka John S. Zapp’s
Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 