 Case Number:  24STCV17282    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  73 11/15/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
WESTERN & VENICE SC, LLC, et al. v.
CARRIER JOHNSON (24STCV17282)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Jeremy Osher
(Boren, Osher & Luftman, LLP)
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party:  James McFaul (Dunn Desantis Walt
& Kendrick, LLP)
 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT (filed 10/10/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first,
third, fourth, and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 11,
2024, Plaintiffs Western & Venice SC, LLC (“WVSC”) and Western Avenue
Capital, LLC (“WAC”) filed this action against Defendant Carrier Johnson.
 
On September
10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of
action for:
1.      Breach of contract

2.      Professional
negligence
3.      Fraud –
intentional misrepresentation
4.      Negligent
misrepresentation
5.      Unfair
competition 
 
A.      Allegations
in the FAC
 
The FAC
alleges the following.
 
WAC is an
integrated real estate investor and property manager based in the County of Los
Angeles. (FAC, ¶ 11.) WVSC is the record owner of the real property located at
2340-60 West Venice Boulevard in the City of Los Angeles (the “Property”).
(FAC, ¶ 12.) WAC is the Manager and controlling entity of WVSC. (Ibid.)
 
On or about
January 11, 1959, Union Oil Company of California (“UNOCAL”) drilled a well on
the Property to determine whether there was oil sufficient to warrant a
commercial oil drilling operation. (FAC, ¶ 14.). Over the course of three
months, UNOCAL drilled three additional side-tracks from the main oil well. (Ibid.)
UNOCAL decided not to pursue a commercial oil well at the Property and the oil
well was abandoned as a “dry hole” on or about April 17, 1959. (Ibid.)
The original boring and the three sidetrack borings were never “completed,” or
cased and cemented with steel pipe. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs
are informed and believe and thereon allege that the Property is located
within, or in close proximity to, the Las Cienegas Oil Field. (FAC, ¶ 15.)
 
In response
to the pervasive nature of oil fields in the Los Angeles basin, the State of
California and the City of Los Angeles adopted and implemented a series of
laws, departments, and agencies to address development in and around areas in
which oil wells were drilled. (FAC, ¶ 16.) Such laws govern matters such as the
proximity of a new development to an abandoned oil well and the requirement to
reabandon certain oil wells. (Ibid.)
 
Defendant
(hereafter “Architect”) is an architecture firm that specializes in
architectural design and landscape architecture and provides services for
clients in the residential, hospitality, retail, mixed-use, corporate,
education, healthcare/science, and technology markets. (FAC, ¶ 17.)
 
On or about
March 2, 2017, Plaintiffs were introduced to Kyle Peterson (“Peterson”), who at
the time held the position of Director at Architect. (FAC, ¶ 18.) Starting in
March 2017, Peterson verbally represented to WAC co-founder and partner,
Jonathan Kasirer (“Jonathan”) that Architect, although based in San Diego, had
a great deal of experience working in Los Angeles, that Architect had
previously worked with Los Angeles contractors and subcontractors, and that
Architect’s Los Angeles office was fully equipped to design the Project. (Ibid.)
Indeed, Peterson made repeated assurances to Jonathan that “[Architect] has
built lots of buildings in Los Angeles,” and even gave WAC tours of buildings
Architect had designed in the Los Angeles area. (Ibid; see also
generally FAC, ¶¶ 89-94, 96-105.)
 
Over the next
several weeks, Peterson conducted a series of massing studies, yield analyses,
and preliminary site plans to determine optimal layouts of a potential
development / construction project (the “Project”), which was to be located at
the Property. (FAC, ¶ 19.)
 
On or about
June 27, 2018, WAC and Architect entered AIA Document B101-2017 (the
“Agreement”), whereby Architect agreed to provide architectural, planning,
parking study, entitlements processing, as well as other design services
related to the design of the Project. (FAC, ¶ 29.) More specifically, the
Project involved the construction of a new residential apartment building with
180 residential apartment units. (Ibid.)
 
In or about
December 2019, Burnham Nationwide (“Burnham”), was hired as an “additional
service” under the Agreement, to assist with expediting and processing permits
for the Project with the City of Los Angeles. (FAC, ¶ 48.) Addendum 12-R1 dated
January 24, 2020 was fully executed by WAC and Architect on February 22, 2020. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs
are informed and believe and thereon allege that sometime after its May 19,
2020 meeting with LAFD, Burnham submitted information regarding the Project to
CalGEM’s Construction Site Well Review (“CSWR”) Program. (FAC, ¶ 57.)
 
On August 6,
2020, unbeknownst to Plaintiffs, Burnham received correspondence from CalGEM
(the “August 6th Letter”) advising that it had received and reviewed the
Project on June 15, 2020, and noting that there was “1 known oil or gas wells
located within the project boundary” that was “Not Abandoned to Current
Division Requirements as Prescribed by Law and [was] Projected to be Built Over
or Have Future Access Impeded” by the Project. CalGEM further advised that the
“[f]ailure to plug and reabandon the well may result in enforcement action,
including an order to perform reabandonment well work, pursuant to PRC §
3208.1, and 3224.” (FAC, ¶ 58.)
 
At the
Project meeting on or about April 20, 2021, Burnham and/or Architect informed
WAC of receipt of CalGEM’s August 6th Letter regarding CSWR and the contents
thereof. This was the first time that Plaintiffs became aware of CalGEM’s
August 6th letter. (FAC, ¶ 62.)
 
At the time
of entering into the Agreement, and certainly as of July 2019—thirty (30)
months after Public Resources Code section 3208.1 was amended—Architect knew or
should have known of all California laws with respect to oil well
reabandonment, including that they apply to oil wells that are not accessible
or visible. (FAC, ¶ 63.) 
 
In fact, pursuant
to the Agreement, Architect was obligated, consistent with its Standard of
Care, to be knowledgeable of all federal, state, and local building codes,
laws, statutes, rules, orders, and regulations that apply to the Project. (Ibid.)
Architect’s general role with respect to the Project was to analyze the
existing site conditions and plan, develop, and implement building designs for
the Project. (FAC, ¶ 64.)
 
Architect
should have known that the site elements, specifically the abandoned oil well,
would be required to be designed around or reabandoned prior to development
activities in compliance with current California law. (FAC, ¶ 64.)
 
Since
learning of the reabandonment issue, Plaintiffs have been advised that due to
the nature of the way the oil well and side-tracks were drilled in 1959, there
is little chance it will be able to comply with the requirements under the
relevant statute. (FAC, ¶ 66.) Consequently, there is no way Plaintiffs can
complete the Project as currently designed by Architect. (Ibid.)
 
B.      Defendant’s
Demurrer and Motion to Strike
 
On October 10,
2024, Defendant filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the FAC, arguing:
·      
WVSC Lacks Standing to Assert the First Cause of Action for Breach
of Contract
o  
The only parties to the Agreement are Defendant and WAC. WVSC is
not a party to the Agreement and cannot be considered a third-party beneficiary
to the Agreement because the Agreement contains an express no third-party
beneficiary provision.
·      
Plaintiffs’ Third and Fourth Causes of Action for
Fraud-Intentional Misrepresentation and Negligent Misrepresentation Fails to
State Facts Sufficient to Constitute a Cause of Action
o  
Plaintiffs’ Claims Lacks the Required Specificity
o  
Plaintiffs’ Claims to Allege an Actionable Misrepresentation
o  
Plaintiffs’ Fraud Claim Fails to Demonstrate Intent to Induce
Reliance
o  
Plaintiffs’ Fraud Claim Fails to Show Actual and Justifiable
Reliance and Resulting Damage
·      
Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause of Action is Insufficient As A Matter of
Law 
o  
Plaintiffs base their unfair competition claim upon insufficient
allegations of Intentional and Negligent Misrepresentation. However, these
causes are not properly alleged and are defective
·      
Defendant moves to strike references to punitive damages in the
FAC.
o  
Plaintiffs’ fraud claim fails for lack of required specificity and
lack of required elements. Therefore, if Defendant’s demurrer is sustained on
the fraud cause of action, Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages should be
stricken as there will be no cause of action upon which to base any such claim.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition,
arguing:
·       WVSC Has Standing to Assert Its
Claims Because the Parties Explicitly Intended It To Be A Beneficiary To the
Agreement.
o  
WVSC is
explicitly identified as both an Additional Insured under the terms of the
Agreement as well as an indemnitee under the indemnitee defense clause, and
thus indisputably benefits from both of those provisions. By explicitly naming
WVSC as an Additional Insured, the parties expressly stated their intent that
WVSC benefit from the contract.
·       Plaintiff’s Third and Fourth Causes
of Action for Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation Are Plead Sufficiently to
Withstand Demurrer.
o  
The FAC
Alleges Actionable Misrepresentations, Not Opinions.
·       Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause Of Action
For Violation Of Business And Professions Code Section 17200 Is Sufficiently
Plead.
·      
Defendant’s
Motion To Strike Plaintiffs’ Claim For Punitive Damages Fails. Punitive
Damages Are Recoverable on Plaintiffs’ Claim for Fraud and Deceit.
 
Defendant
filed a reply maintaining that the demurrer should be sustained and the motion
to strike should be granted.
ANALYSIS
 
C.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
D.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating
he sent multiple letters discussing the alleged deficiencies in the FAC and met
and conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel by telephone on October 3, 2024. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court finds the moving party has satisfied its meet and
confer obligation. 
 
E.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant
requests the Court take judicial notice of the following:
1.      A true and
correct copy of the Complaint for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligence; (3)
Fraud-Intentional Misrepresentation; (4) Fraud-Negligent Misrepresentation; and
(5) Unfair Business Practices – Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 (the
“Complaint”) filed by Plaintiffs in this
Action on July 11, 2024.
2.      A true and
correct copy of the First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) and its corresponding
attachments filed by Plaintiffs in this Action on September 10, 2024.
 
The Court may take judicial notice of
its own file. (See Stepan v. Garcia
(1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.) Evidence Code §452(h) provides that a court may
take judicial notice of “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably
subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.”  
 
The Court grants Defendant’s requests
for judicial notice.
 
F.       First Cause
of Action: Breach of Contract
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action arguing
that Plaintiff WVSC lacks standing to assert this cause of action. 
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach
of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.”  (Harris v. Rudin,
Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)  
 
In order for a plaintiff to allege breach of
contract as a third party beneficiary, the plaintiff must plead a contract that
was made expressly for his benefit. (See Martin v. Bridgeport Community
Association, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1024, 1034.) “‘The test in
deciding whether a contract inures to the benefit of a third person is whether
an intent to so benefit the third person appears from the terms of the
agreement . . . .’” (Id. (quoting Schonfeld v. City of Vellejo (1975)
50 Cal.App.3d 401, 420.) “The fact that a third party is incidentally named in
the contract, or that the contract, if carried out according to its terms,
would inure to his benefit, is not sufficient to entitle him to enforce it.” (Id.)
“Reading the agreement as a whole in light of the circumstances under which it
was made, the terms of the agreement must clearly manifest an intent to make
the obligation inure to the benefit of the third party.” (Id.) 
 
The court should examine “the express
provisions of the contract at issue, as well as all of the relevant
circumstances under which the contract was agreed to, in order to determine not
only (1) whether the third party would in fact benefit from the contract, but
also (2) whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide
a benefit to the third party, and (3) whether permitting a third party to bring
its own breach of contract action against a contracting party is consistent
with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations of the
contracting parties.”  (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th
817, 830.)  “All three elements must be satisfied to permit the third
party action to go forward.”  (Id. at 133.)  
 
Plaintiffs attached a copy of the subject
Agreement with their FAC. (FAC, Exhibit A.) The only parties to the Agreement
are Defendant and WAC. WVSC is not a party to the Agreement. Therefore, Defendant
argues that WVSC does not have standing to assert the breach of contract cause
of action because it was not a party to the contract. Defendant further argues
that WVSC also does not have standing as a third party beneficiary to the
Agreement because the Agreement contains an express provision prohibiting third
party beneficiaries to the contract. The Agreement states in relevant part: "Nothing
contained in this Agreement shall create a contractual relationship with, or a
cause of action in favor of, a third party against either the Owner or Architect."
(FAC, Exhibit A, § 10.5.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
WVSC is explicitly identified as both an Additional Insured under the terms of
the Agreement as well as an indemnitee under the indemnitee defense clause, and
thus indisputably benefits from both of those provisions.
 
However, the express no-third party
beneficiary provision makes it clear that neither Defendant nor WAC intended
for the Agreement to benefit WVSC. Thus, WVSC lacks standing to bring this
claim against Defendant for Breach of Contract.
 
Accordingly,
the first cause of action is SUSTAINED in its entirety, with leave to amend. 
 
A.      Third and
Fourth Causes of Action: Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation and Negligent
Misrepresentation
 
Defendant
demurs to the third and fourth causes of action arguing that the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute each cause of
action.
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to
induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.”  (Daniels
v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150,
1166.)  
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation include
“[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another’s
reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and
resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill Co.,
Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, cleaned up.)  
 
“California
courts have recognized a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e.,
a duty to communicate accurate information, in two circumstances.  The first situation arises where providing
false information poses a risk of and results in physical harm to person or
property.  The second situation arises
where information is conveyed in a commercial setting for a business
purpose.”  (Friedman v. Merck &
Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.) 
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  
 
Here,
the FAC alleges the following. Prior
to entering into the Agreement, Plaintiffs had several conversations with Kyle
Peterson, who was the acting Director for Architect, about the Project. (FAC, ¶
89.) During these conversations, Peterson represented to Plaintiffs that
Architect, although based on San Diego, had a great deal of experience working
on projects in Los Angeles and that Architect’s Los Angeles office was fully
equipped to design the Project. (Ibid.) Based on these material
representations by Peterson, Plaintiffs reasonably believed that Architect
could design and manage the Project and that Architect was familiar with all
the laws, rules, and regulations governing construction project in Los Angeles.
(FAC, ¶ 90.) Plaintiffs therefore agreed to retain Architect to design the
Project. (Ibid.) These representations were a material inducement to
Plaintiffs entering into the Agreement with Architect and but for these
representations, Plaintiffs would not have moved forward with Architect. (Ibid.)
Peterson’s representations regarding Architect’s experience in Los Angeles and
its ability to design and manage the Project were false when they were made,
and Peterson knew or should have known that the representations were false. (FAC,
¶ 91.)
 
The FAC
further alleges the following. Architect’s representations regarding its
experience in Los Angeles, and its ability to design the Project continued
throughout the Project. At every change of professional who worked on the
Project, Architect doubled down on its representations. These representations
resulted in repeated material inducements for Plaintiffs to maintain their
relationship with Architect, despite the churn that occurred over the project.
(FAC, ¶ 92.)
 
The Court
does not find that Plaintiffs have pled the alleged misrepresentations with
sufficient particularity. The FAC refers to “several conversations” where
Peterson made representations to Plaintiffs about Defendant’s experience. (FAC, ¶ 89.) The FAC alleges that these representations were a
material inducement to Plaintiffs entering into the Agreement. (FAC, ¶ 90.) However,
to properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiff must plead the
names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written.  (Tarmann v.
State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) Here,
Plaintiffs do not specify what representations were said, to whom Peterson made
these representations to, and when. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs have
failed to state facts sufficient to constitute its intentional
misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation causes of action.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action are SUSTAINED
with leave to amend. 
 
B.      Fifth Cause
of Action: Violation of California’s Unfair Competition Law
 
Defendant
contends that the fifth cause of action for unfair competition fails because
Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action. 
 
The purpose
of the California’s Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) “is to protect both
consumers and competitors by promoting fair competition in commercial markets
for goods and services. [Citation.]”¿(Kasky v. Nike, Inc.¿(2002) 27
Cal.4th 939, 949.)  Thus, the UCL prohibits unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business acts or practices.¿ (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.)¿ “The
Legislature intended this ‘sweeping language’ to include ‘anything that can
properly be called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden
by law.’” (Bank of the West v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1254,
1266.)  “A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these
statutes must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the
statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) 
 
“Because the
statute is framed in the disjunctive, a business practice need only meet one of
the three criteria to be considered unfair competition.”  (Durell v.
Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1359.)  Section 17200’s
“unlawful” prong “borrows violations of other laws ... and makes those unlawful
practices actionable under the UCL.”  (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc.
(2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.)  “[V]irtually any law or
regulation—federal or state, statutory or common law—can serve as [a] predicate
for a ... [section] 17200 ‘unlawful’ violation.’ ”  (Ibid.) 
“A business practice is “fraudulent” within the meaning of section 17200 if it
is “likely to deceive the public.”  (Id. at p.1380.) “‘A business
practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates established
public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and
causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.’ [Citation.]”  (Nolte
v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401,
1407–1408.)  The determination of whether a business practice is unfair
involves an examination of that practice’s impact on its alleged victim,
balanced against the reasons, justifications, and motives of the alleged
wrongdoer.  (Ibid.)  In brief, the court must weigh the
utility of the defendant's conduct against the gravity of the harm to the
alleged victim.  (Nolte, Supra, 236 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1407–1408; Cf. Durell v. Sharp Healthcare, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at
1365 [“[u]nfair” business practices are those which offend an “established
public policy” that is tethered to “specific constitutional, statutory, or
regulatory provisions”]; Morgan v. AT & T Wireless Services, Inc.
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1235, 1254–1255.) 
 
A breach of
contract in turn may form the predicate for a UCL claim, “ ‘provided it also
constitutes conduct that is “unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.” ’
[Citations.]”  (Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 471, 489 [quoting Puentes v. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, Inc.
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 638, 645.) 
 
As discussed
above, Plaintiffs’ fraud and breach of contract causes of action fail. Therefore,
Plaintiffs’ UCL claim predicated on these causes of action also fail. Plaintiffs
have not identified any other unlawful, fraudulent, or unfair conduct.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.
 
C.      Motion to
Strike
 
A motion to
strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter,
or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code §
436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.) The adequacy of a claim for punitive
damages is properly tested by a motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) 
 
Defendant requests the Court to strike
all allegations of punitive damages as follows:
·      
Paragraph 94 on page 19 of the FAC requesting punitive damages
·      
Prayer for Relief sub paragraph 2 requesting punitive damages for
Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
As discussed
above, Plaintiffs’ cause of action
for intentional misrepresentation fails. Plaintiffs have failed to allege
fraud, malice or oppression. Punitive damages are only permitted “[i]n an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract.” (Cal Civ Code § 3294(a).) Therefore,
Plaintiffs have not set forth allegations that would warrant punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
strike punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
DISPOSITION

 
The demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ first, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendant’s motion to strike punitive
damages is GRANTED.