  Case Number:  23STCV25908    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  73 11/15/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
QUEZADA v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC (23STCV25908)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Eleazar Kim (Downtown
LA Law Group)
Counsel for
Defendant/ opposing party:  Mary Arens
McBride (Erskine Law Group APC)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER
RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, set one (filed 04/05/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to the Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 16-21 is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide
code-compliant responses within 30 days.
BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff Mario Quezada (“Plaintiff”) filed
the instant action against Defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant” or “GM”).

 
Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action:
1.     
Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2
2.     
Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2
3.     
Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2
4.     
Breach of Express Written Warranty
5.     
Breach of lmplied Warranty of Merchantability 
 
The Complaint alleges this action arises out of the warranty
obligations of Defendant in connection with a vehicle purchased by Plaintiff
and for which Defendant issued a written warranty. 
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, arguing:
·       Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Request Nos. 16-21.
·       Plaintiff seeks documents relating to GM’s internal investigation and
analysis of the Defects plaguing Plaintiff’s vehicle and establishing that
Defendant previously knew of such Defects but nevertheless failed to repurchase
the vehicle.
·       Defendant’s
responses are not code compliant.
o  
GM “responded” to majority of the Requests with nothing more than
“boilerplate” objections, e.g., form objections that the documents sought
allegedly were “irrelevant”; the Requests are “overbroad” or “vague”. Moreover,
Defendant has failed to produce any emails; PowerPoint slides; or
memos—reflecting the investigation undertaken to issue the numerous TSBs,
warranty programs, and/or recall campaigns applicable for the DRIVABILITY
DEFECT.
 
Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff did
not meet and confer in good faith
·       Plaintiff
does not need documents about other vehicles
o  
GM maintains its objections that documents about other vehicles, complaints
from or by other consumers, or the design of specific component systems or
parts are not relevant to Plaintiff’s claim that GM failed to repair his
Silverado within a reasonable number of attempts, rendering Plaintiff’s Motion
unwarranted.
·       Plaintiff’s
Requests Impermissibly Seek Trade Secret Material and Other Protected
Information.
 
Plaintiff filed a reply maintaining that good cause exists to
compel further responses to Request
Nos. 16-21.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
Motions to
compel further responses must always be accompanied by a meet-and
confer-declaration 
A motion to
compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310(b)(1).) It is not necessary for the motion to show that the material
sought will be admissible in evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify
discovery where specific facts show that the discovery is necessary for
effective trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial. (See Associated
Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also
CCP §§ 2017.010, 2019.030(a)(1) (Information is discoverable if it is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence and it is not unreasonably cumulative or
duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more convenient,
less burdensome, or less expensive.); Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611-1612 (noting a party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence).) 
 
A motion to
compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents
(“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2)
inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion to
compel a further response to a request for production must be noticed within 45
days of the service of the response, or any supplemental response, or on or
before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.  Otherwise, the propounding party
waives any right to compel further response to the inspection demand. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c); see also Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409; Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147
Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)  The motion must also be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of any issue presented by it. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).) Finally, a motion to compel further responses to
inspection demands must be accompanied by a separate document that sets forth
each item to which further response is requested and the factual and legal
reasons for compelling it. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)  
 
B.      Meet and
Confer
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel states they sent Defendant’s counsel two meet and confer letters
discussing the allegedly deficient discovery responses. (Panhwar Decl., ¶¶ 21-22.) However, Plaintiffs’
counsel states Defendant has not responded either letter. (Panhwar Decl., ¶ 23.) The Court finds the moving
party has met its meet and confer obligation. Accordingly, the Court will consider
the merits of the motion.
 
C.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Request Nos. 16-21.
 
Request No.
16 seeks “All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored
information and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any internal
analysis or investigation by YOU or on YOUR behalf regarding the DRIVABILITY
DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
Request No. 17
seeks “All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored
information and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any communications
YOU have had regarding DRIVABILITY DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
Request No.
18 seeks “All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored
information and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any decision to
issue any notices, letters, campaigns, warranty extensions, technical service
bulletins and recalls concerning the DRIVABILITY DEFECT in vehicles of the same
year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
Request No.
19 seeks “All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored
information and electronic mails, concerning customer complaints, claims,
reported failures, and warranty claims related to DRIVABILITY DEFECT, in
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including
but not limited to any databases in YOUR possession with information from
dealers, service departments, parts departments, or warranty departments, and
all documents concerning YOUR response to each complaint, claim or reported
failure.”
 
Request No.
20 seeks “All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored
information and electronic mails, concerning failure rates of vehicles of the
same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE as a result of DRIVABILITY
DEFECT.”
 
Request No.
21 seeks “All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored
information and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any fixes for
DRIVABILITY DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.”
 
Plaintiff
establishes that these documents are directly relevant to his case. Plaintiff’s
case is based on the allegation that his vehicle contained these driveability
defects, Defendant’s failure to cure them and Defendant’s refusal to replace or
repurchase the vehicle. Whether Defendant internally knew of such defects, how
Defendant addressed them and whether Defendant knew that such defects could not
be fixed goes to Defendant’s good faith in handling Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
The request
is also limited to the driveability defects in cars of the same year, make and
model as Plaintiff’s. The limitation sufficiently excludes irrelevant
information about other cars.
 
Plaintiff is
also not limited to discovering information regarding his particular car.
Plaintiff is seeking civil penalties under CC §1794(c) based on Defendant’s
refusal to repurchase or replace was in bad faith: “If the buyer establishes
that the failure to comply was willful, the judgment may include, in addition
to the amounts recovered under subdivision (a), a civil penalty which shall not
exceed two times the amount of actual damages.”
 
If the
alleged defects were common to his car’s make, model and year, Defendant knew
that these defects existed and either knew it could not be fixed or chose to
adopt the position that it could not be fixed. For the same reason, information
regarding other customer complaints or dealer information regarding the same
defects could demonstrate prior knowledge of how repairable these defects were
and whether Defendant’s refusal to repurchase or replace after failing to fix
the defects in Plaintiff’s car was in bad faith. According to Plaintiff,
Defendant has unreasonably refused to repurchase or replace his car despite
knowledge of the defects and the inability to repair them.
 
To the extent
Defendant asserts that there are responsive documents that are subject trade
secret or other protection, Defendant should provide a privilege log with
sufficient details about the document, i.e. the drafter of the document, a
brief description of the nature of the document, the date the document was
created, the recipients of the document, the nature of the privilege asserted
over the document and how the document meets the essential element of the
privilege.
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause as to why the information
sought in these requests is necessary and relevant to his case. The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to request for production
of document Nos. 16-21.
 
DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to the Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 16-21 is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide
code-compliant responses within 30 days.