 Case Number:  23SMCV05621    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



MEHRAD
  FARKHAN, K.D., et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
FELIX
  ADALBERTO SANCHEZ, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23SMCV05621
 
  Hearing Date:  September 25, 2023
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  PETITION FOR EXPEDITED APPROVAL 
  OF MINOR’S COMPROMISE
 
 
 



 
 
BACKGROUND
This case arises from a car accident.  Mehrad Farkhan was driving on the HOV lane on
the 405 south freeway when he was rear-ended by a motorcycle driven by Felix
Sanchez.  Claimant Alia Farkhan, a minor,
was a passenger in Mehrad Farkhan’s car. 
The rear windshield was destroyed from impact with Sanchez’s
helmet.    
Claimant suffered severe emotional distress
from the impact.  She was undergoing
psychological treatment prior to the accident, and according to her therapist,
the accident has exacerbated her condition to such an extent that she has
difficulty getting into a car or traveling on freeways due to recurring
flashbacks that cause near paralysis. 
Claimant is receiving ongoing treatment with her therapist to address
her anxiety.
This
hearing is on a petition for expedited approval of minor’s compromise.  Sanchez agreed to pay a total settlement
amount of $15,000.  The settlement represents the payment
of the single-person policy limits of all liability insurance policies covering
Sanchez.  The settlement is being
apportioned as follows: 25% of the settlement (or $3,750) is allocated for
attorneys’ fees, and the remainder ($11,250) is the balance of the settlement proceeds
available to Claimant.  There is no
opposition to the petition.   
LEGAL STANDARD
An enforceable settlement of a minor’s claim or that
of a person lacking the capacity to make decisions can only be consummated with
court approval.  (Prob. Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600 et seq.; Code Civ. Proc., § 372; see Pearson v. Sup.Ct. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1337.)  “[T]he
protective role the court generally assumes in cases involving minors, [is] a
role to assure that whatever is done is in the minor’s best interests … [I]ts
primary concern is whether the compromise is sufficient to provide for the
minor’s injuries, care and treatment.” (Goldberg
v. Sup. Ct. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1382.)
A petition for court approval of a compromise of a
minor’s claim, made pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 372, must comply with California
Rules of Court, Rules 7.950, 7.951 and 7.952.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, Rules 7.950, 7.951, 7.952.)  California
Rules of Court, Rule 7.950 provides that “[a] petition for court
approval of a compromise … of a minor’s disputed claim … under … Code of Civil
Procedure section
372 must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a full
disclosure of all information that has any bearing on the reasonableness of the
compromise ….” California
Rules of Court, Rule 7.950 additionally requires that the petition “must
be submitted on a completed Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or
Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a
Disability (form MC-350).” (Id.)
Alternatively, California
Rule of Court, Rule 7.950.5 provides that, in certain circumstances, a
petition for minor’s compromise may be advanced in an expedited manner, and may
be made upon a Petition for Expedited Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action
or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability
(form MC-350EX). (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 7.950.5, subd. (a).) 
A petition for approval of a minor’s compromise may
only be made in an expedited manner if all of the
following requirements are met: (1) The petitioner is represented by an
attorney authorized to practice in the courts of this state; (2) The claim is
not for damages for the wrongful death of a person; (3) No portion of the net
proceeds of the compromise, settlement, or judgment in favor of the minor or
disabled claimant is to be placed in a trust; (4) There are no unresolved
disputes concerning liens to be satisfied from the proceeds of the compromise,
settlement, or judgment; (5) The petitioner’s attorney did not become involved
in the matter at the direct or indirect request of a person against whom the
claim is asserted or an insurance carrier for that person; (6) The petitioner’s
attorney is neither employed by nor associated with a defendant or insurance
carrier in connection with the petition; (7) If an action has been filed on the
claim: (A) All defendants that have appeared in the action are participating in
the compromise; or (B) The court has finally determined that the settling
parties entered into the settlement in good faith; (8) The judgment for the
minor or claimant with a disability (exclusive of interest and costs) or the
total amount payable to the minor or claimant with a disability and
all other parties under the proposed compromise or settlement is $50,000 or
less or, if greater: (A) The total amount payable to the minor or claimant with
a disability represents payment of the individual-person policy limits of all
liability insurance policies covering all proposed contributing parties; and
(B) All proposed contributing parties would be substantially unable to
discharge an adverse judgment on the claim from assets other than the proceeds
of their liability insurance policies. (Id.)
The trial court is authorized to approve and allow
payment of reasonable expenses, costs, and attorney fees in an action
concerning the compromise of a minor’s claim. (Prob.
Code, § 3601(a); Curtis
v Estate of Fagan (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 270, 277-279; see
also Code
Civ. Proc., § 373.5 (“The reasonable expenses of the guardian ad
litem, including compensation and counsel fees, shall be determined by the
court and paid as it may order, either out of the property or by plaintiff or
petitioner.”).)
California
Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a) states that, unless the Court approved
the fee arrangement in advance, the Court must use a reasonable fee standard
when approving and allowing the amount of attorney’s fees payable from money or
property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor.  The Court must consider the terms of any
representation agreement made between the attorney and the representative of
the minor and must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances
existing at the time the agreement was made. 

Further, rule 7.955(c) requires the attorney to submit
a declaration that addresses the following non-exclusive factors: (1) The fact
that a minor or person with a disability is involved and the circumstances
of that minor or person with a disability; (2) The amount of the fee in
proportion to the value of the services performed; (3) The novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill required to perform the
legal services properly; (4) The amount involved and the results obtained; (5) The
time limitations or constraints imposed by the representative of the minor or
person with a disability or by the circumstances; (6) The nature and length of
the professional relationship between the attorney and the representative of
the minor or person with a disability; (7) The experience, reputation, and
ability of the attorney or attorneys performing the legal services; (8) The
time and labor required; (9) The informed consent of the representative of the
minor or person with a disability to the fee; (10) The relative sophistication
of the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a disability;
(11) The likelihood, if apparent to the representative of the minor or person
with a disability when the representation agreement was made, that the
attorney's acceptance of the particular employment would preclude other
employment; (12) Whether the fee is fixed, hourly, or contingent; (13) If
the fee is contingent: (a) The risk of loss borne by the attorney; (b) The
amount of costs advanced by the attorney; and (c) The delay in payment of fees
and reimbursement of costs paid by the attorney; and (14) Statutory
requirements for representation agreements applicable to particular cases or
claims.
DISCUSSION
 
Counsel’s
declaration does not comply with California
Rules of Court, rule 7.955(c).  It
fails to address the factors enumerated in the rule.  Accordingly, the Court denies the petition,
without prejudice to the renewal of the application with a code-compliant
declaration.    
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES
the petition for expedited approval of minor’s compromise.  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: September 25, 2024                                             ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court
 