 Case Number:  22NWCV01143    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  C Ana Teresa Garcia vs American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.Case No.: 22NWCV01143Hearing Date: January 23, 2024 @ 9:30 AM  #1 Tentative Ruling I.            
Defendant American Honda Motor, Co., Inc’s
Motion to Compel Inspection of the Subject Vehicle is GRANTED. II.           
Defendant’s Motion for Monetary Sanctions
is GRANTED. Defendant to give notice.  Background This action is a breach of warranty case under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Cal. Code. Civ. Proc. §§ 1790, et seq.)
arising out of Plaintiff Ana Teresa Garcia’s (“Plaintiff”) purchase of a 2022
Honda Civic, bearing the VIN 2HGFE2F50NH516826 (the “Subject Vehicle”) on or
around August 6, 2021. The Subject Vehicle was sold to Plaintiff with express
and implied warranties from Defendant AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.
(“Defendant”). During the warranty period, Plaintiff has alleged that the
Subject Vehicle contained or developed defects, including engine and suspension
system defects. According to the repair and warranty records, Plaintiff
presented the Subject Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facility on
numerous occasions for the defects. (Declaration of David Derderian ¶ 4.)On December 5, 2022, Defendant served Plaintiff with a
Demand for Vehicle Inspection for an inspection date of January 11, 2023. (See
Chang Decl., ¶ 4; Exhibit A.)On December 6, 2022, Plaintiff’s counsel served objections
to the Demand for Vehicle Inspection and indicated Plaintiff will not appear
for a vehicle inspection on January 11, 2023, on the grounds that Plaintiff
and/or Plaintiff’s counsel was not available on the noticed inspection date and
stated “Please meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel for a
mutually-agreeable date.” (See Chang Decl., ¶ 5; Exhibit B.)In response to Plaintiff’s refusal to produce the subject
vehicle for an inspection, Defendant’s counsel tried to meet and confer with
Plaintiff's counsel to reschedule the inspection on a mutually convenient date.
These efforts did not result in an inspection.Parties attempted to meet and confer on two separate
occasions, but no alternative dates were provides by Plaintiff’s counsel.
(Chang Decl., ¶¶  6-7; Exhibits C and D.)
On June 28, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with an
Amended Demand for Vehicle Inspection for an inspection date of August 10,
2023. (See Chang Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit E.)On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel served objections to Defendant’s
Amended Demand for Vehicle Inspection and once again refused to produce the
subject vehicle for an inspection on the grounds that Plaintiff and/or
Plaintiff’s counsel was not available on the noticed inspection date and
“Please meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel for a mutually-agreeable
date.” (See Chang Decl., ¶ 9; Exhibit F.) A fourth meet and confer was
attempted. On September 15, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with a
Second Amended Demand for Vehicle Inspection for an inspection date of October
12, 2023. (See Chang Decl., ¶ 12; Exhibit J.)On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel, again served
objections to Defendant’s Second Amended Demand for Vehicle Inspection, and
persisted in refusing to produce the subject vehicle for an inspection on the
same grounds that Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel was not available on the
noticed inspection date and “Please meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel
for a mutually-agreeable date.” (See Chang Decl., ¶ 13; Exhibit K.) However,
despite Defendant’s many attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel,
Plaintiff simply refused to provide any available dates for Defendant to
inspect Plaintiff’s vehicle.Legal Standard Any
party may obtain discovery by inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling
documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically stored
information in the possession, custody, of control of any other party to the
action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (a).)  A party may
demand that any other party produce and permit the party making the demand, or
someone acting on the demanding party’s behalf, to inspect and to photograph,
test, or sample any tangible things that are in the possession, custody, or
control of the party on whom the demand is made.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.010, subd. (c).)  A party may demand that any other party allow the
party making the demand, or someone acting on the demanding party’s behalf, to
enter onto any land or other property that is in the possession, custody, or
control of the party on whom the demand is made, and to inspect and to measure,
survey, photograph, test, or sample the land or other property, or any
designated object or operation on it.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd.
(d).)  The
party to whom a demand has been directed, and any other party or affected
person, may promptly move for a protective order.  This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.060, subd. (a).)  The party to whom a demand for inspection has been
directed shall respond separately to each item or category of item with: (1) a
statement that the party will comply with the particular demand for inspection;
(2) a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand
for inspection; or (3) an objection to the particular demand for
inspection.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).)  Discussion Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has been presented
with multiple opportunities to provide alternate dates for the vehicle
inspection, Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel have failed and refused to do so.
Defendant contends that it is unacceptable that it is unable to secure
Plaintiff’s compliance to produce the vehicle for an inspection. Defendant
maintains Plaintiff cannot prevent defendants from obtaining inspection of the
vehicle, which is the basis of Plaintiff's own claims.In Opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel David Derderian states
he did not become aware of the parties’ prior meet and confer efforts until
November 2023 because Defendant had sent the demands to the previous handling
attorneys.  Once he became aware of Defendant’s
demands, Counsel Derderian reached out to Defendant’s Counsel and the parties
eventually agreed to a Vehicle Inspection date on January 26, 2024.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s Motion to
Compel is now moot.   In reply, Defendant argues that the motion is still necessary
to ensure Plaintiff’s appearance at the demanded inspection.  The court agrees.  The record establishes that from December
2022 to January 2024, Plaintiff repeatedly failed to produce the Subject
Vehicle for inspection. The discovery cut-off date is February 20, 2024, and
Defendant is entitled to discovery of the Subject Vehicle. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for inspection of the
Subject Vehicle is GRANTED and inspection is to occur no later than February
20, 2024.   Sanctions “If
a party to whom¿a¿demand¿for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling¿is
directed fails to serve a timely response to it, . . . the court shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to¿a¿demand¿for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300(c).) Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED. 
The Court imposes monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
Counsel, jointly and severally, in the reasonable amount of $1,402.20
(calculated as 2.7 hours preparing the instant motion, anticipated 2.0 hours
reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition, preparing Defendant’s reply, and attending
the hearing at a rate of $285.00, plus the $60.00 filing fees), pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure, section 2031.300, subdivision (c).  The Court notes that it is the responsibility
of counsel within the same firm to ensure that communications are shared and
that new handling attorneys are brought up to date on matters relating to the
litigation.  Moreover, it is the
responsibility of a new handling attorney to communicate with opposing counsel so
that correspondence can be sent to the new handling attorney. 
 
 