  Case Number:  21NWCV00467    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  C Ideal Ventures, LLC vs Tim Childress, et al.
Case No.: 21NWCV00467
Hearing Date: January 23, 2024 @ 10:30 AM
 
#5 
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Ideal Ventures, LLC Motion for Leave
to File its First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
Prevailing Party to Give Notice. 
 
Background 
This case involves overpayments of about $630,000 made by
Plaintiff Ideal Ventures, LLC (“Plaintiff”) ostensibly to 10PL Global, Inc.
(“10PL”) for hauling containers from the ports in Los Angeles County to
Plaintiff’s warehouses and the conversion of a shipping container that
defendants picked up at the port, but allegedly did not deliver to Plaintiff.
The Judicial Council form complaint alleges causes of action for breach of
contract, common counts, conversion, fraud, and negligent misrepresentation
against Tim Childress, 10PL Axelavate Logistics, LLC and Axelavate Transportation,
LLC (“collectively, “Defendants”). Daniel Lee (“Lee”) was added as a Doe
defendant in May 2023.
Plaintiff Ideal Ventures, LLC, moves for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint.  
Legal Standard 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) provides: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a)(1); see Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)¿ 
¿ 
The
court has broad discretion to permit amendments to pleadings, and “the court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the
pleadings.”¿ (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422,
1428.)¿ “The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in
which denial of leave to amend can be justified.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend . . . .”¿¿ (Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)¿ Prejudice includes “delay
in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.”¿ (Solit
v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th
1435, 1448.)¿ 
¿ 
California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (a) provides, “[a] motion to amend a
pleading before trial must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) State what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)). Further,
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) provides, “[a] separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify: (1) The effect
of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) When the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) The
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)).
 
Discussion 
The original complaint listed the
causes of action as: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Common Counts; (3) Fraud; and
(4) Intentional Tort.  The proposed First
Amended Compliant lists the causes of action as: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Common Counts; (3) Conversion; (4) Fraud and Deceit; and (5) Negligent
Misrepresentation.  (Mot., Ex. A.) 
Counsel’s declaration states that
the amended declaration will: 
·       
Resolve Defendants’
issue raised that the form complaint does not contain facts explaining the
personal liability of the various defendants. (Sunkin Decl., ¶ 25.) 
·       
Properly allege the extent and egregiousness of
Defendants’ fraud, particularly by Childress, and efforts to conceal Childress’s
true role in the operation and ownership of 10PL, as well as his personal
liability for the overpayments that are the subject of the existing breach of
contract, common count, fraud, and negligent misrepresentation causes of
action. (Sunkin Decl., ¶ 25.)
·       
Provide new facts to allege Childress’s
personal involvement in converting the container that is the subject of the
conversion cause of action. (Sunkin Decl., ¶ 26.)
·       
Fix a typo in the container number. (Sunkin Decl.,
¶ 26.)
·       
Resolve Defendants’
contention about the “proper plaintiff’ to have a refund for its overpayments
by adding an allegation in the proposed complaint of an assignment to
Plaintiff. (Sunkin Decl., ¶ 27.)
·       
Fix an error in the
original Complaint that alleged the contract was oral, to show that the parties
had a written contract. (Sunkin Decl., ¶ 28.) 
Plaintiff argues the amendments
come after learning of further Fraud by Defendant Childress in attempting to
hide the true ownership of Defendant 10PL by having Defendant Lee list his name
on documents while true ownership and operations stayed within the control of
Defendant Childress. Plaintiff additionally provides evidence that Defendant
Childress committed witness tampering through numerous attempts to convince
Defendant Lee to not answer the deposition subpoena and coaching Defendant Lee to
tell Plaintiff that he was the incorrect Daniel Lee.  (Sunkin Decl., ¶¶ 1-5, 6, 8-10, 13-14, 18;
Lee Decl, Ex. 2.) Plaintiff provides this evidence to show that it could not
have discovered the facts leading to the amended Complaint earlier because the
evidence was being hidden by Defendant Childress. 
In opposition, Defendant
Childress, Axelavate Transportation, LLC, and Axelavate Logistics, LLC argue
that the motion fails to meet the statutory requirements to bring an amended
complaint, as it does not briefly state the authority under which Plaintiff
brings its motion.  The Court is
unpersuaded.  In its briefing, Plaintiff
does cite the requisite authority under which it brings the instant motion. 
Further, Defendants contend they
will be prejudiced by the amendments because the trial will be delayed. However,
trial is currently scheduled for September 24, 2024, providing enough time for
the parties to continue to litigate the additional claims. 
Finally, Defendants maintain that in the event the Court is
inclined to grant Plaintiff’s motion, the Court should condition the amendment
on Defendants’ ability to take the deposition of Israel Goldstein and Plaintiff’s
Person Most Knowledgeable again for the limited purpose of obtaining discovery
as to Plaintiff's new cause of action. 
The Court is authorized to grant leave "on such terms as may be just"
(Code of Civ. Proc. §§473(a)(1).) and discovery should be freely allowed.  Accordingly, Defendants may depose Israel
Goldstein and Plaintiff’s Person Most Knowledgeable for a second time.  
 
 