 Case Number:  22NWCV01368    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  C Jose Luis Velasco vs General Motors, LLC
Case No.: 22NWCV01368
Hearing Date: January 23, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#2 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant GENERAL MOTORS, LLC’s Demurrer is
OVERRULED and its Motion to Strike is DENIED.
Answer due in 20 days. 
Plaintiff to give NOTICE.
Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant) demurs to the
Complaint’s Fifth Cause of Action for Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement --
Concealment and moves to strike the FAC’s claim for punitive damages.
Background
Plaintiff Jose Luis Velasco (“Plaintiff”) alleges Defendant
General Motors, LLC. violated the Song-Beverly Act and fraudulently induced
Plaintiff into purchasing a 2017 Chevrolet Colorado manufactured by Defendant. Plaintiff
alleges Defendant knew about a transmission defect in 2015 and knew that the
transmission installed in Plaintiff’s vehicle had that defect, which caused
sudden and premature failure. 
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a
complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings which are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words,
phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (CCP §§ 435, 436 & 437.) A motion to
strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter,
or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (C.C.P. § 436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (C.C.P. § 437.)
Discussion 
Defendant demurs to the Complaint’s Fifth Cause
of Action for Fraud -- Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment on the grounds that
it fails to state a claim. Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ claim for
punitive damages.  Defendant argues that
the Fraud cause of action fails to state a claim because it was not pled with
particularity. However, the FAC details allegations that Defendant knew of the
defect since 2015, that the defect is unreasonably dangerous to consumers,
Defendant published technical service bulletins regarding the defects in the
transmission, and Defendant knew the transmission in Plaintiff’s vehicle was
defective. (Complaint ¶¶ 45-52 n. 2.) Thus, the Complaint contains adequate
allegations to support a cause of action for fraud at this stage. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fraud
cause of action is OVERRULED.
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for
punitive damages from the Complaint because there are no supporting allegations
of fraud. However, this Court finds that Plaintiff properly alleged a fraud
cause of action. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages is DENIED.