 Case Number:  23STCV13576    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Marion Martinez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCV13576




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




West Hills Hospital, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 27, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint without Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendants West Hills
Hospital, et al. 
Responding Party:
Plaintiff Marion Martinez
T/R:     DEMURRER TO SIXTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.
DEFENDANTS’ TO NOTICE. 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
Marion Martinez filed the operative Second Amended Complaint on December 18,
2023, alleging violations of Labor Code Sections 1102.5, 6310, and 6311;
violation of Health and Safety Code Section 1278.5; wrongful termination in
violation of Public Policy; defamation; and Private Attorney General Act against
Defendants West Hills Hospital; HCA Healthcare Inc.; HCA Healthcare; CHC
Payroll Agent, Inc.; HCA Human Resources, LLC; HCA Human Resources Group; Los
Robles Regional Medical Center; Charlene Timms; and Adam Gardner. 
Plaintiff
alleges he was terminated after he complained to Defendants and the State
inspection agency that Defendants were violating the law as to the
nurse-to-patient ratio, and he refused to perform work assignments that
violated the ratio.  
ANALYSIS
A demurrer to a complaint may
be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High
Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat as true the complaint's
material factual allegations, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿
Defendants demur to the sixth
cause of action for defamation on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and the cause of action is
uncertain. 
“The elements of a defamation
claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4)
unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special
damage.” (J-M Manufacturing Co., Inc. v. Phillips & Cohen LLP (2016)
247 Cal.App.4th 87, 97.) To plead a cause of action for defamation, the
plaintiff “must set forth ‘either the specific words or the substance of’ the
allegedly defamatory statements.” (Comstock v. Aber (2012) 212
Cal.App.4th 931, 948.) “The chief reason appears to be that the court must
determine, as a question of law, whether the defamatory matter is on its face
or capable of the defamatory meaning attributed to it by the innuendo. Hence,
the complaint should set the matter out verbatim, either in the body or as an
attached exhibit.” (Id., quoting 5 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (5th Ed. 2008)
Pleading, § 739, p. 159.)
Defendants argue Plaintiff
does not plead when the purported statements were made, to whom the statements
were made, or how the communications occurred. Defendants also contend
Plaintiff any purported statement is opinion, and/or is protected by Civil Code
Section 47c. Defendants assert the only substantive change made in Plaintiff’s
SAC was adding a date of January 18, 2023 as the alleged date of a disciplinary
action form. 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues he has sufficiently set forth the defamatory statements and contends that
Defendants clearly have superior knowledge of 
the facts underlying this cause of action. Plaintiff asserts Defendants’
privilege claim requires an evidentiary hearing and is not suitable for
demurrer. 
The SAC alleges the Defendants
made defamatory publications consisting of “oral, written, knowingly false, and
unprivileged communications tending directly to injure Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s personal, business, and professional reputation, including specific
statements on a January 18, 2023 Disciplinary/ Corrective Action Form issued to
Plaintiff by Defendants that marked the categories of disciplinary action
Plaintiff was terminated for as: ‘conduct/behavior,’ ‘performance,’ and ‘policy
violation.’”(SAC, ¶ 71.) The SAC also alleges the Disciplinary/ Corrective
Action Form contained multiple untrue statements in which Defendants expressly
and impliedly asserted that Plaintiff was untruthful, insubordinate, and a poor
employee: ‘[Plaintiff’s] actions represented a cessation of job duties to which
he was assigned. His actions also caused a delay in patient care, caused operational
delay, caused a diversion of attention and resources away from caring for
patients, and constituted insubordination’ and that ‘[Plaintiff’s] substandard
conduct and performance are incompatible with continued employment at West
Hills Hospital and Medical Center.’” (Id.) The SAC further alleges that
the precise dates of these publications are unknown to Plaintiff but may have
started in December 2022. (Id., at ¶ 72.) The SAC also alleges
Defendants published these statements to third persons believed to include but
not limited to, “other agents and employees of Defendants, and the community,
all of whom are known to Defendants but unknown at this time to Plaintiff.” (Id.,
at ¶ 73.) 
The SAC does not allege
sufficient facts to support the sixth cause of action for defamation. Plaintiff
generally alleges that purported defamatory statements were made but does not
specify the names of the people to whom they were made or how these
communications occurred. Plaintiff pleads no facts concerning any specific statements
purportedly made by any specific Defendant, what was said, or to whom. Plaintiff
pleads only one alleged defamatory statement from a January 18, 2023
disciplinary form, but does not allege which Defendant wrote the statement on
that form, what third persons the form was published to, or when it was
published. 
Plaintiff’s concessions that
he does not know to whom these statements allegedly were made, when they were
made, or how they were communicated, show that Plaintiff cannot successfully
amend this cause of action. 
The demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 