 Case Number:  23STCV25063    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JERRY WOLDUM, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  EAST L.A. DIALYSIS CENTER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV25063  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND (1) DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT AND (2) MOTION TO STRIKE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 4, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Jerry Woldum (“Plaintiff”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants East L.A. Dialysis Center, et. al. for damages arising from a heavy gate that fell on Plaintiff while Plaintiff attempted to reposition it.  The FAC sets forth three causes of action for (1) negligence, (2) premises liability, and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) against all defendants. The FAC includes a prayer for punitive and exemplary damages. Defendants East L.A. Dialysis Center (“ELADC”), Maher Azer, MD, Marco Martinez, MD, Carlos Meza, MD, and Mohamed El-Shahawy, MD now demur to the FAC, arguing the third cause of action for IIED by Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a claim against him. Additionally, Defendants move to strike portions of the FAC alleging malice, oppressive, or fraudulent conduct, including the prayer for punitive damages. Defendants Mohamed El- Shahawy, MD and Academic Medical Research Institute, Inc. (“AMRI”) join the demurrer on the same grounds, and also join the motion to strike the same allegations and prayer from the FAC. The Court will refer generally to the defendants bringing and joining the motion as “Defendants” collectively. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Defendants filed a reply.    II. Demurrer A. Meet and Confer Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (CCP § 430.41(a).)  Defendants fulfilled this requirement prior to filing the demurrer.  (Dem. Balatero Decl. ¶¶ 7-10.)  B. Legal Standard A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings.  It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (CCP §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)  No other extrinsic evidence can be considered.  (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court record].) A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action.  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  1. Third Cause of Action - IIED  The elements of a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant, (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress, (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress. Conduct is extreme and outrageous when it exceeds all bounds of decency usually tolerated by a decent society, and is of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress. Liability does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590.)   The California Supreme Court has held that a defendant’s actions could be characterized as "outrageous" for purposes of tort liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress, if he “(1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental distress.”  (Agarwal v. Johnson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 932, 946 [overruled on other grounds].)  A defendant’s conduct is “outrageous” when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community, and the defendant must either intend his or her conduct to inflict injury or engaged in it with the realization that injury will result.  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 [citations and quotations omitted].) Here, the FAC alleges Plaintiff was a security guard at the premises, which had a gate that entrants must pass through to gain access to ELADC and AMRI. (FAC at ¶¶ 12,16.) The gate is on wheels that can only be opened and closed by a person pulling it open and closed. (Id. at ¶ 16.) Plaintiff noticed the gate was in disrepair, and reported the malfunctioning gate to three receptionists that manned the entrance desk of ELADC. (Id. at ¶ 17.) On June 12, 2023, the gate became dislocated from the track, blocking entrance to ELADC. (Id. at ¶ 18.) “Plaintiff slipped through a space in the dislodged gate….When Plaintiff continued to attempt to reposition and open the gate, the gate fell onto Plaintiff, crushing his ankle and legs.” (Id. at ¶¶ 18-19). Regarding the IIED cause of action, the FAC provides:  “41. Defendants engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct in letting a metal gate in the front of ELADC’s premises fall into, and remain in, disrepair, especially given repeated actual notice from Plaintiff, of the defect, risk and danger to invitees and/or licensees like Plaintiff.   42. Defendants intended to cause Plaintiff severe emotional distress in that they had actual knowledge from Plaintiff of the likelihood of injury to Plaintiff and that emotional distress may result, and consciously disregarded that likelihood.  43. Plaintiff suffered and continues to suffer severe emotional distress.  44. Defendants’ reckless, willful, and malicious conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s severe emotional distress.” (FAC at ¶¶ 41-44.)   The allegations that Defendants knew the metal gate was defective or in a state of disrepair, such that it eventually fell upon Plaintiff, does not constitute outrageous conduct.  Moreover, there are no allegations showing Defendants intended to cause emotional distress to Plaintiff beyond a conclusory allegation of such. The FAC merely alleges in a conclusory manner that Plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress, which is insufficient to meet the high bar to allege severe emotional distress.  (See e.g., Pittman v. City of Oakland (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047 [mere allegation that plaintiff suffered shame, humiliation and embarrassment without further factual explanation fails to state claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress].) Further, Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendants exhibited a reckless disregard for Plaintiff’s safety by failing to repair the gate is both conclusory and insufficient. Reckless conduct does not eliminate the requirement of conduct directed toward Plaintiff with the calculated cause to induce distress. (Christensen v. Superior Ct. (1991) 54 Cal. 3d 868, 904 [“The requirement that the defendant's conduct be directed primarily at the plaintiff is a factor which distinguishes intentional infliction of emotional distress from the negligent infliction of such injury.”] There are no allegations that Defendants allowed the gate to remain in disrepair with the aim of it falling upon Plaintiff, and that Defendants deliberately calculated for the gate to remain dysfunctional for the purposes of inducing distress upon Plaintiff. The conduct must exceed “all bounds usually tolerated by decent society, of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress of a very serious kind.” (Christensen, supra, 54 Cal. 3d 868 at 905.) Based on the factual allegations of the FAC and Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion, this is clearly an action premised on negligence for failure to timely fix the gate, and not on any express goal by Defendants to deliberately harm Plaintiff.  Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action for IIED is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.    III. Motion To Strike  Legal Standard  Defendants move to strike allegations of malicious, oppressive, and despicable conduct, and punitive damages. Because the Court sustained the demurrer to the third cause of action without leave to amend, Defendants seeking to strike Paragraphs 41-42 and 45 of the FAC are moot. Thus, the remaining portions that Defendants move to strike are the following:  1. Page 5, ¶ 26, General Allegations; 2. Pages 6-7, ¶ 33, First Cause of Action Negligence; 3. Page 8, ¶ 39, Second Cause of Action Premise Liability; 4. Page 10, number 2, Prayer For Relief. California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (CCP §§ 435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws, rules or orders.  (CCP § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is used to address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from judicially noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer. (Pierson v Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City & County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911, 1913 (motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual representations made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof – in other words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike demurrers. (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  The Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.”  (CCP § 436.)    Civil Code § 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied . . . .” “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.  Finally, “fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.  (Civil Code §3294.) Malice has long been interpreted to mean that malice in fact, as opposed to malice implied by law, is required.  Malice in fact may be proved under § 3294 either expressly (by direct evidence probative on the existence of hatred or ill will) or by implication (by indirect evidence from which the jury may draw inferences).  Thus, it has been held that the “malice” required by §3294 implies an act conceived in a spirit of mischief or with criminal indifference towards the obligations owed to others.  Where the defendant’s wrongdoing has been intentional and deliberate and has the character of outrage frequently associated with crime, all but a few courts have permitted the jury to award in the tort action “punitive” or “exemplary” damages.  Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or “malice,” or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.  (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal. 3d 890, 894; Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)  Moreover, conclusory allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)     Discussion Here, the third cause of action for IIED has been sustained without leave to amend. Consequently, the Court will evaluate whether the remaining allegations and causes of action against Defendants are sufficient to support a request for punitive damages against them.  The remaining causes of action for negligence and premises liability against Defendants is premised on a failure to inspect and maintain the metal gate on the premises, such that it fell into disrepair and harmed Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 29-31, 35-37.) The FAC’s allegations do not rise to the level of malice, fraud, or oppression, as defined by the Code. In order to plead punitive damages, Plaintiff must plead allegations of fraud, malice, or oppression with sufficient particularity.  (Hilliard v. AH Robbins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 392.)  This requires Plaintiff to allege sufficient facts to support conclusory allegations, which Plaintiff has not done.  (Brousseau, 73 Cal.App.3d at 872 [“the second count's conclusory characterization of defendant's conduct as intentional, willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,’ ...”].) Where a claim sounds in negligence, a plaintiff must demonstrate conduct that goes beyond gross negligence for punitive damages. Under California law, conduct which may be described as unreasonable or negligent generally does not satisfy the highly culpable state of mind warranting punitive damages. (In re Yahoo! Inc. Customer Data Sec. Breach Litig. (2018) 313 F. Supp. 3d 1113.) Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.     IV.  Conclusion Defendants’ motion to strike portions of the FAC and punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend.    Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action for IIED is sustained without leave to amend.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 1st day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    