 Case Number:  22STCV05251    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JOSE SIERRA, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV05251  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 7, 2024  I.  BACKGROUND On February 10, 2022, plaintiffs Jose Sierra, individually and as successor in interest to the Estate of Jose Jesus Sierra III, and Jessica Sierra (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, State of California, Savannah Lee Johnson, Elecnor Belco Electric, Inc., Elecnor, Inc., The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision. The trial date is currently set for September 10, 2024.  On October 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed amendments to complaint naming Southern California Transportation & Tours Inc. as Doe 21 and SoCal Transportation as Doe 22. On December 20, 2023, Southern California Transportation & Tours Inc. dba SoCal Transportation (Doe 21 and Doe 22) (collectively, “SoCal”) filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint, and filed a cross-complaint against Diaz & Co, LLC (“Diaz”) and Zoes 1 through 25. SoCal now moves to continue the current trial. Plaintiffs oppose the motion, and SoCal filed a reply.  Moving Argument SoCal contends that from December 7, 2023 to January 5, 2024 sent numerous emails to Plaintiffs’ counsel requesting dismissal on the grounds that SoCal bears no liability in this action since it was not the owner of the vehicle at the time of the accident. Because Plaintiffs would not dismiss SoCal, SoCal reserved a hearing for its planned motion for summary judgment, in which the earliest date available was February 13, 2025. Further, SoCal avers that it has made at least six attempts to serve cross-defendant Diaz with its cross-complaint, and Diaz was finally served on March 3, 2024. Plaintiffs then filed an amendment to their complaint to add Diaz as a defendant, but because Diaz has not yet filed an Answer, the case is not yet at issue. SoCal requests trial be continued to a date on or after April 15, 2024 in order for its anticipated motion for summary judgment to be heard, and to allow it to prepare for trial in the event the motion is denied.  Opposing Argument Plaintiffs argue that SoCal seeks a continuance to complete unspecified discovery and that the motion for summary judgment is without merit. Plaintiff requests instead that the Court specially set the summary judgment to be heard 60 days before the current trial date. Further, Plaintiffs aver they did not amend their complaint to add Diaz as a defendant, and Plaintiffs are unaware of Diaz’s connection with the circumstances of this action. Plaintiff asserts that any claims or discovery between SoCal Transportation and Diaz can be severed from Plaintiff’s action, and that the length of a continuance by one year is excessive.  Reply Argument SoCal contends that if and when Diaz appears, it will likely be about four months before the current trial date. SoCal asserts that the cross-complaint relates to the mistake made by Diaz in filing an inaccurate Report of Sale with the DMV, when Plaintiff’s sole contention is that SoCal was the registered owner of the vehicle on the date of the incident. SoCal avers that Plaintiff relies on an inaccurate Report of Sale submitted to the DMV by Diaz.  II. LEGAL STANDARD Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial. (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  III. DISCUSSION A trial court cannot refuse to hear a summary adjudication motion filed within the time limits of CCP § 437c. (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918. 919.)  However, to date, SoCal has not filed a motion for summary judgment in this matter. (Cole v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2022) 2022 WL 17999483 at *2 [“But the fact remains that the motion was timely filed, and calendaring issues are not a basis on which the trial court can refuse to hear a timely filed summary judgment motion, absent an indication that it was defective under section 437c.” (Emphasis Added.)].) Here, SoCal reserved its motion for summary judgment for February 13, 2025, and no papers have yet to be filed for this reservation. Effective February 25, 2024, a Notice to Attorneys was published by the Los Angeles Superior Court that all motion reservations in all civil matters will be cancelled if motion documents are not submitted within three court days of the date when the reservation was made in the Court Reservation System (CRS). In other words, the reservation made by SoCal will come off-calendar based upon the update to the CRS user agreement, and continuing the trial date for a motion not yet filed serves no purpose. Thus, the motion is denied without prejudice as to SoCal proceeding with discovery, and renewing the motion once it has sufficient information to reserve and properly file a motion for summary judgment. At this juncture, the anticipated motion for summary judgment is but an abstract motion. SoCal will not be precluded from seeking a continuance once a substantive reason is provided to the Court to establish good cause.   IV. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the motion to continue the trial date is DENIED without prejudice.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 6th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   