 Case Number:  22STCV14248    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  EDUARDO GALENO, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  PACIFIC MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR, ET AL.,¿  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV14248  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 7, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Defendants Pacific Mechanical Contractors and John Venegas (collectively, “Defendants”) move to compel plaintiff Eduardo Galeno (“Plaintiff”) to appear for his deposition.  On December 7, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel. As of January 19, 2024, Plaintiff is in pro per. (Proof of Service, Jan. 19, 2024.)  Defendants contend that on June 28, 2023, defense counsel attempted to confer with Plaintiff’s counsel at the time regarding a mutually agreeable date for Plaintiff, but no dates were able to be provided due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s inability to contact Plaintiff.  The motion, served on Plaintiff’s counsel at the time of filing, is unopposed.   II. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION CCP § 2025.450(a) provides in relevant part that if “after service of a deposition notice” and the party fails to appear or proceed with the examination, then “the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document….described in the deposition notice.” Here, no deposition notice ever served upon Plaintiff. Rather, the motion is being brought on the grounds that Plaintiff’s former counsel was unable to provide dates. CCP § 2025.450(a) is clear that there must first be valid service of a proper deposition notice, which acts as the foundation for the motion to compel. Defendant’s motion is premature because no such deposition notice had ever been served upon Plaintiff.   III. CONCLUSION The motion is therefore denied as premature.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 6th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   