  Case Number:  21STCV32038    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DANIEL JAHREN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  HAWTHORNE REGENCY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV32038  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 7, 2024  I. BACKGROUND  Plaintiff Daniel Jahren (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Hawthorne Regency and Does 1 to 100 for damages arising from a fall from a defective ladder.  On March 18, 2024, defendant Hawthorn Regency Apartments, LLC (sued as Hawthorne Regency) (“Defendant”) filed the instant motion for terminating sanctions to dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint against it for failure to abide by the Court’s February 22, 2024 Order that he serve verified responses to its set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and request for production of documents, and to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,185.  Any opposition was due on or before April 24, 2024. No opposition has been filed to date.   II. TERMINATING SANCTIONS  Legal Standard Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030 gives the court the discretion to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a misuse of the discovery process.  A court may impose terminating sanctions by striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering default judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(d).)  A violation of a discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions.  (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.)   A terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with caution."  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 793.)  "A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction."  (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  While the court has discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery."  (Deyo, 84 Cal.App.3d at 793.)  "[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his discovery obligations."  (Ibid.)  Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information.  (See Midwife v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971].)  Discussion The Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel discovery responses to its set one of initial discovery, and ordered Plaintiff to serve verified responses to Defendant’s form interrogatories, set one, special interrogatories, set one, and request for production of documents, set one, without objections, within twenty (20) days. (Min. Order, Feb. 22, 2024.) The Court also ordered Plaintiff and/or his counsel to pay sanctions in the amount of $1,080 within twenty (20) days. (Ibid.)  The Court notes that most recently, it had denied without prejudice Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel. (Min. Order, April 18, 2024.) As such, Plaintiff’s counsel remains the attorney of record on this matter, yet no opposition was filed by and/or on behalf of Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s failure to oppose the motion may be deemed consent to granting of the motion. (CRC, rule 8.54(c).) Under the totality of the circumstances, the Court concludes Plaintiff knew of his discovery obligations, knew of the Court’s Order compelling his compliance, and has failed to demonstrate that non-compliance was not willful given his apparent absence in this matter, such that Plaintiff’s counsel sought to be relieved due to the inability to reach Plaintiff. Plaintiff does not oppose this motion and appears to have abandoned the case. Given his failure to comply with discovery obligations, failure to participate in litigation, and apparent disinterest in prosecuting this action, the Court finds lesser sanctions would not curb the abuse.      III. CONCLUSION Accordingly, Defendant’s unopposed motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s action against Defendant is hereby dismissed.  Defendant’s request for the imposition of additional monetary sanctions is denied. The dismissal of Plaintiff’s action against it is already sufficient to meet the ends of justice.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 6th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  