  Case Number:  22TRCV00276    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Tuesday, July 16, 2024 
Department M    Calendar No. 13 



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Wendy
Newton v. Clay Claudino, et al.  
22TRCV00276
1.      Clay Claudino, et al.’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint
2.     
Clay Claudino, et
al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Third Amended Complaint   
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Clay Claudino, et al.’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint
is overruled, in part, and sustained with 20 days leave to amend, in part.
 
Clay Claudino, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Third
Amended Complaint is denied, in part, and deemed moot, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on April 11, 2022, and
the Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) was filed on April 4, 2024. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was a tenant of a property located at 509
Longfellow Avenue, Hermosa Beach, California 90254. The property suffered from
numerous habitability problems. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of
action: 1. Negligence 2. Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability 3.
Statutory Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability 4. Breach of Contract 5.
Nuisance 6. Fraud 7. Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing 8. Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Use and Enjoyment 9. Trespass 10.
Intentional Infliction of Emotion Distress 11. Violation of Civil Code Section
827 12. Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.2 13. Retaliatory Eviction 14. Constructive
Eviction 15. Conversion. 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants set forth meet and confer
declarations in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5.  (Decls. Rudolf Petrosyan.) 
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants’ request for judicial
notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code Section 452(d).
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendants demur to the entire TAC and
each cause of action pursuant to CCP § 430.10(a)(e) and (f) on the grounds that
the Court lacks jurisdiction over this matter, that the causes of action fail
to state sufficient facts, and that the TAC is uncertain.
First, Defendants again demur to the
entire TAC on the grounds that the Court lacks jurisdiction because a prior
unlawful detainer judgment acts as collateral estoppel to bar the causes of
action of the TAC.  The Court has again
taken judicial notice of the Complaint, Answer, and Judgment in Case No.
20IWUD00738.  In ruling to the demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint, the Court already determined that the demurrer
based on lack of jurisdiction cannot be sustained.  It is not clear why Defendants again demurred
on these same grounds.  Defendants are
instructed in the future to read the Court’s minutes and rulings prior to
filing documents or making appearances in this Court. 
For Defendants’ benefit the Court will
repeat what was written in the Court’s prior ruling:
“An unlawful detainer action is
a special limited summary proceeding limited to the issue of the right to
possession. As such, the parties cannot raise extrinsic issues and are
generally limited in the issues that they can litigate. Thus, usually, the judgment
in the unlawful detainer action does not have a res judicata effect on any
issue other than one that was necessarily litigated to determine the right of
possession. “[T]he critical question is whether or not the unlawful detainer
defendant has had adequate opportunity to present his case.” Gonzales v. Gem
Properties, Inc. (1974) 37 Cal.App.3d 1029, 1036. In some circumstances,
the unlawful detainer judgment does bar a subsequent action by the parties. Any
issue that was necessarily litigated in the unlawful detainer to resolve the
issue of the right to possession cannot be raised in any subsequent action
between the parties. “The party asserting issue preclusion bears the burden of
establishing these requirements.” Needelman v. DeWolf Realty Co., Inc.
(2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 750, 757. The unlawful detainer judgment may be barred
by res judicata on issues that were not necessary to the issue of possession
when the issue is raised in the proceedings without objection and fully
litigated by the parties.  Vella v. Hudgins
(1977) 20 Cal. 3d 251, 256–57.
Here, a review of the UD
Complaint, Answer, and Judgment does not reveal, at least for purposes of the
instant demurrer, a complete bar to the causes of action based on principles of
collateral estoppel and res judicata. First, the Court notes that the UD
Judgment was entered only in favor of Clay Claudino and Lee Marie Claudino,
Trustees of the Clay and Lee Claudino Living Trust Dated November 2, 2007.
Defendants have failed to establish, at this time, that the other two
Defendants named in the Complaint can utilize the principles of collateral
estoppel and res judicata in their favor.  Second, a review of the UD Judgment only
reflects a discussion of issues involving Newton’s alleged maintenance of a
nuisance by placing undue restrictions on the asbestos abatement efforts. As
the parties are probably aware, there are a multitude of issues that are
alleged in the instant Complaint which are not addressed at all in the UD
Judgment. The Court declines to dismiss the action or sustain the demurrer, at
this time, based on principles of collateral estoppel and res judicata.”
The Court notes that the prior
demurrer was sustained based solely on uncertainty grounds based on the failure
to differentiate the parties that committed certain acts. The Court will review
the TAC to determine if the TAC has now rectified those uncertainty issues.
As to the demurrer of Clay
Claudino, individually, the demurrer is overruled. Plaintiff states sufficient
facts to state the causes of action and the Third Amended Complaint is not
uncertain. Numerous factual allegations have been alleged against this
Defendant to support the elements of the cause of action and Clay Claudino is
specifically named as the landlord/lessor in the lease agreement attached to
the TAC.
However, as to the demurrer of
Lee Marie Claudino, individually, and Clay Claudino and Lee Marie Claudino, as
Trustees of the Clay and Lee Claudino Living Trust Dated November 2, 2007, the
demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
As to these Defendants, the
Court again sustains the demurrer based on uncertainty. The Court again notes
that the attached lease reflects the parties to the lease as Plaintiff and Defendant
Clay Claudino only. Most of the causes of action alleged against Defendants
would only be applicable to the landlord - Clay Claudino. Despite Plaintiff’s
constant reference to the other Defendants as also being “landlords,” the only
lessor named in the lease agreement is Clay Claudino. There are several causes
of action that may be applicable to a Defendant solely based on ownership of
the property. However, the allegation of ownership is completely uncertain.
Plaintiff appears to allege that the owners are all of the following: Clay
Claudino, individually, Lee Marie Claudino, individually, and Clay Claudino and
Lee Marie Claudino, Trustees of the Clay and Lee Claudino Living Trust Dated
November 2, 2007. This allegation is uncertain because generally when a trust
is the title owner of the property it would not hold joint ownership with
individuals. Typically, ownership of property would be held by individuals or a
Trust, but usually not co-owned by individuals and a Trust.   
Curiously, Defendants made
specific arguments in this regard only related to the Fraud and IIED causes of
action.  However, the uncertainty in the
allegation of ownership of the property permeates every cause of action.  As to the Fraud and IIED causes of action, the
Court notes that there does not appear to be any factual allegations within
these causes of action directed against Defendants Clay Claudino and Lee Marie
Claudino, Trustees of the Clay and Lee Claudino Living Trust Dated November 2,
2007 and Lee Marie Claudino. The factual allegations are directed solely to
Clay Claudino, individually. 
            Thus,
the demurrer of Clay Claudino, individually, is overruled. The demurrer of Lee
Marie Claudino, individually, and Clay Claudino and Lee Marie Claudino, as
Trustees of the Clay and Lee Claudino Living Trust Dated November 2, 2007 is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to strike the following:
 
“1. Page 2. line 4, which states,
"Ms. Newton is a single, approximately 59-year old woman." 
2. Page 4, lines 3-5, which states,
"Plaintiff, believing that her sister and her very young niece would be
moving into the residence with her as a result of her brother-in-law dying from
asbestos exposure…" 
3. Page 29, lines 14-15, which state
"Defendants engaged in conduct, which was malicious, oppressive, and
fraudulent, entitling Plaintiff to punitive damages." 
4. Page 29, lines 23-26, which state
"Defendants' conduct in breaching the implied warranty of habitability has
been grossly negligent, malicious, and oppressive, thereby entitling Plaintiff
to punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial." 
5. Page 31, lines 10-11, which state
"Civil Code § 3294 allows for punitive damages where a defendant's actions
were done with malice, oppression, or fraud." 
6. Page 35, lines 19-21, which state
"Defendants' conduct in breaching the covenant of quiet enjoyment has been
grossly negligent, malicious, and oppressive, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to
punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial." 
7. Page 37, lines 19-21, which state
"Defendants' conduct in breaching the covenant of quiet enjoyment has been
grossly negligent, malicious, and oppressive, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to
punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial."
8. Page 38, lines 23-24, which state
"Plaintiffs are thus entitled to exemplary and punitive damages in an
amount according to proof at time of trial." 
9. Page 44, lines 18-19, which state
"Plaintiff is thus entitled to exemplary and punitive damages in an amount
according to proof at time of trial." 
10. Page 49, lines 1-4, which state
"Any lessor or agent of lessor who violates §1942.5, shall be liable to
the lessee in a civil action for all of the following 1) The actual damages
sustained by the lessee; (2) Punitive damages in an amount of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100) no more than two thousand ($2000) for each retaliatory
act where the lessor or agent has been guilty of fraud, oppression, or malice
with respect to that act."
11. Page 49, lines 17-20, which state
"Defendants have individually, and in concert, acted with reckless and
conscious disregard for the rights of the Plaintiff Defendants' conduct has
been grossly negligent, malicious, and oppressive, thereby entitling Plaintiff
to punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial." 
12. Page 51, lines 8-10, which state
"Plaintiffs are thus entitled to exemplary and punitive damages in an
amount according to proof at time of trial." 
13. Page 52, lines 23-28, which state
"Defendants unauthorized acts of conversion were done with the intent o
[sic] depriving Plaintiff of their property or legal rights or otherwise
causing injury, and were despicable, malicious, oppressive, and/or fraudulent
conduct that subjected Plaintiff to a cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of Plaintiffs rights, so as to justify an award of exemplary and
punitive damages to Plaintiff in an amount not yet ascertained but which amount
is within the jurisdictional requirements of this Court and will be proven at
time of trial." 
14. Prayer for relief items 6, which state
"For treble damages according to proof at time of trial" 
15. Prayer for relief items 7, which state
"For punitive and exemplary damages according to proof at time of
trial"” (Notice of Motion, pages 2-3).
 
As to Defendant Clay Claudino, the motion
to strike is denied.
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
“[I]t is clear that the availability of a
remedy for breach of implied warranty of habitability does not preclude a
tenant from suing his landlord for intentional infliction of mental distress if
the landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental
distress.” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921. “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.” Id. “[I]f the tenant wrongfully evicted elects to sue in
tort, damages may be awarded for mental anguish and pain or physical injury;
exemplary damages may also be recovered when the landlord's conduct justifies
the award[.]” Id. at 926.
 
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient specific
facts that Defendant Clay Claudino acted with malice, oppression, and/or fraud
to support the allegations and prayer for punitive damages. In addition,
Plaintiff has alleged facts to support the request for statutory penalties.
Finally, the allegations are not false, irrelevant, or improper on their face.
 
As to Defendants Lee Marie Claudino,
individually, and Clay Claudino and Lee Marie Claudino, as Trustees of the Clay
and Lee Claudino Living Trust Dated November 2, 2007, the motion to strike is
deemed moot pursuant to the Court’s ruling sustaining the demurrer to the
entire TAC.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of
this ruling.