 Case Number:  23TRCV00102    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Tuesday, July 16, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 12  



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
John
Doe 7091 v. El Segundo Unified School District, et al.  
23TRCV02265
1.     
El Segundo
Unified School District’s Motion for Stay of Proceedings   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
El Segundo Unified School District’s Motion for Stay
of Proceedings is denied. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on July 13, 2023, and
the First Amended Complaint was filed on July 21, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. While a student at El Segundo Middle School, Plaintiff was
groomed and sexually abused by a teacher beginning in 2001 through 2003. Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: 1. Negligence; 2. Negligent Supervision
and Retention; 3. Sexual Battery; 4. Sexual Harassment. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant’s and Plaintiff’s requests for judicial
notice are granted pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(a) and (c).
 
Motion for
Stay 
 
Pursuant to CCP § 128 and through its equitable power,
the trial court has broad authority to stay actions in the interests of justice
and to promote judicial efficiency. See
Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.
 
Defendant moves for a stay of this action to await the
decisions of the California Court of Appeals’ decisions in West Contra Costa
Unified School District v. The Superior Court of Contra Costa County, Case
No. A169314, and Roe #2 Public Elementary School District v. The Superior
Court of Santa Barbara County, Case No. B334707. Defendant moves on the
grounds that the decisions may render the instant action unactionable. 
 
Defendant cites Farmland Irrigation Co. v.
Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, 215 as authority for its request for a
stay. However, Farmland is unavailing. Farmland stated: “(1) When an action is
brought in a court of this state involving the same parties and the same
subject matter as an action already pending in a court of another jurisdiction,
a stay of the California proceedings is not a matter of right, but within the
sound discretion of the trial court. In exercising its discretion the court
should consider the importance of discouraging multiple litigation designed
solely to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the
courts of other jurisdictions. It should also consider whether the rights of
the parties can best be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction
because of the nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or
the stage to which the proceedings in the other court have already advanced.” Farmland
Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, 215. Here, the same parties
are not involved in the instant actions and the actions referred to by
Defendant.
 
More applicable and persuasive is the authority
presented by Plaintiff.  In Nken v.
Holder (2009) 556 U.S. 418, the U.S. Supreme Court discussed traditional stay
factors to consider when a stay is requested pending a decision by an appellate
court.  “[T]hese legal principles have
been distilled into consideration of four factors: (1) whether the stay
applicant has made a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on the merits;
(2) whether the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a stay; (3)
whether issuance of the stay will substantially injure the other parties
interested in the proceeding; and (4) where the public interest lies.”  Id. at 434 (internal quotation
omitted).
 
In evaluating these factors, the Court determines that
the moving party has not made a strong showing of likelihood of success on the
merits, the moving party has not shown irreparable injury absent a stay, and
the Court determines that a stay may substantially injure Plaintiff. Certainly,
a short stay may not cause substantial injury. However, a long stay may cause
substantial injury. At this time, Defendant has not provided a meaningful time
frame of when the California Court of Appeals will issue rulings in the
appellate court decisions referred to in this motion. Thus, at this time, the
stay requested is indefinite and undefined. 
 
Finally, the public interest lies in providing the
prompt and timely completion of civil proceedings, especially ones involving
such serious accusations. The public interest does not support providing an
indefinite stay on the speculation that a Court of Appeal may render a decision
that may be favorable to the moving party. Courts of Appeal throughout the land
have numerous decisions on their dockets that may presumably have an impact on
even more numerous on-going cases in lower courts. Simply seeking a stay based
on the possibility of a certain ruling – one way or another – does not support
the public interest under the facts presented herein by Defendant.
 
Therefore, Defendant’s Motion for Stay Proceedings is
denied.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 