 Case Number:  24STCV03300    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV03300




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant Wilson Sporting Goods Co.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Marielita Palacios



 BACKGROUND
Defendant Wilson
Sporting Goods Co. (“Defendant”) moves for an order quashing the service of
summons in this action.  Plaintiff
Marielita Palacios (“Plaintiff”) opposes the motion.  
ANALYSIS
Both parties rely extensively on federal case
law.  The Court is not bound to follow
the decisions of lower federal courts.  (People
v. Superior Court (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 409, 431.)  Therefore, the court disregards those
citations.  The court also disregards
citations to trial court orders in such cases. 
“Neither federal district court procedures nor decisions are binding on
this court.” (Thomas G. Ferruzzo, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 104
Cal.App.3d 501, 503.)  Likewise, “a
written trial court ruling has no precedential value. [Citation.]” (Santa
Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshé (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831.) 
Under the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, state courts may
exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who have “minimum contacts”
with the forum state.  Minimum contacts
exist when the relationship between the nonresident and the forum state is such
that the exercise of jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (International Shoe Co. v. Washington
(1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316, internal quotations omitted.)
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general
or specific.  A nonresident defendant may
be subject to the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or
her contacts in the forum state are substantial[,] continuous and
systematic.  In such a case, it is not
necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the
defendant's business relationship to the forum. 
Such a defendant's contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging that they
take the place of physical presence in the forum as a basis for
jurisdiction.”  (Vons Companies, Inc.
v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445-446, internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
Even if a nonresident defendant does not have
sufficient contacts with California such that the defendant is subject to suit
in California generally, the defendant may nonetheless be subject to
jurisdiction in California for claims based on the defendant’s activities in
the state.  To assert “limited” or
“specific” personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant, the plaintiff
must demonstrate that: (a) the out-of-state defendant purposefully established
contacts with the forum state; (b) the plaintiff's cause of action “arises out
of” or is “related to” defendant's contacts with the forum state; and (c) the
forum's exercise of personal jurisdiction in the particular case comports with
“fair play and substantial justice.”  (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985)
471 U.S. 462, 477-478.)
“[W]hen jurisdiction is challenged by a
nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to demonstrate
that ‘minimum contacts’ exist between defendant and the forum state to justify
imposition of personal jurisdiction.”  (Elkman v. National States Ins. Co.
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1313.)  If the
plaintiff meets the initial burden, “it becomes the defendant’s burden to
demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
1353, 1362.)
Defendant provides evidence that it is a
Delaware corporation, with its principal place of business in Illinois.  (Declaration of Daniel S. Hurwitz, Exhibit
A.)  Defendant provides no information regarding Defendant’s
operations in California.  As such,
Defendant fails to show it lacks sufficient minimum contacts with California
for California to exercise general jurisdiction over Defendant.  
Further, Plaintiff’s complaint in this case
is based on accessing Defendant’s website from California.  A nonresident defendant who engages with California
residents through the Internet may be subject to local personal jurisdiction.  (See Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1060.)  Plaintiff presents evidence Defendant’s
website includes a privacy policy, which specifically addresses the privacy
rights of Californians who visit its website, as well as information on
Defendant’s efforts to comply with the California Transparency in Supply Chains
Act of 2010.  (Declaration of Scott J.
Ferrell, ¶¶ 8-9.)  Further, Plaintiff’s
evidence reveals Defendant operates retail stores in California and enables
users to locate nearby retail stores in California through its website.  (Id., ¶ 11.)  As such, Defendant expected Californians to
access and interact with its website.  Accordingly,
the motion to quash is denied.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.