  Case Number:  22STCV23481    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


July 2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV23481




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTIES:


Defendants Virginia Toledo, Ronnie Toledo, Edward Toledo,
  and Guadalupe Toledo




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff Estibi Fuentes Tamayo



 MOTIONS
            Defendants
Virginia Toledo, Ronnie Toledo, Edward Toledo, and Guadalupe Toledo
(“Defendants”) move to compel Plaintiff Estibi Fuentes Tamayo (“Plaintiff”) to appear
for deposition.  Plaintiff opposes the
motion.
ANALYSIS
If a party to the
action fails to testify at deposition after service of a deposition notice, and
the party has not served a valid objection to that deposition notice, the party
who noticed the deposition may move for an order to compel the deponent to
attend and testify at deposition.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (a).)  
Defendants served
Plaintiff with a notice of the deposition. 
(Declaration of Jonathan P. Cyr, Exhibit D.)  Plaintiff objected to the deposition notice
on the basis Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel were unavailable on the noticed
date.  The date of the deposition is not
an “error or irregularity” in the deposition notice, to which Plaintiff could
object. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410.) 
To date, Plaintiff has not appeared for deposition.  Accordingly, the motion is granted.
Plaintiff argued
Defendants failed to adequately attempt to informally resolve this matter.  Plaintiff is incorrect.  Defendants were only required to “contact[] [Plaintiff]
to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  Defendants
did so. (Declaration of Jonathan P. Cyr, Exhibits E, F.)
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s failure to appear for deposition as noticed is an abuse of the discovery
process and imposes sanctions.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (g).)    Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record, Jacob
O. Partiyeli, are to pay sanctions to Defendants in the amount of $800, which
represents four hours of attorney time to prepare the motion and attend the
hearing at $200 per hour.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff to
appear for deposition is granted.  Plaintiff
is to appear for deposition within 30 days of the notice of this order, unless Defendants
stipulate otherwise.  The scope of the
deposition is as set forth in Exhibit D attached to the Cyr Declaration.
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record,
Jacob O. Partiyeli, jointly and severally, are to pay sanctions in the amount
of $800 to Defendants, by and through counsel, within 30 days. 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 