 Case Number:  24STCVP0683    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


July 2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


24STCP00683




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Discovery Responses




MOVING PARTY:


Respondent Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance Company




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTIONS
            Respondent
Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance Company (“Respondent”) moves to compel responses
from Claimant Bijan Haghnazarzadeh (“Claimant”) to Form Interrogatories ("FROG"), set one and Specially Prepared Interrogatories (“SROG”), set one.     
 ANALYSIS
In its notice of
motion filed on April 10, 2024, Respondent notes it moves to compel Claimant to
respond to the FROG.  Although it
references a memorandum of points and authorities, a declaration from its
counsel, and a proposed order, neither of those were filed with the notice
concerning the FROG.  Separately, Respondent
did file a memorandum of authorities. 
But that memorandum only spoke to the SROG, and Respondent attached to
it as exhibits the SROG propounded on Claimant and a series of meet and confer
letters regarding the discovery that had been served but for which no responses
had been received.  (Memorandum of Points
and Authorities, Exhibit A.)   In the
memorandum, there was no mention of, or reference to, the FROG, nor did Respondent
provide a copy of the FROG that was propounded on Claimant.  The Court cannot compel Claimant to respond
to the FROG, which is not before the Court. 
Accordingly, the motion as to the FROG is denied without prejudice.  
As for the SROG, Respondent
has established Claimant did not provide any responses to them, despite Respondent
having served multiple letters requesting such responses since they were first
served on Claimant on August 15, 2023. 
Under the circumstances, Claimant has waived his right to object to the
SROG.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).)  Therefore, Claimant is
ordered to provide responses to the SROG without objections within 20
days.  
Respondent asks
for sanctions to be levied against Claimant in the amount of $418.65.  However, Respondent has not detailed by way
of a declaration or otherwise how that amount was derived. On
that basis alone, the court will not grant the request for sanctions in this
instance.  
Respondent is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 