  Case Number:  22STCV04358    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  40 
22STCV04358 Karyna Myres v. Ernst Hacker, et al.
Friday,
 December 13, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING
 MOTION BY DEFENDANT, KAPE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT,
BUT GRANTING IN PART AND DENYING IN PART THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF
ISSUES
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
This action arises from alleged
uninhabitable conditions of a residential unit (“residence”) leased  by Plaintiff on September 14, 2013, from
Defendant, Ernst Hacker (“Landlord”), alleged to be the property owner, and from
Defendant, Kape Property Management, Inc. (“Kape”) the alleged property manager
of the residence. The property was located at 718 North Hayworth Avenue, Los
Angeles (“Hayworth property”). Plaintiff alleges Defendants constructively
evicted and/or otherwise forced Plaintiff to vacate the premises because of the
uninhabitable conditions that allegedly arose from events beginning with a
ceiling collapse on February 22, 2020 until Plaintiff left the premises on December
22, 2020. Plaintiff alleges 10 causes of action arising from these facts. 
II.      ARGUMENTS
A.      Motion
filed December 1, 2023. 
Kape moves for summary judgment or
adjudication of all 10 causes of action on grounds Defendant is not the proper
party for any of the claims, as it became property manager in 2020, and did not
enter into any assignment or delegation with regard to existing leases. Hacker
never delegated to Kape the owner’s duty to maintain the premises in a
habitable condition. All claims asserted by Plaintiff require the existence of
a contractual relationship. Kape argues it is undisputed that it forwarded all
complaints of uninhabitable conditions to Hacker, whose duty it remained to
remedy the conditions. Kape argues that the undisputed facts warrant judgment
in its favor, as more specifically described below. 
B.     
Opposition filed December 2, 2024.
The separate statement is defective.
Defendant must specifically refer to documentary evidence by page and line
number. “Exhibit 2” is 51 pages. The court should strike it.  
Plaintiff concedes that Kape is not a
party to the contract-based causes of action, which are based on Plaintiff’s
lease agreement with Hacker. Plaintiff has filed a motion for leave to file a
first amended complaint removing Kape from these claims. The opposition is
limited to the remaining tort claims, for which Kape bears liability.
As to the remaining claims, Plaintiff
argues Kape, as the landlord’s agent, is liable for the claims asserted by
Plaintiff. Kape’s contention that it does not owe a duty for the obligations
alleged by Plaintiff is based on a “self-serving” declaration claiming that
Hacker orally agreed that Kape’s responsibilities were limited, none of which
was disclosed to tenants. Triable issues remain as to Kape’s duties and
obligations. 
Plaintiff objects to the Srovolitz
declaration as it lacks any personal knowledge of the facts, which Mr.
Srovolitz admitted at deposition. The declaration rests on inadmissible
hearsay. 
 
C.     
Reply filed December 11, 2024
Kape argues its Separate Statement is
proper, and evidence submitted is admissible. No triable issues of fact remain.

III.    LEGAL
STANDARDS
       Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that the material facts
are undisputed and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (c).) The moving party’s burden is to show that based on the undisputed facts
“one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded,
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action." (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (p)(2).) If that threshold burden is met,
the burden shifts to the opposing party to show a triable issue of one or more
material facts. (Code Civ. Proc., §437c(p)(1).)
       A
party may move for summary adjudication “as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, [or] that there is no merit to a claim for [punitive] damages.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c. subd.(f)(1).)
       The
court applies the three-step analysis to motions for summary judgment or
adjudication: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleading, (2) determine
whether the moving party established facts which negate the opponents’ claim,
(3) if the moving party meets its threshold burden of persuasion and the burden
shifts, determine whether the opposing party has controverted those facts with
admissible evidence. (Torres
v. Reardon (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 831, 836.) 
IV.    DISCUSSION
A.      Plaintiff’s
objections and request for judicial notice.
       The
court need only rule on those objections to evidence that the court deems
material to its disposition of the motion. Objections to evidence that are not
ruled on for purposes of the motion are preserved for appellate review. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (q).) Accordingly, the court will
address the evidentiary objections submitted by both parties to the extent they
relate to evidence that are material to the court’s ruling. 
       The
court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of Los Angeles Ordinance
No. 186585; Code Civ. Proc., § 1179.03(b)(2) and Civil Code § 1946.1(b). (Evid.
Code, § 452(b).) Judicial notice of the death record for Defendant Hacker is
granted. (Evid. Code, § 452(c).)
B.      Analysis

1)     
Adjudication
of the contract-based causes of action (second, third, sixth,) is GRANTED.
       Plaintiff concedes that Kape is not a
proper party to the contract-based claims and will move for leave to amend to
remove Kape from those claims. Plaintiff opposes only the tort claims. (Opp. 2:26-28.)
As Plaintiff does not oppose the motion to these claims, the court grants the
adjudication as to the claims for (2) breach of contract; (3) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (6) breach of the implied
warranty of habitability.
 
2)      The
parties do not dispute the material facts that form the context of Plaintiff’s
claims.
       Plaintiff
entered into a lease agreement with Hacker for the residence at issue (UF 1.) Plaintiff’s
complaints began on February 22, 2020, when construction began in the adjacent
apartment causing disruption and falling pieces of the ceiling that struck
Plaintiff in the head (UF 2). Disrputive construction issues continued through
2020 including odors emanating into her apartment that made Plaintiff feel ill (UF
3). Construction workers began harassing Plaintiff later in the year (UF 4.) Plaintiff
complained about messages containing legal threats action for failing to pay
rent (UF 5.) [1]
3)      Issue
1 – nuisance. Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
       Relying
on Civil Code § 3479, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants created a nuisance by
employing unlicensed contractors to perform unpermitted demolition at the
property, failing to rectify reported gas lease at the property and premises,
and by failing to ameliorate the conditions. (FAC ¶ 55-56.) Section 3479 defines
a nuisance “as anything injurious to health” or is “indecent or offensive to
the senses” that interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life  or property." (Civ.
Code, § 3479.) 
       Defendant
argues that the only parties who can be liable for a nuisance are the parties who
maintain, create or assist in creating the nuisance. (Kaura
v. Stabilis Fund II, LLC (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 420, 434.) Defendant
contends that Hacker hired the construction workers, and Kape did not assume
authority or control over the construction workers. All authority was retained
by Srovolovitz. (DSS 10.) The only evidence in support of this contention is
the  declaration of Noam Srolovitz, who
is the managing agent for Kape. (Def. COE, Ex.  3).
       Mr.
Srolovitz contends Kape was not responsible for the construction at issue
because Kape had an oral agreement with Hacker to take on limited
responsibilities to handle repairs and to field resident complaints. (DSS 6,
Srolovitz decl). Defendant refers to Ex. 4, which is not included in the
compendium. Defendant relies only on Mr. Srovolovitz, who declares the oral
contract limited Kape’s property management duties, and that Hacker retained
the duties to keep the properties habitable. (Srovolovitz decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)
       Whether
Kape’s duties were limited is disputed by Plaintiff’s evidence (P’s COE, Ex. 1,
letter to all residents of 2/24/20.) The letter introduced Kape as the new
property manager, advised how to make maintenance requests, and submit rent and
other payments. Nothing in the letter limits Kape’s duties and obligations owed
to Hacker as the new property manager.  
       The
written contract between Hacker and Kape dated April 27, 2021, gave Kape the “exclusive
right to operate and manage” the Hayworth property, including authority to “make
and/or cause to be made and/or supervise repairs, maintenance, improvements,
alterations, and decorations to the property”; and to contract, hire and
supervise and/or discharge persons required for the operation and maintenance
of the property. (D’s COE Ex. 3(A).) The written contract disputes Kape’s
contention that they did not assume any kind of authority or control over the
construction workers with regard to hiring, firing, providing direction or
scope of work, among other things, notwithstanding Mr. Srolovitz’s declaration
to the contrary
       Accordingly,
Kape’s responsibility for the construction complained of remains in dispute.
(PSS 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14.) 
4)      Issue
4 – Negligence. Summary adjudication is DENIED.
       Plaintiff
alleges that at common law and pursuant to Civil Code §§ 1941 and 1941.1
Defendants owed a duty to Plaintiff to manage, operate and/or maintain the
premises. Defendant argues that as a property manager, it did not owe a duty to
Plaintiff under the factors set forth in Rowland v. Christian 69 Cal.2d
108 and Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903. 
       Kape
argues that because Kape was limited to responsibilities for repair,
maintenance, general complaints, Kape was not given contractual authority to
manage, hire, fire, or otherwise supervise construction workers. Kape maintains
it was more of a “customer service agent.” (Mot.  23:21-23.) Since its relationship with Hacker
was so limited, Kape did not owe a duty to Plaintiff as a tenant since Kape’s
oral agreement with the Hacker limited the scope of its responsibilities and
was not intended to affect the Plaintiff with respect to construction workers.  
       Rental
agents such as Kape owe a duty of ordinary care towards the tenant “because the
transaction between the rental agent and the landowner was clearly intended to
affect the tenants, and because harm would be foreseeable to the tenants if the
rental agent did not properly perform his duty." (Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 930–931.) 
       Defendant
relies on the identical material facts offered in support of the nuisance claim
to argue that its contract with Hacker was limited and did not include a duty
to supervise the construction workers. The material facts in support of this
contention are disputed. (PSS 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14.) 
       Defendant
offers other facts that appear to establish it satisfied the duty owed to
Plaintiff by referring her complaints to Hacker about loud banging ,
construction schedules and drinking on the premises. (PSS 15, 18.) Whether
Kape’s handling of Plaintiff’s complaints were sufficient to satisfy its duty
is a triable issue as this depends on the scope of Kape’s responsibilities, is
disputed. 
5)     
Issue
5 – Summary adjudication of breach of statutes and Issue 7: Breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment is GRANTED. 
       Plaintiff alleges that pursuant to Civ.
Code, § 1941 and 1941.1, and in the absence of an agreement to the contrary,
dwellings are required to be tenantable. 
A dwelling is untenantable if it meets any of the criteria under Civil
Code § 17920.3. (FAC ¶ 75-76.) Based on allegations previously alleged,
Defendants breached their duty under these code sections. 
       Kape
argues that the statutes on which these claims are based, including Civil Code
section 1927 (for quiet enjoyment), require the existence of a lease contract,
and therefore, Defendant is not a proper party to these claims. The statute
explicitly imposes the duty on the lessor, and Mr. Hacker retained the duty to
keep the premises habitable. Kape argues that if the duty fell on Kape, Kape responded
to Plaintiff’s complaints and forwarded the complaints to Hacker as needed.
Kape was not given notice of a gas leak in a manner that could be remedied.  
       Plaintiff
contends that other code sections applicable to residential dwellings define “landlord”
to include their agents. Whether Defendant was responsive to Plaintiff’s
complaints, assuming it did owe a duty, Defendant relies on Mr. Srolovitz’s
declaration which is contrary to his deposition testimony, wherein Mr.
Srolovitz could not recall and could only attest as to what he would have done.
Plaintiff contends none of these facts are supported by the evidence. 
       Civil
Code § 1941 expressly states that a lessor has the obligation to put a dwelling
in a condition fit for human occupation. (Civ.
Code, § 1941.) Section 1941.1 defines an untenantable
building. (Civ.
Code, § 1941.1). Quiet enjoyment is owed by the “letter”
and is implied in the lease contract. (Civ.
Code, § 1927 [“An agreement to let upon hire binds the
letter to secure to the hirer the quiet possession of the thing hired during
the term of the hiring, against all persons lawfully claiming the same."].)
       Plaintiff
argues that other sections refer to a landlord or his agent citing Civil Code §
1980 and 1941.3. However, Section 1980 imposes liability on a landlord or his
agent with respect to the disposition of personal property. (Civ.
Code, § 1980.) Section 1941.3 identifies affirmative
duties owed by a landlord or his agent to install and maintain dead bolt locks,
operable window security, and locking mechanisms on exterior doors that comply
with applicable fire and safety codes. (Civ.
Code, § 1941.3.)
       These
statutes do not apply to the duty to make a dwelling tenantable or the duty of
quiet enjoyment.  The statutes are instructive,
however, in that the Legislature could have included “agents” but chose not do
so. As there is no dispute that Kape is not a landlord on whom liability is
imposed, the motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to these causes of
action.
6)     
Issue
6: breach of warranty of habitability. Summary adjudication is GRANTED. 

       Plaintiff alleges that Defendants owed
Plaintiff a duty of habitability which is implied in Plaintiff’s tenancy and
the lease agreement. Defendants had actual and constructive notice of the
uninhabitable conditions and refused to adequately abate and/or repair the
conditions. (FAC ¶ 81-82.)
       Defendant
argues that this cause of action requires the existence of a landlord-tenant
relationship, and therefore, it is not a proper party. The duty to maintain the
premises in a habitable condition was owed by hacker. (DSS 11.) 
       The
warranty of habitability is implied in a lease agreement. (Green
v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 629 ["…
modern conditions compel the recognition of a common law implied warranty of
habitability in residential leases."].)  While a common law claim for breach of the
implied warranty is in addition to Civil Code § 1941, the duty is implied in
residential lease agreements. (Green 631.)
       Plaintiff
appears to have subsumed this cause of action in her discussion of her
statutory claims for breach of the implied warranty but offers no persuasive
authority that the duty is extended to property managers. Accordingly,
adjudication is granted as to this cause of action for the same reasons as
Issue 5.
7)      Issue
8: constructive eviction. Summary adjudication is DENIED. 
       Plaintiff
alleges that as a result of Defendants’ conduct, she was forced to and did
vacate the premises on December 22, 2020. (FAC ¶ 93.) 
       Kape
improperly asserts that this cause of action is based only on the alleged gas
leak that Plaintiff reported but was not remedied by Defendants. Plaintiff
incorporates all allegations affecting her tenancy into this cause of action.  For this reason alone, summary adjudication of
this cause of action is denied. Kape argues that the proper party for this
claim is Hacker, not Kape, and that the finding of a “red tag” gas leak does
not result in lease termination. 
       Defendant
does not cite any authority for the proposition that only landlords are liable
for acts that cause the constructive eviction of a tenant. A constructive
eviction is any disturbance of the tenant's possession by the lessor or at his
procurement ... which has the effect of depriving the tenant of the beneficial
enjoyment of the premises, amounts to a constructive eviction, provided the
tenant vacates the premises within a reasonable time. [Citations.]’
[Citations]. The Supreme Court stated in Standard Live Stock Co. v. Pentz
(1928) 204 Cal. 618, 625, 269 P. 645 ... that ‘the covenant of quiet possession
in a lease is not breached until there has been an actual or constructive
eviction" ( Erlach
v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
1281, 1300). Without more, Kape has not established it cannot be
liable for this claim. 
8)      Issue
9: intentional infliction of emotional distress. Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
       Plaintiff
incorporates the preceding allegations to support this claim. To prevail on a
claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, plaintiff must allege
facts showing (1) extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress, (2)
that plaintiff suffered severe or extreme emotional distress, and (3) actual
and proximate causation. (Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.) 
       Kape
improperly isolates the Defendants’ conduct on which this claim is based to issuing
legal notices for late rent as the sole basis for this claim. Plaintiff’s
alleged claims go beyond legal notices for late rent. (FAC ¶ 81). Plaintiff
adds additional bases for the claim to include the Defendants’ failure to
inspect despite promises to do so and failure to abate conditions of which
Defendants had actual or constructive notice (FAC ¶ 82). The court cannot grant
partial motions for summary judgment or adjudication. 
       Defendant’s
burden on summary judgment is to challenge all theories of liability raised by
Plaintiff and challenge each factually. Defendant’s burden on summary judgment is
to identify and respond to all theories of liability reflected in the
complaint, "even if not separately pleaded.” (Lopez v. Superior Court (1996) 52
Cal.Rptr.2d 821.) 
9)      Issue
10: Negligent infliction of emotional distress. Summary adjudication is DENIED.

       Plaintiff
incorporates all facts to support this claim. Defendant argues that the facts
do not support the claim because Plaintiff is not a “direct victim” or a
“bystander” which is essential to this claim. Defendant is wrong. 
       There
are two theories under which a plaintiff may recover: (1) as a bystander or (2)
as a direct victim.( Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1072.)  In “bystander cases,” the question of duty is
analyzed in “circumstances in which a plaintiff seeks to recover damages as a
percipient witness to the injury of another.” (Christensen, supra, 54
Cal.3d at p. 884, 2 Cal.Rptr.2d 79, 820 P.2d 181.) These cases “all arise in
the context of physical injury or emotional distress caused by the negligent
conduct of a defendant with whom the plaintiff had no preexisting
relationship, and to whom the defendant had not previously assumed a duty of
care beyond that owed to the public in general.” (Ibid., emphasis
added.) In other words, bystander liability is premised upon a defendant's
violation of a duty not to negligently cause emotional distress to people who
observe conduct which causes harm to another." (Burgess
at  1072–1073 [italics in
original].)
       Based
on the allegations of the complaint, Plaintiff is not a bystander; she alleges
she is a direct victim of the misconduct that caused her constructive eviction.
(Burgess at 1075 “[A claim for negligently inflicted emotional distress
will lie, notwithstanding the criteria imposed upon recovery by bystanders, in cases
where a duty arising from a preexisting relationship is negligently breached.
[citations omitted] In fact, it is this later principle which defines the
phrase "direct victim."].)  Kape misconstrues this claim as one alleging
“bystander” negligent infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges Kape
breached an independent duty owed to Plaintiff as property manager charged with
the duty to ameliorate the harm caused by the ongoing construction on adjacent
premises (among other things). Accordingly, Kape’s argument does not consider
the material allegations of the complaint. 
V.      CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is DENIED. The alternative
motion for summary adjudication is granted in part as follows:
       The
court GRANTS adjudication in Kape’s favor of the contract-based causes of
action which Plaintiff did not oppose (second, third causes of action).
       The
court GRANTS summary adjudication of the following: Issue 5: breach of statutes;
Issue 6: breach of warranty of habitability;  Issue 7: breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment.
       In all other respects, the motion
for summary adjudication is DENIED. 
 


