  Case Number:  23STCV10241    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  61 GINA BURCIAGA vs B.S.D. CAPITAL, INC., A CORPORATION, et al.Tentative:The Court’s Motion for Reconsideration of the August 7, 2024 Order Denying Defendant B.S.D. Capital, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The order of August 7, 2024 is vacated, and the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. Plaintiff’s PAGA claims for other aggrieved employees are STAYED pending resolution of the arbitration under Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4. The order of November 18, 2024, striking Plaintiff’s individual PAGA allegations in conformity with the now-vacated August 7 order is also vacated.Defendant to provide notice.Analysis:I. MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATIONThe court possesses the inherent power to reconsider its prior interim orders upon its own motion. (See Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1105 [interpreting section 1008 as “a limitation on the parties' ability to file repetitive motions, but not on the court's authority to reconsider its prior interim rulings on its own motion”].) The proper procedure for reconsideration of a prior order on the court’s own motion “must formally begin with the court on its motion,” and the court “should inform the parties of this concern, solicit briefing, and hold a hearing.” (Le Francois, supra, 35 Cal.4th at pp. 1108–1109.)The order under reconsideration here is this court’s order of August 6, 2024, denying Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration, on the grounds that Plaintiff Gina Burciaga (Plaintiff) had stated an intention to dismiss all individual PAGA claims, and thereby remove from this case all matters subject to arbitration under Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906.This court sought reconsideration on its own motion following Defendant B.S.D. Capital’s (Defendant) demurrer and motion to strike, heard on November 18, 2024, which argued at great length that the dismissal of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim — meaning any “claim seeking to recover a civil penalty imposed because of a Labor Code violation suffered by the plaintiff, which civil penalty, if recovered, will be distributed 75 percent to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency and 25 percent to the plaintiff as the employee aggrieved by the violation pursuant to section 2699, subdivision (i).” (Galarsa v. Dolgen California, LLC (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 639, 648 — rendered Plaintiff’s entire representative PAGA action infirm under Labor Code § 2699, subd. (a). This court granted the motion to strike to conform Plaintiff’s FAC with its order to compel arbitration, but on its own motion sought reconsideration of the order denying arbitration.In that order, the court reasoned as follows:In Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.app.5th 533, the court held that because PAGA standing required only status as an aggrieved employee, it did not require the allegation of any individual PAGA claim to state a representative PAGA claim: “The statutory goal is furthered by extending broad standing to aggrieved employees who do not depend on the viability or strength of a plaintiff's individual PAGA claim. The inability for an employee to pursue an individual PAGA claim does not prevent that employee from filing a representative PAGA action.” (Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533, 537.)From the above authority, Plaintiff is correct that she need not allege an individual PAGA claim seeking relief on her own behalf to pursue representative PAGA claims on behalf of other aggrieved employees. Although Plaintiff in fact alleges an individual PAGA claim in the present iteration of her Complaint — seeking “to recover civil penalties for herself and on behalf of all current and former aggrieved employees” (Complaint ¶ 1) — under Balderas and Adolph, it is not essential for Plaintiff to seek civil penalties for violations she suffered in order to seek penalties for the violations suffered by others: she need only allege she was an employee of the alleged violator and someone against whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed. (Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 1120.) Plaintiff presently seeks permission to dismiss her individual PAGA claims, and under the above authority, she may do so. And in doing so, Defendant’s request for arbitration becomes moot, as there remains no individual PAGA claim to arbitrate.(8/6/2024 Order.)This ruling was erroneous, as demonstrated by Defendant’s arguments in demurrer. Although Balderas used the language of “individual PAGA claims,” language elsewhere in the decision makes clear that the plaintiff sought civil penalties for “for violations of PAGA on behalf of herself and 500 other current and former employees of defendant.” (Balderas, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p. 536.) Allowing the prosecution of only the PAGA claims of other aggrieved employees, without claims for violations suffered by the plaintiff employee themselves, is in violation of Labor Code § 2699, subd. (a), which defines a PAGA action as “a civil action brought by an aggrieved employee on behalf of the employee and other current or former employees.” (Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (a).)Recent authority confirms the above line of reasoning. In Leeper v. Shipt, Inc. (Cal. Ct. App., December 30, 2024) --- Cal.Rptr.3d ---, 2024 WL 5251619, the Court of Appeal directly addressed Balderas, and held: “Based on the unambiguous, ordinary meaning of the relevant statutory language and the legislative history of that language . . . we conclude that every PAGA action necessarily includes an individual PAGA claim.” (Id. at 2024 WL 5251619 at *1.) The authority that Plaintiff cites in opposition uniformly addresses the proposition that “individual claims”— i.e. non-PAGA claims — are not necessary to bring a PAGA claim, which is not a matter in dispute. (Opposition at pp. 6–7, citing Johnson v. Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 924.) At issue here is not Plaintiff’s ability to seek PAGA relief apart from claims brought her individual capacity on her own behalf, but to seek representative PAGA relief for “other current or former employees” without seeking PAGA penalties for violations suffered by herself. Labor Code § 2699 subd. (a) and the recent Leeper decision prevent this conclusion.Plaintiff argued in opposition to the motion to compel arbitration that the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) — and thus the holding of Viking River Cruises — did not apply, because Defendant had not presented evidence that Plaintiff’s employment involved interstate commerce. (7/24/2024 Opposition at pp. 6–8.) The application of the FAA is coextensive with the “broadest permissible exercise of Congress' Commerce Clause power.” (Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S. 52, 56.) As such, the individual employees work need not be actually “in commerce,” and need not, “taken alone, . . . have a ‘substantial effect on interstate commerce,’ if in the aggregate the economic activity in question would represent ‘a general practice ... subject to federal control.” (Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S. 52, 57.)Here, Defendant presented evidence that it is a small-business lender offering lending services to customers in California and states outside California, “with borrowers nationwide in many states across the country.” (5/21/2024 Sands Decl. ¶ 4.) Businesses across the country apply for loans with Defendant’s online portal. (Id.at ¶ 5.) Lendistry is a designated small business lending company under the federal Small Business Administration’s 7(a) Loan Program, and it has been hired by the states of New York and Pennsylvania to administer small business grant programs (Id. at ¶¶ 7–8.) Defendant’s employees across multiple states “engage in interstate communications” with each other “as part of their job duties.” (Id. at. ¶ 9.)Defendant has therefore shown that, given the scope of its business, Plaintiff’s successive positions as underwriter – Business Support, Team Lead – Business Support, then Operations Manager, had an aggregate effect with others similarly employed in affecting interstate commerce, and thus subject to congressional regulation and the FAA. (5/21/2024 5 Decl. Exhs. 1–3.) Plaintiff’s authority in opposition addressed employers who failed to substantiate that they were engaged in interstate commerce. (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 688 [“Lane never admitted to being engaged in interstate commerce, and FCM produced no declaration about the nature of its business or the scope of Lane's employment.”]; Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207 [“The only established facts are that Hoover was a California resident who sold life insurance policies. Even though AIL is based in Texas, there was no evidence in the record establishing that the relationship between Hoover and AIL had a specific effect or “bear[ing] on interstate commerce in a substantial way.”].) Because Defendant has supplied the required evidence, the FAA applies to this matter.Plaintiff further argued that even if her individual PAGA claims were arbitrable, the agreement contained no representative action waiver as was the case in Viking River Cruises, meaning that no arbitration could be ordered on her PAGA claims. (7/24/2024 Opposition at pp. 5–6.) But there is little reason to hold that a representative action waiver is necessary to arbitrate the individual portion of a PAGA claim. In Piplack v. In-N-Out Burgers (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1281, the court declined to hold that an arbitration provision disallowing arbitration of “private attorney general action[s]” did not bar arbitration of the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim under Viking River:The key point is the meaning of the phrase “a private attorney general action.” Plaintiffs understand that phrase to include any PAGA claim, and under Iskanian’s approach to PAGA, that reading would have been plausible. But Viking changes the analysis. After Viking, every PAGA action is properly understood as a combination of two claims: an “individual” claim, arising from the Labor Code violations suffered by the plaintiff or plaintiffs themselves, and a “representative” claim, arising from violations suffered by other employees. By virtue of FAA preemption, these claims are severable from one another, and the “individual” claim is arbitrable, even if the state, which holds a 75 percent interest in any civil penalties recovered, does not consent to or participate in the arbitration. Thus, the individual claim is “individual” within the meaning of defendant's arbitration agreement, and only the “representative” claim is a true qui tam, or “private attorney general,” action. And the agreement makes clear, “The ... Private Attorney General Waiver ... shall be severable in any case in which the dispute is filed as an individual action and severance is necessary to ensure that the individual action proceeds in arbitration.” (Piplack, supra, 88 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1288–1289.) Just as here, Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims are properly considered within the scope of “any claim or controversy” subject to the arbitration agreement, between herself and Defendant, not as within the scope of a hypothetical waiver of non-arbitrable representative actions. (5/21/2024 Sands Decl. Exh. 1.)The agreement encompasses Plaintiff’s claims under the Labor Code. The arbitration agreements are included in portions of Plaintiff’s offers of employment and promotion, which describe her position and compensation. (5/21/2024 Sands Decl. Exh. 1–3.) The arbitration agreement applies to “any controversy or claim arising out of, or relating to, this agreement.” (Ibid.) This is a broadly worded arbitration provision that applies to litigation rooted in the employment relationship created by the agreement: “It is well established . . . that when courts say that an arbitration agreement including ‘relating to’ is broad, it typically is because it expands the reach of the agreement to encompass claims rooted in the employment relationship, even if the claims do not actually arise from the employment contract itself.” (Vaughn v. Tesla, Inc. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 208, 220.) The arbitration agreement here thus applies to claims rooted in Plaintiff’s employment relationship with Defendant, which includes Plaintiff’s PAGA claims.Plaintiff’s contention that the clause applies only to actions to “enforce” the agreement is without textual basis. And although Plaintiff argues that the arbitration provision does not specifically reference the Labor Code (7/24/2024 Opposition at p. 12), “[a]n explicit reference to a statute . . . is not required for a California court to find that statutory claims are within the scope of the arbitration agreement.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 687.) Thus Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim falls within the ambit of the arbitration clause.It is therefore appropriate to reconsider and vacate this court’s order of August 7, 2024, denying Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration, and granting the motion in as to Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. Although Plaintiff argues that her arbitrable individual allegations have been stricken (Opposition at pp. 4–6), the order striking those allegations was to bring Plaintiff’s complaint into conformity with the now-vacated August 7, 2024 order, and is therefore properly vacated as well. The alternative to this procedure is the dismissal of Plaintiff’s claims, in conformity with Defendant’s demurrer, as Plaintiff cannot assert a PAGA claim without a concurrent individual PAGA claim.Plaintiff’s PAGA claims for other aggrieved employees are properly stayed while her individual PAGA claim is arbitrated. “If a court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.) The staying of other-aggrieved-employee claims pending arbitration of individual PAGA claims has been approved in other cases. (See Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1124; Leeper, supra, --- Cal.Rptr.3d ---, 2024 WL 5251619 at *6.) Plaintiff argues that such a stay is discretionary, but offers no argument as to why that discretion should be exercised to deny the stay in this particular case. (Opposition at pp. 11–15.)The motion for reconsideration is GRANTED, the order of August 7, 024 denying Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims is vacated, and the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. Plaintiff’s claims for other aggrieved employees are STAYED pending resolution of the arbitration. The order of November 18, 2024, striking Plaintiff’s individual PAGA allegations in conformity with the now-vacated August 7 order is also vacated.