 Case Number:  22STCV13356    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  39 Carlos Patlan v.
Group V San Bernardino L.P.
Case No.
22STCV13356
Motion to Compel
Deposition of Mike Nijjar 
Motion for
Protective Order
Case Management
Conference
 
            Plaintiffs
filed this habitability case against Defendants Group V San Bernardino L.P.
(“Group V”), Sherri Wilson (“Wilson”) and Golden Management Services, Inc.
(“Golden Management”).  Plaintiffs move
to compel the deposition of Mike Nijjar, who is the president and general
partner of Group V, which owns the subject premises.  (See Declaration of Mike Nijjar, ¶ 1.)  Group V seeks a protective order to prevent
Plaintiffs from taking this deposition, arguing that it is an apex
deposition.  
 
            Plaintiff
represents that Nijjar is the sole partner and employee of Group V.  Counsel for Group V does not dispute that
representation.  Because Nijjar is the
only partner/employee, there is no less intrusive means of obtaining Nijjar’s
information, so this is not an apex deposition. 
According to Nijjar, he is “not personally involved in the management or
maintenance of the Subject Property” and is “not familiar with the management
operations at the Subject Property.” 
(Declaration of Mike Nijjar, ¶¶ 3-4.) 
This is not a basis to foreclose the deposition of Mike Nijjar.  Group V owns the building.  If the owner lacks personal knowledge
concerning the management and maintenance, that is relevant to Plaintiffs’
case.  
 
            Counsel for
Group V suggests that employees of the property management company—like Sherri
Wilson and others—may act as persons most qualified for Group V.  That is incorrect.  Because they are not partners/employees of
Group V, they cannot competently testify to “the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to” Group V. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.)  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion to
compel the deposition of Mike Nijjar.  
 
            2.         The Court denies Group V’s motion for a
protective order.
 
            3.         The deposition of Mike Nijjar shall
occur within thirty (30) days unless Plaintiff’s counsel stipulates to a
different date.
 
            4.         The Court finds that Group V’s failure
to produce Mike Nijjar for a deposition constitutes an abuse of the discovery
process, and that there was no substantial justification for  Group V’s opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion to
compel the deposition.  Therefore, the
Court grants Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions and awards sanctions in the
amount of $2,000 (based upon four hours at a rate of $500 per hour) against Defendant
Group V San Bernardino L.P., which shall be paid within thirty (30) days.  
 
            5.         The Court sets the following dates:
 
                        Final
Status Conference:        May 9, 2025, at
9:00 a.m. 
 
                        Trial:                                       May 20,
2025, at 9:30 a.m. 
 
The discovery and motions deadlines shall be based on the
new trial date.  The parties shall
prepare and file joint trial documents on or before May 2, 2025.  The parties shall disclose all witnesses they
intend to call in their respective cases-in-chief, and identify and produce all
exhibits they intend to introduce in their respective cases-in-chief, on or
before May 2, 2025.
 
            6.         Jury fees shall be posted within ten
(10) days or the parties shall waive jury unless the Court has ordered a fee
waiver.  
 
            7.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice
and file proof of such with the Court.  