  Case Number:  22STCV11698    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Honey Asgari
Resp. Party:    None
 
Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Honey Asgari’s Petition is GRANTED, with the one change indicated below
— i.e., that no attorney’s fees or costs are to be subtracted from the
$2,000.00 awarded to the minor. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On April 6,
2022, Plaintiffs Honey Asgari, Arash Mirzabeigi, and Liliana Mirzabeigi filed
their Complaint against Defendants Fox Hills Drive, LLC and Marmar Management,
LLC on causes of action arising from Plaintiffs’ tenancy with Defendants. 
 
On August 8,
2022, the Court appointed Plaintiff Honey Asgari as the guardian ad litem for
Plaintiff Liliana Mirzabeigi. 
 
On September
6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Judicial Council Form CM-200, Notice of
Settlement of Entire Case. 
 
On September
28, 2023, Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem Honey Asgari filed Judicial Council Form
MC-350, Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition
of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability.
Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem concurrently filed Judicial Council Form MC-351,
which is a proposed order. 
 
No opposition
or other response has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.          
Legal Standard
 
“The guardian or
conservator of the estate or guardian ad litem so appearing for any minor,
person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions, or person for whom a
conservator has been appointed shall have power, with the approval of the court
in which the action or proceeding is pending, to compromise the same, to agree
to the order or judgment to be entered therein for or against the ward or
conservatee, and to satisfy any judgment or order in favor of the ward or
conservatee or release or discharge any claim of the ward or conservatee
pursuant to that compromise. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 372, subd. (a)(3).)
 
“A petition for court approval of a compromise or covenant not to sue
under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must comply with rules 7.950 or 7.950.5,
7.951, and 7.952.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1384, subd. (a).)
 
“A petition for court approval of a compromise of, or a
covenant not to sue or enforce judgment on, a minor's disputed claim; a
compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to which a minor or
person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the proceeds of a
judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate Code sections
3500 and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must be verified by
the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all information that has
any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise, covenant, settlement, or
disposition. Except as provided in rule 7.950.5, the petition must be submitted
on a completed Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form
MC-350).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)
 
“In all cases under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 or
Probate Code sections 3600-3601, unless the court has approved the fee
agreement in advance, the court must use a reasonable fee standard when
approving and allowing the amount of attorney's fees payable from money or
property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a
disability.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“The court must give consideration to the terms of any
representation agreement made between the attorney and the representative of
the minor or person with a disability and must evaluate the agreement based on
the facts and circumstances existing at the time the agreement was made, except
where the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability contemplated that the attorney's fee would be affected by later
events.”
 
“A petition requesting court approval and allowance of an
attorney's fee under (a) must include a declaration from the attorney that
addresses the factors listed in (b) that are applicable to the matter before
the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955, subd. (c).)
 
II.       Discussion
 
Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem petitions the Court for approval of a compromise that includes
Plaintiff Liliana Mirzabeigi, who is an eleven-year-old minor. Forms MC-350 and
MC-351 have been filed.  
 
The Gross
Settlement Amount is $100,000.00, which consists of $2,000.00 for the minor and
$98,000.00 split equally between the two other plaintiffs. According to the
Attachment for Items 11b(3) and 11b(6), the larger settlement for the adult is
because the minor only suffered minor symptoms (e.g., a runny nose, sneezing,
etc.) and only had one medical examination, whereas the vast majority of other
damages in this matter were borne by the other two plaintiffs. 
 
According to
the attached Attorney-Client Retainer Agreement, the percentage of attorney’s
fees to be assessed from each of the Plaintiffs is 40% of their respective
awards. Plaintiffs’ Counsel has noted in the Petition that they are seeking the
full amount attorney’s fees from the adult Plaintiffs. (Petition, Item 17.f.)
However, it appears that Plaintiffs’ Counsel is also attempting to assess 25%
of the minor’s award. (Petition, Item 16 and Decl. Seber, ¶ 26.)
 
        Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 372 and California Rules of Court, rules 7.950 and 7.955, the Court
finds that the Compromise is generally reasonable and that the applicable
procedures have been followed. 
 
        The Court will grant the petition with
the following change: the attorneys are not to assess any attorney’s fees or
costs against the funds allotted to the minor, Liliana Mirzabeigi. In other
words, the minor is to receive the full $2,000.00 awarded. 
 
        With the above change, the Court GRANTS
the Petition. 
 
III.     Conclusion 
 
Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Honey Asgari’s Petition is GRANTED, with the one change indicated above
— i.e., that no attorney’s fees or costs are to be subtracted from the
$2,000.00 awarded to the minor. 
 