 Case Number:  23STCV08815    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendants
N. Francowitz, Inc., and Nancy Franco
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Crystal Gomez
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Strike First Amended Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendants
N. Francowitz, Inc., and Nancy Franco
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Crystal Gomez 
 
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On April 20,
2023, Plaintiff Crystal Gomez filed her Complaint against Defendants N.
Francowitz, Inc. and Nancy Frankel on causes of action arising from Plaintiff’s
employment by Defendants. 
 
On April 21,
2023, Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
On June 16,
2023, Defendants filed: (1) Demurrer to the FAC; and (2) Motion to Strike the
FAC. In support of their Demurrer and Motion to Strike, Defendants concurrently
filed: (1) Request for Judicial Notice (only in support of the Motion to
Strike); (2) Declarations (separate for the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike);
and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
On October
23, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Oppositions to the Demurrer and the Motion to
Strike. In support of her oppositions, Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1)
Declaration of Jonathan LaCour (separate for each opposition); and (2) Proof of
Service. 
 
On October
26, 2023, Defendants filed their Replies regarding the Demurrer and the Motion
to Strike. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
        
I.         
Demurrer
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
A demurrer is
a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises
issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s
pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness
of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts
pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may
be. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 422.10, 589.)¿
¿¿¿
A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic
evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is
brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10 (grounds), section 430.30
(as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken), and
section 430.50(a) (can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action
within).¿¿
¿¿¿¿
A demurrer
may be brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. A
demurrer for uncertainty (Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(f)), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad
that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (Khoury v. Maly's of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Id.)¿¿¿
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendants demur to the entire FAC on the
grounds that the FAC does not adequately allege joint employer liability or
conspirator liability. (Demurrer, pp. 16:15, 21:17.)
 
1.      Joint
Employer Liability
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
“A joint-employer relationship exists when two or
more employers exert significant control over the same employees—where from the
evidence it can be shown that they share or co-determine those matters
governing essential terms and conditions of employment. A joint-employer
relationship is established if an entity retains the right to control both what
shall be done and how it shall be done, such that it retains the right to
control and direct the activities of the person rendering service, or the
manner and method in which the work is performed. Whether a joint-employer
relationship exists is a factual determination that we will uphold if supported
by substantial evidence.” (Cnty. of Ventura v. Pub. Emp’t Rel. Bd. (2019)
42 Cal.App.5th 443, 450–451, cleaned up.)
 
“There is no
magic formula for determining whether an organization is a joint employer.
Rather, the court must analyze ‘myriad facts surrounding the employment
relationship in question. No one factor is decisive. The precise contours of an
employment relationship can only be established by a careful factual inquiry.”
(Vernon v. State of Cal. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 114, 124–125, cleaned
up.)
 
“Factors to be
taken into account in assessing the relationship of the parties include payment
of salary or other employment benefits and Social Security taxes, the ownership
of the equipment necessary to performance of the job, the location where the
work is performed, the obligation of the defendant to train the employee, the
authority of the defendant to hire, transfer, promote, discipline or discharge
the employee, the authority to establish work schedules and assignments, the
defendant’s discretion to determine the amount of compensation earned by the
employee, the skill required of the work performed and the extent to which it
is done under the direction of a supervisor, whether the work is part of the
defendant’s regular business operations, the skill required in the particular
occupation, the duration of the relationship of the parties, and the duration
of the plaintiff’s employment.” (Vernon, supra, at p. 125,
citations omitted.)
 
“‘Of these factors, the
extent of the defendant’s right to control the means and manner of the workers’
performance is the most important.’ In all cases, an ‘employer must be an individual or entity
who extends a certain degree of control over the plaintiff.’” (Vernon, supra,
at p. 126, citations omitted.)
 
“The common and
prevailing principle espoused in all of the tests directs us to consider the
‘totality of circumstances’ that reflect upon the nature of the work
relationship of the parties, with emphasis upon the extent to which the
defendant controls the plaintiff’s performance of employment duties.” (Vernon,
supra, at p. 124, citation omitted.)
 
b.       Discussion

 
Defendants demur to the FAC regarding joint
employer liability, arguing: (1) that the FAC fails to state facts sufficient
to support any claim for joint employer liability against Defendants because
the FAC also alleges that the individual Defendant was the corporate agent of
the corporate Defendant; and (2) that the allegations seeking to hold
Defendants liable as joint employers are uncertain, vague, and ambiguous
because the Doe defendants are also alleges to be joint employers. (Demurrer,
pp. 19:10–13, 20:12–17.)
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
        Among other things,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were joint employers of Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶
11.) For the purposes of a demurrer, the Court must assume that this allegation
is true. This issue, which involves both questions of fact and law, will
ultimately have to be resolved by the trier of fact. It is inappropriate for
the Court to resolve this issue on demurrer.
 
        Further, Defendants
arguments regarding corporate agency and the Doe defendants can be dismissed
out of hand. It is completely irrelevant to the issue at hand whether one of
the named Defendants was actually a corporate agent of (and not a joint
employer with) the other named Defendant; it is also completely irrelevant
whether the Doe defendants were joint employers. These are simply allegations
made in a pleading, some in the alternative. The slightly vague and, at times,
mutually-exclusive nature of some of these allegations is entirely normal at
this stage of the proceedings. At bottom, none of these arguments successfully
counter the allegation that the two named Defendants are joint employers. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the
Demurrer to the FAC on the grounds of joint employer liability. 
 
2.      Conspirator
Liability
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of a civil conspiracy are (1)
the formation of a group of two or more persons who agreed to a common plan or
design to commit a tortious act; (2) a wrongful act committed pursuant to the
agreement; and (3) resulting damages.” (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 212.)
 
“Conspiracy is not a cause of action, but a legal
doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although not actually
committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors a common
plan or design in its perpetration. By participation in a civil conspiracy, a
coconspirator effectively adopts as his or her own the torts of other
coconspirators within the ambit of the conspiracy.¿In this way, a coconspirator
incurs tort liability co-equal with the immediate tortfeasors. Standing alone,
a conspiracy does no harm and engenders no tort liability. It must be activated
by the commission of an actual tort.” (Applied Equip. Corp. v. Litton Saudi
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510–511, citations omitted.)
 
b.  
    Discussion 
 
Defendants demur to the FAC regarding
conspirator liability (otherwise known as civil conspiracy), arguing: (1) that
the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to support Plaintiff’s claim for
conspirator liability against Defendants because the allegations are that the
individual Defendant was a corporate agent of the corporate Defendant; and (2)
that the allegations regarding conspirator liability are uncertain, vague, and
ambiguous because the FAC both alleges Defendants were co-conspirators and that
the agent-immunity rule bars such liability. (Demurrer, pp. 23:22–25,
24:15–18.)
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
Defendants’ arguments are spurious. The most
that Plaintiff has done is alleged, among other things, that Defendants are
co-conspirators. But there is no separate cause of action in the FAC for civil
conspiracy, and there is no argument in the FAC about agent immunity. Put
simply, Defendants are not actually demurring to anything that is actually in
the FAC. 
 
The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the FAC
on the grounds of conspirator liability. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
II.       Motion
to Strike
 
A.      Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request that the Court take
judicial notice of seven items filed with the California Secretary of State
(items one through seven) and two items filed in this matter (items eight and
nine). 
 
The Court DENIES as irrelevant judicial notice to
items one through seven. “Although a court may judicially notice a variety of
matters (Evid. Code, § 450 et seq.), only relevant material may be
noticed.” (Am. Cemwood Corp. v. Am. Home Assurance Co. (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 431, 441, fn. 7, quotation omitted, italics in original.)
 
The Court DENIES as superfluous judicial
notice as to items eight and nine. Any party that wishes to draw the Court’s
attention to a matter filed in this action may simply cite directly to the
document by execution and filing date. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1110(d).) Furthermore, any party that wishes to draw the Court’s attention to
a statute may simply cite that statute. 
 
B.      Legal
Standard
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1)). The notice of motion to
strike a portion of a pleading shall quote in full the portions sought to be
stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of
action, count or defense. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1322.)
 
The grounds for a motion to strike shall
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
 
When the defect which justifies striking a
complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend. (Perlman
v. Mun. Ct. (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
 
C.      Discussion
 
Defendants move the Court to strike various
paragraphs in the FAC that regard employment, joint employment, conspiracy, and
control of Plaintiff’s employment. (Motion to Strike, pp. 2–3.) Defendants
argue that these allegations are irrelevant and false. (Id. at pp.
12:8–10, 13:3–5, 16:3–5, 16:21–23.)
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
It is not
appropriate to strike the allegations regarding employment, joint employment,
conspiracy, and control of Plaintiff’s employment. Plaintiff is entitled to
make these allegations. It will ultimately be Plaintiff’s burden to prove these
allegations in order to obtain the relief she seeks.
 
        The
Court DENIES the Motion to Strike. 
 
D.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 