 Case Number:  22STCV23648    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Quash Service of Summons
 
Moving Party: Specially-Appearing
Defendant The Regents of the University of California
Resp. Party:    None
 
        
The Motion is GRANTED. The Proof of Service of Summons is QUASHED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On July 20, 2022, Plaintiff Jeremy Woods filed his
Complaint against Defendants Bert J. Thomas (“Defendant Thomas”) and The
Regents of the University of California (“Defendant Regents,” erroneously sued
as “Santa Monica UCLA Medical Center”) on a cause of action for medical
malpractice. 
 
On November 18, 2022, Defendant Bert J. Thomas filed his
Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On July 31, 2023, the Court granted Defendant Bert J.
Thomas’s discovery motions.  The court ordered
Plaintiff to provide initial responses within ten days of the issuance of that
Order to the form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for
production of documents propounded upon Plaintiff, and deemed admitted the
requests for admission propounded upon Plaintiff. 
 
On August 3, 2023, the Court relieved Plaintiff’s Counsel
of his duties in this matter. 
 
On October 18, 2023, Specially-Appearing Defendant
Regents filed its Motion to Quash Service of Summons. In support of its Motion,
Regents concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Adam D. Afshar; (2) Declaration
of Christopher Datomi; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
No opposition or other response was filed to the Motion. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“A summons may be
served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to
the person to be served. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete
at the time of such delivery. The date upon which personal delivery is made
shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the copy of the summons at the
time of its delivery. However, service of a summons without such date shall be
valid and effective.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
 
“In lieu of
personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be
served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a
summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during
usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is known, at
his or her usual mailing address, other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. When service is effected by leaving a copy of the summons
and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a person at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).)
 
“If a copy of the
summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered
to the person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or
416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at
the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on
the 10th day after the mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)
 
“A summons may be
served by mail as provided in this section. A copy of the summons and of the
complaint shall be mailed (by first-class mail or airmail, postage prepaid) to
the person to be served, together with two copies of the notice and acknowledgment
provided for in subdivision (b) and a return envelope, postage prepaid,
addressed to the sender.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (a).)
 
“Service of a
summons pursuant to this section is deemed complete on the date a written
acknowledgement of receipt of summons is executed, if such acknowledgement
thereafter is returned to the sender.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (c).)
 
“A summons may be
served on a person outside this state in any manner provided by this article or
by sending a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be
served by first-class mail, postage prepaid, requiring a return receipt.
Service of a summons by this form of mail is deemed complete on the 10th day
after such mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.40.)
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day
of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for
good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a)(1).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Specially-Appearing
Defendant Regents moves the Court to quash the service of summons Plaintiff
filed and served in this matter. (Motion, p. 7:19–20.) Specially-Appearing
Defendant Regents claims that Plaintiff has not properly served
Specially-Appearing Defendant Regents, which should have been at the proper
address of 111 Franklin Street, 8th Floor, Oakland, California 94607. (Decl.
Afshar, ¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiff has not
opposed the Motion or otherwise responded to it. 
 
The only evidence
before the Court is that service was improperly made at the address of 437 N.
Oakhurst Drive, Apt. 101, Beverly Hills, California 90210-3918. Plaintiff has
not opposed the motion and has not presented any evidence that Specially-Appearing
Defendant Regents was properly served in this matter.
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion is GRANTED. The Proof of Service of Summons is QUASHED. 
 