 Case Number:  22AHCV01025    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 5, 2023                                  TRIAL
DATE: January 30, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         MARIA A. SANTIS,
an individual, v. INES L. CRUZ, an individual; INES L. CRUZ, as trustee of THE
ALBERTO LUIS TRUST DATED APRIL 6, 2009, and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AH01025
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Ines L. Cruz
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Maria A. Santis
 
SERVICE:                              Filed July 21, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed September 21, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed September 29, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant moves for summary
judgment, or in the alternative for summary adjudication.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Maria A.
Santis’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that she is owed money by the Alberto Luis Trust
(“Trust”) and that Defendant Ines L. Cruz interfered with her inheritance from
the Trust. Plaintiff filed this complaint on November 11, 202, alleging five
causes of action for (1) breach of express contract, (2) breach of implied
contract, (3) interference with expected inheritance, (4) equitable relief, and
(5) declaratory relief. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
             
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative for
summary adjudication, as to Plaintiff’s first, second, fourth, and fifth causes
of action is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action and Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
OBJECTIONS TO EVIDENCE
 
            Defendant’s objections are overruled. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code of Civil Procedure
section 473c subd. (a)(1).) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted
if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter
of law.” (Code of Civil Procedures section 473c subd. (c).) 
 
A three-step analysis is employed in
ruling on motions for summary judgment. First, the court identifies the issues
framed by the pleadings. Next, the court determines, when the moving party is
the defendant, whether it has produced evidence showing one or more of the
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or there is a complete
defense to that cause of action. If the defendant does so, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
that cause of action or defense. (Kline v. Turner (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1369, 1373.) The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”  (Ibid.; see also Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 384, 389 [Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”].)  
 
“A defendant moving for summary
judgment must show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense. The defendant can
satisfy its burden by presenting evidence that negates an element of the cause
of action or evidence that the plaintiff does not possess and cannot
reasonably expect to obtain evidence needed to establish an essential element.
(Veera v. Banana Republic, LLC, (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 907, 914.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant moves for summary judgment as to the entirety of Plaintiff’s
complaint.
 
            In
1980, Plaintiff and Alberto V. Luis (“Alberto”) moved in together. (SSUF No.
2.) Plaintiff and Alberto agreed that Plaintiff would pay for food and Alberto
would pay for rent. (SSUF No. 3.) Around June of 1994, Plaintiff and Alberto
moved into property located at 33194 Ocean Ridge, Dana Point, California (“Dana
Point Property”). (SSUF No. 6, Complaint ¶ 10.) Plaintiff
and Alberto had agreed prior to the purchase of the Dana Point Property that
Plaintiff would quit her job to take care of the household full time. (SSUF No.
10.) 
 
            On or about April 9, 2009, Alberto executed the
declaration of the Alberto Luis Trust. (SSUF No. 17.) The Dana Point Property
was placed into the Trust. (SSUF No. 19.) Plaintiff was named the beneficiary
of the Dana Point Property and Defendant was named the beneficiary of all the
other Trust assets. (SSUF No. 19.) The Dana Point Property was sold on
September 19, 2016. Prior to selling the property, Plaintiff and Alberto had
agreed to purchase a mobile home held jointly by the both of them and that
Alberto would give Plaintiff $300,000. (SSUF Nos. 26-27.) Alberto did not
provide Plaintiff with the $300,000. (SSUF No. 30.) 
 
            Statute
of Limitations
 
            Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s complaint is barred by the statute of limitations. Specifically,
Defendant challenges the timeliness of Plaintiff’s claim that she is owed
$300,000 based on the agreement preceding the sale of the Dana Point Property.
Defendant does not contest the validity of the agreement but solely argues that
Plaintiff’s claims are untimely, relying on Code of Civil Procedure section 339
and Civil Code section 1657. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 339 requires that an action based on an oral contract
must be brought within two years. Civil Code section 1657 provides: “If no time
is specified for the performance of an act required to be performed, a
reasonable time is allowed. If the act is in its nature capable of being done
instantly--as, for example, if it consists in the payment of money only--it
must be performed immediately upon the thing to be done being exactly
ascertained.”
 
            Defendant
argues that a reasonable time for performance would be six months after the
sale of the Dana Point Property. Therefore, Defendant argues, Plaintiff’s
claims were required to have been brought two years and six months after the
sale of the property. However, Defendant’s assertion is not supported by legal
authority that six months after the sale is prescribed “reasonable time” nor
does Defendant cite any evidence to support her position. Stated another way,
Defendant’s arguments are based on an arbitrarily set date, and she has failed
to meet her burden.
 
            Laches
 
            Defendant
also argues that the doctrine of laches applies to bar Plaintiff’s equitable
claims. “Laches is ‘an unreasonable delay in asserting an equitable right,
causing prejudice to an adverse party such as to render the granting of relief
to the other party inequitable.’ ” (Estate of Kampen (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 971, 998.) Defendant argues that laches applies because Plaintiff
waited until after Alberto died to bring suit. Defendant argues that Plaintiff
waiting “over six years to file suit after Alberto’s death substantially
prejudices Defendant”. (Motion at p. 15:22-23.) However, Alberto died on June
24, 2022. (SSUF No. 34.) Plaintiff filed her complaint November 7, 2022. Although
Defendant may have meant that Plaintiff unreasonably delayed by filing six
years after Alberto’s agreement to pay $300,000 and after Alberto’s death,
Defendant has not met her burden of demonstrating that laches applies to bar
Plaintiff’s equitable claims.
 
            Immoral
Consideration
 
            Defendant
also half-heartedly argues that the contract is void because Plaintiff was
married to another man at the time she moved in with Alberto, citing Updeck
v. Samuel (1954) 123 Cal.App.2d 264. However, Updeck relied on a
penal code statute making adultery a criminal offense, which is no longer in
effect. Defendant’s arguments based on immoral consideration are rejected. 
 
            Interference
With Expected Inheritance
 
            Defendant
also moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative for summary
adjudication, as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for interference with
inheritance.
 
“The tort of
intentional interference with expected inheritance was first recognized in
California in 2012. [Citation.] To establish a defendant committed the tort, a
plaintiff must prove six elements. ‘First, the plaintiff must p[rove] he [or
she] had an expectancy of an inheritance. It is not necessary to [prove] that
“one is in fact named as a beneficiary in the will or that one has been devised
the particular property at issue. [Citation.] That requirement would defeat the
purpose of an expectancy claim.... It is only the expectation that one will
receive some interest that gives rise to a cause of action.
[Citations.]” [Citation.] Second, as in other interference torts, the
[plaintiff] must [prove] causation. “This means that, as in other cases involving
recovery for loss of expectancies ... there must be proof amounting to a
reasonable degree of certainty that the bequest or devise would have been in
effect at the time of the death of the testator ... if there had been no such
interference.” [Citation.] Third, the plaintiff must p[rove] intent, i.e., that
the defendant had knowledge of the plaintiff's expectancy of inheritance and
took deliberate action to interfere with it. [Citation.] Fourth, the
[plaintiff] must [prove] that the interference was conducted by independently
tortious means, i.e., the underlying conduct must be wrong for some reason
other than the fact of the interference. [Citation.] Fi[fth], the plaintiff
must p[rove] he [or she] was damaged by the defendant's interference. [Citation.]
[¶] [And, sixth], [the] defendant must direct the independently tortious
conduct at someone other than the plaintiff.’ ” (Gomez v. Smith (2020)
54 Cal.App.5th 1016, 1025.)
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff is unable to establish her claim for interference with
inheritance because Plaintiff had no expected inheritance. Plaintiff was named
the beneficiary of the Dana Point Property. (SSUF No. 19.) However, the Dana
Point Property was sold in 2016. (SSUF No. 26.) Further, Plaintiff does not
assert that the $300,000 was a part of her expected inheritance. Other than the
Dana Point Property, Plaintiff does not assert she expected to inherit any of
the Trust’s assets. Thus, because it is undisputed that the Dana Point Property
was sold in 2016, Defendant has met her burden of demonstrating that Plaintiff
is unable to establish an element for her claim for interference with expected
inheritance. Plaintiff does not address this issue at all in her opposition and
has thus failed to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
 
            Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action is
granted.
 
            Punitive
Damages
 
            Defendant
also moves for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.
 
            “Punitive damages
may be recovered under section 3294 ‘where
it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.’ ” (Butte
Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158.) “Although the clear and
convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a
plaintiff the obligation to ‘prove’ a case for punitive damages at summary
judgment [or summary adjudication].’ ” (Ibid.) Even so, ‘where the
plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence,
the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to
prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence
presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.’ ”
 
            Plaintiff’s complaint does not
expressly state her basis for punitive damages. However, “[t]ort liability is a
necessary predicate for punitive damages. Punitive damages may not be awarded
as relief in a breach of contract claim.” (Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 873, 896.) Thus, because Plaintiff’s tort cause of action for interference
with expected inheritance fails, so does Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages. Plaintiff does not address this issue in her opposition and has failed
to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative for
summary adjudication, as to Plaintiff’s first, second, fourth, and fifth causes
of action is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action and Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   October 5, 2023                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit. 
Parties intending to appear are strongly encouraged to appear remotely.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
