  Case Number:  21GDCV01004    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
5, 2023                                              TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         MIDWICK COLLECTION
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, a California non-profit mutual benefit corporation, v.
ASHLEY IU, an individual; WALTER IU, an individual, and DOES 1through 10,
inclusive. 
 
CROSS:                      ASHLEY IU, an
individual; WALTER IU, an individual, v. MIDWICK COLLECTION HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION, a California non-profit mutual benefit corporation; JUNG HOON HAN,
an individual; DANIEL BRACKINS, an individual. 
 
CASE NO.:                 21GDCV01004
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Defendants Midwick Collection
Homeowners Association, Daniel Brackins, and Jung Hoon Han
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Cross-Complainants
Ashley Iu and Walter Iu
 
SERVICE:                              Filed May 12, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed September 21, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed September 29, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Cross-Defendants move for summary
judgment as to Cross-Complaint’s complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Midwick
Collection Homeowners Association’s (“HOA” or “Plaintiff”) claim that Defendant
Ashley Iu (“Ashley”) and Walter Iu (“Walter”) (“Defendants” or
“Cross-Complainants”) made improper modifications to Defendants’ property
located at 2238 Zanuck Place, Alhambra, California 91803 (“Subject Property”).
Plaintiff alleges that the Subject Property is subject to recorded covenants,
conditions, and restrictions (“CC&R”). Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants were aware of the need to submit proper applications and
receive approval for any modifications but engaged in the modifications without
approval.  
 
            Plaintiff filed this complaint on
August 3, 2021, alleging two causes of action for (1) breach of covenant and
injunctive relief and (2) declaratory relief. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
             
            Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative
for summary adjudication, is GRANTED as to Cross-Complainant’s first, third,
fourth, and fifth causes of action.
 
            Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is DENIED
as to Cross-Complainant’s second cause of action.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code of Civil Procedure
section 473c subd. (a)(1).) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted
if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter
of law.” (Code of Civil Procedures section 473c subd. (c).) 
 
A three-step analysis is employed in
ruling on motions for summary judgment. First, the court identifies the issues
framed by the pleadings. Next, the court determines, when the moving party is
the defendant, whether it has produced evidence showing one or more of the
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or there is a complete
defense to that cause of action. If the defendant does so, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
that cause of action or defense. (Kline v. Turner (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1369, 1373.) The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”  (Ibid.; see also Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 384, 389 [Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”].)  
 
“A defendant moving for summary
judgment must show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense. The defendant can
satisfy its burden by presenting evidence that negates an element of the cause
of action or evidence that the plaintiff does not possess and cannot
reasonably expect to obtain evidence needed to establish an essential element.
(Veera v. Banana Republic, LLC, (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 907, 914.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Cross-Complainants filed a first amended cross-complaint on December 8,
2022, alleging five causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2)
negligence, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (4) defamation
per se, and (5) fraud and deceit. Cross-Complainants allege that they have
submitted approved landscaping applications with the City of Alhambra and with
the HOA. (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
            First
Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            Cross-Defendants move for summary judgment, or in the alternative
for summary adjudication as to Cross-Complainants’ first cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty.
 
            Cross-Complainants
allege that Cross-Defendants owed them a fiduciary duty but breached that duty by
filing a defective and selective lawsuit against Cross-Complainants.
(Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 13-23.) Cross-Defendants argue
that the litigation privilege and the rule of judicial deference bars
Cross-Complainant’s claims and that Cross-Complainant are unable to establish
their claim for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
            “ ‘The
elements of a claim for breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by
that breach.’ ” (O’Neal v. Stanislaus County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2017)
8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.) “Generally, fiduciary duties owed by a homeowners
association to its members are limited to those arising from its governing
documents and relevant statutory requirements.” (Golden Eagle Land
Investments, L.P., v. Rancho Santa Fe Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 399,
425.)  
 
            As a
preliminary note, Cross-Defendants fail to demonstrate that the rule of
judicial deference or the doctrine of unclean hands bars Cross-Complainant’s
claims.
 
            “Where a
duly constituted community association board, upon reasonable investigation, in
good faith and with regard for the best interests of the community association
and its members, exercises discretion within the scope of its authority under
relevant statutes, covenants and restrictions to select among means for
discharging an obligation to maintain and repair a development's common areas,
courts should defer to the board's authority and presumed expertise.” (Lamden
v. La Jolla Shores Clubdominium Homeowners Assn. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 249,
253.) The rule of judicial deference applies when “owners in common interest
developments seek to litigate ordinary maintenance decisions entrusted to the
discretion of their associations' boards of directors.” (Id. at p. 253.)
Here, Cross-Defendants have failed to demonstrate this is a matter where
Cross-Complainants are seeking to litigation “ordinary maintenance decisions”.
 
            Further,
Cross-Defendants fail to establish the doctrine of unclean hands applies. “
‘The doctrine [of unclean hands] demands that a plaintiff act fairly in the
matter for which he seeks a remedy. He must come into court with clean hands,
and keep them clean, or he will be denied relief, regardless of the merits of
his claim.’ [Citation.] Whether the doctrine of unclean hands applies is a
question of fact.” (Aguayo v. Amaro (2013) 213 cal.App.4th 1102, 1110.) Here,
Cross-Defendants assume, without any supporting evidence or authority, that
Ashley acted improperly to access other applications while she was a member of
the board. Cross-Defendants’ arguments here are rejected. 
 
However, the litigation
privilege applies to the present case. “The principal purpose of the
litigation privilege is to afford litigants and witnesses the utmost freedom of
access to the courts without fear of harassment in subsequent derivative
actions.” (Geragos v. Abelyan (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1005, 1031.) “The
privilege is an absolute privilege and bars all tort cases of action except a
claim of malicious prosecution.” (Ibid.) “Filing civil litigation is
communicative conduct protected by the litigation privilege.” (Starr v.
Ashbrook (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 999, 1027.) 
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainants do
not contest that the filing of the lawsuit forms the basis of their claim for
breach of fiduciary duty. Cross-Complainants argue that, nonetheless, their
claim is valid because Cross-Complainants failed to bring the lawsuit in good
faith. The court recognizes that “the [litigation] privilege does not apply to
malicious prosecution actions.” (Malin v. Singer (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th
1283, 1300.) However, Cross-Complainant do not allege a cause of action for
malicious prosecution. Thus, the litigation privilege applies.
 
Cross-Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment as to Cross-Complainant’s first cause of action is granted. 
 
            Second
Cause of Action for Negligence
 
            Cross-Defendants move for summary judgment, or in the alternative for
summary adjudication, as to Cross-Complainant’s second cause of action for
negligence.
 
            In
their cause of action, Cross-Complainants allege that Cross-Defendants
negligently hired PropertyLink Real Estate, Inc. as the management company.
 
“The elements of any negligence
cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” (Peredia
v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
A defendant moving for summary
judgment may “present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff
following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.) “While
‘circumstantial evidence supporting a defendant's summary judgment motion “can
consist of ‘factually devoid’ discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence can be inferred,” [it must be] noted “that the burden should not shift
without stringent review of the direct, circumstantial and inferential
evidence.” ’ ” (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th
939, 955.) 
 
Here, Cross-Defendants make a
variety of arguments that Cross-Complainants are unable to meet establish their
claim for negligence because Cross-Complainants lack the required elements.
However, Cross-Defendants do not cite a single piece of evidence to support
their contention that Cross-Complainants lack evidence. Cross-Defendants merely
make conjectural statements and have failed to meet their burden.
 
Cross-Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment as to Cross-Complainant’s second cause of aciton for negligence is
denied.
 
            Third
Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
            Cross-Defendants
move for summary judgment as to Cross-Complainant’s third cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. Cross-Defendants argue, in part,
that Cross-Complainants are unable to demonstrate outrageous conduct.
 
            “ ‘ “[T]o state a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff
must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant's
intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ ” (Vasquez v. Franklin Management
Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.)
 
            “A
defendant's conduct is considered to be outrageous if ‘it is so “ ‘ “extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” ’ ” ’
[Citations.] Liability for IIED does not extend to ‘ “ ‘mere insults,
indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.’ ”
’ ” (Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007.) 
 
            In their third cause of action,
Cross-Complainants allege various incidents that they allege constitute
outrageous conduct. Cross-Complainants allege that Brackins allows his dog to
relieve itself on Cross-Complainant’s property and “aggressively” took photos
of her. (Complaint at p. 15:17-25.) Cross-Complainants also allege that
Cross-Defendants instigated derogatory conduct, members of the association
posted a picture of Ashley on the community wall to support her recall, and
Brackins made harassing remarks. (Complaint at pp. 15:16-16:5.) 
 
            Cross-Defendants have demonstrated that Cross-Complainants
are unable to establish that any of the alleged conduct is so outrageous to
constitute a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress. In
opposition, Cross-Complainants cite evidence that they experienced harm but
fail to cite any evidence that raises a triable issue of fact that the conduct
complained of was outrageous. (Opposition at p. 22:9-27.) 
 
            Cross-Defendant’s motion for summary judgment as to Cross-Complainants’
third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress is
granted.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Defamation Per Se
 
            Cross-Defendants move for summary judgment as to Cross-Complainants’ fourth cause of action for
defamation per se.
 
            “Libel is a form of defamation effected in writing.
[Citation.] ‘The elements of a defamation claim are (1) a publication that
is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency
to injure or causes special damage.” (John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312.) “ ‘Statements that contain such a charge directly,
and without the need for explanatory matter, are libelous per se. [Citation.] A
statement can also be libelous per se if ... a listener could understand the
defamatory meaning without the necessity of knowing extrinsic explanatory
matter.’ ” (Balla v. Hall (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 652, 675.) 
 
Cross-Complaints allege that Brackins “aggressively” took pictures of
their house (Cross-Complaint at p. 19:20-22), that Cross-Defendants falsely accused Cross-Complainants
of taking pictures of someone’s son (Cross-Complaint at p. 21:5-6), that
Cross-Defendants allowed members of a group chat to call Ashley a “Chinese Spy”
and “Strange Asian Woman” (Complaint at p. 21:6-7), that Cross-Defendants
posted a picture of Ashley on the community bulletin wall, and that Stephen
Kirland wrote a defamatory letter (Complaint at p. 22:7-15).
 
Cross-Defendants argue that neither of the individual
Cross-Defendants called Ashley Iu a “Chinese Spy”. (SSUF No. 30.) Cross-Defendants
also argue that when Han typed the phrase “strange Asian woman” he did not know
he was referring to Ashley. (SSUF No. 32.) Lastly, Cross-Defendants argue that
the recall poster did not contain a false statement of fact that could be
defamatory towards Ashley. (SSUF No. 33.) Cross-Defendants have met their
burden of demonstrating that Cross-Complainants are unable to establish that Cross-Defendants
made the statements. Further, Cross-Complainants have failed to raise a triable
issue of fact as to whether Han’s statements that he should call the cops for
taking pictures of my son rises to the level of defamation. 
 
            Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to Cross-Complainants’
fourth cause of action is granted.
 
            Fifth
Cause of Action for Fraud and Deceit
            
            Cross-Defendants
move for summary judgment as to Cross-Complainants’ fifth cause of action for fraud and
deceit. 
 
“The elements of fraud, which give
rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060, citations omitted.
 
            Cross-Complainants
allege that Cross-Defendants engaged in fraud because a non-resident, Nicole
Truong, served on the HOA’s board and because Brackin failed to his prior
relationship with the HOA’s management company. (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 43-49.)
 
            Cross-Defendants
provide that the board of directors for the HOA did not learn that Nicole
Truong was not a homeowner until June of 2021. (SSUF No. 35.) Once the board
learned of the fact that Truong was not a homeowner, Troung resigned days
later. (SSUF No. 36.) The board of directors never represented to the IU that
Truong was valid board member after learning she was not a homeowner. (SSUF No.
37.) Cross-Defendants have demonstrated that Cross-Complainants are unable to establish
their fraud claim based on Truong’s membership on the board of directors of the
HOA. Cross-Complaints have failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to this
issue. 
 
            Further,
Cross-Defendants provide that Brackins received nothing from ITRG for
recommending it as a potential property management company and that the board o
the HOA considered multiple management companies. (SSUF Nos. 38-40.) Here,
Cross-Defendants have demonstrated that Cross-Complainants are unable to
establish their claim for fraud, and Cross-Complainants have failed to raise a
triable issue of fact. 
 
            Cross-Defendants’
motion for summary judgment as to Cross-Complainants’ fifth
cause of action is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, or in the
alternative for summary adjudication, is GRANTED as to Cross-Complainant’s
first, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action.
 
            Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is DENIED
as to Cross-Complainant’s second cause of action.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:  October 5,
2023                                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit. 
Parties intending to appear are strongly encouraged to appear remotely.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
