 Case Number:  BC610791    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
James A. Westbrook’s Motion for Attorney Fees and Costs is GRANTED in the
amount of $67,130.00 in fees, and $1,023.72 in costs...
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES
“Except as
attorney's fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode
of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement,
express or implied, of the parties; but parties to actions or proceedings are
entitled to their costs, as hereinafter provided.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1021.) 
 
“In any action on a
contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and
costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to
one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined
to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party
specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's
fees in addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).) “[T]he party
prevailing on the contract shall be the party who recovered a greater relief in
the action on the contract.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
In determining the proper amount of fees to award, courts use the
lodestar method.  The lodestar figure is
calculated by multiplying the total number of reasonable hours expended by the
reasonable hourly rate.  “Fundamental to
its determination . . . [is] a careful compilation of the time spent and
reasonable hourly compensation of each attorney . . . in the presentation of
the case.”  (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 48 (Serrano III).)  A reasonable
hourly rate must reflect the skill and experience of the attorney.  (Id.
at p. 49.)  “Prevailing parties are compensated for hours reasonably spent on
fee-related issues.  A fee request that
appears unreasonably inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial
court to reduce the award or deny one altogether.”  (Serrano
v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635 (Serrano
IV).)  The Court in Serrano IV also stated that fees
associated with preparing the motion to recover attorneys’ fees are
recoverable.  (See id. at p. 624.)
Defendant James A. Westbrook (Defendant) seeks attorney fees and costs
against Plaintiff William Hawkes (Plaintiff) after securing an appellate order
affirming this court’s dismissal of Plaintiff’s claims. Defendant seeks
$89,350.00 in fees, and $1,023.72 in costs. (Motion at p. 1.) These fees are
for a total of 164.4 hours billed by three attorneys, with 36.1 hours of
attorney work billed by Michael J. Saltz at $800 per hour (Saltz Decl. ¶¶
21–27), 62.8 hours billed by Elana R. Levine at $650 per hour (Levine Decl.
¶¶ 3–7), and 65.5 hours billed by Simone E. Poyourow at $300 per hour. (Poyourow
Decl. ¶¶ 4–7.) The fees sought are based upon clauses in the promissory notes
at issue that guarantee the lender reimbursement of “all reasonable attorney
fees and costs of collection” in the event of default. (Complaint Exhs. A, B.)
These provisions are made applicable to Plaintiff (the alleged lender) by Civil
Code § 1717, subd. (a).
Plaintiff argues that the total 84 hours claimed in working on
Defendant’s respondent brief on appeal is unreasonable, as it consisted largely
of facts and argument already contained in Defendant’s opposition to the motion
to vacate dismissal that this court heard prior to the appeal. (Opposition at
pp. 3–5.) Plaintiff argues that certain fees incurred prior to the filing of
Plaintiff’s opening brief on appeal were unreasonably incurred, as Defendant
was not required to respond to any appellate documents prior to filing their
respondent brief. (Opposition at p. 6.) Plaintiff argues that the more than 50
hours sought in connection with the present fee motion are unreasonable.
(Opposition at p. 6.) And finally, Plaintiff argues that the hourly rates cited
are too high. (Opposition at p. 7.)
Plaintiff’s opposition to the present motion is meritorious in two
respects. First, Plaintiff persuasively argues that work performed by
Defendant’s counsel on the appeal prior to the filing of Plaintiff’s opening
brief — amounting to 5.3 hours of work at $800 per hour plus two hours of work
at $650 per hour, for a total of $5,540.00 — is ill-explained and
unreasonable. Defendant’s counsel claims this work was done “[r]eviewing and
responding to Plaintiff’s filing for appeal,” but while they include a catalog
of the delays and defaults that Plaintiff committed in prosecuting his appeal,
they do not explain why these delays prompted further work from Defendant’s
counsel. (Supp. Saltz Decl. ¶¶ 5–6.) These fees amounting to $5,540.00 are
properly deducted from the lodestar.
Moreover, Plaintiff is correct that the 59.6 hours sought by the three
attorneys in connection with the present fee motion is unreasonably high. The
matters for which fees are presently sought are the appeal and the fee motion
itself. Neither the procedural history covered by the motion nor any party’s
legal entitlement to fees is the subject of vigorous dispute. The 55.6 hours
sought by Simone E. Poyourow in relation to this motion — amounting to
$16,680.00 at a $300 hourly rate — are properly reduced to a reasonable 20
hours at the same rate, a lodestar reduction of $10,680.00. 
Plaintiff’s arguments for further reduction are unpersuasive, however.
The hourly rates sought by Defendant’s attorneys are reasonable and supported
by attestations to their experience in similar or more-complex cases, as well
as by other judicial decisions awarding them fees at the rates sought. (Saltz
Decl. ¶¶ 26–27; Levine Decl. ¶ 7; Poyourow Decl. ¶¶ 3–4, 8.) Moreover,
Plaintiff’s characterization of Defendant’s respondent brief as duplicative of
their opposition to the motion to vacate dismissal is without merit. Plaintiff
attaches both the opposition papers and respondent brief to his own opposition,
and Defendant’s appellate brief is both wider in scope, encompassing the entire
history of the case, and more detailed in its explanation of the relevant
procedural history leading up to the dismissal. (Opposition Exhs. 2, 4.) This
is properly the case with appellate level materials, which must generally
apprise judicial officers, unfamiliar with the particular case before them,
with the facts of trial court proceedings they are to review. Plaintiff cites
his own appellate brief as a counterexample, which differed from his
unsuccessful motion to vacate dismissal chiefly by the addition of a section
describing the appellate standard of review. (Opposition at p. 4.) But
Defendant secured an order affirming the ruling below, and was not obliged to
emulate the example of the non-prevailing party. 
Accordingly, the motion for attorney fees and costs is GRANTED in the
amount of $67,130.00 in fees, and $1,023.72 in costs.