 Case Number:  22STCV23285    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiffs
Seth Cohen and September Rea’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of the
Amended Answer of Defendant David Hanson Melmed is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend as to the first, sixth, and seventeenth affirmative defenses. The
demurrer is otherwise OVERRULED, and Plaintiffs’ motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice.
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro.,
§§ 430.30, et seq.) In particular, as
is relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not
allege facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (See id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court
held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) Cal.3d
311: “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further,
we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and
its parts in their context.” (Id.
at p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Such demurrers
“are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible
that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend
if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
An
answer’s affirmative defenses must “be separately stated, and the several
defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer,
in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.” (CCP § 431.30,
subd. (g).) “Affirmative relief may not be claimed in the answer.” (CCP §
431.30, subd. (c).) 
Plaintiffs
Seth Cohen and September Rea (Plaintiffs) once again demurrer to each
affirmative defense in Defendant David Hanson Melmed’s (Defendant) amended
answer. They contend that affirmative defenses contending the failure to state
a claim and the uncertainty of the FAC are not affirmative defenses. (Demurrer
at pp. 8–9.) They further contend that the defenses are not pleaded with
sufficient particularity. (Demurrer at pp. 8–14.) 
Affirmative defenses which are bare legal conclusions will
not survive a demurrer. (FPI Development,
Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 383–384.) However, “[t]here is
no need to require specificity in the pleadings because modern discovery
procedures necessarily affect the amount of detail that should be required in a
pleading.” (Doheny Park Terrace
Homeowners Ass’n, Inc. v. Truck ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076,
1099, internal quotation marks omitted.) An affirmative defense is pleaded with
“‘sufficient particularity’” if the pleadings, read in light of the case at
hand, give notice to the plaintiff “of a potentially meritorious defense.” (Hata v. Los Angeles County Harbor/UCLA
Medical Center (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804.)
 
The demurrer is properly sustained as to affirmative
defenses No. 1, 6, and 17, respectively for failure to state a claim,
uncertainty of the pleadings, and right to modify, as these are not affirmative
defenses in the proper sense. The failure to state a claim goes to the failure of
the plaintiff to state any entitlement to relief, and is not an objection that
can be waived, even on appeal. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.80.) The seventeenth
affirmative defense, reserving Defendant’s right to modify the answer, is not
raised as defense at all. The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED without leave to
amend as to the first, sixth, and seventeenth affirmative defenses.
 
The remaining defenses are
properly stated. Unlike the previous answer, Defendant now includes a statement
of facts, incorporated into each affirmative defense, generally denying the
allegations of the complaint and offering a theory of the case that the present
action is brought to coerce concessions from Defendant regarding the custody
schedule of the parties’ children. Although Plaintiffs deny the allegations in
their demurrer and motion to strike, they cite no legal basis for its exclusion
from the pleadings. As to Plaintiffs’ arguments that the affirmative defenses
are uncertain, “[a] demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (A.J.
Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.)
Demurrers to answers are indeed “very rare, probably because they are not worth
the cost when the same result can be achieved by serving requests for admission
or standard form interrogatories seeking the bases for the affirmative
defenses.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide; Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2023) Ch. 7(I)-A, Demurrers, [¶] 7:35:1) 
The demurrer is therefore
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the first, sixth, and seventeenth
affirmative defenses, and is otherwise OVERRULED. The motion to strike the same
allegations is DENIED. 
 
 