  Case Number:  21STCV37117    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  76 TENTATIVE RULING RE: MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF (1) DEFENDANT PETER POUWELS, AND (2) DEFENDANTS BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES OF CALIFORNIA AND REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.MOVING PARTY:                   (1) Defendant
Peter Pouwels;
                                                (2) Defendants Browning-Ferris Industries
of California, Inc. (“BFT”) and Republic Services, Inc.                                               
RESPONDING PARTY(S):     (1) Plaintiff Grant Winfrey;
                                                (2) No opposition on file.
            Three
separate Plaintiffs alleging sexual harassment hostile work environment. Plaintiff
Winfrey also alleges that he was retaliated against for making health and safety
complaints.
Defendant
Peter Pouwels moves for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. 
Defendants Browning-Ferris Industries of California,
Inc. (“BFT”) and Republic Services, Inc. also move for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.
TENTATIVE RULING
The hearing on Defendants Browning-Ferris
Industries of California, Inc. and Republic Services Inc.’s motion for summary judgment.
is CONTINUED to November 1, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff is to filed his opposition
documents by September 20, 2024. 
Defendant
Peter Pouwels moves for summary judgment is DENIED. Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED as to Issue No. 1 re: the first cause of action, Issue No.
2 re: the second cause of action and Issue No. 3 re: punitive damages.
ANALYSIS
Defendants Browning-Ferris Industries of California, Inc. (“BFT”)
and Republic Services, Inc.’s Motion For Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
            Although Plaintiff
filed a number of opposing documents on August 26, 2024, the Court does not have
a copy of Plaintiff’s opposition documents to the amended motion for summary judgment/summary
adjudication filed by Defendants Browning-Ferris Industries of California, Inc.
and Republic Services Inc. Although the Court records reflect that Plaintiff filed
an opposition to Defendant Republic’s motion for summary judgment on April 18, 2024
when the case was pending in Department 61, the Court does not have any opposing
documents pertaining to the motion as it pertains to Defendant Browning-Ferris.
As such, the hearing on the motion for summary judgment filed by Defendants Browning-Ferris
Industries of California, Inc. and Republic Services Inc. is CONTINUED to November
1, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff is to filed his opposition documents by September
20, 2024.
Defendant Peter Pouwels’ Motion
for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
Summary Judgment
            Given
the discussion below, Defendant Pouwels has not demonstrated that he is entitled
to judgment as to all causes of action asserted against him. As such, the motion
for summary judgment is DENIED.
            The
Court proceeds to address the alternative motion for summary adjudication.
Summary Adjudication
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
            Declaration
of Peter Pouwels
No. 1: SUSTAINED as to whether declarant
touched Plaintiff in an offensive or harassing way ow with intent to cause harm,
offense or discomfort. Legal conclusion by lay witness; OVERRULED as to whether
he was told anything by Plaintiff or anyone else at BFI—personal knowledge.
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
            Pursuant
to Civ. Proc. Code, § 437c(q), the Court declines to rule on Defendant’s evidentiary
objections as they are asserted against evidence which the Court does not deem to
be material to the disposition of this motion.
Request For Judicial Notice
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the following:
1. Luis Venegas et.al. v. Superior
Court of the County of Los Angeles, Court of Appeal Second Appellate District Case
No. B330746, Alternative Writ Order, dated December 13, 2023.  (Exhibit A.)
2. Luis Venegas et.al. v. Browing-Ferris
Industries of California, Inc et.al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 21STCV11027,
Court’s Minute Order regarding Hearing on Motion for Reconsideration dated January
16, 2024. (Exhibit B.) 
3. Luis Venegas et.al. v. Superior
Court of the County of Los Angeles Court of Appeal Second Appellate District Case
No. B330746, Dismissal Order in light of the Superior Court’s compliance to with
the Court’s December 13, 2023 alternative Writ, dated January 17, 2024.  (Exhibit C.)
4. Marcus Hudson et.al. v. Browing-Ferris
Industries of California, Inc et.al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case  No. 21STCV02017, Court’s Minute Order regarding
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgement or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication,
dated October 12, 2023. (Exhibit D. )
5. Luis Venegas et.al. v. Browing-Ferris
Industries of California, Inc et.al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 21STCV11027,
Court’s Minute Order regarding Peter Pouwels’Joinder in Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment, dated July 10, 2023. (Exhibit E.)
6. Luis Venegas et.al. v. Browing-Ferris
Industries of California, Inc et.al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 21STCV11027,
Court’s Minute Order regarding Ruling on Submitted Matter: Defendants’ BFI and Republic’s
Motions for Summary Judgment, dated July 10, 2023.  (Exhibit F.)  
            Requests
Nos. 1 – 6 are GRANTED, but only as to the existence of the orders and the legal
effect thereof, not the truth of the matters recited therein, nor the facts determined
therein. Defendant’s objection is OVERRULED. 
 
“‘The court may in its discretion take judicial
notice of any court record in the United States. [Citation.] This includes any orders, findings of facts and conclusions
of law, and judgments within court records. [Citations.] However, while courts are
free to take judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including the truth of results reached, they may
not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions and court files.’ [Citation.]” (In re
Vicks (2013) 56 Cal.4th 274, 314
[153 Cal. Rptr. 3d 471, 295 P.3d 863].)


(Richtek USA, Inc. v. uPI Semiconductor
Corp. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651, 658.)
 
Issue No. 1:  Winfrey’s First Cause of Action against Pouwels
for sexual harassment in violation  the California
Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) fails because the allegedly harassing conduct
by Pouwels was nothing more than a few isolated incidents and was not otherwise
sufficiently severe or pervasive to create a hostile work environment as a matter
of law.
 
            The
gist of the first cause of action is that:
 
36. Defendants
engaged in unlawful pattern and practice of harassment against Plaintiffs and other
employees in violation of the FEHA by engaging in lewd and sexual conduct towards
them, making sexually offensive insults towards them, inappropriately touching them
in an unwanted sexual manner, and/or acting in a hostile and abusive manner towards
them based on their gender.   
 
 
 
The pertinent
allegations in the Complaint as to this issue are as follows:
 
6. Defendant PETER POUWELS is an individual who resides in the
State of California and was at all times relevant hereto an employee of Defendants
BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES OF CALIFORNIA, INC. and REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC. At all
relevant times, PETER POUWELS supervised Plaintiffs.
 
…
 
 
20. In or around September 2019, Defendants introduced a new
Supervisor, Defendant Peter Pouwels, to their Sylmar facility where Plaintiff Grant
Winfrey works. Supervisor Pouwels was a long-term employee of Defendants who Defendants
transferred from its Petaluma, California facility. Plaintiff Winfrey is informed,
believes, and hereon alleges that Defendants transferred Defendant Pouwels from
its Petaluma facility to Sylmar due to Pouwels’ workplace misconduct, including
but not limited to, Pouwels’ sexual harassment of Defendants’ employees. As result,
Defendants were aware of Pouwels’ pattern and practice of engaging in workplace
misconduct, including, but not limited to, engaging in sexual harassment. However,
Defendants failed to take appropriate corrective action to prevent Pouwels’ continued
harassment of Plaintiffs and other employees.  

 
21. Shortly after Defendant Pouwels began to work at Defendants’
Sylmar facility, he began to engage in inappropriate and vulgar conduct of a sexual
nature towards Plaintiff Winfrey and Defendants’ other employees. Pouwels began
to refer to some of the employees, including Plaintiff Winfrey, as “handsome,” “cute,”
“cutie pie” and “sweet cakes,” and make other inappropriate remarks over the handheld
radios issued to the Plaintiffs and other employees. For example, in early 2020,
an employee by the name of Marcus Hudson was operating a bulldozer that he reported
was overheating through his handheld radio, to which Supervisor Pouwels responded,
“Are you sure it’s not you making it hot?” inappropriately making a sexual innuendo
and sexual advance towards Hudson. The inappropriate statement was heard over the
radio by the other employees, including Plaintiff Winfrey, who was working in the
field and which he found extremely offensive and inappropriate given Pouwels’ continuous
inappropriate behavior towards Plaintiff Winfrey and Defendants’ other employees.

 
22. On several occasions, Defendant Pouwels approached Plaintiff
Winfrey with a popsicle stating in an inappropriate sexual manner that “it tastes
very good,” while licking the popsicle pretending that it was a penis and offering
a popsicle to Plaintiff Winfrey in a sexually suggestive manner. Plaintiff Winfrey
declined Defendant Pouwels’ sexually-suggestive offer, but Pouwels continued
to insist lewdly stating, “it is mango flavor.” Given Defendant Pouwels’ ongoing
inappropriate behavior in the workplace, Plaintiff Winfrey began to avoid Pouwels
in hopes that the unwanted harassment would cease. 
 
23. Furthermore, Defendant Pouwels regularly touched or tried
to touch Plaintiff Winfrey and other employees by standing inappropriately close
to employees and then touching their bodies without warning or permission, such
as rubbing the employees’ backs or shoulders, touching their arms or legs, or by
inappropriately brushing up against them including on their genitals or other private
areas. For example, on one occasion while Plaintiff Winfrey was in Defendants’
office standing in between two desks, Defendant Pouwels walked past Winfrey rubbing
his crotch on Plaintiff Winfrey’s buttocks. Plaintiff Winfrey became upset and immediately
reacted with a “hey man!” to which Defendant Pouwels responded, “oh excuse me,”
laughingly pretending that his assault had been an accident, even though Pouwels’
actions were clearly intentional. Plaintiff Winfrey became extremely uncomfortable
around Defendant Pouwels because he had heard of other similar incidents wherein
Pouwels engaged in inappropriate touching and/or physical assaults of other employees.

 
24. On another occasion, Defendant Pouwels approached Plaintiff
Winfrey demanding that Mr. Winfrey hug him because he (Pouwels) was going to be
leaving Republic Services. Plaintiff Winfrey immediately backed away and specifically
told Defendant Pouwels that he did not feel comfortable hugging him because he (Winfrey)
had recently recovered from COVID-19. In reality, Plaintiff Winfrey had become distrustful
of Defendant Pouwels’ intentions due to his incessant harassing and sexualized behavior.
However, despite his protests Defendant Pouwels responded, “I don’t care, I’m not
going to get it” (COVID), “come on and give me a hug,” while standing uncomfortably
close to Plaintiff Winfrey and forcing himself on Winfrey for a hug, despite Winfrey’s
express refusal of his demands.  
 
25. In addition to the inappropriate comments, interactions,
and unwanted touching, Defendant Pouwels also began to try to meet with Plaintiff
Winfrey and other employees outside of work by making inappropriate invitations
of a sexual nature that made Plaintiff Winfrey and other employees uncomfortable.
For example, while Plaintiff Winfrey was working in Defendants’ observation deck,
Defendant Pouwels approached Winfrey and invited him over to his house “for a
barbeque.” Given Pouwels’ suggestive tone and demeanor (as well as his previous
sexually inappropriate behavior), it was evident to Plaintiff Winfrey that Pouwels’

‘invitation’ was yet another improper sexual advance. Plaintiff Winfrey thus found the invitation inappropriate and
flatly declined. Plaintiff Winfrey later learned that Pouwels had made similar inappropriate
invitations to other employees.  
 
26. Despite Defendants’ employees repeated complaints to Defendants
concerning Defendant Pouwels’ inappropriate and lewd behavior, including his harassing
conduct, Defendants failed to take appropriate, corrective action to end the harassment
and protect their 
employees. As result, Pouwels’ harassment towards Plaintiffs
and other employees continued and even worsened. In fact, when two employees by
the names of Marcus Hudson and Melvin Lacy complained to Defendants about Defendant
Pouwels’ incessant sexual harassment and physical assaults, Defendants’ supervisors
simply laughed and ignored their complaints, and thereafter began to retaliate against
Mr. Hudson and Mr. Lacy by cutting their work hours and changing their schedules,
while Defendants allowed Pouwels to continue working without repercussions, and
thus sanctioning and ratifying his inappropriate behavior. 
     (Complaint, ¶¶ 6, 20 – 26.)
The Legislature hereby declares its intent
with regard to application of the laws about harassment contained in this part.
 
(a) The purpose of these laws is to provide
all Californians with an equal opportunity to succeed in the workplace and should
be applied accordingly by the courts. The Legislature hereby declares that harassment
creates a hostile, offensive, oppressive, or intimidating work environment and deprives
victims of their statutory right to work in a place free of discrimination when
the harassing conduct sufficiently offends, humiliates, distresses, or intrudes
upon its victim, so as to disrupt the victim’s emotional tranquility in the workplace,
affect the victim’s ability to perform the job as usual, or otherwise interfere
with and undermine the victim’s personal sense of well-being. In this regard, the
Legislature affirms its approval of the standard set forth by Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsburg in her concurrence in Harris v. Forklift Systems (1993) 510 U.S. 17 that
in a workplace harassment suit “the plaintiff need not prove that his or her
tangible productivity has declined as a result of the harassment. It suffices
to prove that a reasonable person subjected to the discriminatory conduct would
find, as the plaintiff did, that the harassment so altered working conditions as
to make it more difficult to do the job.” (Id. at 26).
 
(b) A single incident of harassing conduct
is sufficient to create a triable issue regarding the existence of a hostile work
environment if the harassing conduct has unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s
work performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.
In that regard, the Legislature hereby declares its rejection of the United States
Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit’s opinion in Brooks v. City of San Mateo (2000)
229 F.3d 917 and states that the opinion shall not be used in determining what kind
of conduct is sufficiently severe or pervasive to constitute a violation of the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
 
(c) The existence of a hostile work environment
depends upon the totality of the circumstances and a discriminatory remark, even if not made directly in the context of an
employment decision or uttered by a nondecisionmaker, may be relevant, circumstantial
evidence of discrimination. In that regard, the Legislature affirms the decision
in Reid v. Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512 in its rejection of the “stray remarks
doctrine.”
 
(d) The legal standard for sexual harassment
should not vary by type of workplace. It is irrelevant that a particular occupation
may have been characterized by a greater frequency of sexually related commentary
or conduct in the past. In determining whether or not a hostile environment existed,
courts should only consider the nature of the workplace when engaging in or witnessing
prurient conduct and commentary is integral to the performance of the job duties.
The Legislature hereby declares its disapproval of any language, reasoning, or holding
to the contrary in the decision Kelley v. Conco Companies (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
191.
 
(e) Harassment cases are rarely appropriate for disposition on summary judgment.
In that regard, the Legislature affirms the decision in Nazir v. United Airlines,
Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243 and its observation that hostile working environment cases involve issues “not determinable on paper.”

    (Gov. Code § 12923 [bold emphasis added].)

            Defendant
does not dispute that the alleged events pled at Complaint, ¶¶ 6, 20 – 26 took place,
buy tries to characterize them as not severe or pervasive harassment. However, what
actually happened and the manner in which the alleged statements were said, are
triable issue of material fact that the Court cannot say are insufficient to constitute
harassment as a matter of law, given Gov. Code, § 12923. Defendant cites cases which
were decided before Gov. Code, § 12923 was adopted are no longer good law to the
extent they fail to take into account the key principles expressed in § 12923. (Beltran
v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 878-81 [bold emphasis
and underlining added].)
            Defendant
fails to meet his initial burden on summary adjudication as to this issue, and the
burden does not shift to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.
            The
motion for summary adjudication as to Issue No. 1 re: the first cause of action
is DENIED.
Issue No. 2:  Winfrey’s Second Cause of Action Against Pouwels
for sexual assault and/or sexual battery fails as a matter of law because the undisputed
material facts demonstrate that Pouwels did not perform the alleged conduct with
the requisite intent required to maintain claims for sexual assault and/or sexual
battery as a matter of law.
This cause of action is for assault and/or battery (Complaint, ¶ 43). It
is not for sexual assault and/or sexual battery[1],
which have different elements.  The moving
papers address the sexual battery aspect of this claim using the framework of
Civil Code section 1708.5, which is not the relevant law for a battery claim.
Historically, assault has been defined as
an attempted battery. (Citations omitted.) The harm addressed is a battery. Williams
rejects the view that assault requires an intent to commit a battery. It holds that
“assault only requires an intentional act and actual knowledge of those facts
sufficient to establish that the act by its nature will probably and directly result
in the application of physical force against another.” Williams, supra, 26 Cal.
4th at p. 790. The test is objective. The actor “need not be subjectively
aware of the risk that a battery might occur.” (Id. at p. 788, fn. omitted.)
This defines the mental state as a species of negligent conduct, a negligent
assault. . . . 
 
(People v. Wright (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 703, 706 [bold emphasis and underlining
added].)
The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff
to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff;
(2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended
by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position
would have been offended by the touching. (CACI No. 1300; see Kaplan v. Mamelak (2008)
162 Cal.App.4th 637, 645 [75 Cal. Rptr. 3d 861] (Kaplan).)
(So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th
652, 669 [bold emphasis added].) 
Here, whether or
not Defendant Pouwels accidentally or intentionally rubbed his crotch on Plaintiff’s
buttocks, as alleged in ¶ 23 of the Complaint, is a triable issue of material fact.
A jury could determine that, if Pouwels intended to make such contact, a reasonable
person in Plaintiff’s position would have been offended by such touching.
Defendant has not
met his initial burden on this issue, and the burden does not shift to Plaintiff
to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
The motion for summary
adjudication as to Issue No. 2 re: the second cause of action is DENIED. 
Issue No. 3:  Winfrey’s
claim for punitive damages against Pouwels fails because the undisputed material
facts negate any credible finding or inference that Pouwels acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice within the meaning of California Civil Code section 3294.
            A defendant is entitled
to summary adjudication on “one or more claims for [punitive] damages” if he establishes
“there is no merit to [the claim], as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code
. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1)). A defendant establishes a claim has no merit by showing that an element
of the claim cannot be established. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To
do so, a defendant must show that the plaintiff
does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) To meet its burden, a defendant must present evidence; he
may not simply point out that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence. (Id. at 854-55.)  “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists . . . .”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
            Here, Defendant has not
cited evidence establishing that Plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence that
Defendant acted with malice (i.e., an intent to cause injury—Civ. Code, 3294(c)(1)
) in subjecting Plaintiff to sexual harassment and battery.
            Further:
[S]ummary judgment
may be denied in the discretion of the court, where the only proof of a material
fact offered in support of the summary judgment is an affidavit or declaration made
by an individual who was the sole witness to that fact; or where a material fact
is an individual’s state of mind, or lack thereof, and that fact is sought to be
established solely by the individual’s affirmation thereof.
     (Civ. Proc. Code, § 437c(e).)
            Defendant has
failed to meet his initial burden on this issue, and the burden does not shift to
Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.
            The
motion for summary adjudication as to Issue No. 3 is DENIED.


