  Case Number:  21AHCV00070    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CITY OF PASADENA, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CALIFORNIA
   INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21AHCV00070
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO STAY ACTION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December
   4, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
A.   The
Complaint 
On November 4, 2021, the City of Pasadena
(“Pasadena”) filed this action against defendant California Institute of
Technology (also known as and referred to herein as “Caltech”) asserting claims
for continuing trespass, continuing private nuisance, continuing public
nuisance, and declaratory relief. Pasadena alleges that its drinking water
supply wells, namely the Sunset wells and Eastside wells, located in the
Pasadena subarea of a water basin known as the Raymond Groundwater Basin
(“Basin”), are contaminated by various man-made chemicals. (Compl., ¶ 1.)
Pasadena seeks remediation costs from Caltech, who managed and operated, and
continues to manage and operate, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration’s (“NASA”) Jet Propulsion Laboratory (“JPL”), located at 4800
Oak Grove Drive in Pasadena (“JPL Facility”). Plaintiff alleges that Caltech
released and/or disposed of contaminants into the soil and groundwater at the
JPL Facility, which caused the contamination of its wells which are
downgradient (or downstream) of the Facility. (Compl., ¶ 3.) The JPL Facility is
a federally-funded research and development center (“FFRDC”) owned by NASA and
operated as a division of Caltech through a contract between NASA and Caltech.
(Compl.,. ¶ 16.) 
In 1992, after investigating contamination
found in the Monk Hill wells, the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) listed the JPL Facility as a Superfund site under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), 42 U.S.C. §
9601, et seq. (Compl., ¶ 118.) In 2018, EPA issued its Record of Decision
(“ROD”) for the JPL Facility relating to one of the three operating units
(“OUs”), specifically OU3 which consists of off-Facility groundwater adjacent
to the JPL Facility.  (Compl., ¶¶ 121,
129.) The ROD identifies the cleanup action selected by NASA and EPA for the contaminated
groundwater off-site and downgradient of the JPL Facility, which includes the Monk
Hill wells. (Compl., ¶ 129.) The EPA rejected Pasadena’s request to include treatment
of contaminated groundwater in other areas of the Basin, including the Sunset
wells, in the ROD’s remedy. (Compl., ¶ 129.) Instead, the EPA stated that
groundwater located between the JPL Facility and the Sunset wells will be
monitored and evaluated, at a minimum, as part of five-year reviews. (Compl., ¶
130.) Pasadena alleges that since the EPA’s ROD in 2018, groundwater sampling
and testing data has shown that contaminates from the JPL Facility have
migrated through and from the Monk Hill subarea into the Sunset wells and Eastside
Wells. (Compl., ¶ 132.) 
B.   Procedural
Background
On
April 11, 2022, the Honorable Colin P. Leis issued an order (the “April 2022
Order”) denying Caltech’s demurrer or, alternatively, motion to dismiss or stay
this action. In its moving papers, Caltech argued that this action could not
continue without joining the United States of America (“United States”) as a
“necessary party” because Pasadena’s allegations assume, as a matter of law,
that the contamination of the Sunset and Eastside Wells will become a
“facility” under CERCLA, and any remediation efforts will require EPA approval.
Judge Leis found that the United States was not a necessary party to the action
and emphasized that the United States, through the EPA, has declared that the
JPL Facility did not include the Sunset and Eastside wells. Judge Leis also specifically
noted that the record at that time did not support Caltech’s claim that any
contamination from JPL must be within EPA’s jurisdiction.
On
March 8, 2023, the Second Appellate District of the Court of Appeal denied
Caltech’s petition for writ of mandate. (Carlin Decl., Ex. G.) The court left
open the possibility of a stay if Pasadena “proves its underlying contention
that the contamination is from the Jet Propulsion Lab”, so that new information
could be presented to the EPA, which might then take over remediation efforts
and amend its ROD.
On August
21, 2023, Caltech filed this motion for a stay based on the doctrine of forum
non conveniens. 
On September
11, 2023, Pasadena filed its opposition brief. 
On September 14, 2023, Caltech filed a
complaint in the Central District of California against Pasadena and the United
States (the “Federal Action”) for cost recovery under CERCLA and declaratory
relief. (Dintzer Reply Decl., Ex. A.) The matter has been assigned to the
Honorable André Birotte Jr. 
On September 18, 2023, Caltech filed its
reply brief.  
On October 4, 2023, after oral argument in
this matter, the Court continued the hearing and ordered the parties to provide
supplemental briefs. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
When a
court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of
substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state,
the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any
conditions that may be just. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).) The doctrine
of forum non conveniens “is an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary
power of a court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a
transitory cause of action when it believes that the action may be more
appropriately and justly tried elsewhere.” (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc.
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) 
In
considering motions based on forum non conveniens, courts undertake a two-part
analysis. First, the court determines whether the alternate forum is a suitable
place for trial. (Id.) To be suitable, a forum need only have personal
jurisdiction and not have a statute of limitations that would bar the action. (Chong
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1032.) Second, the court considers the
private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in
litigating the matter in one forum or another. (Stangvik, supra,
54 Cal.3d at p. 751.) The private interest factors are those that make trial
and the enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively
inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the cost of
obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory process
for attendance of unwilling witnesses. (Ibid.) The public interest
factors include avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested
calendars, protecting the interests of potential jurors so that they are not
called upon to decide cases in which the local community has little concern,
and weighing the competing interests of California and the alternate
jurisdiction in the litigation. (Ibid.) The moving party bears the
burden of establishing both components in the analysis. (Ibid.) The
trial court has considerable discretion to decide motions based on forum non
conveniens. (Ibid.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Caltech
contends that this action should be stayed pursuant to the doctrine of forum
non conveniens so that it may pursue litigation in federal court. As stated
above, the Federal Action names Pasadena and the United States as defendants.
Caltech asserts claims for cost recovery under CERCLA, and seeks a declaratory
judgment that Pasadena and the United States are jointly and severally liable
for response costs incurred or to be incurred by Caltech. (Dintzer Reply Decl.,
Ex. A, ¶ 77.) Caltech also requests a declaratory judgment that Pasadena may
not conduct any remediation of contamination without EPA approval if the
contamination originated from the JPL Facility; Caltech specifies that its
request for a declaratory judgment “would not prohibit [Pasadena] from
conducting remediation at the Sunset and Eastside Wells” if Pasadena concedes
that the contamination did not originate from the JPL Facility. (Id. at
¶¶ 83-84.)
A
“suitable” alternative forum is one in which a valid judgment may be obtained
against defendant. (See Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 560, fn.
3.) Here, Caltech
argues that the Central District is a suitable alternative forum because
federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction over CERCLA cost recovery claims and
may exercise supplemental jurisdiction over Pasadena’s state law claims if
Pasadena brings them as counterclaims. (Mot., pp. 17-18.) Caltech
also argues that federal court is a more suitable venue because only there may
the United States be brought into the litigation. Caltech additionally argues,
and Pasadena does not dispute, that if JPL contamination has reached Pasadena’s
Sunset and Eastside wells, Pasadena will become a “covered person”/potentially
responsible party (“PRP”) by virtue of being the owner of the area where
hazardous substances have “come to be located.” At that point, any remediation
efforts must be approved by the EPA as “consistent with the national
contingency plan.” (Atlantic Richfield Co. v. Christian (2020) 590 U.S.
---, 140 S.Ct. 1335, 1357.) According to Caltech, a stay is warranted because
if EPA declines to approve Pasadena’s proposed remediation, then Pasadena’s
state law claims may not proceed until the JPL Facility is delisted as a
Superfund site, which may not occur for decades. (Mot., p. 16.)
Pasadena
argues that the doctrine of forum non conveniens only applies when the
alternate forum is outside the state of California. However, in interpreting the
statute governing forum non conveniens motions, “[i]t is black letter law that,
when a federal action has been filed covering the same subject matter as is
involved in a California action, the California court has the discretion but
not the obligation to stay the state court action.” (Caiafa Prof. Law Corp.
v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 800, 804.) The
California Supreme Court has stated that “the conflict of sovereignties” at
issue in deciding whether to apply forum non conveniens is no different even if
the state action and federal action are within the same state. (Thomson v.
Continental Inds. Co. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 738, 747.) Moreover, once a
defendant has shown that an alternative forum exists, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to produce evidence showing that the alternative forum is
inappropriate. (Hahn v. Diaz-Barba (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1191.)
Here, Pasadena generally asserts that a plaintiff is entitled to its choice of
forum and speculates that the district court may decide not to exercise
supplemental jurisdiction over its state law claims against Pasadena, but to
date, Pasadena has not produced evidence demonstrating that federal court is
unsuitable as a forum. Pasadena’s motion to dismiss Caltech’s Federal Action
will be heard on December 15, 2023, and there is no evidence yet that Pasadena
will be unable to assert its state law claims against Caltech as counterclaims.

Pasadena
also relies on Mave Enterprises, Inc. v. Travelers Indemnity Co. (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 1408 (“Mave”) as instructive and argues that the motion
for a stay should be denied because the superior court obtained jurisdiction
over this matter first. In Mave, the court of appeal affirmed the
superior court’s denial of a motion for a stay and emphasized that the superior
court acquired subject matter jurisdiction 2 years before the federal district
court. However, the Mave court also determined that the superior court
was just as capable as the federal district court of resolving the litigation,
which involved interpretating the Federal Arbitration Act or California
Arbitration Act. Here, Caltech has shown that the private and public interests
both favor federal court because this Court may not be as capable of fully
resolving this litigation insofar as there are limits to its authority to compel
a remedy. 
The
private interests to be considered when ruling on a motion to stay include those
that make trial and the enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and
relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the
cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory
process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. (Stangvik, supra,
54 Cal.3d at p. 751.) Caltech argues that federal court is uniquely suited to handling
this dispute because only the Federal Action will compel the participation of
the United States in discovery and settlement discussions. (Motion, pp. 19-20.)
Pasadena asserts that any limitation on discovery from the federal government is
irrelevant because no testimony from witnesses, other than expert witnesses, is
necessary, there is an extensive administrative record, and federal documents
can be obtained through the Freedom of Information Act. But even if there are
no living percipient witnesses, the district court’s subpoena power is an
advantage to making discovery more convenient where decisions and documents of
federal agencies are involved over a stretch of time.
Most
important, Pasadena has not, and cannot, articulate the overarching value of a
superior court judgment. After considering extensive briefing and oral
argument, this Court’s role appears limited to factfinding, with no ability to
provide or order the remedy sought by Pasadena. Any avenue of litigation towards
an enforceable judgment requires eventual action by the EPA. There is no reason
to believe that the EPA would be more receptive to a superior court judgment
than Pasadena’s previous attempts to have EPA amend its ROD. 
The
public interest factors also weigh in favor of a stay or are, at best, neutral.
Although a jury pool in state court will include local residents who might have
more of an interest in the quality of their groundwater supply, the federal
government also has a strong interest in ensuring that federal agencies act in
accordance with CERCLA with respect to a federal Superfund site. 
Whether
it is true, as Caltech argues, that local state courts are more congested than
federal courts and federal courts are better-equipped with resources to review the
federal administrative record and any technical expert witness testimony
involved in this litigation, is not a significant consideration at this point
because (a) this Court has no way of undertaking a comparative analysis of the
relative time and other resources available to a federal court and a superior
court as a general matter, and (b) more to the point, Pasadena here seeks a
jury trial, which would require the parties to refrain from inundating the jury
with information marginally relevant to the question of whether JPL
contaminated Pasadena’s wells.  It is if the
answer to that question becomes “yes” that the problem becomes more complex,
and put simply, more inevitably “federal.” There appears to be significant
judicial economy for both the state and federal courts to be achieved in having
that threshold question of causation, and any subsequent damages and remedies
issues, decided in the one court, which isn’t this Court, that has jurisdiction
over all the parties relevant to each stage of the litigation. So it is worth
finding out whether the federal district court accepts or dismisses the case
before it.
Accordingly,
under the discretionary standard of forum non conveniens, the Court imposes a
short stay of six months to allow the pleadings stage of the Federal Action to conclude.
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Caltech’s
motion to stay is GRANTED. 
The
stay will last six months and will automatically expire at the end of this
period unless a party moves to extend the length of the stay. 
The
Court sets a status conference/trial setting conference for ______ at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. The parties are to file a joint status
report no later than 5 days before the hearing.
Dated
this 4th
day of December, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.