  Case Number:  21STCV08013    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff applies ex parte to reopen discovery.  
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision
(b) provides: 
In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny [a motion to reopen discovery], the
court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested,
including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.
(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action.
Plaintiff does not show good cause to reopen
discovery.  He states he needs further discovery to defend himself from
defendant’s claims that he spoliated evidence.  He filed this action on
March 1, 2021.  Only about four months later, he turned the subject
vehicle in to a dealership before his lease ended.  He could and should
have avoided any claims of spoliation by permitting defendant to inspect the
vehicle before disposing of it.  Plaintiff has shown no diligence in
completing discovery earlier.  This is not a complicated case.  The
parties should have been able to complete discovery long ago.  Reopening
discovery would prevent the case from going to trial on May 8.  The case
was initially set for trial on September 13, 2023, and has been continued
several times.  
After considering all relevant factors, the court
exercises its discretion not to reopen discovery.
The application is denied.Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion
for Sanctions for Spoliation of Evidence            Defendant
Hyundai Motor America moves for sanctions against plaintiff Bernhard G. Mueller
including terminating sanctions, issue sanctions, or an adverse jury
instruction.Evidentiary Objections            Defendant
makes 16 objections to the declaration of Tionna Carvalho.  Objection Nos. 1, 2, and 7 are sustained.  Objection Nos. 3-6 and 8-16 are overruled.  DiscussionDefendant establishes that plaintiff
spoliated the key evidence in this case. 
“Spoliation of evidence means the destruction or significant alteration
of evidence or the failure to preserve evidence for another’s use in pending or
future litigation.”  (Williams v. Russ
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223 (Williams).)  Doing so “is a misuse of the discovery
process that is subject to a broad range of punishment, including monetary,
issue, evidentiary, and terminating sanctions.” 
(Ibid.)  “A terminating
sanction is appropriate in the first instance without a violation of prior
court orders in egregious cases of intentional spoliation of evidence.”  (Ibid.)This action arises from plaintiff’s
purportedly defective 2018 Hyundai Tucson vehicle.  Inspecting the vehicle is the most crucial
discovery defendant needs to prepare for trial. 
Plaintiff failed to preserve that evidence.  Plaintiff leased the vehicle for three
years beginning in August 2018. 
(Carvalho Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2.)  On May
7, 2021, defendant served a notice of vehicle inspection on plaintiff along
with a notice demanding plaintiff to preserve the vehicle.  (Jo Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exs. B-C.)  The preservation letter states, “If your
client decides to sell, trade-in, or turn-in the subject vehicle, or dispose of
it for any reason, prior to HMA’s legal inspection, please provide written
notice at least two weeks prior to such intent to dispose of the subject
vehicle so HMA may have an opportunity to inspect the subject vehicle.”  (Id., Ex. C.)On June 30, 2021, before the three-year
lease expired, plaintiff returned the subject vehicle to “authorized dealership
Keyes Hyundai Van Nuys.”  (Carvalho
Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 4.)  Plaintiff neither
gave defendant notice nor permitted an inspection before turning in the vehicle.  Turning in the vehicle before the inspection
and without giving defendant prior notice constitutes spoliation of evidence by
failing to preserve it.Plaintiff argues defendant is the one
who spoiled the evidence because it should have kept any parts that were
replaced after plaintiff turned in his vehicle. 
Plaintiff contends Hyundai knew the vehicle was returned because
plaintiff took it to an authorized Hyundai dealer and Hyundai maintains a
database about its vehicles.  Hyundai
manufactures huge numbers of vehicles. 
Plaintiff had far greater power to track what he personally did with the
vehicle.  It was impossible for plaintiff
to lose possession of the vehicle without knowing that promptly.  It was highly foreseeable that defendant
would not know or would not promptly discover that plaintiff no longer
possessed it.  Plaintiff bears
responsibility for disposing of the vehicle without first permitting
defendant’s inspection.  Rather than directly notifying defendant
of this crucial development, his discovery responses continued to represent
that he possessed the vehicle.  For
example, in response to defendant’s second amended notice of vehicle inspection
in November 2022, plaintiff made only numerous objections.  (Jo Decl., Ex. G.)  When the responding party does not possess
the sole object being demanded, the only accurate response is “[a]
representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection” that specified he was unable to compel because the vehicle “is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party.”  (CCP § 2031.230.)  Even if objections were proper, plaintiff
misused the discovery process by objecting without also giving the substantive
response that he was unable to comply with the demand.  Plaintiff also explicitly stated “Yes” when
asked if he was “still in possession of the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  (Jo Decl., Ex. I, special interrogatory No.
18.)  Plaintiff argues that response was
not verified.  The response stated,
“Verification to follow.”  (Id.,
p. 27.)  Not verifying the false response
means it is not punishable by perjury. 
But it was still unequivocally false and misleading.   Defendant does not, however, present
evidence sufficient to warrant a terminating sanction.  This is not an “egregious case[] of
intentional spoliation of evidence.”  (Williams,
supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at p. 1223.)  Plaintiff
turned in the subject vehicle—which he alleges is defective—before his lease
ended.  Defendant provides no evidence
permitting a reasonable inference that he turned in the vehicle early because
he did not want defendant to have access to it for its defense in this action.  Moreover, plaintiff ultimately made a
good-faith effort to make the vehicle available for inspection.  Plaintiff identified the vehicle’s current
owner and got him to agree to allow an inspection on April 19, 2024.  (Carvalho Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 8.)  While it is unclear whether defendant’s inspection
on that date will ameliorate plaintiff’s failure to permit inspection in 2021, plaintiff
has at least shown a good faith effort to correct its previous discovery
abuses.  Assuming defendant is permitted to
inspect the vehicle as plaintiff has promised, the court finds the appropriate
sanction against plaintiff will be to give CACI jury instructions Nos. 203 and
204 if the evidence supports these instructions.  CACI No. 203, based on Evidence Code section
412, states, “You may consider the ability of each party to provide evidence.  If a party provided weaker evidence when it
could have provided stronger evidence, you may distrust the weaker evidence.”  CACI No. 204, based on Evidence Code section
413, states, “You may consider whether one party intentionally concealed or
destroyed evidence.  If you decide that a
party did so, you may decide that the evidence would have been unfavorable to
that party.”  This “wilful suppression
instruction does not require direct evidence of fraud.”  (Bihun v. AT&T Information Systems,
Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 976, 992.) 
When willful suppression of evidence is not conclusively established,
courts may give these instructions because they tell the jury “only that it
could ‘consider whether one party intentionally concealed or destroyed
evidence.’ ”  (Ventura v. ABM
Industries Inc. (2012) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 273.)  The court will make a final
determination of whether to give CACI 203 and 204 once both parties have rested
at trial.  “Giving these instructions
[is] proper” when there is “evidence from which it could reasonably be
concluded that” a party “failed to produce stronger evidence or willfully
suppressed evidence.”  (Sprague v.
Equifax, Inc. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1012, 1051.)  The court will only give these instructions
if the evidence at trial permits such conclusions.  Furthermore, if defendant does not take
advantage of the opportunity to inspect the subject vehicle now, it may be
appropriate to conclude that it also had “the power … to produce stronger and
more satisfactory evidence.”  (Evid.
Code, § 412.)  Disposition
            Defendant
Hyundai Motor America’s motion for sanctions for spoliation of evidence is granted in part.  The
court will consider giving the jury CACI instruction Nos. 203 and 204.  The court will reserve its ruling on these
instructions and will not give them if the evidence at trial does not support
them.