Plaintiff Kayvan Setareh seeks to enforce his settlement with Defendants South Bay Contractors, Inc. and Mike Amidnamin.  The parties entered into an initial settlement agreement that stated that Defendants owed $3.3 million and that the agreement could be enforced pursuant to CCP § 664.6.The parties then entered into a subsequent, amended settlement agreement that required Defendants to pay $2,722,337.90 to Plaintiff by May 15, 2023.  That agreement acknowledges a prior payment of $792,297.20, but states that amount will not be credited towards the amended principal.  Plaintiff now contends that Defendants failed to tender any further settlement funds.The Court is authorized to enter judgment pursuant to a stipulated settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6.)  In reviewing a motion to enforce a settlement, the Court determines “whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement.”  (Hines v. Lukes (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1182.)  “A settlement is enforceable under section 664.6 only if the parties agreed to all material settlement terms.  [Citations.]  The court ruling on the motion may consider the parties’ declarations and other evidence in deciding what terms the parties agreed to, and the court’s factual findings in this regard are reviewed under the substantial evidence standard.  [Citations.]  If the court determines that the parties entered into an enforceable settlement, it should grant the motion and enter a formal judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  (Id. at pp. 1182-1183; see also Osumi v. Sutton (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1355, 1357 [“Strong public policy in favor of the settlement of civil cases gives the trial court, which approves the settlement, the power to enforce it”].)Defendants do not dispute that the parties (a) entered into a settlement and (b) that the Court retains jurisdiction pursuant to CCP § 664.6.  Rather, they contend that the settlement agreements should be rescinded due to mistake of fact and because their prior attorney, Bryan Doss, subjected them to undue influence by pressuring them to settle.Respectfully, the evidence as to undue influence is not sufficient.With respect to mistake of fact, Defendants contend that their attorney misrepresented the following facts: “the settlement payment to Plaintiff would be paid out of the sale of the three properties listed in the settlement agreements, that Plaintiff could not place a lien on the property, and the funds paid to Plaintiff from the refinance of the Rosecrans Shopping Center would be applied towards the settlement funds.”“A party may rescind a contract if [the party's] consent was given by mistake. (Donovan, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 278, 109 Cal.Rptr.2d 807, 27 P.3d 702.) The grounds for rescission are stated in [ ] section 1689. One such ground exists when consent to a contract is given by mistake. The term mistake in [ ] section 1689, however, is a legal term with a legal meaning. [¶] The type of mistake that will support rescission is defined in [ ] section 1577 (mistake of fact) and [ ] section 1578 (mistake of law). (Hedging Concepts, Inc. v. First All. Mortg. Co. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1421, 49 Cal.Rptr.2d 191 (Hedging Concepts); see also Donovan, at p. 278, 109 Cal.Rptr.2d 807, 27 P.3d 702.) Section 1577 provides, ‘Mistake of fact is a mistake, not caused by the neglect of a legal duty on the part of the person making the mistake, and consisting in: 1. An unconscious ignorance or forgetfulness of a fact past or present, material to the contract; or, 2. Belief in the present existence of a thing material to the contract, which does not exist, or in the past existence of such a thing, which has not existed.’ ”  (Est. of Eskra  (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 209, 221 (internal case quotes omitted).)“Rescission is also available for unilateral mistake, especially when the unilateral mistake is known to the other contracting party and is encouraged or fostered by that party.”  (3 Cal. Affirmative Def. § 62:3 (2d ed.).)The first mistake relates to the facts that “the settlement payment to Plaintiff would be paid out of the sale of the three properties listed in the settlement agreements, that Plaintiff could not place a lien on the property . . . .”  This is not a reasonable mistake of fact, and it was not reasonable to not ask follow-up questions on this issue.  The settlement does contemplate a sale of the properties to satisfy the settlement; however, the agreement is not open-ended with respect to a deadline to tender payment.  Each agreement has set payment dates, and the sale of the properties was nowhere listed as a condition precedent to performance.  Nor is there adequate evidence of a direct misrepresentation on that point.  The Court does not find Soheila’s testimony credible.  It is unreasonable for someone to believe there would exist an open-ended settlement where the payment could forever be delayed by a failure to sell the subject properties.  It is also unreasonable to believe that there could be no enforcement mechanism when one settles a case.  The last mistake is about the refinance payment not being credited towards the settlement.  Soheila fails to explain why she would agree to be liable for $2,722,337.90 if a credit should have been applied to the amended settlement.  Soheila never clarifies if this supposed credit belief pertained to the initial or amended settlement.  Further, Soheila fails to present evidence that her attorney affirmatively misrepresented that there would be a credit for the amended settlement.  Soheila fails to confirm that she ever reviewed the amended settlement agreement.  The material terms are found in one or two paragraphs.  It should also be noted that the amended settlement agreement was entered into in January 2023.  It is now December 2024, and Defendants have still apparently not tendered payment.Because a valid settlement agreement exists and the Court retains jurisdiction, the Motion to Enforce Settlement is granted.  (CCP § 664.6.)   Moving party to give notice.