 Case Number:  24STLC04501    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  26 Gupta v. DiSalvo, et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:
Defendants Lee Ann DiSalvo and Intuitive Healing Institute,
LLC’s Motion for Sanctions is GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $23,816.00.
ANALYSIS:
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff Sushant Gupta (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against Defendants
Lee Ann DiSalvo (“Defendant DiSalvo”), Intuitive Healing Institute, LLC
(“Defendant IHI”), and Kristen Lahey (“Defendant
Lahey”). On August 7, 2024, Defendant Lahey filed a Motion to Deem
Plaintiff a Vexatious Litigant. Defendants DiSalvo and IHI filed their Motion
to Deem Plaintiff a Vexatious Litigant on September 4, 2024. On October 1,
2024, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the action without prejudice. Despite the
dismissal, the Court retained jurisdiction to rule on the motion to deem
Plaintiff a vexatious litigant, and granted the motion on October 14, 2024,
after taking the matter under submission. (Minute Order, 10/14/24.)
On
October 3, 2024, Defendants Intuitive Healing Institute and Lee Ann DiSalvo
(“Moving Defendants”) filed the instant action Motion for Sanctions. No
opposition has been filed to date.
Discussion

The Motion for Sanctions is
brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, pursuant to which,
the judge may order a party or counsel, or both, “to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of
actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).) “‘Actions or
tactics’ include, but are not limited to, the making or opposing of motions or
the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other
responsive pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (b)(1).) “‘Frivolous’
means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing
an opposing party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (b)(2).) The Court grants
Moving Defendants’ request for judicial notice of cases previously filed by
Plaintiff. (See Cal. Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
The statute also provides a party
making or opposing a written motion or the filing and service of a complaint,
cross-complaint, answer or other responsive pleading a 21-day safe harbor
provision where the pleading or paper can be withdrawn or appropriately
corrected. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (f)(1)(B).) Furthermore, “[i]n
determining what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider
whether a party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 128.5, subd. (f)(1).)
To a large part, the instant
Motion is based on the filing of Plaintiff’s Complaint, to which Defendants
responded by filing a motion to deem Plaintiff vexatious. (Motion, pp.
13:9-14:23.) That motion was filed on September 4, 2024 and decided on October
14, 2024. Before that motion could even be heard, or moving Defendants could
file the instant Motion for Sanctions, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the
action on October 1, 2024. The Court finds Moving Defendants acted with
diligence in bringing this Motion for Sanctions promptly after filing the
motion to deem Plaintiff vexatious. Furthermore, due to Plaintiff’s decision to
voluntarily dismiss the action, the safe harbor provision is inapplicable.
The Motion argues that the filing
of the Complaint was frivolous and Plaintiff’s conduct during the litigation
was in bad faith. The Complaint alleged causes of action for (1) breach of contract;
(2) fraud; (3) unjust enrichment; (4) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (5) wrongful conduct; and (6) malice. Moving Defendants are correct
to point out the last two purported causes of action are not causes of action
at all under California law. However, as for the remaining causes of action,
the Motion does not adequately demonstrate the inadequacies of the Complaint.
The Motion argues that the remaining causes of action fail to allege sufficient
facts but provides no citation to any of the allegations in the Complaint.
(Motion, p. 13:18-14:20.) The Motion also points to Plaintiff’s alleged
contract damages of $175.00 as evidence of bad faith filing in the limited
jurisdiction court. Although, this alone does not show bad faith, Moving
Defendants also point out that Plaintiff’s motivation to file this action and conduct
during the litigation was in bad faith. 
Defense counsel provides a
declaration stating that during many hours of conversation with Plaintiff,
Plaintiff admitted that their modus operandi is to harass people through
litigation to extort money, threatened to report defense counsel as a racist to
the Court and the State Bar if the case was not dropped. (Motion, Brainard
Decl., ¶2.) Defense counsel also declares that Plaintiff wasted many hours by using
various tactics such as calling from various numbers at different times of day,
texting, late night calls, cagey emails, and insisting on conferences that
would go nowhere, while threatening defense counsel with being reported to the
Bar for failing to cooperate. (Id. at ¶¶2, 5.) The Court finds this demonstrates
the action was filed and litigated in bad faith and through frivolous conduct
in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, which that warrants an
award of sanctions based on attorney’s fees and costs incurred. 
Moving Defendants incurred $23,000.00
in fees based on 47 hours of time billed at $500.00. (Id. at ¶4-6 and
Request for Judicial Notice.) 12 hours of this time was spent on Plaintiff’s
bad faith and frivolous communication tactics; five hours was spent on the
instant Motion, and 30 hours was spent on the motion to deem Plaintiff a
vexatious litigant. (Ibid.) Moving Defendant also spent $816.00 on
filing fees. (Id. at ¶7.) 
Conclusion
Defendants Lee Ann DiSalvo and Intuitive Healing Institute,
LLC’s Motion for Sanctions is GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $23,816.00. 
Moving party to give notice. 