 Case Number:  24VECV00518    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  T BIGGS v FCI 24VECV00518
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants FCI Lender Services, Inc., Puerto
Loreto, LLC, and California TD Specialists’ Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is
GRANTED.  Moving party to submit order.
The request for monetary
sanctions is GRANTED but reduced to $1,875.00 and levied against Plaintiffs
Robert Biggs III and Sheryl Petway Joseph, jointly and severally, payable to
the Client Trust Account of SCHEER LAW GROUP, LLP, 85 ARGONAUT, SUITE 202, ALISO
VIEJO, CA 92656 by 5/2/2024.
Introduction 
Defendants FCI Lender Services,
Inc. (FCI), Puerto Loreto, LLC (Puerto), and California TD Specialists (CTDS)
(collectively, Defendants) moved to expunge the lis pendens recorded by
Plaintiffs Robert Biggs III (Biggs) and Sheryl Petway Joseph (Joseph) (collectively,
Plaintiffs)  Defendants also requested
$3,750.00 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs.
Discussion 
When a motion to expunge a lis
pendens is filed, the burden is on the opposing party to show that the
complaint contains allegations of a real-property claim, and to evidence the
probable validity of the claim based upon a preponderance of evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 405.32, 405.30;  Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th
642, 648 (Kirkeby).) A real property claim is defined in Code of Civil
Procedure, section 405.4 as “the cause or causes of action in a pleading which
would, if meritorious, affect [] title to, or the right to possession of,
specific real property or the use of an easement identified in the
pleading.”  Whether a complaint is
sufficient in asserting a real-property claim is determined under a
demurrer-like analysis.  (Kirkeby, supra,
33 Cal.4th at p. 648.) Rather than analyzing whether the pleading states any
claim at all, as on a general demurrer, the court must undertake the more
limited analysis of whether the pleading states a real property claim.”  (Id.) 
Review “involves only a review of the adequacy of the pleading and
normally should not involve evidence from either side, other than possibly that
which may be judicially noticed as on a demurrer.” (Id.; Code Civ. Proc. sec.
405.30.)  The Complaint alleged three
causes of action (COA): tortious interference with economic advantage, tortious
interference with contractual relations (collectively, Interference COAs), and
violation of Business & Professions Code section 17200 (UCL).  The alleged wrongful conduct or interference
alleged against Defendants is the refusal to grant extensions on mortgage loan
payments and/or the prosecution of foreclosure proceedings.  (Compl. pars. 16-32.)  The economic advantage and contract placed
into issue are construction loan agreements and the economic advantages
stemming therefrom.  (Compl. pars. 38-40,
59, 82, and 86.)
Defendants argued that the claims
alleged in the Complaint failed to allege any claim or right to title or
possession of the property or use of an easement because the claims alleged
only rights to monetary loss for interference with construction loans.  The Court agrees with Defendants that COAs
for Interference and UCL arising from interfering in construction loans,
without more, are insufficient to plead a claim affecting title or possessory
interest over the property.  Plaintiffs
even submitted that no claim is alleged asserting rights of ownership (i.e.,
setting aside the Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale) or quiet title.  Plaintiff, in a conclusory manner, argued
that a real property claim is alleged because the COAs contain an underlying
issue over ownership rights to the property. 
Plaintiff’ failed to present any legal authority to support the
contention that an underlying issue over ownership rights is sufficient to
support a lis pendens.  As required under
the statute, the claims that support a lis pendens must “affect” title or
possession.  The tort claim for damages
based upon wrongful conduct only amounting to interference, as alleged in the
Complaint, does not and will not render a final decision determining and/or
transferring title or possession of the property in or to Plaintiffs.  Because the COAs do not affect title or
possession, there is insufficient pleading of a real property claim to support
the lis pendens.
Because Plaintiffs did not meet
their burden of showing a claim affecting title to or possession of real
property, the second factor as to probability of prevailing is not
considered.  
The motion to expunge is GRANTED.
Parties prevailing on motions to
expunge a lis pendens are entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees
associated with making or opposing the motion, unless courts find the other
parties acted with substantial justification, or other circumstances of injustice.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 405.38; Castro v.
Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 1010, 1018.)  There is no provision for an award against
the losing party's attorneys as sanctions or otherwise. (Doyle v. Superior
Court  (1991) 226 Cal.App.3d 1355, 1359.)  Defendants were charged $375.00/hour for 10
hours of legal services.  The Court finds
the time expended by Counsels to be unreasonable and excessive.  The motion’s arguments are straightforward
and legal issues were not complicated. 
The Court reduces the time expended to a reasonable amount of 5 hours.  Defendants’ request for fees is reduced to
$1,875.00 and levied against Plaintiffs.
The motion for attorneys’ fees is
GRANTED at the reduced amount.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.