 Case Number:  23PSCV03834    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA’S NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY
ACTION is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law case. 
 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff VANESSA ROSE ARIAS filed
suit against Defendants HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA (“Defendant” or “HMA”) and PUENTE
HILLS HYUNDAI, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company d/b/a PUENTE HILLS
HYUNDAI for violations of the SBA arising from Plaintiff’s 2021 purchase a 2022
Hyundai Santa Fe.
 
On May 6, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion.
 
On June 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition.
 
On June 18, 2024, Defendant filed
a reply. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant seeks to compel arbitration based on the
Arbitration Agreement found in the warranty for the subject vehicle. The
Arbitration Agreement states, in pertinent part:
 
If you purchased or leased your Hyundai
vehicle in the State of California, you and we, Hyundai Motor America, each
agree that any claim or disputes between us (including between you and any of
our affiliated companies) related to or arising out of your vehicle purchase,
advertising for the vehicle, use of your vehicle, the performance of the
vehicle, and any service relating to the vehicle, the vehicle warranty,
representations in the warranty, or duties contemplated under the warranty…
shall be resolved by binding arbitration at either your or our election, even
if the claim is initially filed in a court of law. 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s dispute is based
upon transactions covered by the Arbitration Agreement in HMA’s warranty (i.e.,
HMA’s warranty obligations). As such, any dispute or damages arising from these
transactions, including those alleged in the Complaint, must be resolved by
binding arbitration under the terms of the Arbitration Agreements. (Motion p.
4.) 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff advances
three arguments: (i) HMA may not rely on the post-sale warranty booklet to
compel arbitration and (ii) both arbitration provisions are procedurally and
substantively unconscionable. The court disagrees on both points. 
 
1.    
The Booklet 
 
Plaintiff argues that she “was
never notified of the existence of the post-sale Warranty Booklet, never mind
any potential terms or agreements to arbitrate therein” and that “Plaintiff has
never relied on the terms … to confirm the enforceability of HMA’s express
warranty nor in alleging their statutory warranty claims under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act.” (Opp. p. 7.) 
 
Here, both arguments fail. 
 
First, California law recognizes that a drafting party “[is]
under no obligation to highlight the arbitration clause of its contract, nor
[is] it required to specifically call that clause to [the nondrafting party’s]
attention.” (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th at
899, 914.) Even assuming some explicit notice about the warranty booklet,
equitable estoppel applies to a written agreement containing an arbitration
clause when a party must rely on the terms of the written agreement in asserting
its claims as Plaintiffs are very clearly doing here. (Reply p. 7.) “A litigant
may not assert claims based on a contract while simultaneously arguing that an
arbitration clause in that contract is ineffective.” (Reply p. 7, citing Stiner
v. Brookdale Senior Living, Inc., 810 F. App'x 531, 534 (9th Cir. 2020);[1] SM
Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court, 193 Cal. App. 4th 1222, 1239- 40 (2011).)
As the District Court recently explained in Mendoza v. Hyundai Motor Am.
(C.D. Cal. Dec. 15, 2022) 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 226972, a plaintiff “cannot
selectively ignore the Warranty’s arbitration provision while knowingly
exploiting the Warranty’s benefits.” (Reply p. 8, fn. 7.) What is more,
California law recognizes that a drafting party “[is] under no obligation to
highlight the arbitration clause of its contract, nor [is] it required to
specifically call that clause to [the nondrafting party’s] attention.” (Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th at 899, 914.)
 
Therefore, as it is disingenuous to allow Plaintiff to rely
on the Warranty received the time of sale as a basis for this action but then
avoid the binding arbitration provision in the Warranty by claiming there is no
agreement to arbitrate thereunder, there is a valid arbitration agreement via
application of equitable estoppel principle. 
2.    
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff largely argues
procedural unconscionability because the arbitration agreement was not
identified nor incorporated by reference in the retail agreement. (Opp. p. 10,
citing to Dougherty v. Roseville Heritage Partners (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th
93.) But, as noted by Defendant in Reply, Dougherty is factually
distinguishable. There, the arbitration clause was inconspicuously buried at
page 70 of the contract, and it permitted the defendant to modify the agreement
on 30 days’ notice, and if the resident did not agree, they would be required
to move out, and it also precluded the signors from pursuing punitive damages
or attorney’s fees under the Elder Abuse Act. 
 
Here, the facts are
distinguishable on two fronts. First, Doughtery did not address
equitable estoppel. (Reply p. 7.) Second, the arbitration provision here is
fully conspicuous. Even if the booklet is 350 pages, the arbitration provision
is set out in a separate section in the handbook, is identified in the Table of
Contents, is clearly marked, not hidden, and not ambiguous. Thus, a purchaser
reading through the Warranty Handbook to assess the scope of the warranties
they were receiving at the time of purchase would as easily be able to find the
arbitration provisions as the warranty for parts of their vehicle. (Reply p.
5.) Moreover, even as to arguments about substantive unconscionability, unlike
the agreement in Doughtery, here, the agreement contains an explicit opt
out provision, there is no restriction on recoverable damages, any limits on
discovery will apply equally to HMA and Plaintiff, and HMA will pay for all
arbitration costs except for the initial filing fee of $250. (Reply p. 7.) 
 
Ultimately, should there be any
doubts as to the enforceability of the arbitration agreement, any doubts “are to be resolved in
favor of sending the parties to arbitration.” (United Transp. Union v.
Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 804, 808); see also Lamps
Plus, Inc. v. Varela (2019) 587 U.S. __ [139 S.Ct. 1407, 1418]
[“ambiguities about the scope of an arbitration agreement must be resolved in
favor of arbitration.”]; Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc.,
207 F.3d 1126, 1131 (9th Cir. 2000) [“little doubt that the dispute [was]
subject to arbitration” where agreement covered “[a]ny dispute, controversy or
claims”]; AT&T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications Workers of Amer.,
475 U.S. 643, 650 (1986) [“only the most forceful evidence” can overcome contract
enforcement.].) 
 
Thus, absent meeting its burden
to establish a defense by a preponderance of the evidence (Pinnacle
Museum Towers Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 246-247), that leaves no doubts that the parties are
to arbitrate the matter. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing—as Plaintiff is suing upon a written contract
that she assented to and she has failed to meet her burden of
establishing both procedural and substantive unconscionability—the motion is
GRANTED. 
 


