  Case Number:  22PSCV00739    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION AND
MOTION FOR ORDER SUBSTITUTING THE DEFENDANT ALICE SANDOVAL (DECEASED) WITH HER
SON ANTHONY RENE SANDOVAL is TBD because the husband may be the
successor in interest. 
 
Discussion
 
This is a
partition action. Plaintiff CRYSTAL DURON, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE DECEDENT ESTATE
OF JOE JESSE DURON (“Plaintiff”) alleges the following against Defendant ALICIA
DURON (“Defendant”):  Plaintiff’s father,
Joe Duron, owned an undivided one-half (½) fee simple interest as a tenant in
common in the subject property and Defendant owned the other one-half in fee
simple. However, on March 1, 2022, after decedent’s death, Defendant illegally
and fraudulently converted the 50% interest belonging to the Decedent to
herself by recording an affidavit of Death of Joint Tenant in total disregard
of the Probate case, which Defendant appeared at the hearings but stop making
appearances after March 1, 2022.
 
On July 19,
2022, Plaintiff filed a verified complaint for PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY,
specifically seeking judgment partitioning the Real Property by sale and
dividing the proceeds between the parties.
 
On October
12, 2022, default was entered against Defendant.
 
On May 1,
2023, Plaintiff filed her first default judgment application.
 
On June 22,
2023, the court denied the default judgment without prejudice. There was no
appearance by the Plaintiff during the hearing. 
 
On June 22
and June 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of lis pendens.
 
On July 3,
2023, the clerk filed ‘Returned Mail.’ 
 
On November
17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a ‘DECLARATION OF CRYSTAL DURON IN SUPPORT OF
JUDGMENT.’ 
 
On November
29, 2023, the court again denied Plaintiff’s default judgment application
because (1) Plaintiff did not provide any explanation
as to why partition by sale of the property is more equitable aside from the
seeming dispute between the family members, and (2) it appeared that Defendant is rightfully entitled to
decedent’s ½ interest; plus, Plaintiff did not file a notice of related
case. 
 
On May 13,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. 
 
Discussion
 
According to
the motion, Defendant
Alice Duron Sandoval died on January 13, 2024. Defendant Alice Sandoval is
survived by Anthony Sandoval, her only surviving son, who is incarcerated. 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.11 defines a decedent's "successor in interest" as the
"beneficiary of the decedent's estate or other successor in interest who
succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is
the subject of a cause of action." If plaintiff dies while suit is
pending, personal representative or successor in interest must file motion with court to allow
action to be continued by personal representative or successor in interest [Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31]. The
successor in interest must execute and file affidavit or declaration as
prescribed by Code Civil
Procedure section 377.32, which has not been done here. 
 
Here, it is unclear
whether Anthony is the rightful successor in interest to Alice’s estate. The
motion briefly notes that the
certificate of death shows that Alice is survived by a husband Rene Sandoval.
(Motion p. 3.) Whether the “husband had been out of Alice’s life for the past
22 years” (p. 3) is inapposite as when a decedent dies intestate, the surviving
spouse generally stands to inherit first, followed by decedent’s children. 
 
Therefore, the ruling is TBD. 
 
 
 