 Case Number:  21STCV40738    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



THE
  JEFFEREY S. MARKS SEPARATE PROPERTY TRUST, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
HARB
  FAMILY TRUST, et al. 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  21STCV40738  
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 9, 2025



 
Plaintiffs’ motion for an onsite visit is DENIED. 
 
On 11/4/2021, the Jeffrey S. Marks Separate Property Trust
established under the Jeffery and Loretta Marks Family Trust, Jeffrey S. Mark
as trustee, the Mae Durant family Trust, and South Main Street Properties, LLC
(collectively, Plaintiffs) initiated this action.
 
            On 2/8/2024, Plaintiffs filed a
verified third amended complaint (TAC) against the Harb Family Trust dated
11/1/1996, the Irrevocable Trust of chou Bo Chan Chiu (1997) for the benefit of
Samson Chiu, and Fusion Investments, LLC (Fusion) alleging: (1) declaratory
relief; and (2) quiet title-adverse possession.
 
            On 12/4/2024, Plaintiffs moved for
an order setting a schedule for the trier of fact to visit and view the real
property which is the subject of the present case and allow for the examination
of witnesses thereat. 
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiff argues that the Court
would be aided in its task as trier of fact by viewing the site and by allowing
for the examination of witnesses thereat. Plaintiffs note that “the site in
question is located only 3 miles away from the Court – a 10 minute drive
involving no freeways – and traveling to this property would not be
inconvenient for the Court or for any party.” (Motion, 4: 24-25.) 
 
            After review, the Court disagrees.
 
CCP section 651 provides that “where the court finds that such a
view would be proper and would aid the trier of fact in its determination of
the case, the court may order a view of the following: (1) The property which
is the subject of litigation; (2) The place where any relevant event occurred;
(3) Any object, demonstration, or experiment, a view of which is relevant and
admissible in evidence in the case and which cannot with reasonable
convenience be viewed in the courtroom.” (Code. Civ. Proc. §651(a)).
(Emphasis added)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have not adequately shown why pictures, diagrams,
or maps of the Alley would not allow the Court to adequately understand the
facts and the basis for the quiet title. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion for an onsite visit is
denied. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
January    , 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 



JAMES MACDONALD 
 
        
  vs.
 
DOLCE GROUP, LLC, et al.   


 Case
  No.:  BC516094
Related Cases: BC466547 and BC609428
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 7, 2025



 
Plaintiff’s preemptory challenge is DENIED.
 
On 7/23/2013, Plaintiff James McDonald, representing
himself in pro per, initiated this action against Dole Group, LLC, Dolce Group
Concepts, LLC, Geisha House, LLC, Shereen Arazm (Defendant Koules), Michael
Malin, Lonnie Moore, 914 Trust, and 603 Trust. 
 
Now, Plaintiff seeks an order granting the preemptory challenge.

 
Stubblefield v. Construction Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 762 provides
“[a]lthough as a rule a party is limited to a
single peremptory challenge in a case …. the statute clearly permits an
additional challenge following reversal of a judgment if the same judge is
assigned to hear the case on remand.” Given the reversal and assignment
to the same judge on remand here, Plaintiff has not exhausted the right to
raise a 170.6 challenge, and is permitted an additional challenge. 
 
CCP section 170.6(a)(2) provides (emphasis added): 
 
A motion under this paragraph may be made following
reversal on appeal of a trial court’s decision, or following reversal on appeal
of a trial court’s final judgment, if the trial judge in the prior
proceeding is assigned to conduct a new trial on the matter.
Notwithstanding paragraph (4), the party who filed the appeal that resulted in
the reversal of a final judgment of a trial court may make a motion under this
section regardless of whether that party or side has previously done so. The
motion shall be made within 60 days after the party or the party’s attorney has
been notified of the assignment.
 
 
“The analysis of whether or not the
meaning of “new trial” is met requires a determination of whether there has
been a trial, and whether there will be a retrial… the dividing line in
determining whether there had been a trial was whether the trial court's
initial decision had “either addressed the merits or otherwise terminated the
case.” []We have also addressed the issue of retrial, concluding
that a retrial is a “ ‘reexamination’ of a factual or legal issue that was in
controversy in the prior proceeding. [Citations]” (First Fed. Bank of California v. Superior Ct. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 310, 314.) 
 
As such, 170.6 is not triggered if any factual or
legal determination has been made prior to the reversal. Rather, it is
triggered when the reversal and remand involves a motion which would itself
require “reexamination of a factual or legal issue that was in controversy in
the prior proceeding.” (See Akopyan v. Superior Court (2020) 53 Cal.
App. 5th 1094, 1101 ("where the Court of Appeal reverses and remands for
redetermination of a motion that does not involve an evaluation of the merits
of the underlying action, section 170.6, subdivision (a)(2), is not
triggered.") 
 
            Here, the motion in question was a
motion to quash for failure to prosecute. Given that the motion was granted, thereby
resulting in termination of the action, the Court’s ruling can be said to
constitute a “trial.” (First Federal Bank, supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at p. 299; Burdusis
v. Superior Court (2005) 133 Cal. App. 4th at 88, 93.)
 
However, the reversal and remand does not require the
Court to redetermine any motion that evaluated the merits of Plaintiff’s claim,
nor does it require redetermination of the issues raised in Defendant’s motion
to quash. As such, the remand does not require a “‘reexamination’
of a factual or legal issue that was in controversy in the prior proceeding.
[Citations]” (First Fed. Bank of
California v. Superior Ct. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 310, 314.) 
 
In First Federal Bank, supra, the Court
determined that “it is clear that there was a trial,
even limiting the examination to the attorney's fees motion. The trial court
made a determination on the merits that First Federal was not entitled to
recover its attorney's fees.”  The Court
reversed and remanded for a hearing on the amount to be awarded. Such a hearing
“[would] require the presentation of evidence and factual and legal
determinations as to the nature and amount of the fees sought. Such a
reexamination of an issue previously in controversy is a retrial.” (First
Federal Bank, supra, 143 Cal.App.4th 310, 299.)
 
Here, by contrast, the Court is not
being tasked with any reexamination of any issue raised in the prior motion to
quash. Rather, the Court of Appeal determined that this case was not barred by
the 5-year rule or a failure to prosecute. As such, the case would now proceed
on the merits, without any reexamination of any legal or factual issue
previously raised. 
 
Accordingly, CCP section 170.6 is not
triggered here, as the “retrial” element is not satisfied. 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 