  Case Number:  19STCV30463    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 



 
BEN MYERSON CANDY CO., INC. dba
  WINE WAREHOUSE,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                  vs.
DEVOTO-WADE LLC dba GOLDEN STATE
  CIDER, and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case
  No.:  19STCV30463
DEPARTMENT 45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action Filed:  08/27/19
2nd Amended Complaint Filed:   01/13/23
Trial Date:  None set.



 
Hearing date:  March
26, 2024
Moving Party: 
Defendant Devoto-Wade LLC dba Golden State Cider
Responding Party: 
None.
Motion to Seal 
The Court considered the moving
papers.
The motion is GRANTED.
 
Background
On January 13, 2023, Plaintiff Ben Myerson Candy Co., Inc.
dba Wine Warehouse (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) against Defendant Devoto-Wade LLC dba Golden State Cider (“Defendant”),
and DOES 1-10, inclusive for: (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Common Count in
Quantum Meruit. 
On November 13, 2023, Defendant filed this instant Motion to
Seal. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, “A party
requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to
justify the sealing.” (CRC, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(1).) “A copy of the motion or
application must be served on all parties that have appeared in the case.
Unless the court orders otherwise, any party that already has access to the
records to be placed under seal must be served with a complete, unredacted
version of all papers as well as a redacted version.” (CRC, rule 2.551, subd.
(b)(2).) 
Finally, “[t]he party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must lodge it with the court under (d) when
the motion or application is made, unless good cause exists for not lodging it
or the record has previously been lodged under (3)(A)(i). Pending the
determination of the motion or application, the lodged record will be
conditionally under seal.” (CRC, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(4).)
 
Discussion
Defendant Devoto-Wade LLC dba Golden State Cider
(“Defendant”) moves for an order sealing certain materials submitted by
Plaintiff Ben Myerson Candy Co., Inc. dba Wine Warehouse (“Plaintiff”) in
connection with Plaintiff’s reply brief in support of its motion for issue and
monetary sanctions. 
Defendant argues the information sought to be sealed
consists of information reflecting or deriving from Defendant’s documents
produced in discovery that were designated as “Confidential” pursuant to the
parties’ Protective Order and/or provided to Defendant with an expectation that
Defendant would seek to seal the information.                                                  Specifically,
Defendant seeks to seal the screenshots of and quotes from two emails
describing due diligence conducted as part of a heavily negotiated transaction
between Defendant and third-party Sonoma Craft Holdings, LLC (“Sonoma Craft”)
for the sale of a majority of Defendant’s assets to Sonoma Craft (the “Golden
State Cider Transaction”). Defendant and Sonoma Craft had shared the
information contained within the emails for the purpose of the transaction and
pursuant to a Non-Disclosure Agreement signed between the parties. Sonoma
Craft, Golden State Cider, and their transaction counsel have attested to
sharing information in diligence under the expectation that any communications
between them related to the Golden State Cider Transaction, including the two
emails at issue, would be kept confidential. (See, e.g., 5/16/23 Decl. of Chris
Lacey ¶ 4; 3/30/23 Decl. of Christopher Jackson ¶¶ 3-6.)
Defendant contends it has an overriding interest in the
sealing of this information to protect it and its members’ private and
competitively sensitive information and that of relevant third-parties, which
overrides the public interest in access. Moreover, Defendant asserts the
document at issue contains information similar in nature to documents and
information that the Court ordered sealed. (Min. Order 4-20-23; see also Order
re: Mtn. to Seal and Disqualify Counsel 5-30-23.) Additionally, Defendant’s
CEO, Chris Lacey, stated that revealing such confidential and sensitive
materials to the public would put Golden State Cider at a competitive
disadvantage if the company sought to acquire or invest in a new business
venture since the information is not something Golden State Cider would
otherwise reveal during the typical negotiation process. ( 5/16/23 Decl. of
Chris Lacey ¶ 6.) Defendant also contends that the interest in protecting
confidential information is heightened where information puts a third-party’s competitively
sensitive information at risk. Furthermore, pursuant to the May 30, 2023 Order
re: Mtns. to Seal has previously granted sealing for similar confidential and
sensitive materials filed by the parties and exchanged pursuant to the Golden
State Cider Transaction. Lastly, Defendant asserts the sealing motion is
narrowly tailored and reasonable. 
The Court finds that Defendant’s
motion is narrowly tailored and reasonable. Defendant only seeks to seal
information that has either already been subject to seal and/or is similarly in
nature. Furthermore, Defendant only seeks to seal screenshots and quotes from
two emails, a very low quantity of documents. Defendant also demonstrates the
information it seeks to seal is confidential or highly confidential information
and that revealing such information to the public would put it at a
disadvantage against its competitors. Finally, Defendant shows that the
information it seeks to protect under seal is not readily shared with
competitors, business partners, or even certain individuals that work for
Defendant. Defendant filed proof of service on all parties on November 13,
2023. 
Therefore, the motion to seal is GRANTED.

 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: March 26, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF
M. TREU
Judge
of the Superior Court