  Case Number:  21STCV37262    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  28 Tentative
Ruling
Judge Rupert A.
Byrdsong
Department 28

Hearing
Date:                                  October 21, 2024          
Case Name:                                      Shenassa v. Zakarya, et al.
Case
No.:                                           21STCV37262
Motion:                                              Default Judgment
Moving Party:                                 Plaintiff Truman Shenassa
Responding Party:                         Unopposed
Notice:                                                OK

Recommended
Ruling:               Plaintiff Truman Shenassa’s
request for entry of                                                                                                                 default judgment in his favor and against
Defendants Ben                                                                            Zakarya Philip Dave Clyde is DENIED.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 8, 2021, Plaintiff Truman Shenassa
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Ben Zakarya and Philip Dave Clyde
(collectively “Defendants”), as well as against Does 1 through 10. Plaintiff
alleged causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2) breach of fiduciary
duty.
 
Plaintiff alleges he opened escrow on a piece
of property so that the property could be purchased and developed. Allegedly,
Plaintiff and Defendant Zakarya entered into an oral contract whereby Zakarya
would purchase the property, and Plaintiff would develop the property for sale.
Plaintiff claims that while he performed his promises with relation to the
property, Defendant Zakarya failed to comply with the terms of the agreement.
 
Plaintiff personally served Defendant Zakarya
on January 25, 2022. The Clerk entered default against Defendant Zakarya on
July 11, 2022. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) Section 585
permits entry of a judgment after a defendant’s default has been entered.  A party seeking judgment on the default by
the Court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a brief summary of
the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in support of the
judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4) a memorandum of
costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a dismissal of
all parties against whom judgment is not sought; (7) a dismissal of all parties
against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment
under CCP Section 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (8)
exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by
statute or by the agreement of the parties. 
CRC 3.1800. 
 
JC Form CIV-100 must be used to request court
judgment.  Item number 2 must be
completed.  Item number 8 must be
completed if the Defendant is an individual. 
Plaintiff must submit a proposed form of judgment.  
 
Here, the Court held an order to show cause
hearing re: status of entry of default on August 8, 2024. At that hearing, the
Court denied Plaintiff’s proposed judgment and ordered Plaintiff to resubmit
the entire default packet and proposed judgment. Plaintiff has yet to refile any
parts of the default packet or proposed judgment. Accordingly, the same defects
in Plaintiff’s application for default judgment still exist. Current defects
include no proof of service for Philip Dave Clyde, no entry of default against
Philip Dave Clyde, Item 2 of Plaintiff’s CIV-100 form for Defendant Zakarya is
not completed, the exhibits attached to the proposed form of judgment are
illegible, and the proposed form of judgment shows damages of $0.00 (despite
Plaintiff’s declaration seeking $611,000.00).
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, Plaintiff Truman Shenassa’s
request for entry of default judgment in his favor and against Defendants Ben
Zakarya and Philip Dave Clyde is DENIED.
 
 