 Case Number:  23STCP03883    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT
  OF INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS, DIVISION OF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.,
 
                        Respondent.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCP03883
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PETITION TO COMPEL
  COMPLIANCE WITH ADMINISTRATIVE SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 20, 2024



 
On October 20, 2023, Petitioner
California Department of Industrial Relations, Division of Occupational Safety and
Health filed a petition to compel compliance with administrative subpoena.  The Court set an Order to Show Cause Re: Respondent’s
Failure to Comply With Administrative Subpoena and later ordered supplemental briefing.
The
Division has broad authority to adopt regulations relating to the safety and welfare
of employees.  (See Solus Industrial Innovations,
LLC v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 316, 328-329.)  The Division “may issue subpoenas to compel the
attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers, records, and physical
materials, administer oaths, examine witnesses under oath, take verification or
proof of written materials, and take depositions and affidavits for the purpose
of carrying out the duties of the division.” 
(Lab. Code, § 6314, subd. (c).)  “In
the investigation of the policies and practices of an employer or a related employer
entity, the division may issue a subpoena if the employer or the related employer
entity fails to promptly provide the requested information, and may enforce the
subpoena if the employer or the related employer entity fails to provide the requested
information within a reasonable period of time.”  (Lab. Code, § 6317.9.)  If a witness fails to produce documents required
by the subpoena, the head of the department may petition the court for an order
compelling the person to respond.  (Gov. Code,
§ 11187, subd. (a).)
Petitioner
subpoenaed documents to investigate the death of a delivery driver for Respondent.  (See Petition at p. 3.)  Respondent provided only objections to the subpoena.
Respondent
argues that Petitioner does not have the authority to subpoena records that may
be obtained only by warrant.  (Opposition
at pp. 7-8; see Resp. Suppl. Brief at pp. 2-5.) 
Respondent focuses on subdivision (a) and (b) of Labor Code section 6314,
which relate to obtaining an inspection warrant when access to the place of employment
is refused.  The subpoena here seeks production
of documents under subdivision (c), which does not require a warrant.  (See also Reply at pp. 2-3, 5-7.)  Furthermore, “[i]nsofar as the prohibition against
unreasonable searches and seizures can be said to apply at all it requires only
that the inquiry be one which the agency demanding production is authorized to make,
that the demand be not too indefinite, and that the information sought be reasonably
relevant.”  (Brovelli v. Superior Court
of Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 524, 529.)  The Division has broad authority to inspect and
investigate, including the authority to open an investigation upon suspicion that
employment or place of employment is not safe and the requirement to investigate
all fatal accidents unless the Division itself deems an investigation is unnecessary.  (Lab. Code, §§ 6309, subd. (a), 6313.)  The Requests for Production seek definite and
relevant information, including training records and various policies and procedures.
Respondent
argues that the petition should be denied as moot because the six-month statute
of limitations on issuing citations arising from the accident has expired.  (Opposition at p. 11; see Resp. Suppl. Brief at
p. 5.)  There is a six-month time limitation
for issuing citations, but there is no time limitation on the Division’s investigative
powers.  (See Lab. Code, §§ 6309, 6317, subd.
(e)(1).)  Administrative agencies retain authority
to issue administrative subpoenas even after acting on their investigations.  (See, e.g., E.E.O.C. v. Federal Exp. Corp.
(9th Cir. 2009) 558 F.3d 842, 850-851 [EEOC may continue investigation and subpoena
relevant information even after issuing a right-to-sue notice].)
Respondent
argues that Petitioner lacks jurisdiction outside the employment context and does
not have “any power, jurisdiction, or supervision over independent contractors including
Respondent’s app-based drivers.”  (Opposition
at p. 12.)  However, within the Division’s
broad investigative powers is “the authority to conduct an investigation and to
subpoena records to determine whether the entity under investigation is subject
to the agency’s jurisdiction and whether there have been violations of provisions
over which the agency has jurisdiction.” 
(Millan v. Restaurant Enterprises Group, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
477, 487.)
The
Petition to Compel Compliance with Administrative Subpoena Duces Tecum is GRANTED.  Respondent is ordered to produce the requested
documents within 30 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 20th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 