  Case Number:  20STCV21707    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant, Plaintiff’s brother, has breached fiduciary duties owed
by Defendant to Plaintiff as a partner of partnerships and as trustee of a
trust of which Plaintiff is a beneficiary. Defendant has also failed to produce
complete partnership and trust documents requested by Plaintiff. Plaintiff
seeks dissolution of the partnerships and an accounting.
 
Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint alleging
that Plaintiff has breached an oral agreement to share the distribution she
received as a result of the Estate of Robert J. Van Santen’s sale of the
remaining interest in Prime/Devonshire Investment, LLC. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Patricia
Van Santen moves for an order compelling compliance with the subpoena served
upon third party Clearwater Properties.
                                                
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Patricia Van Santen’s motion to enforce the
subpoena is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Motion To Compel Compliance With Subpoena
            
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Patricia
Van Santen moves for an order compelling compliance with the subpoena served
upon third party Clearwater Properties. Defendant Robert Van Santen, who owns
and operates Clearwater, objected to the subpoena.
 
Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.1(a)
provides: “If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of . . . documents . . . at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion . . . may make an order . . .
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare. . . .”  (Civ. Proc. Code, §
1987.1(a).) § 1987.1 does not contain a meet and confer
requirement, nor a requirement that good cause for production of documents be
shown.
 
            However,
case law has read a good cause requirement as to requests for production of
documents from a nonparty. (Calcor Space
Facility v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-24.) Here, the subpoena
contains 73 requests for production of documents. However, Plaintiff has not
made a fact-specific showing of good cause for each category.
 
In the course of the litigation, Thiem
served a subpoena under section 2020 on Calcor's custodian of records demanding
Calcor, a nonparty and Thiem's competitor, to, in effect, produce all materials
in its possession relating to gun mounts, going back nearly 10 years. The
subpoena fails to identify any specific document but merely describes broad
categories of documents and other materials. 


     (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 219.)
 
Although the scope of civil discovery
is broad, it is not limitless. . . . 
[Former] Section 2031, subdivision (l), which applies to document
production requests served on a party, requires a  [*224]  party
seeking to compel such production to "set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand . . . ." (Italics in original.)
Section 2020, the statute at issue, contains no such specific requirement.
However, since both sections are part of a single statutory scheme, and since it is unlikely the Legislature
intended to place greater burdens on a nonparty than on a party to the
litigation, we read a similar requirement into the latter section. 


(Id. at 223-24 [bold emphasis added].)

Even were we to ignore that the statements purporting to justify an
order compelling Calcor to produce its documents and other materials are
unverified, they still fail. There is an
absence of specific facts relating to each category of materials sought to
be produced; the justifications offered for the production are mere
generalities. The very vice of the subpoena's promiscuity is well
illustrated by Thiem's inability to
provide focused, fact-specific justifications for its demands. The noted
generality of the subpoena's definitions, instructions and categories which
merely add up to a demand Calcor produce everything in its possession having
anything to do with gun mounts, precludes Thiem from demonstrating any
particular item or category in fact constitutes or contains matter which
"is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence." (§ 2017, subd. (a).) The
purported justification for imposing this great burden on Calcor necessarily
suffers from the same generality as the subpoena itself. 

Although appellate courts have frequently stated "fishing
expeditions" are permissible in discovery, there is a limit. As noted in
Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1539 [39 Cal. Rptr. 2d 896],
"These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery ( Colonial Life
& Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal. 3d 785, 790), and
(contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases." (Id. at p. 1546.) However, early in the development of our
discovery law our Supreme Court recognized the limits on such "fishing
expeditions." In  [*225] Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court
(1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355 [15 Cal. Rptr. 90, 364 P.2d 266], the seminal case in
California civil discovery, the court gave examples of improper
"fishing" WHICH CLEARLY APPLY HERE: "The method of 'fishing' may be, in a particular case,
entirely improper (i.e., insufficient identification of the requested
information to acquaint the other party with the nature of information desired,
attempt to place the burden and cost of supplying information equally available
to both solely upon the adversary, placing more burden upon the adversary than
the value of the information warrants, etc.). Such improper methods of
'fishing' may be (and should be) controlled by the trial court under the powers
granted to it by the statute." ( Id. at pp. 384-385.) The concerns for
avoiding undue burdens on the "adversary" in the litigation expressed
in Greyhound apply with even more weight to a nonparty. 


(Id. at 224-25 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            Because
Plaintiff has not made a fact-specific showing of good cause for production of
each category, the motion to enforce the subpoena is DENIED without prejudice.
 