 Case Number:  23STCV03323    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Melina Hatzidakis,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV03323




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Carmax Auto Superstores, Inc., 


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 11, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion to Strike 
Moving Party: Defendant Carmax Auto Superstores,
Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Melina Hatzidakis
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
and reply.
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayers for punitive damages and
UCL injunctive relief. 
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
Defendant asserts Plaintiff has failed to allege fraud, malice, or
oppression and has failed to allege ratification by a corporate managing agent.
Plaintiff alleges Defendant engages in a pattern of conduct in which it
wrongfully repossesses cars sold to consumers, demands full payment, and denies
reinstatement of the sales contract in violation of the Rees-Levering Act. Plaintiff alleges Defendant
repossessed her vehicle even though she was not in default and refused to
reinstate the contract. Plaintiff alleges this process is corporate policy
ratified by corporate agents. This is sufficient to allege entitlement to
punitive damages.
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot seek public injunctive relief under the UCL because Plaintiff has not
brought a class action. No class action is required when, as here, a private
plaintiff seeks only a public injunction, without a request for monetary
relief, on behalf of others. (See McGill v. Citibank (2017) 2 Cal.5th
945, 960.)
 
Defendant’s motion to strike
is DENIED.