 Case Number:  BC705147    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  17  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CALIFORNIA
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
                           
         vs.
 
GOLDEN
  DAYS SCHOOLS, INC, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  BC705147
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 4, 2023



 
            The
Parkers’ motion for reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
            On 5/4/2018, Plaintiff California
Department of Education (Plaintiff) filed suit against Golden Day Schools, Inc.
and Clark Parker, alleging breach of contract and declaratory judgment. 
 
            On
8/2/2023, the Court granted CDE’s motion for summary adjudication and Motion in
Limine no. 1. 
 
            Now,
the Parkers move for reconsideration of those rulings. 
 
Discussion 
 
            The
Parkers argue that they are entitled to reconsideration of the Court’s rulings
on CDE’s motion for summary adjudication and motion in limine no. 1 based on
new case law concerning when the statute of limitation starts to run where
there is an administrative remedy, and because the Parkers did not have an
opportunity to address or respond to arguments and evidence that CDE first made
arguments in its reply briefing.
 
            After
review, the Court does not find the grounds for reconsideration to exist.
 
            As
to the first contention, the Parkers seek reconsideration based on Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission v. Vitol Inc. (9th Cir., Aug. 18, 2023, No.
22-15584) __ F.4th __, 2023 WL 5316720 at *1, 2023 U.S. App. LEXIS 21720) (FERC
v. Vitol).  However, first, this is a
Ninth Circuit decision, and thus is not binding on this Court. Second, it is
not persuasive authority because the relevant statute of limitations analysis
here turns on CCP section 337, a state statute, whereas the analysis in FERC
v. Vitol turned on the interplay between the Federal Power Act and 28
U.S.C. section 2462. As such, the facts and regulatory framework of FERC v.
Vitol are different from the facts in this case. In that case, FERC was
suing under the Federal Power Act, while in these cases, CDE is suing for
breach of contract. The cause of action under the Federal Power Act accrued
once the FERC had issued its penalty. A breach of contract action accrues when
there is some act that is required under the contract that Golden Day did not
perform. Golden Day did not breach those obligations until there was an
obligation to repay. The obligations to repay did not occur until either (i)
the Department had completed recalculations required by the OAH decision, or
(ii) Golden Day had exhausted its appeal of the OAH decisions.
 
The Parkers
argue that, under FERC v. Vitol, the breaches of contract relevant to
Case BC705147 must have occurred as soon as the OAH issued its decision.
However, the OAH decision does not indicate that Golden Day has to pay anything
immediately. Rather, it says “the California Department of Education will
recalculate the audit for FY 2006/2007 and FY 2007/2008, based on the Factual
Findings and Legal Conclusions herein.” As noted by CDE, “Clearly implied by
this language is that Golden Day does not have to do anything until that
recalculation is completed. In addition, the OAH decision was on appeal. At one
point, the Superior Court reversed a portion of the decision (the Court of
Appeal later disagreed with this one finding of the Superior Court and affirmed
all of the OAH’s decision). The statute of limitations should not run while the
underlying OAH decision might be reversed.” (Opp., 15: 9-14.) 
 
In sum, the
Court finds that FERC v. Vitol has no persuasive application to the
facts here because (1) the Court there was deciding when an cause of action
accrues under the Federal Power Act, not when a cause of action accrues under
any contracts; and (2) the Federal Power Act does not seem to grant defendants
further appellate rights or provide for a recalculation of amounts owed, which
was the case after the first OAH proceeding. In FERC v. Vitol, the
defendant had an assessed penalty that was due immediately. In this case,
Golden Day did not have an amount that it owed until, at the very least, that
amount was recalculated by CDE. Rather, the OAG’s issuance of a decision
indicated that the CDE needed to recalculate the amounts and bill those amounts
to Golden Day. Golden Day’s later failure to pay those amounts, after the
decision became final, is the relevant breach of contract that triggered the
statute of limitations, not the issuance of the decision requiring the CDE to
recalculate the amounts. 
 
            As
such, FERC v. Vitol is not new or different law under section 1008
because it is non-controlling authority that is distinguishable. 
 
            As
for their second contention, the Parkers argue the Court should reconsider its
prior ruling because they say that they were not afforded an opportunity to
respond to the new evidence and arguments raised by the Department’s in its
reply.  In particular, the Parkers argue
that CDE first raised the arguments that: (1) exhaustion of administrative
remedies includes the writ proceedings to the Superior Court and the subsequent
appeals, and thus— according to the CDE—the statute of limitations was tolled
until the Supreme Court denied review; and (2) its breach of contract claim
accrued on January 12, 2014, because that was thirty days after the CDE issued
a letter demanding the amount owed pursuant to the OAH’s Decision. 
 
            However,
as to the first point, CDE’s motion for summary adjudication provided: 
 
The Parkers
have alleged 20 sparsely pled affirmative defenses, which are not adequate to
put the Parkers’ contentions at issue. (Ex. 21; Ex. 23; Ex. 24.) “A plaintiff
moving for summary judgment is not required to disprove affirmative defenses
not sufficiently put at issue by the defendant's answer.” (Los Angeles
Unified, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at pp. 508-509; see also FPI Development,
Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384-385 [16 affirmative
defenses which merely stated the name of the defense and that it barred
recovery did not raise any issues of material fact that plaintiffs were
required to disprove].) On their face, the Parkers’ affirmative defenses are
inadequately pled. They state bare legal theories without facts, that are
implausible or irrelevant. 
 
            (Opp.,
16: 19-24.)
 
            As
such, the CDE’s motion was based on a contention that the Parkers’ statute of
limitations defense was sparsely pled, and insufficiently supported by facts
(In verified responses, the Parkers provide no facts to support their
statute-of limitation defense). When the Parkers’ opposition raised (for the
first time) their argument that CDE’s breach of contract cause of action
accrued at an earlier time than the decision of the Court of Appeal, it was
appropriate for CDE to address that new argument in its reply brief – it had no
opportunity to do so previously. (Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential
Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 449.) 
 
            As
for the second contention, the Parkers argue that they “were not afforded an
opportunity to respond to the new evidence and arguments raised by the CDE in
its reply in support of its MIL. In reply to the MIL, the CDE raised for the
first time the argument that the Parkers were given notice of the second OAH
proceeding via a simple letter sent to their counsel in connection with this
action on August 24, 2018.” (Motion to Reconsider, at pp. 12-17.) However, as
noted by CDE in opposition, “the Department’s initial memorandum in support of
its Motion in Limine provides a surfeit of different ways that the Parkers’
were virtually represented at the OAH proceedings and had notice of it. The
notice that the Parkers reference in their Motion in Limine was filed with the
Court on March 22, 2023 – months before the Parkers were required to oppose the
motion in limine. (Ex. 29.) The Parkers’ opposition to the Motion in Limine
raised the supposed due process limitations of the collateral estoppel. It was
entirely appropriate for the Department, in its reply, to cite to evidence that
was before the Court on that very issue. Replies are supposed to address the
arguments in the opposition.” (Opp., 17: 18-27.) 
 
            In
sum, the Court finds an insufficient basis to conclude that the CDE improperly
raised any argument for the first time in reply, or that there were arguments
or evidence presented there which the CDE was deprived an opportunity to
respond to. Notably, the Parkers did not raise any objection at the hearing nor
did they ask for permission to submit responsive evidence or file a sur-reply.
Moreover, the Parkers have not explained why they did not present oral argument
at the hearing as to the contentions raised by the CDE in reply. 
 
            The
Court finds the Parkers have failed to present new facts or law under section
1008. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Parkers’ motion for reconsideration is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 