  Case Number:  23AHCV01734    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



VENESSA GARCIA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SR
   HOSPITALITY GROUP LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01734
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT’S UNVERIFIED ANSWER

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   2, 2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiff Venessa Garcia (“Plaintiff”)
moves to strike the unverified answer filed by SR Hospitality Group LLC
(“Defendant”) on August 1, 2024. As an initial matter, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s motion should be denied due to a failure to adequately meet and
confer. This argument is rejected because “[a] determination by the court that
the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or
deny the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) 
Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
motion should be denied because on July 17, 2024, the Court only ordered it to
file “an answer” without specifying that it had to be verified. However, Code
of Civil Procedure section 446 (a) provides that “[w]hen the complaint is
verified, the answer shall be verified.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 446, sub. (a).) Given
the statute’s plain and mandatory language, the fact that the Court’s minute
order did not specify that Defendant’s answer had to be verified does not excuse
Defendant from this requirement. 
Defendant also argues that since the
Court sustained much of its demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint, a verified
answer is “no longer needed.” (Opp., p. 3.) Defendant offers no statute or case
law as authority for this position. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion to
strike. Defendant is ordered to file an amended verified answer to the
remaining operative portions of the original Complaint within 20 days of the
date of this Order. 
 
Dated
this 2nd
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 