

Hearing Date:             May 20, 2024  
Case Name:                 Elenita Norales v. AllStaff HR
Inc., et al.
Case
No.:                    23STCV20969
Motion:                       Request
for Entry of Default Judgment
Moving
Party:             Elenita Norales

Responding Party:      N/A


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The request for entry of
default judgment is granted.
 

 
Background  
            On August
31, 2024, Elenita Norales (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against her former
employer, Tacos Super Gallito, AllStaff HR Inc., and AllStaff LLC,
(collectively Defendants) for FEHA violations and other claims during her time
as an employee. The motion now before the Court is Plaintiff’s Request for
Entry of Default Judgment.    
 
Discussion  
 
            California Rules of Court, rule 3.1800 provides
that a party must use form CIV-100 and file the following documents with the
clerk: (1) Except in unlawful detainer cases, a brief summary of the case
identifying the parties and the nature of plaintiff's claim; (2) Declarations
or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) Interest
computations as necessary; (4) A memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) A
declaration of nonmilitary status for each defendant against whom judgment is
sought; (6) A proposed form of judgment;
(7) A dismissal of
all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate
judgment against specified parties under Code of Civil Procedure section 579,
supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) Exhibits as
necessary; and (9) A request for attorney fees if allowed by statute or by
the agreement of the parties.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff meets all the requirements of Cal.
Rules of Court Rule 3.1800. The CIV-100 has been fully and properly executed,
including a declaration of nonmilitary status, a memorandum of costs, a
dismissal of Does, a request for attorney’s fees as permitted by statute, and
declarations and relevant exhibits. The attached Declaration of Azucena D.
Portillo in Support of Plaintiff’s Request for Default Judgment (Portillo Decl.
1) provides interest computations and calculations for attorney’s fees.
Finally, the declaration of mailing per Code Civ. Proc. §587 is completed,
along with the Declaration of Azucena D. Portillo in Advance of Order to Show
Cause (Portillo Decl. 2) that states the Summons and Complaint were served on
September 29, 2023, shortly after the initial filing of the Complaint with the
Court. (See Portillo Decl. 2, ¶2.)
 
Conclusion 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Request for Entry of Default Judgment is granted.