 Case Number:  23TRCV02212    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
GEORGE
  BRUNN,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02212




 
vs.


 


 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF HERMOSA BEACH,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          August 7, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant City of Hermosa
Beach
Responding
Party:                   Plaintiff George
Brunn
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories – General, Set One
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories – Employment, Set One
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(4)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
The
motions are DENIED.  Defendant is to file
a Pitchess motion.
BACKGROUND
On July 10, 2023, George Brunn
filed a complaint against City of Hermosa Beach, Hermosa Beach Police
Department, and Paul LeBaron for (1) violation of the Public Safety Officers
Procedural Bill of Rights, (2) declaratory relief, and (3) violation of Meyers
Milias Brown Act.
The complaint alleges that
plaintiff is a tenured officer with the Hermosa Beach Police Department.  He is also an active member of the HB Police
Officers Association and a member of its Board of Directors.  Plaintiff, as a member of the HBPOA/Board of
Directors was active in his opposition to the City Manager’s Covid-19
vaccination mandate, and active in his opposition to two police lieutenants
begin granted status and pay as captains without having to undergo a civil
service testing process as well as the city’s unlawful manner in which they
changed the structure of the police department. 
Complaint, ¶10.  In the five years
leading up to the matter discussed below, plaintiff had not received any
disciplinary action and had outstanding evaluations.  He never had any sustained allegation of
excessive force, nor any allegations of failing to report force.  Id., ¶11. 

The complaint alleges that on April
10, 2021, plaintiff and other officers and sergeants of the HBPD and the Acting
Watch Commander were involved in an arrest incident wherein a suspect had to be
physically controlled after refusing to comply with lawful commands and
approaching/closing the distance to the officers.  At the time of the incident, the designated
Watch Commander was present on scene and discussed the incident with officer,
including plaintiff, that same night. 
Id., ¶12.  After the April 10, 2021
arrest incident, the Watch Commander became aware that other officers that
responded to the fight call, including plaintiff, used force to take a suspect
into custody.  The Watch Commander
observed officers dealing with a resistance/struggling suspect, and noticed
that the suspect was bent over the side fender and hood of a police car as
officers tried to maintain control over him. 
Immediately after the arrest of the male, the Watch Commander spoke to
the officers that were present and involved, including plaintiff.  Id., ¶13.
The complaint further alleges that
prior to this incident, a new UOF Policy had been implemented in December 2020,
and distributed, but there had been no in-house training on the policy.  At the time of the arrest incident, knowledge
and/or understanding of the Use-of-Force policy was inconsistent as to when to
document force, as it was a new policy with many interpretations.  Id., ¶14. 
Based on the information provided to the Watch Commander, together with
his own observations, the Watch Commander believed that the officers, including
plaintiff, had used force on the suspect and that the force used was required
to be reported in a supplemental/use-of-force report.  Id., ¶15. 
After the incident, but during the same shift, the Watch Commander
directed plaintiff to write a Use of Force report.  The direction was given multiple times on
April 10, 2021.  Id., ¶16.  At the time of the Watch Commander’s next
shift, believed to be April 11, 2021, when completing his own report on the
incident, the Watch Commander reviewed three officer’s BWC, including videos
that showed plaintiff’s purported use of force. 
The Watch Commander also learned that plaintiff had not yet written a
Use of Force report and discussed this fact with plaintiff and other
officers.  Id., ¶17.  The Watch Commander directed plaintiff again
to write a use-of-force report. 
Plaintiff indicated that he was going to speak to then Police Lieutenant
Landon Phillips about whether a report was required as there were ongoing
differences of opinions.  Id., ¶18.  In April 2021, plaintiff briefly discussed
the issue with then Lieutenant Phillips and Phillips indicated that he was
going to research the issue and speak to a use-of-force instructor for the
police department.  Phillips never got
back to plaintiff.  Id., ¶19.
The complaint further alleges that
in June 2021, the HBPD and the HB City Prosecutor filed misdemeanor charges
against the suspect for resisting arrest. 
Id., ¶20.  It is believed that in
later 2021 or early 2022, Chief LeBaron, the City, and the HBPD unilaterally
promoted Lt. Phillips and Lt. Dorothy Scheid to captain positions with a
significant increase in pay but without going through any competitive civil
service promotional process.  These
actions caused a change in working conditions. 
Plaintiff opposed these actions. 
Id., ¶21.  In March 2022, Lt.
Phillips and Lt. Scheid filed a petition to be removed from the HBPOA, which
plaintiff as a board of director opposed. 
Id., ¶22.
The complaint also alleges that in
March 2022, “Captain” Phillips initiated a personnel complaint against
plaintiff based on the April 10, 2021 arrest incident and on March 11, 2022,
the investigation was assigned to a private investigator.  Id., ¶23. 
Defendants did not complete an investigation nor issue any notice of
intent to discipline to plaintiff or any other officer within one year of the
public agency’s discovery by a person authorized to initiate an investigation
of the allegation of an act, omission, or other misconduct, to wit, the Watch
Commander.  The investigation was
required to be competed on or before April 10, 2022.  Id., ¶24. 
On May 18, 2022, the Watch Commander and other officers involved in the
April 10, 2021 arrest incident were interrogated by the assigned private
investigator.  During the interrogations,
each officer was given an order not to discuss the matter with anyone other
than their representative.  Id.,
¶25.  It is believed that the Watch
Commander and at least two officers involved in the arrest incident provided
statements that would be material/exculpatory to plaintiff’s defense.  Id., ¶¶26-27.
The complaint further alleges that
on May 19, 2022, Acting Captain Phillips requested that the LA County DA’s
office to conduct a criminal investigation. 
Even though this request for a criminal investigation was initiated more
than a year after the incident, the Department tried to conceal this fact by
falsely claiming that the investigation was tolled during the DA investigation.  Id., ¶28. 
On June 22, 2022, plaintiff was placed on administrative leave and given
an unlawful order not to contact any HBPD employees for any reason during
normal working hours without permission from Chief LeBaron.  Id., ¶29. 
On November 1, 2022, the District Attorney’s office determined that
plaintiff acted objectively reasonable in pushing the suspect over the hood of
the patrol car and attempted to keep the suspect’s head against the hood to
counter the suspect’s resistance.  Id.,
¶¶31-32.  On November 8, 2022, plaintiff
was informed by Acting Captain Phillips that he was under investigation for the
April 10, 2021 incident.  Id., ¶33.  On December 5, 2022, plaintiff was
interrogated about the April 2021 incident; the interrogation was
recorded.  Plaintiff, via counsel,
raised/reported a number of violations of POBRA.  Id., ¶34. 
It is believed that the private investigator submitted his report to
defendants on December 11, 2022, but then modified his report at the request of
Acting Captain Phillips.  Id., ¶37.  On January 18 and 31 and February 9, 2023
that the HBPD conducted a review of the investigation.  Id., ¶¶38-39. 
On March 30, 2023, Chief LeBaron found that the allegations against
plaintiff would be sustained and issued a notice of proposed disciplinary
action.  Id., ¶40.  On June 15, 2023, defendants produced
additional records but not any of the recordings or transcripts of the other
officers.  Id., ¶44.  On June 21, 2023, plaintiff against requested
copies of the recordings/transcripts, and on July 4, 2023, Captain Phillips
denied the request falsely claiming that plaintiff had been provided with all
materials used in the disciplinary decision. 
Id., ¶45.
On July 27, 2023, the court issued
a TRO.
On August 30, 2023, the court
entered a confidential protective order.
On June 5, 2024, the court issued a
preliminary injunction.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
CCP §2030.220 states:  “(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.  (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (c) If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
CCP
§2030.230 states:  “If the answer to an
interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation,
abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the
interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making
it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory
as for the responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to
refer to this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be
derived or ascertained. . . .”
CCP §2030.010(b)
provides:  “An interrogatory may relate
to whether another party is making a certain contention, or to the facts,
witnesses, and writings on which a contention is based.  An interrogatory is not objectionable because
an answer to it involves an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the
application of law to fact, or would be based on 
information obtained or legal theories developed in
anticipation of litigation or in preparation for 
trial.”
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).
A statement of compliance shall
state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be
allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.  CCP § 2031.220.  
“A representation of inability to
comply with [a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand.  This statement shall
also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control
of the responding party.  This statement
shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that
item or category of item.”  CCP §
2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
City of Hermosa Beach requests an order to compel plaintiff George Brunn to
serve responses to defendant’s initial form interrogatories – general (Nos.
8.2, 8.3, 8.6, 8.7, 8.8, 10.2, 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, and 14.1), form
interrogatories – employment (Nos. 201.3, 201.4, 207.2, 210.2, 210.3, 215.1,
and 215.2), special interrogatories (Nos. 1-89), and request for production of
documents (Nos. 1-79).
            Defendant
explains that it served the discovery requests on January 22, 2024.  Plaintiff served responses on February 23,
2024, objecting that the requests sought information protected by the Pitchess
statute.  On March 20, 2024, defense
counsel sent an email to plaintiff’s counsel to meet and confer, requesting
that plaintiff supplement or amend his responses to address deficiencies.  On April 4, 2024, defendant filed a request
with the Court for an IDC.  
The
parties appeared for an IDC on June 21, 2024. 
The Court informed the parties to stipulate to the range of information
that may be contained within plaintiff’s personnel file that plaintiff’s
counsel would agree to produce without a Pitchess motion.  Defendant asserts that defense counsel
“attempted multiple times to reach an agreement” with plaintiff’s counsel
regarding the terms of the stipulation to no avail.  Defendant filed its motions on July 5, 2024.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the motions are untimely and that the time to
file was not tolled. 
            As
to the motions below, plaintiff argues that the vast majority, if not all, of
the evidence, facts and related information is maintained in confidential peace
officer personnel files and that the protective order does not moot the need to
file a Pitchess motion.  The Court will
address below.
 
            Form
Interrogatories - General
            Defendant
argues that Nos. 8.2, 10.2, and 12.1 does not call for “confidential peace
officer personnel information.”  As to
Nos. 12.2 and 12.3, which seeks information regarding whether plaintiff or
anyone acting on his behalf has interviewed any witnesses or obtained any
witness statements, and he responded, “Plaintiff has not,” which defendant
argues is evasive and that his attorney-client privilege objection lacks
support.  As to 14.1, plaintiff
improperly refers defendant to this pleadings, which is an insufficient
response.  As to Nos. 8.3, 8.6, 8.7, and
8.8, plaintiff’s responses are evasive and incomplete.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the term “incident” is vague.
            The
Court rules as follow:  Penal Code
§832.7(a) provides in pertinent part: “the personnel records of peace officers
and custodial officers and records maintained by a state or local agency
pursuant to Section 832.5, or information obtained from those records, are
confidential and shall not be disclosed in any criminal or civil proceeding
except by discovery pursuant to Sections 1043 and 1046 of the Evidence Code.”  Absent a court order, a police
officer cannot be compelled to answer
interrogatories, produce documents or answer deposition
questions regarding the contents of, including
information contained in his own personnel file, or
other files; the same protection against discovery
of the file itself apply to the officer’s
knowledge of the file’s content.  City of San Diego v. Superior Court
(1981) 136
Cal. App. 3d 236, 239.
            The
Court finds that the interrogatories are subject to a Pitchess motion.
            The
motion is DENIED.
 
            Form
Interrogatories – Employment
Defendant
argues that as to Nos. 201.3, 201.4, 207.2, 210.2, which seek information
relating to the alleged adverse employment actions, plaintiff’s objection based
on Pitchess is without merit.  Defendant
notes that plaintiff already stipulated that his personnel records be subject
to a protective order and that the requests do not require plaintiff to divulge
any Pitchess-protected information.  As
to Nos. 215.1 and 215.2, defendant argues that plaintiff’s objection based on
attorney-client privilege is unsupported. 
As to 210.2 and 210.3, plaintiff’s response “unknown at this time” is
evasive and not complete and straightforward. 
As to Nos. 201.4, 207.2, and 209.1, plaintiff’s objection as to
“employee” and “employer” has no merit.
The Court
finds that the interrogatories are subject to a Pitchess motion.
The
motion is DENIED.
 
            Special
Interrogatories
            Defendant
argues that none of plaintiff’s objections to Nos. 1-89 have merit, including
based on Pitchess, and that plaintiff’s purported exercise of the option to
produce documents is inadequate. 
Defendant asserts that there are several interrogatories that plaintiff
can respond from his own personal knowledge without referencing his personnel
file.  Further, Nos. 3-9, 11, 14, 15, 17,
19-21, 24-28, 30-31, 33-43, 45-47, and 49-85 properly seek information relating
to the facts supporting plaintiff’s allegations.  Defendant argues that Nos. 12, 13, 16, 18,
22, 23, 29, 32, 44, and 48 properly seek the identification of potential
witnesses.  Nos. 1-2, 10, 68, 73-75, and
77-83 properly seek information relating to plaintiff’s allegations of
protected activity and to identify purported violations of laws and
regulations.
The Court
finds that the interrogatories are subject to a Pitchess motion.
            The
motion is DENIED.
 
            Request
for Production of Documents 
            Defendant
asserts that Nos. 1-72 and 79 seek documents that support the allegations in
the complaint, Nos. 73-75 seek documents supporting plaintiff’s claim for
damages, and Nos. 76-77 seek documents identified in response to
interrogatories.  Defendant argues that
plaintiff’s objections lack merit, attorney-client privilege and Pitchess that
the term “relates to” is not defined.  
The Court
finds that the requests are subject to a Pitchess motion.
            The
motion is DENIED.
 
Sanctions
Under CCP § 2023.030(a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an example of the
misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel further responses against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the
court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  CCP § §2030.300(d),
2031.310(h).
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a)
states:  “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.” 
            Defendant
requests $2500 in monetary sanctions for each motion against plaintiff and/or
plaintiff’s counsel Corey W. Glave. 
Plaintiff requests sanctions against defendant.
            The
Court finds that the parties acted with substantial justification; thus,
sanctions are not warranted.
 
ORDER
The
motions are DENIED. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.