  Case Number:  23STCV01224    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-28-24
Case
# 23STCV01224
Trial
Date: 11-12-24 c/f 9-9-24
 
DEPOSITION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Catalina Rochelle
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (set one)
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION & PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
On
June 12, 2022, Plaintiff Catalina Michelle entered into a “warranty contract regarding
a 2022 Honda HR-V” vehicle. Plaintiff alleges the vehicle suffered from a
number of unspecified defects.
 
On
January 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for breach of express warranty –
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, and breach of implied warranty -
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Defendant answered on April 3, 2023. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff Catalina Michelle moves to compel further
responses on Requests for Production of Documents (set one), numbers 18, 45-46.
Plaintiff maintains the responses lack merit and justification for the refusal
to comply. Plaintiff contends the sought after information is relevant to the
underlying claims and civil penalties. Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
(Honda) in opposition challenges the discovery as overbroad to the issues of
the action, and therefore seeks irrelevant information. Notwithstanding, Honda
maintains the response to number 18 was appropriate, but agrees to provide
further responses as to this item. Plaintiff in reply maintains a good faith
effort to meet and confer, and requests sanctions in that new responses were
only promised after the filing of the motion. Plaintiff challenges the
objections, and maintains the relevance.
 
Given the increasing volume of filed “Lemon Law” cases and
subsequent increase of motions, presumably at least in part prompted by the
lack of arbitration clause enforcement pending California Supreme Court review,
the court established certain discovery standards
based on the fundamental basis for Song-Beverly Act claims. Under the
Song-Beverly Act, “[a] plaintiff pursuing an action
under the Act has the burden to prove that (1) the vehicle had a nonconformity
covered by the express warranty that substantially impaired the use, value or
safety of the vehicle (the nonconformity element); (2) the vehicle was
presented to an authorized representative of the manufacturer of the vehicle
for repair (the presentation element); and (3) the manufacturer or his representative
did not repair the nonconformity after a reasonable number of repair attempts
(the failure to repair element). (Civ.Code, § 1793.2; Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co.
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 878, 886–887, 263 Cal.Rptr. 64.)” (Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.)
 
The court
adheres to a discovery approach allowing inquiry into the relevant make and
model year for all impacted systems or parts, without opening the door for a
general inquiry into any and all lemon law claims filed against vehicle
manufacturers for all makes and models, including varying individual and
potential system defects. The goal strives for a goal of facilitating robust
adjudication of the case on the subject vehicle, thereby allowing Plaintiff the
opportunity to investigate, without imposing any burden on defendant to
determine the cause of the purported defect(s).
 
The court established this policy based on
established practice standards common among counsel in this field based on
standards established and reviewed by practice and reviewed at least in party
by appellate courts. (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 153-154; Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1104-1105.) The court in no
way doctrinally adheres to this policy. No doubt other courts may take
different approaches. The court in no way seeks to invite comparisons with
other courtrooms. The court only notes its reasoning behind its policy to
experienced counsel.
 
The court presents all three demanded categories of
documents:
 
Number 18: The operative Franchise Agreement, if any,
on the date of sale of the SUBJECT VEHICLE between YOU and the dealership that
sold the SUBJECT VEHICLE to Plaintiff(s).
 
Number 45: All DOCUMENTS evidencing complaints by
owners of the 2022 Honda HR-V vehicle regarding any of the complaints that the
SUBJECT VEHICLE was presented to YOUR or YOUR authorized repair facilities for
repair during the warranty period.
 
Number 46: All DOCUMENTS evidencing warranty repairs
to 2022 Honda HR-V vehicles regarding any of the components that YOU or YOUR
authorized repair facilities performed repairs on under warranty.
 
On number 18, Honda stated no applicable documents based on
the unstated contention that no franchise agreements exist between the
manufacturer and dealerships. Honda now agrees to produce a copy of its standard
Automobile Dealers Sales and Service Agreement, which represents all applicable
terms for the dealership responsible for the sale. The court finds the offer
reasonable, and no need for the exact dealership agreement itself given the
representation of Honda that the agreement represents all dealership
agreements. The separate statement of Plaintiff indicates agreement with such
production as well. The motion is therefore granted as to this item in order to
insure promised production. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 408–409.)
 
On
numbers 45 and 46, the lack of actual identification of any defect in the
operative complaint or motion, and reliance on requests generally addressing vehicle
“complaints” and “warranty repairs,” even if limited by model the same model
year, constitutes facially overbroad requests. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th
216, 224–225.) Even assuming familiarity with the defects between counsel, the
court declines to provide an open ended basis of discovery simply based on the
claim of a single vehicle with unspecified defects under broad terms such as
“complaints,” “warranty repairs,” and “components.”
 
Honda
additionally raises challenges on the failure to establish applicability of the
information relative to available statutory relief. The position, while
facially valid due to the lack of information presented by Plaintiff, will not
lead to the court making qualitative determinations on the validity of sought
after information on the actual alleged defect(s) plaguing the vehicle. 
 
While
the determination of reasonableness and damages remains limited to the subject
vehicle, the court finds Plaintiff is entitled to conduct discovery on systemic
issues specifically present in the subject vehicle. The nature of the sought
after information can lead to the discovery of relevant information towards the
warranty repair effort element, thereby validating the inquiry. 
The
court therefore directs the parties to further meet and confer in order to
establish a scope of applicable parts or system issues possibly already refined
from the PMQ deposition previously ordered. 
 
The
motion is therefore GRANTED as to all items, subject to agreed upon production
in number 18, and further refinement for numbers 45 and 46.
 
Sanctions
are not imposed at this time given the nature of the dispute, lack of any
actual deposition non-appearance and incurrence of costs, and the otherwise
overbroad request in the motion based on premature and preemptive efforts
regarding the scope of the questions. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd.
(g)(1).)
 
November
12, 2024, trial date to stand.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 