  Case Number:  24CHCV00371    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  F51 PRELIMINARY  INJUNCTION  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 24CHCV00371    Motion Filed: 2/13/24   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Arthur Burleigh (“Plaintiff”)   RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant  Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (“Defendant”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: A  preliminary injunction restraining the foreclosure sale of the Subject  Property.   TENTATIVE RULING: The request is granted. Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections  are sustained.   BACKGROUND    This is a  wrongful foreclosure action wherein Plaintiff, who owns and resides at certain  real property located at 22326 Heritage Pass Place, Chatsworth, CA 91311 (the  “Subject Property”), brings various causes of action against Defendant based on  Defendant’s alleged violations of the California Homeowner Bill of Rights  (“HBOR”). (Civ. Code, § 2923.4 et seq.)     On 2/6/24,  Plaintiff filed his complaint against Defendant, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) Violation of Civil Code Section 2923.7; (2) Breach of the  Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Negligent  Misrepresentation; and (4) Unfair Business Practices.   On 2/8/24, Plaintiff  filed an ex parte application for a temporary restraining order restricting the  foreclosure sale of the Subject Property, which the Court granted on 2/9/24. On  2/13/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for a preliminary injunction. On 6/28/24,  Defendant filed its opposition. On 11/13/24, Plaintiff filed his reply.   ANALYSIS   In determining whether to issue a  preliminary injunction, the Court considers two interrelated factors: (1) the  likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial and (2) the  interim harm the plaintiff will likely suffer if the injunction does not issue  as compared to the harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the injunction  does issue. (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554; Smith v.  Adventist Health System/West (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 729, 749; Brown v.  Pacifica Foundation, Inc. (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 915, 925; Amgen Inc. v.  Health Care Services (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 716, 731.)   1.      Balancing  of Equities   In deciding on the issuance of a  preliminary injunction, the Court must balance the equities between the  parties. If denying the requested relief would result in great harm to the  plaintiff, and the defendant would suffer little harm if the relief is granted,  it is an abuse of discretion to deny relief. (Robbins v. Superior Court (1985)  38 Cal.3d 199, 205; Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668,  678 (the greater the plaintiff’s showing on one factor, the less that must be  shown on the other to support an injunction).)   Irreparable harm (i.e., inadequate  legal remedy) is one of the traditional considerations for the issuance of a preliminary  injunction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526, subd. (a)(2).) The threat of irreparable  harm must be imminent and not a mere possibility of harm sometime in the  future. (Korean Philadelphia Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery  (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1069, 1084.) However, plaintiffs need not wait until they  have suffered actual harm and may seek injunctive relief against threatened  infringement of their rights. (Maria P. v. Riles (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1281,  1292; Costa Mesa City Employees’ Assn. v. City of Costa Mesa (2012) 209  Cal.App.4th 298, 305-306.)   Where a piece of real property is  under threat of sale under a deed of trust, “such damage may be considered  irreparable for in equity each parcel of real property is considered unique.” (Stockton  v. Newman (1957) 148 Cal.App.2d 558, 564.) Here, Plaintiff argues that he “stands  to lose his home to foreclosure, in which he and his wife, both of whom have  several ongoing medical ailments, reside. In addition, Plaintiff stands to lose  the substantial equity he has in his home.” (Pl.’s Mot. 6:11–13.) “As such,  Plaintiff stands to suffer irreparable harm if the instant temporary  restraining order is not issued.” (Id. at 6:15–16.)    Defendant does not dispute that  Plaintiff may suffer irreparable harm should the Court deny the preliminary  injunction; rather, Defendant argues that such harm is inevitable because  Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their claims in this action. (Id. at  10:26–11:6, citing Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assn. v. Furlotti (1999)  70 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498 [“an injunction should not issue where there is no  possibility of success even though its issuance might prevent irreparable harm.”].)   Based on the foregoing, the Court  finds that the potential harm to Plaintiff outweighs the potential harm to Defendant  should the injunction not be issued.   2.      Likelihood  of Success on the Merits   A trial court may not issue an  injunction, regardless of the amount of interim harm, “unless there is some  possibility” that plaintiff will ultimately prevail on the merits of the claim.  (Jamison v. Department of Transp. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 356, 362; Association  of Orange County Deputy Sheriffs v. County of Orange (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th  29, 49.)   a.        Violation of Civil Code Section 2923.7   Plaintiff’s first cause of action  alleges that Defendant failed to assign a “single point of contact” to  Plaintiff in violation of Civil Code section 2923.7. Under this portion of the  HBOR, “when a borrower requests a foreclosure prevention alternative, the  mortgage servicer shall promptly establish a single point of contact and  provide to the borrower one or more direct means of communication with the  single point of contact.” (Civ. Code § 2923.7, subd. (a).) “For purposes of  this section, ‘single point of contact’ means an individual or team of  personnel each of whom has the ability and authority to perform the  responsibilities described” below. (Id. at subd. (e).)   “The single point of contact shall  be responsible for doing all of the following: (1) Communicating the process by  which a borrower may apply for an available foreclosure prevention alternative  and the deadline for any required submissions to be considered for these  options; (2) Coordinating receipt of all documents associated with available  foreclosure prevention alternatives and notifying the borrower of any missing  documents necessary to complete the application; (3) Having access to current  information and personnel sufficient to timely, accurately, and adequately  inform the borrower of the current status of the foreclosure prevention  alternative; (4) Ensuring that a borrower is considered for all foreclosure  prevention alternatives offered by, or through, the mortgage servicer, if any;  and (5) Having access to individuals with the ability and authority to stop  foreclosure proceedings when necessary.” (Id. at subd. (b).)   Here, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant  “violated Civil Code § 2923.7 by failing to provide Plaintiff with a direct  means of communication with Plaintiff’s assigned single point of contact and  failing to carry out the duties assigned to a single point of contact. At all  times relevant, … Plaintiff was not provided a direct means of contacting the  individual assigned to his account. In fact, Plaintiff talked to many different  representatives throughout the time that he submitted an application for a  foreclosure prevention alternative.” (Pl.’s Mot. 7:11–20.)   Defendant argues in opposition that  as a preliminary matter, Plaintiff is not protected under the HBOR because he  previously received a loan modification in 2021. (Def.’s Opp. 12:1–16.)  Nevertheless, Defendant argues that “multiple contacts at SPS spoke with  Plaintiff about his account, loss mitigation options, and the process of  applying for assistance review.” (Id. at 13:2–3, citing Decl. of  Michelle Simon ¶¶ 18–36.) “The evidence demonstrates appointed relationship  managers, and SPS representatives that complied with the duties outlined by the  statute. There was no violation of section 2923.7, let alone a material one as  would be required to succeed on it.” (Id. at 13:11–14.)     Plaintiff argues in reply that  Defendant’s arguments ignore Plaintiff’s allegations “that during his calls  with SPS, the representatives he spoke to failed to keep Plaintiff apprised of  critical deadlines, stating instead that Plaintiff simply needed to get the  documents in as soon as possible.” (Pl.’s Reply 5:26–6:1.) “Moreover, Defendant  altogether fails to address Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendant violated  Civil Code § 2923.7(b)(4) by failing to adequately advise Plaintiff of the  forbearance process before luring him into a second forbearance plan.” (Id. at  6:2–4.)   The Court takes note of Plaintiff’s  argument that Defendant is withholding its responses to Plaintiff’s discovery  requests, which seek the production of “communications logs and recordings that  support these allegations.” (Id. at 2:7.) While substantive discovery  issues are not properly before this Court at this time, the Court notes the  effective prejudice raised by Plaintiff.   Based on the foregoing, the Court  finds that Plaintiff has shown some possibility of prevailing on his first  cause of action.   b.       Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair  Dealing   Plaintiff’s second cause of action  alleges against Defendant a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing. Every contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere with the other  party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v. American  Nat’l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise nature  and extent of the duty depends on the nature and purpose of the underlying  contract and the parties’ legitimate expectations arising from the contract. (Ibid.)  “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of the contract …  and breach of a specific provision of the contract is not ... necessary to a  claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” (Thrifty  Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,  1244.)   Here, Plaintiff argues that he “was  in a contractual relationship with Defendant SPS under the Deed of Trust and  servicing contract for the mortgage loan. As such, Defendant SPS had a  contractual obligation to refrain from hindering Plaintiff’s performance under  the contract.” (Pl.’s Mot. 9:1–3.) Plaintiff asserts that “Defendant SPS,  induced Plaintiff to breach the contract and then utilized that very breach as  the event of default upon which it is basing the ongoing foreclosure.” (Id. at  9:14–16.)   Defendant argues in opposition that  its representatives informed Plaintiff of the payment schedule of the COVID  loan forbearance plan, therefore “the evidence demonstrates Plaintiff was not  induced into the Forbearance Plan, and that he was informed that all payments  would come due at the end, and at most he would be reviewed for potential  options.” (Def.’s Opp. 15:6–8, citing Simon Decl. ¶¶ 18–20.)     Plaintiff argues in reply that “Defendant  relies on objectionable hearsay evidence which does not negate the allegations  before the court. In fact, the parties agree that Plaintiff was current when he  called to make a payment and, when asked to simply get the transaction fee  waived, he ended up in another Covid forbearance plan.” (Pl.’s Mot. 6:15–18.)  The Court agrees that the evidence submitted is objectionable. Based on the  foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown some possibility of  prevailing on his second cause of action.   c.        Negligent Misrepresentation   Plaintiff’s third cause of action  alleges Negligent Misrepresentation against Defendant. The elements of a cause  of action for negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a  past or existing material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to  be true, and with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact  misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance on the  misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004)  115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154 [quotations omitted].)   Fairness requires that allegations  of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the court can weed out  nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to answer. (Small v.  Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The particularity  requirement necessitates pleading facts that “show how, when, where, to whom,  and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior  Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)   Here, Plaintiff argues that “when  Plaintiff was current in his mortgage payments, Defendant induced Plaintiff  into a forbearance plan, indicating to Plaintiff that the forbearance plan  provided that at the end of the plan, if Plaintiff could not immediately pay  that accrued during the forbearance term, the loan would be modified to address  the payments that accrued during the forbearance term and that Plaintiff could  resume regular payments.” (Pl.’s Mot. 9:21–25.) “In reliance on this  conversation, Plaintiff entered into the second forbearance plan[.] While  Plaintiff performed as instructed, SPS later did an about-turn, telling Plaintiff  that his loan was past due and threatening legal action and foreclosure  proceedings.” (Id. at 9:17–10:1.) “Defendant SPS knew or should have  known of that statement’s falsity because as a servicer of mortgage loans, it  should understand the implications of ceasing payments during forbearance and  its effect on the borrower’s account.” (Id. at 10:2–4.)   Defendant argues in opposition that  it made no misrepresentation here. “The evidence demonstrates Plaintiff was not  induced into the Forbearance Plan, and there was no misrepresentation about the  Forbearance Plan. Plaintiff was informed that all payments would come due at  the end, and at most he would be reviewed for potential options.” (Def.’s Opp.  16:18–21, citing Simon Decl. ¶¶ 18–20.) As the Court sustains Plaintiff’s  evidentiary objections, the Court finds that the evidence relied on by  Defendant is inadmissible as hearsay.       Defendant further argues that “any  purported oral communication relating to potential future modification cannot  support a negligent misrepresentation claim.” (Id. at 16:27–28, citing Richard  P. v. Vista Del Mar Child Care Service (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 860, 865 [“Fraudulent  representations, to constitute ground for relief, must be as to existing and  material facts; predictions of future events are ordinarily considered  non-actionable expressions of opinion.’].) In reply, Plaintiff argues that “Plaintiff  alleges that he was erroneously advised about the structure of the forbearance  plan at issue: if the accrued payments cannot be immediately paid, the loan  will be modified. This is not a representation about a future event. It is a  representation about the parameters of the forbearance program that the parties  to the conversation were discussing.” (Pl.’s Reply 7:17–21.) While the Court  declines to accept Plaintiff’s characterization of Defendant’s representations,  it finds no admissible evidence of the communications between the parties.   Based on the foregoing, the Court  finds that finds Plaintiff has shown some probability of prevailing on his  third cause of action.   d.       Unfair Business Practices   Plaintiff’s  fourth cause of action alleges Unfair Business Practices against Defendant. To  succeed on a claim for unfair business practices in violation of the Unfair  Competition Law (“UCL”), a plaintiff must establish that the defendant was  engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and  unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) “In essence, an action based on Business and  Professions Code section 17200 to redress an unlawful business practice  ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and treats these violations, when committed  pursuant to business activity, as unlawful practices independently actionable  under section 17200 et seq. and subject to the distinct remedies provided  thereunder.” (People ex rel. Bill Lockyer v. Fremont Life Ins. Co.  (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 508, 515.) A plaintiff alleging an “unfair” business  practice under the UCL must show that the defendant’s conduct is “tethered to  an underlying constitutional, statutory or regulatory provision, or that it  threatens an incipient violation of an antitrust law or violates the policy or  spirit of an antitrust law.” (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226  Cal.App.4th 594, 613.) “‘Fraudulent,’ as used in the statute, does not refer to  the common law tort of fraud but only requires a showing members of the public  ‘are likely to be deceived.’” (Olsen v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48  Cal.App.4th 608, 618.)   Here,  Plaintiff argues that Defendant violated the UCL under the “unfair” prong  because Defendant “will not allow Plaintiff to be reviewed for loss mitigation,  despite California’s clear policies (1) of fostering more cooperative relations  between lenders and borrowers who are at risk of foreclosure, so that homes  will not be lost a loan and (2) that a loan modification be offered if such a  modification or plan is consistent with its authority.” (Pl.’s Mot. 11:23–26.)  “In the case at hand, Defendant placed Plaintiff into a forbearance plan, when  Plaintiff’s loan was current, and failed to adequately explain to Plaintiff  what to expect at the end of the forbearance term. When Plaintiff’s forbearance  plan ended and he tried to submit regular payments, Defendant told Plaintiff he  had to apply for loss mitigation but failed to adequately advise Plaintiff of  the deadlines to do so. Defendant then closed the request, advising Plaintiff  that the request was closed without review and that Plaintiff could not submit  a new application. Plaintiff appealed the decision, informing Defendant of the  change in income that would support a review, but Plaintiff’s efforts have been  denied.” (Id. at 11:15–23.)   Defendant  argues in opposition that “Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that seeking a  modification of his own contractual obligation offends a public policy tethered  to any underlying constitutional, statutory or regulatory provision.” (Def.’s  Opp. 17:16–18.) Defendant further asserts that “if the Property sells at a  trustee’s sale, it will be due to his own default, not any act of SPS.” (Id.  at 18:1–2.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has  sufficiently shown that Defendant violated the “unlawful” and “unfair” prongs  of the UCL.    Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has made a sufficient showing  that he may prevail on the merits of his claims in this action. Accordingly,  the request for a preliminary injunction is granted.   CONCLUSION    Plaintiff’s request for a preliminary injunction is granted.  