 Case Number:  24CHCV00808    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  F51 
NOVEMBER 20,
2024
 

Special Motion to
Strike (Anti-SLAPP)

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 24CHCV00808

 
Motion filed: 07/29/2024
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Bankers Healthcare Group, LLC

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Robert W. Steele
NOTICE: Ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order, pursuant to CCP § 425.16,
striking Steele’s entire complaint, or alternatively, the 1st or 2nd cause of
action, and awarding BHG attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $13,692.50.    
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is GRANTED.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: BHG’s evidentiary objections
are OVERRULED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff Robert
W. Steele (“Steele”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Bankers Healthcare
Group, LLC (“BHG”) alleging two causes of action for (1) Malicious Prosecution,
and (2) Unfair Debt Collection Practices under the Rosenthal Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act. The
underlying action upon which this action is based was Bankers Healthcare
Group, LLC v. Robert W. Steele, Case No. STK-CV-UOC-2022-00059711
(the “Underlying Action”). In
the Underlying Action, BHG was the plaintiff and Steele was the defendant. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
A special motion to strike
strategic lawsuits against public participation (“SLAPP” actions) provides a
procedural remedy to dismiss at an early stage nonmeritorious litigation meant
to chill the valid exercise of the constitutional rights to petition or engage
in free speech. (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16; Newport Harbor Ventures, LLC v.
Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 4 Cal.5th 637, 642; Dziubla v.
Piazza (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 140, 148.) The anti-SLAPP statute is intended
to “encourage continued participation in matters of public significance;”
therefore, it is to be “construed broadly.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd.
(a).)¿ 
 
The anti-SLAPP statute sets forth a
two-step procedure for determining whether a cause of action is a SLAPP
action.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (b); Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009.) First, the court must determine
whether the defendant has made a prima facie showing that the defendant’s acts
of which plaintiff complains were taken in furtherance of the defendant’s
constitutional rights of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) If the court finds that the
defendant has met its threshold burden, the burden then shifts to the plaintiff
to show that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.¿(Ibid.; Governor Gray Davis Com. v. American Taxpayers
Alliance (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449, 456.) 
 
Under the statute, an “‘act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech’ includes: (1) any
written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or
judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (e).) 
 
I.       
First Cause of Action – Malicious Prosecution
 
A.   
Protected Activity
 
A defendant has the initial burden
to show that a plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s
protected activity as defined by the anti-SLAPP statute. (Code Civ. Proc. §
425.16, subd. (b)(1).) “In deciding whether the initial ‘arising from’ requirement
is met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’” (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89.)
 
The first cause of action for malicious prosecution arises
from BHG’s litigation of the Underlying Action. Thus, the first issue is
whether BHG’s litigation of the Underlying Action is protected activity under
the Anti-SLAPP statute. It undoubtedly is. By definition, a malicious
prosecution suit alleges that the defendant committed a tort by filing a
lawsuit. [Citation.]” (See also Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope &
Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1113 [“plainly read,
[Anti-SLAPP] encompasses any cause of action against a person arising from
any statement or writing made in, or in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by, an official proceeding or body”].) Thus, the first
cause of action arises from BHG’s protected activity of filing a lawsuit
against Steele. 
 
B.    
Probability of Prevailing 
 
The second step of the inquiry
requires the plaintiff to demonstrate that its claims have at least “minimal
merit.” (Bonni, 11 Cal.5th at 1009.) At this stage, the court does not
weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to
whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima
facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts
the plaintiff’s evidence as true and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. (Wilson v.
Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 891; Navellier, 29
Cal.4th at 88–89.) The court does not weigh credibility or the comparative
strength of the evidence offered by the parties. (Overstock.com, Inc. v.
Gradient Analytics, Inc. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 688, 699–700.)
 
Because this malicious prosecution action arises from
protected activity, the burden shifts to Steele to show that he has a
reasonable probability of prevailing on his claim against BHG. (Governor
Gray Davis Com. v. American Taxpayers Alliance (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449,
456.)
 
“A plaintiff must plead and prove three elements to
establish the tort of malicious prosecution: a lawsuit ‘(1) was commenced by or
at the direction of the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination
favorable to the plaintiff; (2) was brought without probable cause; and (3) was
initiated with malice.’ [Citation.]” (Nunez v. Pennisi (2015) 241
Cal.App.4th 861, 872-873.) The issue, then, is whether Steele has submitted
enough evidence to establish a reasonable probability that he will be able to
show each of these elements. 
 
BHG does not dispute that Steele can show the first
element.
 
Element (2): Brought Without Probable Cause
 
In seeking to establish a lack of probable cause, Steele only
argues that the Underlying Action was brought without probable cause because “BHG
and its attorney in the underlying case apparently felt it necessary to change
not only their declarations, but also the details of the ‘statement of account’
attached to each declaration. The facts, as already recited, speak for
themselves.” (Opposition, 6.) 
 
The Court finds that this argument alone does not meet
Steele’s burden to establish a lack of probable cause.  As to the Underlying Complaint, BHG’s initial Underlying
Complaint alleged the date of breach as November 10, 2020, which Steele argues was
without probable cause because Steele was making payments up until October 2022.
As to the Underlying FAC, Steele argues that it was without probable cause
because he was legally justified in withholding payments beginning in October
of 2022. While Steele admits in his Complaint that he stopped making payments
in October 2022, the Underlying FAC’s revised date of the alleged breach, Steele
argues that his refusal to continue payments at this time was not a breach as
it was legally justified because BHG was by then pursuing the underlying
litigation against Steele. (Complaint, ¶ 25.) 
 
In Reply, BHG argues that Steele’s own evidence submitted
in the underlying action shows that he made ten late payments before BHG filed
its initial lawsuit. BHG contends that under the Note, when Steele is in
default, the entire unpaid, accelerated balance becomes due. (Table of
Exhibits, Ex. 1.) BHG also points out that although Steele asserts that it was
BHG’s failure to send statements that caused his late payments, the Note states
that payments were due by the 10th of the month such that Steele should have
been on notice and paying regardless of a lack of statements. 
 
Here, the Court finds that Steele fails to meet his
burden to prove that BHG lacked probable cause to file the initial Underlying Complaint
or the Underlying FAC. As to the Underlying Complaint, the Note contained an
acceleration clause allowing BHG to seek the entirety of the balance if Steele
made late payments. (Table of Exhibits, Ex. 1.) 

 
Upon Steele’s own admission, he made late payments on
multiple occasions prior to BHG’s commencement of the underlying action. (Table
of Exhibits, Ex. 14.) Per the Note, payments were due on the 10th of each
month, but Steele made payments after the 10th of the month on eight different
occasions. (Table of Exhibits, Ex. 14.)
 
Steele does not offer any legal authority to support the
assertion that BHG’s failure to send statements after Steele requested them
justifies the late payments. Thus, BHG had probable cause to bring the
underlying action and seek all amounts due under the Note’s acceleration clause
after Steele’s late payments. 
 
As to probable cause for the Underlying FAC alleging the
date of breach as October 2022, Steele attached to his Complaint evidence that
Steele completely stopped making payments on the Note as of October 10, 2022. (Complaint,
Attach. D.) Steele provides no legal support for his argument that he was
legally justified in stopping his payments on the Note beginning October 10,
2022, simply because BHG had initiated the Underlying Action against him. Without
establishing that BHG’s lawsuit discharged Steele’s duty to continue paying on
the Note, Steele was in breach and BHG had probable cause to file their
Underlying FAC. 
 
Steele has failed to meet his burden to show that he has
a reasonable probability of prevailing on his Malicious Prosecution claim
against BHG as to the probable cause element.
 
Element
(3): Initiated with Malice 
 
The “malice” element of malicious prosecution focuses on
the subjective intent or purpose with which the defendant acted in initiating
the prior action. (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39
Cal.4th 260, 292. “The motive of the defendant must have been something other
than . . . the satisfaction in a civil action of some personal or financial
purpose. [Citation.] The plaintiff must plead and prove actual ill will or
some improper ulterior motive. [Citation.]” (Downey Venture v. LMI
Insurance Co. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 478, 494, emphasis in original.)
 
Steele argues in Opposition that “there is a mountain of
evidence from which to infer malice.” (Opposition, 6.) However, Steele fails to
establish that BHG’s motive was something other than the satisfaction in a
civil action of a financial purpose. 
 
Steele has failed to meet his burden to show that he has
a reasonable probability of prevailing on his Malicious Prosecution claim
against BHG as to the malice element.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the Malicious
Prosecution claim is a strategic lawsuit against public participation (SLAPP)
and must be stricken from the Complaint. 
 
Second Cause of Action – Unfair Debt Collection Practices
 
A.   
Protected Activity
 
In his complaint, Steele alleges that BHG
wrongfully sued Steele concerning a loan which BHG falsely claimed that Mr.
Steele owed money on and falsely alleged that Mr. Steele had breached
obligations that he had not breached. (Complaint, ¶ 1.) Steele also states that BHG displayed the following
unfair conduct: (1) accelerating the loan on which he was making payments, (2)
suing him without basis, and (3) seeking an amount far in excess of the
otherwise outstanding loan. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) 
 
The second cause of action for unfair debt collection
practices under the Rosenthal act arises largely from BHG’s litigation of the
Underlying Action, which Steele contends was unfair because he did not owe
money on the Note and had not been in breach. Thus, the first issue is whether
BHG’s litigation of the Underlying Action is protected activity under the
Anti-SLAPP statute. It undoubtedly is, as already discussed above. (Briggs,
supra, 19 Cal.4th at 1113 [“plainly read, [Anti-SLAPP] encompasses any
cause of action against a person arising from any statement or writing made in,
or in connection with an issue under consideration or review by, an official
proceeding or body”].) Thus, the second cause of action arises from BHG’s
protected activity of filing a lawsuit against Steele. 
 
B.    
Probability of Prevailing 
 
`           Because this unfair debt collection
practices cause of action arises from protected activity, once again the burden
shifts to Steele to show that he has a reasonable probability of prevailing on
his claim against BHG. (Governor Gray Davis Com, supra, 102 Cal.App.4th
at 456.)
 
The litigation privilege is “relevant to the
second step in the anti-SLAPP analysis in that it may present a substantive
defense a plaintiff must overcome to demonstrate a probability of prevailing.”
(Flatley, supra, 39 Cal.4th at p.323.) 

 
“‘The usual formulation is that the
[litigation] privilege applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or
quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized
by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that [has] some
connection or logical relation to the action.’ [Citation.]  The privilege ‘is not limited to statements
made during a trial or other proceedings, but may extend to steps taken prior
thereto, or afterwards.’ [Citation.]”  (Action
Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232,
1241.)  “[T]he litigation privilege was
founded on defamation actions, and has been applied primarily to provide
absolute immunity from tort liability for communications with ‘some
relation’ to judicial proceedings.”  (Feldman
v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1494.)  The Supreme Court has noted that it has
previously “directed that section 47(b) be applied broadly to bar tort
actions based on privileged communications, excepting only the tort of
malicious prosecution.” (Hagberg v. California Fed. Bank (2004) 32 Cal.
4th 350, 358.) “The privilege applies to communications relative to the
defense of an action as well as those relative to its filing and
prosecution.”  (Cabral v. Martins (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 471, 485.)  “The
privilege is ‘absolute in nature, applying “to all publications,
irrespective of their maliciousness.” ’ [Citation.]”  (Optional Capital, Inc. v. Akin Gump
Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 95, 116.)  “ ‘The principal purpose of [the litigation
privilege] is to afford litigants and witnesses [citation] the utmost freedom
of access to the courts without fear of being harassed subsequently by
derivative tort actions.’ ” (Action Apartment, supra, 41 Cal.4th
at p.1241.)  
 
Here, Steele has not submitted evidence which, if
believed by the trier of fact, is sufficient to result in a judgment for Steele.
(McGarry v. Univ. of San Diego (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 108-09.)  Steele attached to his Complaint BHG's
Underlying Complaint, which states, “[o]n or about November 10, 2020, Defendant
Steele breached the Note with Plaintiff by, among other things,
failing and refusing to make the required scheduled payments pursuant to the Note...Despite
Plaintiffs demands for payment, Defendant Steele failed and refused and
continues to fail and refuse to pay the amounts due and owing to Plaintiff
pursuant to the terms of the Note.” (Complaint, Attach. A.) 
 
As discussed above, the Note contained an acceleration
clause allowing BHG to seek the entirety of the balance if Steele made late
payments. (Table of Exhibits, Ex. 1.) Upon Steele’s own admission, he made
eight late payments prior to BHG’s commencement of the underlying action.
(Table of Exhibits, Ex. 14.) Thu, per the Note, Steele was in breach at the
time BHG commenced the action. Further, Steele attached to his Complaint
evidence that Steele completely stopped making payments on the Note as of
October 10, 2022. (Complaint, Attach. D.) Without establishing that BHG’s
lawsuit discharged Steele’s duty to continue paying on the Note, Steele was also
in breach when BHG filed the Underlying FAC. Thus, the underlying action was
not for the collection of non-existent debts, but for amounts actually owed by
Steele after Steele made late payments on the note on or before November 10,
2020, and after Steele completely stopped paying on the note on October 10,
2022. 
 
Moreover, the Rosenthal Act cause of action is time
barred as a cause of action for violation of the Rosenthal Act is subject to a
one (1) year limitations period. (CCP § 1788.30.) Here, the occurrence of the
violation was the date that BHG filed the Underlying Action on July 15, 2022,
which Steele contends constitutes unfair debt collection practices. Thus, to be
timely, Steele’s claim must have been filed by July 15, 2023. However, Steele
filed the instant action on March 12, 2024, which is one year and nearly eight
months after the occurrence of the violation. 
 
While Steele argues that each discrete violation of the
Rosenthal Act triggers its own one-year limitations period, citing Brown
v. Transworld Systems (2023) 73 F.4th 1030, 1040-41, Brown is a United States Court
of Appeal case which is not binding on this Court. Even if it were, Steele
fails to establish that the filing of the Underlying FAC or any subsequent
action taken after BHG commenced the Underlying Action constituted a discrete
act of violation. By Steele’s own admission, he stopped making payments on
October 10, 2022, which is the date of breach per the Underlying FAC. Thus, BHG
was not pursuing a nonexistent debt when it filed the Underlying FAC, and
accordingly, this does not constitute a discrete violation of the Rosenthal Act
which would set a new statute of limitations. 
 
Steele has failed to meet his burden to demonstrate a
reasonable probability of prevailing on the merits of his unfair debt
collection practices claim.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the unfair debt
collection practices claim is a strategic lawsuit against public participation
(SLAPP) and must be stricken from the Complaint.
 
Attorney Fees and Costs 
 
A prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike is
entitled to recover attorney fees and costs. (CCP § 425.16, subd. (c)(1.) BHG
requests $13,632.50 in attorneys’ fees, based on an attorney rate of $665 per
hour and a total of 20.5 hours of work (13.5 hours preparing the motion, 3
hours analyzing the Opposition, 3 hours preparing a Reply, and 1 hour appearing
on the motion). (Declaration of Ryan T. Koczara, ¶¶ 5-6.) Koczara also requests
the $60.00 filing fee in costs. (Koczara Decl. ¶ 7.) The Court grants these
fees and costs. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is GRANTED.
 
 