  Case Number:  21PSCV00015    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFF AND CROSS-DEFENDANT KAYMI CHAN’S MOTION TO
QUASH (OR MODIFY) AND/OR FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER RE: DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR
PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS is GRANTED; the subpoena is modified. 
 
Background
 
This is a
real property dispute between siblings. Kaymi Chan (“K Chan”), Fred Lapwo Chan
(“F Chan”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), and On Chan (“Defendant O Chan”) are
siblings. According to Plaintiffs, at the time of purchasing the Property
(known as 2459 Recinto Avenue in the city of Rowland Heights (“Recinto
Property”)), the Parties agreed that (1) F Chan and O Chan would contribute the
down payment, (2) K Chan and F Chan would contribute part of the mortgage
payments, and (3) Defendant O Chan would contribute the property tax and
insurance. (Complaint ¶10.) The Property
would be jointly owned by the Parties. (Complaint ¶10.)
From 2005 until 2017, Plaintiffs made payments. But in about September 2017, F
Chan lost his job, to which Defendant O Chan told F Chan he need not continue
to make payments so long as he removes his name from the title and in return
Defendant O Chan would pay back F Chan the contribution he made in a single
payment. (Complaint ¶16.) After F Chan
removed his name from the Title, Defendant O Chan added his wife, Binh Luu
(Defendant Luu) (collectively, “Defendants”), into the Title. (Complaint ¶17.) In June 2020, due to COVID-19, K Chan
paused making monthly payments. (Complaint ¶13.)
The total contribution made by K Chan towards the Property was $304,600.00
($228,600 for mortgagee and $76,000 for Improvements.) (Complaint ¶14.) F Chan made a total of $85,900.00 towards
mortgage on the Property. (Complaint ¶18.)
On or about December 14, 2020, Defendant O Chan sent a demand letter to K Chan
that she vacates the Property because she is a tenant who has failed to pay
rent, affirming K Chan’s belief that Defendant O Chan would not recognize her
ownership interest in the Property. (Complaint ¶19.)
At the same time, F Chan realized that Defendant O Chan will not pay him for
the contribution he promised he would make. (Complaint ¶19.) 
 
On January 7,
2021, Plaintiffs filed suit against Defendant O. Chan, Binh Luu, JPMorgan
Chase, N.A., and Does 1 through 25 for: 
 
            1. Breach of Oral Contract (by F
Chan), 
            2. Breach of Oral Contract (by
Plaintiffs), 
            3. Fraud—Intentional
Misrepresentation (by F Chan), 
            4. Rescission (by F Chan), 
            5. Unjust Enrichment (by
Plaintiffs), 
            6. Promissory Estoppel (by F Chan), 
            7. Promissory Estoppel (by
Plaintiffs), 
            8. Declaratory Relief (by
Plaintiffs), and 
            9. Partition (by Plaintiffs). 
 
On January
15, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Pending Action (“Lis Pendens”) on the
Property. 
 
On February
18, 2021, the court granted Defendants’ Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency of
Action (Lis Pendens). 
 
On March 29,
2021, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), asserting a total
of fourteen (14) causes of action for: 
            
            1.  
Breach of Oral Contract (F. Chan v. O. Chan), 
            2.  
Breach of Oral Joint Venture Agreement (K. Chan and F.
Chan v. O. Chan), 
            3.  
Breach of Implied Joint Venture Agreement (K. Chan and F. Chan v. O.
Chan),
            4.  
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, 
            5.  
Constructive Fraud, 
            6.  
Imposition of Constructive Fraud,
            7.  
Imposition of Constructive Trust [Violation of Trust],
            8.  
Fraud—Intentional Misrepresentation, 
            9.  
Recission, 
            10. Unjust Enrichment, 
            11. Promissory Estoppel, 
            12. Promissory Estoppel, 
            13. Declaratory Relief, and 
            14. Accounting 
            
On April 30,
2021, Defendants filed a Demurrer, which on June 25, 2021 was sustained in
part. 
 
On July 23,
2021, Defendants: 
            i.  
filed their Answer, 
            ii. 
filed their Cross-Complaint, and 
            iii. filed a Notice of Lis Pendens. 
 
Defendants’
Cross-Complaint is for: 
            1. Rescission, 
            2. Breach of Contract/Lease, 
            3. Damage to Real Property, and 
            4. Declaratory Relief.
 
On June 25,
2021, the court issued the following order: The Demurrer - without Motion to
Strike filed by Binh Luu, On Chan on 04/30/2021 is Sustained in Part. Defendant
On Chan’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in part (i.e., as to
the first, fourth through seventh and fourteenth causes of action) and
OVERRULED in part (i.e., as to the second, third, and eighth through twelfth
causes of action). Defendants On Chan’s and Binh Luu’s demurrer to the tenth
cause of action is OVERRULED. Defendants On Chan’s and Binh Luu’s demurrer to
the thirteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED as to Plaintiff K Chan and
OVERRULED as to Plaintiff F Chan. Demurrer is sustained with 10 days leave to
amend as to the 1st cause of action only.[1]

 
On December
16, 2021, the court issued the following Minute Order: The Demurrer - without
Motion to Strike filed by Kaymi Chan, Fred Lapwo Chan on 08/23/2021 is
Sustained in Part. 
Specifically,
the 1st cause of action for recission was sustained with 30 days
leave to amend; 2nd cause of action for breach of contract/lease was
overruled; and 4th cause of action for Declaratory Relief was
sustained with 30 days leave to amend. (The 3rd cause of action for
damages to real property was not subject to the demurrer.) Consequently,
without the filing of an amended complaint, that would only leave the 2nd
cause of action in the cross-complaint for breach of contract/lease and 3rd
cause of action for intentional damage to real property at issue.  
 
On February
16, 2022, the Parties attended Mediation. As a result of Mediation, the
following resolution was reached: On April 1, 2022, all causes of action
in the FAC by Plaintiff Fred Chan against Defendants O Chan and Binh Luu were
dismissed with prejudice and on April 4, 2022, all causes of action in
the cross-complaint filed by O Chan against F Chan was dismissed with
prejudice. 
 
On April 22,
2022, O Chan filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s FAC (“Motion”).
 
On Wednesday,
July 6, 2022, the court heard oral argument on the MSJ and allowed the parties
to submit supplemental briefs because the court’s tentative explained that both
parties incorrectly argued breach of contract when the complaint (with certain
COAs dismissed), only asserted a breach of joint venture agreement, which
neither party addressed. 
 
On July 21,
2022, the court issued its final ruling granting the MSJ as to the 2nd
cause of action (breach of oral joint venture agreement), the 3rd
cause of action (breach of implied joint venture agreement), the 10th
cause of action (Unjust Enrichment), and 13th cause of action
for Declaratory Relief because Plaintiff K. Chan (i) failed to make allegations
that the purported joint venture was formed for profit but (ii)
failed to provide evidence that the purchase of the home was profit. The
court does not grant the MSJ as to the 12th
Cause of Action for Promissory Estoppel. 
 
On August 11,
2023, K. Chan filed the instant motion. 
 
On September
14, 2023, O. Chan and Luu filed their opposition. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
"If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders." (Motion p. ii, citing Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)
 
Discussion
 
K. Chan moves to quash the subpoena for business records served by
Defendants to LENNAR Mortgage, LLC (“Lennar”) on the grounds that the subpoena
seeks information that is irrelevant, unnecessary, intrusive, and violates
considerations of privacy. Specifically, the requests are as follows: 
 
Request 1 This request seeks
“[a]ll loan applications submitted by Kaymi Chan and Terri So in connection
with loan #20363819 made by Eagle Home Mortgage, LLC secured by the real
property located at 16032 Osprey Ave, Chino, CA on or about May 19, 2020”.  
 
Request 2 This request seeks
“[a]ll correspondence submitted by Kaymi Chan and Terri So in connection with
their loan application for loan #20363819 made by Egal Home Mortgage, LLC
secured by the real property located at 16032 Osprey Ave, Chino, CA on or about
May 19, 2020”. 
 
Request 3 This request seeks
“[a]ll documents submitted by Kaymi Chan and Terri So supporting their existing
mortgage and/or monthly rental obligations in connection with their loan
application for loan #20363819 made by Eagle Home Mortgage, LLC secured by the
real property located at 16032 Osprey Ave, Chino, CA on or about May 19, 2020”.

 
(See Ma Decl., Ex.
A [true and correct copy of the Subpoena], p. 8 of 13 of PDF.) 
 
In Opposition,
Defendants explain the records are relevant because in applying for the
mortgage on the Chino property, Plaintiff and her husband submitted a “Uniform
Residential Loan Application” (hereinafter, “Application”). The Application
asks specific questions about the borrowers’ current residence and whether they
own or rent such residence and if rented, the amount of monthly rent, and if
owned, the monthly mortgage payment. The issue of whether Plaintiff represented
that she was a “renter” or “owned” the Recinto Property is relevant to
Defendants’ defense as to the sole remaining COA for promissory estoppel (which
is based on the allegation that the Recinto “Property would be owed by equally
by Plaintiff....” (FAC ¶ 98)) because if Plaintiff “told the truth and stated
that she was a 'renter”, then it would tend to prove that her promissory
estoppel claim has no basis. In addition, it would undermine her credibility as
a witness if she were to testify at trial that she was an owner.” (Opp. p.
4:19-26.) 
 
While relevant
discovery is one that assists a party in preparing for trial or facilitating
settlement thereof, the discovery is not limitless such that it must be
appropriately tailored. And here, despite Defendants’ contention that “there is
simply no other way to obtain the loan application” (Opp. p. 5), there are
other less intrusive means to obtain the information. For example, Defendants
could simply propound an RFA as to whether Plaintiff indicated on the loan
application that she was a renter of the Recinto property or an RFP as to the
specific section on the loan application that provides that information. Or, as
suggested by Plaintiff, Defendants could depose Plaintiff. (Motion p. 4.) But a
subpoena that encompasses a broad panoply of financial records exceeds the
scope of permissible discovery.[2]

 
Conclusion
 
All in all, as
Plaintiff appears to agree that some of the information is discoverable and on
the other hand, Defendants are amenable to a protective order, the court
fashions an order that satisfies both parties’ request: the subpoena is modified to only allow for production
of the specific section of the Form that states whether Plaintiff rented or
owned the subject Rencito property. 
 
 
 


