  Case Number:  21STCV00960    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November 25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV00960




MOTION


Motion to Reopen Discovery 




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Philip K. Anthony, Michael Cobo, Nicole
  Khoshnoud, Deepwater, Inc., and HM&R, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff U.S. Legal Support, Inc.



 
MOTION
Plaintiff U.S.
Legal Support, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this shareholder derivative action
regarding DecisionQuest, LLC (“DecisionQuest”) against Defendants Philip K.
Anthony (“Anthony”), Michael Cobo, Nicole Khoshnoud, Deepwater, Inc., and
HM&R, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”). 
Defendants seek leave to reopen fact discovery for the purpose of
propounding written discovery on Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
In determining
whether to re-open discovery, the Court must consider the necessity of and
reasons for the additional discovery, the diligence or lack thereof by the
party seeking to reopen discovery in attempting to complete discovery prior to
the cutoff, whether permitting the discovery will prevent the case from going
forward on the trial date or will otherwise prejudice any party, and any past
continuances of the trial date.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)
Defendants rely on
the declaration of their counsel, David P. Crochetiere (“Counsel”).  Counsel fails to address whether Defendants
were diligent in seeking to complete the discovery at issue prior to the cutoff
date.  Instead, Counsel states Plaintiff
“all but abandoned its discovery efforts after October 2022 . . . .”  (Declaration of David P. Crochetiere, ¶
3.)  Plaintiff’s discovery is irrelevant
to whether Defendants were diligent in seeking discovery.  
Defendants also
rely on the declaration of Brain A. Sun (“Sun”), who is Anthony’s counsel in criminal
proceedings.  Sun states Anthony knew the
United States Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California
initiated proceedings to investigate Anthony by October 26, 2022, and he
learned in March 2024 the investigation was ongoing and had expanded to include
potential crimes relating to DecisionQuest’s employee stock ownership plan.  (Declaration of Brian A. Sun, ¶ 8.)  This does not explain Defendants’ delay in
pursuing discovery.  Indeed, Sun concedes
he suspected Plaintiff had disclosed confidential information and referred
Defendants for criminal prosecution in December 2022.  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Defendants, therefore, had ample opportunity
to conduct discovery prior to the discovery cut-off date of June 14, 2024.  Even assuming Defendants learned of new
information in March 2024, Defendants could have propounded discovery before
the cut-off date.  
Accordingly, the
Court denies the motion as being without evidentiary support.
Defendants are to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 