 Case Number:  23STCV13034    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  39 Amr
Samaha v. Sukthankar Capital, LLC, et al., Case No. 23STCV13034
 
Plaintiff
obtained defaults against Sukthankar Capital, LLC and Sukthankar Holdings
Group, LLC on December 7, 2023.  Plaintiff served Nvest Ventures, LLC on
October 4, 2023, and Mihir Sukthankar on October 21, 2023.  Now, Plaintiff
moves ex parte for an order “to deem substituted service on Defendant Mihir
Sukthankar proper and complete.”  Defendant Mihir Sukthankar has not
appeared in this case, and Plaintiff’s counsel did not serve the ex parte
application on Defendant Mihir Sukthankar.  
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel cites no authority suggesting that the Court may prospectively deem
service to have been proper before any defendant has appeared in the
case.  Nor does Plaintiff’s counsel cite any authority suggesting that the
Court may grant an ex parte application that was not served on the affected
party.  These defects are fatal to Plaintiff’s application.  
 
Nor
is this application necessary at this stage.  Service is presumed to have
been proper, and the Court will resolve the issue if/when Defendant Mihir
Sukthankar moves to set aside any default/default judgment based upon allegedly
ineffective service.  Were the Court to grant this application, there
would be a due process violation.  Effectively, the Court would be making
a finding that service was proper—thereby foreclosing any motion by Defendant
Mihir Sukthankar to set aside default/default judgment on this ground—without
giving Defendant Mihir Sukthankar notice and an opportunity to challenge the
finding.  This Court may not render a decision that affects Defendant
Mihir Sukthankar’s rights without giving notice and an opportunity to be heard
on the issue.    
 
Based
upon the foregoing, the Court rules as follows:
 
1.      
Plaintiff’s ex parte application is denied without prejudice.  Plaintiff’s
counsel may re-file this application if he serves the application upon
Defendant Mihir Sukthankar and cites authority establishing that the Court may
prospectively deem service to have been proper before the defendant files a
motion to set aside default/default judgment.   
 
2.      
Plaintiff’s service of Mihir Sukthankar is presumed to be proper for purposes
of seeking entry of default and default judgment. This order is without
prejudice to Defendant Mihir Sukthankar filing a motion to set aside
default/default judgment based upon improper service, at which point the Court
will resolve this issue.
 
3.      
Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the
Court.  
 
 