  Case Number:  23STCV05336    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  39 Ternesha Peoples,
et al. v. Villa Nueva RHCP, LP, et al.
Case No.
23STCV05336
Demurrer and
Motion to Strike
Case Management
Conference
 
            Plaintiffs
filed this habitability case against Defendants, asserting causes of action for
breach of contract, breach of the implied warranty of habitability, nuisance,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence, and violation of
Civil Code section 1942.4.  Now,
Defendants demur to the complaint and move to strike the prayer for attorneys’
fees and punitive damages.
 
            A.        Demurrer
 
            The Court
sustains the demurrer to the first cause of action (breach of contact).  Plaintiffs have not attached a copy of the
lease.  Nor do Plaintiffs sufficiently
allege the term(s) that was allegedly breached. 
Plaintiffs allege only that the lease requires “habitable, safe and
clean-living quarters.”  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶ 39.)  This summary does not
include sufficient detail to confirm that there is, in fact, an express lease
provision requiring habitability (as opposed to the implied warranty of
habitability, which is inherent in every such lease).  Therefore, the demurer to the first cause of
action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
            The Court
overrules the demurrer to the remaining causes of action.  Plaintiffs allege  sufficient facts to assert the second and
third causes of action.  (See First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 40.)  Plaintiffs
allege sufficient facts to establish a claim for the fourth cause of action,
intentional infliction of emotional distress.  
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to address the issues, despite
having notice, in reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional
distress.  (See First Amended Complaint,
¶¶ 41-47, 75-77.)  Similarly, Plaintiffs
allege sufficient facts to assert the fifth cause of action, negligence.  (See First Amended Complaint, ¶ 40.)  Finally, Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts
to assert a cause of action under Civil Code section 1942.4, which prohibits
rent demands for buildings that the government has declared to be
substandard.  Plaintiffs allege such a
declaration in this case.  (See First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 92.)   
            
            Defendants
argues that the first amended complaint is unclear because Plaintiffs do not
allege their claims individually.  This
is not necessary in the absence of evidence of misjoinder.  Defendants are free to file a motion to
bifurcate the cases if this truly is an issue. 
The Court has considered Defendants’ remaining arguments and finds none
to be persuasive.  
 
            B.        Motion to Strike Prayer for Punitive
Damages 
 
            The Court
grants Defendants’ motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages.  To state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages
statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code
section 3294, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud or malice.  (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice is defined
in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Coll.
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and footnotes omitted.)  
 
“[T]he
imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own
fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by
virtue of the fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal. App. 3d 31, 36.) 
“Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds capable of
recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a
corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s
employees.  But the law does not impute
every employee’s malice to the corporation. 
Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among
corporate leaders:  the officers,
directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal. App.
4th 160, 167, internal quotations and citation omitted.)  Plaintiffs do not satisfy this standard, as
they do not identify the managing agent responsible for the issues in this
case.  Therefore, the motion to strike is
granted with leave to amend.
 
C.        Motion to Strike Prayer for Attorneys’
Fees
 
Defendants move
to strike the prayer for attorneys’ fees based upon the contract.  As discussed, Plaintiffs do not sufficiently
allege the breach of a contract.  Nor do
Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts to demonstrate that an attorneys’ fees
provision in the lease would permit attorneys’ fees absent a breach of contract
case.  Therefore, the motion to strike is
granted with leave to amend.
 
D.        Conclusion and Order
 
Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
1.         The demurrer is sustained with respect
to the first cause of action with leave to amend.
 
2.         The demurrer is overruled in all other
respects.
 
3.         The motion to strike is granted with
leave to amend.
 
4.         Plaintiffs shall file a second amended
complaint within thirty (30) days.
 
5.         The Court held the case management
conference because all parties have appeared, and no party objected to the
Court doing so.  The Court set the
following dates:
 
Final Status
Conference:        July 3, 2025, at 9:00
a.m.
 
Trial:                                       July 15,
2025, at 9:30 a.m.
 
The parties shall comply with
all pretrial procedures for Department #39. 
Jury fees shall be posted within thirty (30) days or the parties shall
waive jury.
 
            6.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
                        
 
 