 Case Number:  24STCV11248    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MENACHEM GREEN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CA GLATT MART, INC., a California corporation; and DOES 1
  through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV11248
 Hearing Date:   October
  16, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Set
  Aside Default [RES ID # 1700]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Menachem Green (Green) sues
Defendant CA Glatt Mart, Inc., (Glatt Mart) and
Does 1 through 50, pursuant to a May 6, 2024, Complaint alleging causes of
action for (1) Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, and (2) Violation of
the California Disabled Persons Act. 
Glatt Mart is a grocery store
located in Los Angeles, California. Green is a legally blind person and a
member of a protected class under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The
Complaint arises from allegations that Glatt Mart’s website fails to comply
with accessibility requirements under the ADA and California law, and that the
physical store premises fail to comply with ADA standards. Green contends that
he has been denied full and equal use of the Glatt Mart facility and website
because of these improper digital and physical access barriers. 
B. Relevant Procedural History
The Complaint was served on Glatt
Mart on June 10, 2024, via substituted service. Glatt Mart failed to timely
respond to the Complaint, prompting Green to seek entry of default. The Clerk
entered default on August 9, 2024. 
C. Motion Before the Court
On September 16, 2024, Glatt Mart
filed the instant motion to set aside the default on the grounds that Glatt
Mart reasonably believed that its insurer would be defending in this action. 
That same day, Glatt Mart filed its
proposed Answer to the Complaint. 
Green has not opposed the motion. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard 
“A motion for relief under section
473 is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court and an appellate
court will not interfere unless there is a clear showing of an abuse.
[Citation.] The statute is remedial and should be liberally applied to carry
out the policy of permitting trial on the merits, but the moving party has the
burden of showing good cause. [Citations.]” (David v. Thayer (1980) 133
Cal.App.3d 892, 904-905.) 
Section 473 subdivision (b) of the
Code of Civil Procedure provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief
from a judgment, dismissal, and/or order or other proceeding taken against a
party through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b) [mandatory relief more narrowly targeted to
defaults, default judgments, and dismissals]; Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.) 
The discretionary provision of
section 473, subdivision (b), states that “[t]he court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Application for this relief shall be accompanied
by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein and be
made within a reasonable time not exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).) 
Relief is mandatory pursuant to
this statutory section when a proper application for relief is accompanied by a
sworn affidavit from an attorney attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect in causing the adverse judgment, dismissal,
order, or proceeding against the defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
B. Analysis
Glatt Mart brings this motion to
set aside default on the grounds that default was entered based on excusable
neglect, mistake, and/or surprise. Glatt Mart contends that it believed that
its insurer, AmGUARD Insurance, was defending it in this action. (Mot. p.
3:13-14.) This position is supported by the Declaration of Aaron Nourollah, who
is the CEO of Glatt Mart: 
“On August 22, 2024, Glatt Mart
received a letter from AmGUARD informing us that [Green] had tendered a claim
against [Glatt Mart’s] insurance and stating that AmGUARD had a "duty to
defend" [Glatt Mart]. Based on this communication, I believed that AmGUARD
would be retaining counsel to defend [Glatt Mart].” (Nourollah Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Upon
learning that AmGUARD would not be defending Glatt Mart, Mr. Nourollah retained
counsel to represent Glatt Mart in this matter. (Nourollah Decl. ¶ 7.) 
The Court finds that these grounds
are sufficient to support a finding that Glatt Mart’s excusable neglect led to
entry of default against it. 
Accordingly, the motion to set
aside default against Glatt Mart is GRANTED. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant CA Glatt Mart, Inc.’s
Motion to Set Aside Default is GRANTED because the entry of default resulted
from the excusable neglect of Glatt Mart’s CEO in failing to realize that Glatt
Mart’s insurer would not provide Glatt Mart with legal representation in this
action. 
The Entry of Default entered by the
Clerk against Glatt Mart on August 9, 2024, is VACATED.  
CA Glatt Mart, Inc.’s Answer to the
Complaint, as proposed, shall be filed within five court days.