  Case Number:  20STCV17991    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  30 NANETTE PRICE vs CAL- QUAKE CONSTRUCTION, INC., A CORPORATION, et alMotion to Compel Mental ExaminationTENTATIVEDefendant’s unopposed motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for neuropsychological examination with clinical neuropsychologist, Dr. George Henry, Ph.D., at 11601 Wilshire Boulevard, 5th floor, Los Angeles California, on December 21, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., or on a mutually convenient date within 20 days of this order. Moving party to give notice.DiscussionDefendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s neuropsychological independent medical examination (IME), and argues there is good cause because as a result of the incident, Plaintiff is claiming she suffers from whiplash; neck pain; concussion; post-concussive syndrome; headaches; traumatic brain injury (TBI); back pain; cervical-radiculopathy; fatigue; tinnitus; pain; suffering; emotional distress; mental anguish; anxiety; discomfort; depression; fibromyalgia; dysautonomia. (Balich Decl., ¶ l4, Ex. C.) Plaintiff claims that she continues to suffer from "cognitive issues such as headaches, fatigue, irritability; difficulty with focusing." (Id.) Additionally, per Plaintiff's recent deposition testimony, Plaintiff is making a handful of additional claims related to her alleged brain injury, including loss of earning capacity stemming from her inability to work in her pre-accident profession as a private care nurse, the dissolution of her marriage following the accident, and the etiology of her claimed neurological and rheumatological conditions (Dysautonomia and Fibromyalgia). (Id.)The Court finds there is good cause to compel Plaintiff’s neuropsychological IME, because she claims mental injuries, including TBI.Next, Defendant’s motion properly contains information including the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination. Thus, Defendant’s motion is granted