  Case Number:  23GDCV01770    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES –
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT V
PEDRO MEZA, an individual, 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
FCA US LLC, a Delaware Limited
Liability Company, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, 
Defendants. 
Case No.: 23GDCV01770 
Hearing Date: July 1, 2024 
Time: 9:00 a.m. 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO
COMPEL RESPONSES, WITHOUT OBJECTIONS, TO PLAINTIFF’S FORM AND SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE); MOTION FOR AN ORDER DEEMING THE TRUTH OF MATTERS
ADMITTED IN PLAINTIFF’S REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS (SET ONE)
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiff PEDRO
MEZA
RESPONDING PARTY: None
The court considered the moving
papers.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Pedro Meza filed the
complaint on August 21, 2023, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty; (2) violation of
Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty; and (3) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2. Plaintiff leased a 2023 Jeep Grand Cherokee
(subject vehicle) on June 4, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that the subject vehicle
was delivered to plaintiff with serious defects and
nonconformities to warranty and
developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty, including, but
not limited to, the engine, emission, and electrical system defects.
Plaintiff filed the instant
motions on April 2, 2024. No opposition has been filed.
LEGAL STANDARD
A plaintiff may propound
interrogatories without leave of court at any time 10 days after the service of
the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is directed,
whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).)
The party whom the request is
propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days after service of a
demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to an extension and
confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a);
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.270, subd. (a) - (b).)
If a party fails to timely
respond to interrogatories, the party to whom the request is directed waives
any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), a “party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with section 2023.010).” The court “shall” grant the
motion to deem requests for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party
to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the
hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.280(c).)
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff requests a court
order compelling defendant to provide responses, without objections, to
plaintiff’s Form and Special Interrogatories, Set One (interrogatories).
Plaintiff also requests a court order deeming the truth of matters admitted in
plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One.
Plaintiff served the
interrogatories and requests for admissions on October 12, 2023, by email.
(Mot. to Comp. ROGs, Decl. of Gregory Sogoyan, ¶¶ 8-10, Exhs. 1-3.; Mot. to
Deem RFAs Admitted, Decl. of Gregory Sogoyan, ¶ 8, Exh. 1.) Defendant’s
response was due on November 13, 2023; however, defendant has not responded to
the discovery to date.
The court finds that plaintiff
properly served the interrogatories and requests for admissions and defendant
failed to serve verified responses. Because defendant failed to respond, the
court finds plaintiff is entitled to an order directing defendant to provide
responses to plaintiff’s Form and Special Interrogatories, Set One without
objections and an order deeming the truth of matters admitted in plaintiff’s
Requests for Admissions, Set One.
Plaintiff filed the motion to
compel responses to form interrogatories and special interrogatories as one
motion. A motion must be brought separately for each discovery method at issue.
Here, the motion to compel responses to form interrogatories and special
interrogatories should have been filed as two separate motions and two filing
fees paid, one for each motion. Accordingly, plaintiffs are ordered to pay the
additional filing fee.
Based on the foregoing, the
court GRANTS the motion to compel responses without objections to plaintiff’s
Form and Special Interrogatories, Set One. The court orders defendant to serve
verified responses without objections to plaintiff’s Form and Special
Interrogatories, Set One within 20 days of this order.
The court deems the matters
within plaintiffs’ Requests for Admissions, Set One as true against defendant
FCA US LLC.
