 Case Number:  23TRCV02600    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Tuesday, January 14, 2025
Department M   Calendar No. 12  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Tiffany
T. Botello v. Stadco LA, LLC, et al.    
23TRCV02600
1.     
Otto Benedict’s
Motion to Set Aside Default      
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Otto Benedict’s Motion to Set Aside Default is granted.
 
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on August 9, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff fell at the premises of Defendants. Plaintiff
alleges causes of action for negligence and premises liability. Defendant
Benedict was purportedly served by substitute service on June 4, 2024, with the
summons and complaint then being mailed on June 6, 2024. Defendant Benedict’s
default was entered on August 27, 2024.
 
Motion to Set Aside Default
 
CCP § 473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.  . . .  Notwithstanding any other requirements of
this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
CCP § 473.5(a) states, in relevant part: “When service
of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in
the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the
default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.  The notice of motion shall be served and
filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i)
two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180
days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or
default judgment has been entered.” 
 
CCP § 473.5(b) states: “A notice of motion to set
aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall
designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision
(b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under
oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party
shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other
pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” The phrase “actual notice” means
“genuine knowledge of the party litigant” and does not include constructive or
imputed notice to the client. Tunis v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d
1069, 1077.
 
“After six months from entry of default, a trial court
may still vacate a default on equitable grounds even if statutory relief is
unavailable.  . . . One ground for
equitable relief is extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied when circumstances
extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing on the merits.
Extrinsic mistake is found when [among other things] ... a mistake led a court
to do what it never intended[.] When a default judgment has
been obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.
[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court. Beyond this period there is a strong public policy in favor of
the finality of judgments and only in exceptional circumstances should relief
be granted.  . . . To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party
seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981–82 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
CCP § 473(d) empowers the Court to set aside any
judgment that is void as a matter of law, e.g., lack of subject matter
jurisdiction; lack of personal jurisdiction; lack of proper service of the
summons and complaint; or the judgment violated due process rights.  See
Dhawan v. Biring (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 963, 973-74; See also Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544; See also Heidary v. Yadollahi (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-64.  “It is well
settled that a judgment or order which is void on its face, and which requires
only an inspection of the judgment roll or record to show its invalidity, may
be set aside on motion, at any time after its entry, by the court which
rendered the judgment or made the order.” 
Hiroko Kawakita Hayashi v. Lorenz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 848, 851.  
 
“Mistake is not a ground for relief under section 473,
subdivision (b), when the court finds that the ‘mistake’ is simply the result
of professional incompetence, general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable
negligence in discovering the law. 
Further, the term surprise, as used in section 473, refers to some
condition or situation in which a party is unexpectedly placed to his injury,
without any default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against.  Finally, as for inadvertence
or neglect, to warrant relief under section 473 a litigant's neglect must have
been such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the
same circumstances. The inadvertence contemplated by the statute does not mean
mere inadvertence in the abstract. If it is wholly inexcusable it does not
justify relief.  It is the duty of every
party desiring to resist an action or to participate in a judicial proceeding
to take timely and adequate steps to retain counsel or to act in his own person
to avoid an undesirable judgment. Unless in arranging for his defense he shows
that he has exercised such reasonable diligence as a man of ordinary prudence
usually bestows upon important business his motion for relief under section 473
will be denied.  Courts neither act as
guardians for incompetent parties nor for those who are grossly careless of
their own affairs.  The only occasion for
the application of section 473 is where a party is unexpectedly placed in a
situation to his injury without fault or negligence of his own and against
which ordinary prudence could not have guarded.” Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
 
Defendant moves to set aside the entry of default. Defendants
moves pursuant to CCP Section 473(b) based on mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect, or, alternatively, under the mandatory provision based on
attorney mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. 
 
Defendant has set forth facts to support a showing
that the default was entered due to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or
neglect of Defendant’s counsel. Defendant’s counsel failed to file a responsive
pleading despite obtaining information that Defendant had been served. (Decl., Jason
A. Kilpatrick, ¶¶ 1-23.) Despite Mr.
Kilpatrick’s belief that there was an agreement to not serve Defendant (or
dismiss Defendant), once he was served, Mr. Kilpatrick was required to file a
responsive pleading to protect his client.
 
The motion must be granted pursuant to the mandatory
provision of CCP § 473(b). The default is hereby set aside. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions pursuant to CCP § 473(c) is granted. The default was entered due to
the admitted fault of Mr. Kilpatrick.  Attorney
Jason A. Kilpatrick is directed to pay a penalty to Plaintiff in the sum of $99.00
payable within 30 days of this date. The amount is derived utilizing the
purported .2 hours to prepare the entry of default with an hourly rate of $495
per hour. There should have been no need to file an opposition or appear at
this hearing since relief is mandatory and Plaintiff should have stipulated to setting
aside the default once Defendant’s counsel attempted to do so with Plaintiff’s
counsel. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.