 Case Number:  24TRCV01749    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                   Tuesday, January 14, 2025 
Department M                                                                                            Calendar No. 13
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Fuji Merchandise Corp., et al. v. Cha
Hee Nagashima Lee, et al.     
24TRCV01749
1.      James J. Berdelle’s Application to Appear as Counsel
Pro Hac Vice for Plaintiffs        
2.      Cha Hee Nagashima Lee aka Chahee Lee Olson and
Nagashima Lee P.C.’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            James
J. Berdelle’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Plaintiffs is granted.
 
 
            Cha
Hee Nagashima Lee aka Chahee Lee Olson and Nagashima Lee P.C.’s Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint is overruled.
 
             Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on May 22,
2024. Plaintiffs filed the First Amended Complaint on September 3, 2024. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. This action
arises out of alleged legal malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty related to
an underlying misappropriation and unfair competition action. Plaintiffs allege
the following causes of action: 1. Professional Negligence [Legal Malpractice];
2. Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 3. Vicarious Liability.
 
            Application
to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
            Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant part:
            “(d)
The application must state:
            (1)
The applicant's residence and office address;
            (2)
The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission;
            (3)
That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;
            (4)
That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
            (5)
The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
            (6)
The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record.
            (e)
An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule
must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with
the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the
State Bar.”
 
            The
applicant has met all the requirements mandated in Rule 9.40. The application
to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice is therefore granted. 
 
            James
J. Berdelle is admitted as counsel pro hac vice in the pending matter.
 
            Demurrer
 
            A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only
questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency
of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded
factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those
expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7
Cal.App.4th 634, 638.)  Because a
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the plaintiff must show
that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish every element of each
cause of action.  (Rakestraw v.
California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the
demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient
facts are the essential facts of the case "with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.) 
 
            Under
Code Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a
complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty
exists where a complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not
sufficiently apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
“Demurrers for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (e) are disfavored.
A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.
A demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled when the
facts as to which the complaint is uncertain are presumptively within the
defendant's knowledge.” Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
811, 822 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Meet
and Confer
 
            Defendants
set forth a meet and confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP §
430.41.  (Decl., Betty T. Huynh.)
 
            Demurrer
 
            Defendants
demur to the First Amended Complaint and the first through third causes of
action on the grounds that the causes of action fail to state sufficient facts
to constitute a cause of action against Defendants. Specifically, Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs’ damages are speculative, conjectural, and not realized.
 
            First
Cause of Action for Professional Negligence (Legal Malpractice)

            Defendants’
demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled. Plaintiffs state sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action.
 
            “In
order to establish a cause of action for legal malpractice the plaintiff must
demonstrate: (1) breach of the attorney's duty to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (3) actual loss or damage resulting from the negligence.” Carlton
v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 699
 
            Plaintiffs
stated sufficient facts to meet each of the elements of the cause of action.
Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts of breaches of the duty of care by
Defendants and proximation causation of injuries. (FAC, ¶¶ 91-97.)  Plaintiffs allege actual damages, at a
minimum, in the form of attorneys’ fees expended in hiring and retaining new
counsel. (FAC, ¶ 98.)
 
            “[T]he
trial court correctly found Plaintiffs first sustained actual injury when they
were required to obtain and pay new counsel to file a lawsuit seeking to escape
the consequences of their signing the lease and Lease Addendum, which were
among the actual damages Plaintiffs suffered as a result of Glasser's alleged
malpractice.” Truong v. Glasser (2009) 181 Cal.App.4th 102, 114. Here,
in the instant action, Plaintiffs alleged that they have suffered damages via “payment
of substantial attorney’s fees to successor counsel to disentangle the legal
mess caused by Defendants and to mitigate the harm caused by Defendants.” (FAC,
¶ 98.) 
 
                Defendants’
reference to Price v. Dames & Moore (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 355 is
unavailing. There, the Court stated: “There is no indication that Dames &
Moore was retained in an attempt to undo any actual harm caused by Montgomery.”
Id. at 361-62. Here, Plaintiffs in fact specifically alleged that new
counsel was retained and paid to mitigate the harm.
 
            In
addition, it appears that Plaintiffs may have also alleged damages in the form
of currently sustained appreciable harm from the apparent “heads up” that
Defendants provided to third parties which caused those third parties to take
actions to the detriment of Plaintiffs. (FAC, ¶ 78.) However, the Court does
find those allegations somewhat uncertain as it appears that Plaintiffs then state
that a lawsuit was filed to attempt to recover damages based on those third
parties’ actions and that there is a “potential” for loss of those damages
based on the statute of limitations. (FAC, ¶¶ 82-86.)  Again, it is somewhat unclear because
Plaintiffs appear to set forth several different categories of third parties,
and it is not clear whether, as to a certain category of third parties such
harm has not obtained a degree of permanence, and that as to a different
category of third parties Plaintiffs’ harm has obtained a degree of permanence
that cannot be recovered from a judgment in the underlying lawsuit.
 
            As
noted, the cause of action is adequately stated based on the allegation of
damages from the attorneys’ fees incurred. However, the allegations of damages
related to various third parties do appear to be somewhat unclear as to the
accrual and potential for recovery of those damages in the underlying lawsuit.
 
            The
demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.
 
            Second
Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled. Plaintiffs state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action. 
 
            “[B]reach
of fiduciary duty is a species of tort distinct from a cause of action for
professional negligence. The elements of a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the
fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach. The scope of
an attorney's fiduciary duty may be determined as a matter of law based on the
Rules of Professional Conduct which, together with statutes and general
principles relating to other fiduciary relationships, all help define the duty
component of the fiduciary duty which an attorney owes to his [or her] client.
Whether an attorney has breached a fiduciary duty to his or her client is
generally a question of fact.” Stanley v. Richmond (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
1070, 1086–87 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Plaintiffs
alleged facts indicating the existence of a fiduciary duty, breach of that
duty, and resulting damages. (FAC, ¶¶ 99-107.) Similar to the demurrer to the
first cause of action, Defendants’ demurrer only addressed the issue of damages
and Plaintiffs once again adequately set forth facts, for pleading purposes, to
state actual incurred damages in the form of attorneys’ fees paid to new
counsel.
 
            As to
the third “cause of action” for Vicarious Liability, the demurrer is overruled
for the same reasons noted above. Defendant only again premised the demurrer on
the argument that no actual damages were pled.
 
            Defendants’
Demurrer to the FAC is overruled
 
            Defendants
are ordered to file and serve an Answer within 10 days of this date.
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.