  Case Number:  23TRCV02351    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
              Tuesday,
January 14, 2025
Department M                                                                                                          Calendar
No. 11
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Francisco Garcia Pando, et al. v. Ford Motor Company, et al.
            23TRCV02351
1.      Ford
Motor Company’s Motion for Protective Order
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Ford Motor
Company’s Motion for Protective Order is denied. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint on July 20, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the following facts.
Plaintiffs allege that their 2020 Ford Explorer suffers from defects and non-conformities.
Plaintiffs allege causes of action under the Song-Beverly Act as well as
Negligence.  
 
Motion for Protective Order
 
The
Court is authorized to limit discovery through a protective order.  The order may be granted on the motion of any
party or other person affected by the discovery sought.  CCP §§ 2017.020(a), 2019.020(b),
2019.030(a).  A protective order may be
obtained to limit the frequency or extent of use of any discovery method on any
of the following grounds:  (1)  “The discovery sought is unreasonably
cumulative or duplicative …;  (2)  “(The information) is obtainable from some
other source that is more convenient, less burdensome or less expensive;  (3) 
“The selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive,
taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.”  CCP § 2019.030(a)(1)-(2). 
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.060 states:
“(a)
When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible
things, places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the
party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected
person, may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b)
The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but
is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:
(1)
That all or some of the items or categories of items in the demand need not be
produced or made available at all.
(2)
That the time specified in Section 2031.260 to respond to the set of demands,
or to a particular item or category in the set, be extended.
(3)
That the place of production be other than that specified in the demand.
(4)
That the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling be made only on specified
terms and conditions.
(5)
That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial
information not be disclosed, or be disclosed only to specified persons or only
in a specified way.
(6)
That the items produced be sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the
court.
(c)
The party or affected person who seeks a protective order regarding the
production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of electronically stored
information on the basis that the information is from a source that is not
reasonably accessible because of undue burden or expense shall bear the burden
of demonstrating that the information is from a source that is not reasonably
accessible because of undue burden or expense.
(d)
If the party or affected person from whom discovery of electronically stored
information is sought establishes that the information is from a source that is
not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or expense, the court may
nonetheless order discovery if the demanding party shows good cause, subject to
any limitations imposed under subdivision (f).
(e)
If the court finds good cause for the production of electronically stored
information from a source that is not reasonably accessible, the court may set
conditions for the discovery of the electronically stored information,
including allocation of the expense of discovery.
(f)
The court shall limit the frequency or extent of discovery of electronically
stored information, even from a source that is reasonably accessible, if the
court determines that any of the following conditions exist:
(1)
It is possible to obtain the information from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.
(2)
The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative.
(3)
The party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity by discovery in the
action to obtain the information sought.
(4)
The likely burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs the likely
benefit, taking into account the amount in controversy, the resources of the
parties, the importance of the issues in the litigation, and the importance of
the requested discovery in resolving the issues.
(g)
If the motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the court
may order that the party to whom the demand was directed provide or permit the
discovery against which protection was sought on terms and conditions that are
just.
(h)
Except as provided in subdivision (i), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a
protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.
(i)(1)
Notwithstanding subdivision (h), absent exceptional circumstances, the court
shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to
provide electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered,
or overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an
electronic information system.
(2)
This subdivision shall not be construed to alter any obligation to preserve
discoverable information.” 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant
set forth a meet and confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 2031.060(a).
(Decl., Jubilee T. Cheung, ¶ 3.)
 
Motion for Protective Order
 
Defendant
moves for a protective order. Specifically, Defendant seeks “a modified version
of the LASC Model Protective Order regarding Ford’s confidential information,
which includes but is not limited to documents reflecting trade secrets,
confidential research, development, or commercial information, and other
information[.]” (Notice of Motion, page 1, lines 25-28.)
 
Defendant’s
motion for protective order is denied. Defendant has failed to establish good
cause for the proposed protective order that it seeks. 
 
The
parties both concede that during the meet and confer process they agreed to
enter into a protective order. Plaintiff’s agreement for allowance of the Los
Angeles Superior Court Model Order is sufficient for purposes of this action.
Defendant fails to establish that modification of that Model Order is required.
If indeed Plaintiff does not oppose certain portions of Defendant’s proposed
order (such as modifications to paragraph 7(d) and (h) which were not addressed
in the opposition), then the parties are free to continue to meet and confer to
discuss and enter into any revisions of the Model Order. However, at this time,
Defendant has not established that any additional modification to the Model
Order is required. 
 
Many
of the additional protections sought by Defendant, including additional
language attempting to prevent dissemination, are already covered in other
portions of the Model Order. The Model Order provides adequate protections to
prevent unwarranted dissemination. Other proposed modifications seek restrictions
that are not necessary such as the attempt to define “affiliated attorneys,”
the attempt to have all personnel sign the order, and the attempt to exclude
mock jurors. Finally, Defendant’s proposed revisions as to the process of
returning, retaining, or destroying confidential documents are not reasonable
and would disrupt Plaintiff’s counsel ability to maintain their own work
product. Of course, any retained Ford produced documents would remain subject
to the protective order.
 
Thus,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s motion for protective order is denied.
 
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.