 Case Number:  23VECV03277    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
BRIAN WHITAKER,
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
MARCOS LOPEZ,
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
      23VECV03277          107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
  
                        



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
I.         Tentative
Ruling
 
The motion is granted with leave to amend.
 
II.        Background
 
Brian Whitaker, a disability access “tester” plaintiff, filed this suit
against defendant Marcos Lopez on July 28, 2023, alleging violations of
California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act and Disabled Persons Act.
 
The Court accepts Plaintiffs’ facts as true for purposes of a pleading
challenge, as follows:
 
Plaintiff is quadriplegic and relies on a wheelchair for mobility. (Compl.,
¶ 1.) Marcos Lopez owns a restaurant (the Restaurant) at 16435 Vanowen St. in
Van Nuys. (Id., ¶¶ 2-3.) On June 17, 2023, Plaintiff went to the Restaurant
“with the intention to avail himself of its goods, services, privileges, or
advantages”, and intending to “test” its compliance with access laws (Id.,
¶ 8.) He discovered there was insufficient toe and knee clearance under the
Restaurant’s outdoor dining surfaces. (Id., ¶ 11.)
 
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff sued. On October 3, 2023, Defendant answered.
 
On April 11, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion for judgment on the
pleadings.
 
On May 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 
Defendant did not file a timely reply. The motion now comes before
the Court.
 
III.      Analysis
 
A. Legal Standard
  
A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings when the “complaint does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against the
defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 438(b)(1) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).) “A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed. Presentation of extrinsic evidence is … not
proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Cloud v. Northrop
Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999, citations omitted.)
  
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is
essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer: that under the
state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed,
it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Schabarum
v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) The court
“must accept as true all material facts properly pleaded, but does not
consider conclusions of law or fact, opinions, speculation,
or allegations contrary to law or facts that are judicially noticed.” (Stevenson
Real Estate Services, Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc.
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219-1220, citing Shea Homes Limited
Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)
  
B. Meet and Confer
  
Code of Civil Procedure section 439 requires a party to meet and confer
with its adversary before it moves for judgment on the pleadings.
 
Defendant submits no evidence that he complied with section 439.
Nonetheless, his failure to comply is not grounds to deny his motion. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 439(a)(4).) The Court admonishes Counsel for failure to comply
with the Code. But for the sake of efficiency, the Court considers the motion
on its merits.
 
C. Evidentiary Matters
 
1. Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests judicial notice of seven other complaints filed by the
same Plaintiff, against other business establishments, on equivalent grounds.
The Court denies the requests. 
 
“There is ... a precondition to the taking of judicial notice in either its
mandatory or permissive form—any matter to be judicially noticed must be
relevant to a material issue.”  (People
ex rel. Lockyer v. Shamrock Foods Co. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 415, 422 fn. 2.)
Evidence is relevant when it has “any tendency in reason to prove or disprove
any disputed fact ... .” (Evid. Code, § 210, emphasis added.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ litigiousness is not in dispute. (See Compl., ¶¶ 24-25.) The
proffered matter is not noticeable because it is irrelevant.
 
            2. Evidence Submitted
in Opposition
 
Plaintiff submitted a declaration in support of his opposition. This is
improper. The declaration will not be considered. (See Cloud v. Northrop
Grumman Corp., supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at p. 999 [judgment on
pleadings depends on only on content of pleadings and noticeable matters].)
 
 
            D. Discussion
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff has not pled his claim specifically enough to
satisfy Code of Civil Procedure section 425.50. Section 425.50 imposes
heightened pleading standards on “tester” plaintiffs, that is, high-frequency
litigants who patronize businesses partly with the motive and intent to sue
them for ADA violations. Plaintiff admits he is one such litigant. It is
undisputed that section 425.50 applies to his complaint.
 
Section 425.50 reads, in relevant part:
 
(a) An allegation of a construction-related accessibility claim in a
complaint ... shall state facts sufficient to allow a reasonable person to
identify the basis of the violation or violations supporting the claim,
including all of the following:
 
(1) A plain language explanation of the specific access barrier or barriers
the individual encountered, or by which the individual alleges he or she was
deterred, with sufficient information about the location of the alleged barrier
to enable a reasonable person to identify the access barrier.
 
(2) The way in which the barrier denied the individual full and equal use
or access, or in which it deterred the individual, on each particular occasion.
 
(3) The date or dates of each particular occasion on which the claimant
encountered the specific access barrier, or on which he or she was deterred.
 
(4)
(A) Except in complaints that allege physical injury or damage to property,
a complaint filed by or on behalf of a high-frequency litigant shall also state
all of the following:
 
(i) Whether the complaint is filed by, or on behalf of, a high-frequency
litigant.
 
(ii) In the case of a high-frequency litigant who is a plaintiff, the
number of complaints alleging a construction-related accessibility claim that
the high-frequency litigant has filed during the 12 months prior to filing the
complaint.
 
(iii) In the case of a high-frequency litigant who is a plaintiff, the
reason the individual was in the geographic area of the defendant's business.
 
(iv) In the case of a high-frequency litigant who is a plaintiff, the
reason why the individual desired to access the defendant's business, including
the specific commercial, business, personal, social, leisure, recreational, or
other purpose.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.50(a).)
 
Plaintiff’s complaint does not satisfy section 425.50. He must allege
“[t]he way in which the barrier denied [him] full and equal use or access, or
in which it deterred [him], on each particular occasion” he visited the
Restaurant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.50(a)(2).) He must also allege “the reason
the individual was in the geographic area of the defendant's business.” (Id.,
subd. (a)(4)(iii).) He must also allege “the reason why [he] desired to
access the defendant's business, including the specific commercial, business,
personal, social, leisure, recreational, or other purpose.” (Id., subd.
(a)(4)(iv).) He has not alleged facts establishing any of these.
 
Our Legislature added section 425.50 to the Code of Civil Procedure via
Senate Bill 1186, introduced and passed during the 2011-2012 Regular Session
(SB-1186). The commentary on the bill demonstrates that this complaint is
precisely the sort of social ill the Legislature sought to prevent. According
to the Assembly Committee on the Judiciary, the Senate Judiciary Committee, and
the Assembly Floor Analysis:
 
“This particularly provision [section 425.50] is designed to deter the use
of form demand letters and complaints by so-called ‘mill’ attorneys who assert
hundreds of the same or nearly identical claims, often by the same client
against different businesses.”
 
(SB-1186 Assem. Comm. on Judiciary Report (Aug. 28, 2021) p. 8; see also
Sen. Jud. Committee Report (Aug. 31, 2012) [substantially the same language];
Assem. Floor Analysis (Aug. 30, 2012) [same].)
 
Also, as a general matter, California’s “fact pleading” rules require a
pleading to apprise an adversary of the factual basis of the plaintiff’s claim,
providing information detailed enough for the adversary to prepare a defense.
(See Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 719-721.) Defendant
must be able to ascertain from the complaint what services Plaintiff intended
to avail himself of, or there is no way for Defendant to defend himself against
Plaintiff’s allegations.
 
Plaintiff construes Defendant’s argument as one that an ADA plaintiff cannot
have standing if he or she sought an establishment’s services while also
intending to “test” the establishment’s compliance. All of Plaintiff’s
opposition is directed to this point. If this were what Defendant contended,
then Defendant’s motion would fail. (See Thurston v. Omni Hotels Mgmt. Corp.
(20212) 69 Cal. App. 5th 299, 309 [bona fide intent to avail may be held
concurrently with “tester” motive, but must be factually pled].) But it is not
Defendant’s argument. Plaintiff has set up and struck down an elaborate straw
man.
 
To clarify: the Court does not suggest that Mr. Whitaker cannot
state a claim because he is a high-frequency litigant. The law clearly states
the contrary. The Court holds that Mr. Whitaker has not stated a claim
because his boilerplate complaint runs afoul of section 425.50.
 
It is not a high burden for Plaintiff to provide the barest factual
essentials of why he went to the Restaurant and how he was prevented from using
its services. He has not done so. The motion is granted with leave to amend.
 
E. Conclusion
 
The motion is granted with leave to amend.
 
 
Dated:             June 11, 2024                                      _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court