  Case Number:  23STCV18169    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Vacate Arbitration and to
Proceed with an Action in Court and Request for Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Lisa McDonald 
Resp. Party:    Defendant Paradigm Treatment Center, LLC
                                    
        
The Motion vacate the arbitration is GRANTED. Monetary sanctions
are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the total amount of $3,315.65.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On August 1, 2023,
Plaintiff Lisa McDonald filed her Complaint against Defendant Paradigm
Treatment Center, LLC (erroneously sued as Paradigm Treatment Centers, LLC) on
causes of action arising from Defendant’s termination of Plaintiff’s
employment. 
 
On August 23, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her Motion to Vacate Arbitration and to Proceed with an Action
in Court and Request for Sanctions. In support of her Motion, Plaintiff
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Elie Ghodsizadeh; (2) Proposed Order;
and (3) Proof of Service. 
 
On September 25,
2023, Defendant filed its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On October 23, 2023,
Defendant filed its Opposition to the Motion. In support of its Opposition,
Defendant concurrently filed Declaration of Brian De Neve. 
 
On October 26, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her Reply regarding the Motion. In support of her Reply,
Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jonathan J. Delshad; and (2)
Proof of Service. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“A written agreement to submit
to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is
valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists [unless it makes certain determinations].” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1281.2.)
 
“In an employment or consumer arbitration that requires,
either expressly or through application of state or federal law or the rules of
the arbitration provider, the drafting party to pay certain fees and costs
before the arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs to initiate an
arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date the
drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in
default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel arbitration under
Section 1281.2.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“After an employee or consumer meets the filing requirements
necessary to initiate an arbitration, the arbitration provider shall
immediately provide an invoice for any fees and costs required before the
arbitration can proceed to all of the parties to the arbitration. The invoice
shall be provided in its entirety, shall state the full amount owed and the
date that payment is due, and shall be sent to all parties by the same means on
the same day. To avoid delay, absent an express provision in the arbitration
agreement stating the number of days in which the parties to the arbitration
must pay any required fees or costs, the arbitration provider shall issue all
invoices to the parties as due upon receipt.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97,
subd. (a)(2).)
 
“If the drafting party materially
breaches the arbitration agreement and is in default under subdivision (a), the
employee or consumer may do either of the following:
 
“(1) Withdraw the claim from arbitration and proceed
in a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
 
“(2) Compel arbitration in which the drafting party
shall pay reasonable attorney’s fees and costs related to the arbitration.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97, subd. (b).)
 
“If the employee or consumer proceeds with an action in a
court of appropriate jurisdiction, the court shall impose sanctions on the
drafting party in accordance with Section 1281.99.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.97, subd. (d).)
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction against a
drafting party that materially breaches an arbitration agreement pursuant to
subdivision (a) of Section 1281.97 or subdivision (a) of Section 1281.98, by
ordering the drafting party to pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees and costs, incurred by the employee or consumer as a result of
the material breach.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.99, subd. (a).)
 
“In addition to the monetary sanction
described in subdivision (a), the court may order any of the following
sanctions against a drafting party that materially breaches an arbitration
agreement pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 1281.97 or subdivision (a) of
Section 1281.98, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
“(1) An evidence sanction by an order prohibiting the
drafting party from conducting discovery in the civil action.
 
“(2) A terminating sanction by one of the following
orders:
 
“(A) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of the drafting party.
 
“(B) An order rendering a judgment by default against
the drafting party.
 
“(3) A contempt sanction by an order treating the
drafting party as in contempt of court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.99, subd. (b).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to: (1) vacate Plaintiff’s arbitration
claim and allow her to proceed in the Superior Court of California, County of
Los Angeles; and (2) award sanctions in the form of fees and costs for
Plaintiff and against Defendant. (Motion, p. 7:20–23.)
 
Plaintiff argues: (1) that Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97
provides that an employer’s failure to timely pay arbitration fees results in a
material breach and waiver; (2) that Defendant has breached its arbitration
agreement by failing to timely pay arbitration fees, which allows Plaintiff to
withdraw from arbitration; and (3) that sanctions must be awarded against
Defendant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.99. (Motion, pp.
5:13–14, 6:14–15, 6:23.)
 
Defendant opposes the Motion, arguing: (1) that Plaintiff and
Defendant are required to jointly select an arbitrator; (2) that Plaintiff
submitted her claim to arbitration without any attempt to comply with the
arbitration agreement; (3) that there is no order compelling arbitration,
rendering the Motion and associated fees moot; (4) that Plaintiff never
properly initiated arbitration because she breached the arbitration agreement;
(5) that there is no valid arbitration invoice to trigger Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.97; and (6) that there are no fees or costs resulting from
an alleged material breach of the arbitration agreement. (Opposition, pp.
3:3–4, 3:10–11, 3:23–24, 4:2–3, 5:5–6, 5:21, 6:1–2.)
 
In her Reply, Plaintiff argues: (1) that Plaintiff abided by the
terms of the arbitration agreement because she did not unilaterally select an
arbitrator; (2) that Defendant did not oppose the JAMS selection; and (3) that
Plaintiff’s request for attorney fees is proper. (Reply, pp. 2:7–8, 3:14–15,
4:7.)
 
B.      The
Arbitration Agreement
 
The Parties do not dispute that there is a signed arbitration
agreement, which bears Defendant’s letterhead and Plaintiff’s signature.  (See DeNeve Declaration, Exh. A.)  
 
(Defense counsel has noted that Defendant’s true name is Paradigm
Treatment Center, LLC, but was sued erroneously as Paradigm Treatment
Centers.  (See Opposition, p.
1:6-7.)  However, the Court notes that the
Arbitration Agreement lists defendant’s name as “Paradigm Treatment, LLC.”
(DeNeve Declaration, Exh. A.)  However,
the parties are not disputing that there is a binding arbitration agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant; any such argument would have been waived for
failure to assert the claim.)
 
The following is the pertinent language in the arbitration
agreement:
 
“I, (‘Employee’) recognize that disputes may arise
between Paradigm Treatment, LLC (‘Paradigm’ or the ‘Company’), and me during or
following my employment with the Company, and that those differences may or may
not be related to my employment. I understand and agree that by entering into
this Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims (‘Agreement’), I anticipate gaining
the benefits of a speedy, less-form, impartial, final and binding
dispute-resolution procedure.
 
“Agreement to Arbitrate. Employee and the
Company (the ‘Parties’) hereby agree that any dispute, controversy or claim
arising out of or related to Employee’s employment with or termination from the
Company, this Agreement, or any breach of this Agreement (whether grounded in
common or statutory law) shall be resolved exclusively through binding
arbitration in LosAngeles, [sic] California before a single neutral arbitrator
selected jointly by the Parties. The Parties agree that all claims shall be
submitted to arbitration including, but not limited to, claims based on any
alleged violation of any constitution, federal, state, or local law; any claims
of discrimination, harassment, retaliation, wrongful termination, or violation
of civil rights; claims for wages or compensation owing; and any claim based in
tort, contract, or equity. The Parties to the arbitration shall have available
all rights, remedies, and defenses as in a civil action for the issues in
controversy. Any arbitral award determination shall be final and binding upon
the Parties. 
 
“If, for any legal reason, a controversy cannot be
arbitrated as provided above, the parties agree that any civil action shall be
brought in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California or, only if there is no basis for federal jurisdiction, in the
Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles.”
 
(Decl.
DeNeve, Exh. A, p. 1 [listed as page 21 of 27].)
 
C.      Whether
Plaintiff Complied with the Arbitration Agreement
 
1.         
The Arbitration Agreement Does Not
Contemplate Joint Selection of the Arbitral Forum
 
The arbitration agreement requires that the Parties arbitrate
“before a single neutral arbitrator selected jointly by the Parties.”
 
        But what does “a single neutral
arbitrator” mean? While “a single neutral arbitrator” would typically mean the
selection of the actual person arbitrating the dispute, in certain contexts a
reasonable interpretation of the phrase could also refer to the joint selection
of the arbitral forum from which the arbitrator would be picked. 
 
The arbitration agreement does not indicate either way.
Furthermore, the Court has not been presented with any parole evidence that
would assist in resolving this issue. 
 
Thus, the Court is required to interpret the meaning of this phrase
in favor of Plaintiff, who did not draft the agreement. (Victoria v. Super. Ct. (1985)
40 Cal.3d 734, 738 [“Ambiguities in contract language are to be resolved
against the drafter.”].) Plaintiff argues that this clause solely
refers to selection of the arbitrator, not the arbitral forum. The Court finds
that this reasonable interpretation controls. 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff “breached the arbitration
agreement.”  (Opposition, p. 4:2-3.)  Defendant’s entire case-law citation on this
point is as follows:
 
“Here, Ms.
McDonald skipped the fundamental hurdle of properly initiating an arbitration
in the first place, which she did not do. See, American Cardio, 2012 WL
2889047, at *4 (“[B]efore reaching the substantive question of whether
defendant breached an arbitration agreement, plaintiff must first establish
that it properly initiated arbitration. [citation omitted]. If plaintiff cannot
establish that it followed the requisite procedures, ‘then [defendant] could
not have repudiated the agreement.’”).) See also Cox v. Ocean View Hotel
Corp. (2008) 533 F.3d 1114, 1112 (“Before reaching the question whether
[defendant’s] actions constituted a repudiation of the agreement, [plaintiff]
must first establish that he properly initiated arbitration. If he failed to do
so, then [defendant] could not have repudiated the agreement.”).)”  (Opposition, p. 4:12-21.)
 
        The Court
cautions Defense counsel to proof-read its briefs more carefully in the
future.  The first citation is to American
Cardio, LLC v. Itamar-Medical, Inc.  (2012
WL2889047).  The case is incorrectly
named in Defendant’s brief.  Further,
there is no indication by Defendant that the quotation comes from an
unpublished Oregon federal district court case. 
The second case cited is a 9th Circuit case.  It arises from an appeal of a Hawaii district
court case and, of course, is not binding on this court.  Further, the jump cite is incorrect; the sentence
cited is found on page 1122, not page 1112.
 
        The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
unilateral selection of the arbitral forum did not result in a breach of
contract. Rather, Plaintiff justifiably invoked the arbitration agreement when
she selected JAMS. 
 
2.      Defendant
Waived Its Right to Joint Selection
 
        The arbitration agreement requires that
the Parties arbitrate the claims at issue “before a single neutral arbitrator
selected jointly by the Parties.” Plaintiff submitted to Defendant a demand for
arbitration with JAMS. (Decl. Ghodsizadeh, ¶¶ 1–2.) Plaintiff argues that
Defendant did not oppose the JAMS selection, and Plaintiff’s Counsel declares
that “Defendant has never suggested or offered any arbitrators to use.” (Reply,
p. 3:15–16; Decl. Delshad, ¶ 3.) The Court is not aware of any counterproposals
to Plaintiff regarding from which organization aside from JAMS should the
arbitrator be selected. 
 
        A motion to compel arbitration is
“functionally equivalent” to a motion to vacate arbitration. (Cvejic v.
Skyview Cap., LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1073, 1077; see also Gallo v.
Wood Ranch USA, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 621, 633 [“As a general matter,
an order vacating an order compelling arbitration is the functional equivalent
of an order denying a petition to compel arbitration in the first place because
both divert a case into court rather than arbitration(.)”].)
 
“Although a written agreement to arbitrate an
existing or future dispute is generally enforceable, a petition to compel
arbitration will be denied when the right has been waived by the proponent's failure
to properly and timely assert it. This may happen in a variety of contexts,
ranging from situations in which the proponent of arbitration has previously
taken steps inconsistent with an intent to invoke arbitration, to instances in
which the proponent has unreasonably delayed in undertaking the procedure.
There is no single determinative test of waiver, and the question for the trial
court is one of fact.” (Guess?, Inc. v. Super. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th
553, 557, citations omitted.)
 
Instead of properly and timely asserting the right to arbitrate and
working with Plaintiff to jointly select a neutral arbitrator, Defendant did
not act. Defendant’s first objection was on July 24, 2023 – more than six weeks
after Plaintiff requested arbitration with JAMS, and more than thirty days
after JAMS issued an invoice to Defendant. 
Defendant’s objections was only to arbitration as a whole, not to the
selection of the arbitrator. 
 
In Guess?, Inc., the Court of Appeal found a defendant
waived its right to compel arbitration when it filed an answer, participated in
discovery, and then three months later moved to compel arbitration. (Guess?,
Inc., supra, at pp. 555, 559.)
 
        Defendant’s failure to engage in a joint
selection of the arbitrator, after receiving notice of Plaintiff’s arbitration
claim and by the time JAMS issued the invoice, was a waiver of Defendant’s
right under the contract to jointly choose the arbitrator and an acquiescence
to Plaintiff’s choice of an arbitrator. (See, e.g., Civ. Code, §§ 3527 and
3529.) 
 
 
D.        
Whether Defendant Waived its Right to
Compel Arbitration
 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.97 and 1281.99 are relatively
new statutes; they were first enacted in 2019 and have since been amended. (Gallo,
supra, 81
Cal.App.5th at pp. 633, 634, fn. 5.)
 
The few published cases to consider their text have all come to the
same conclusion: “the Legislature intended courts to apply the statute’s
payment deadline strictly.” (Espinoza v. Super. Ct. (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 761, 771 [considering Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97]; see also De
Leon v. Juanita’s Foods (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 740, 752–757 [considering
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.98]; Cvejic, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1077 [“As the legislative history and case law direct, we strictly
enforce this statute.”]; Doe v. Super. Ct. (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 346,
350 [“(W)e strictly enforce the 30-day grace period in section 1281.98(a)(1)
and conclude fees and costs owed for a pending proceeding must be received by
the arbitrator within 30 days after the due date.” (Emphasis in original.)].)
 
        Here, Plaintiff selected JAMS as the
arbitral forum and initiated arbitration. In the alternative, Defendant waived
its right to jointly select the arbitrator, at which point Plaintiff chose JAMS
and initiated arbitration with JAMS. 
 
In accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97,
subdivision (a)(2), JAMS issued an invoice for fees and costs prior to the
initiation of the arbitration. Defendant never paid its arbitration fees and
costs. 
 
Plaintiff submitted her demand for arbitration in early June, 2023,
more than five months ago.  Since more
than thirty days has passed since the due date of these fees without payment of
these fees, Defendant has waived its right to compel arbitration under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97, subd. (a)(1). 
 
 
E.      Whether,
and Which, Sanctions are Appropriate Here
 
As a result of Defendant’s material breach of the arbitration
agreement and default by failure to pay its arbitration fees pursuant to the
statutory timeline, Plaintiff chose to withdraw her claim from arbitration and
proceed with litigation in this Court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97, subd.
(b)(1); Decl. De Neve, Exh. A, p. 1.)
 
        In such a circumstance, the Court “shall
impose sanctions on the drafting party [i.e., Defendant] in accordance with
Section 1281.99.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97, subd. (d).) 
 
Contrary to Defendant’s argument, there need not have been a
preexisting order from the Court to compel arbitration. There only needs to
have been a breach of the arbitration agreement in the manner contemplated by
the statute. (Accord Williams v. W. Coast Hosps., Inc. (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 1054, 1067 [“Instead of requiring an initial determination of
default by anyone other than the consumer, the statutory scheme ensures that
the consumer’s unilateral election designates a forum for determining the
further consequences of the default. If the consumer elects to proceed in court
to commence or resume litigation, the consumer must, as plaintiffs did
here, seek vacatur of a prior order compelling arbitration and staying the
litigation, or face the drafting party’s motion to compel arbitration
notwithstanding its nonpayment.” (Emphasis added.)].)
 
        Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions,
including attorney’s fees and costs.  Although
Plaintiff discusses further sanctions listed in Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.99, subdivision (b) – including evidentiary sanctions, terminating sanctions
or contempt sanctions – she does not request them.  (See Motion, p. 6:3-9; p. 7:5-10; p.
7:20-23.).
 
        Plaintiff’s
Counsel declares: (1) that they anticipate spending 7.6 hours in total on the
Motion; and (2) that they charge $625.00 per hour. (Decl. Ghodsizadeh, ¶¶ 8,
12–13.) In addition, Plaintiff claims costs of $691.65, which is comprised of
$435.00 in filing fees, $195.00 in service fees, and $61.65 in motion fees.
(Motion, p. 7:16–18.)
 
        The Court finds
that the hourly rate requested is reasonable, but that the requested time is
somewhat high. The Court also finds that the costs should not include the
filing fee of $435.00, since these fees would have been incurred paid by Plaintiff
regardless of whether or not the case had originally been sent to arbitration. (Of
course, should Plaintiff prevail, she may be able to recoup these fees as costs
of litigation.)
 
The Court will award fees for 5
hours of attorney time, for a total sanctions of $3,315.65 (5 hours x $625/hr.
+ costs of $190.65.)
 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion vacate the arbitration is GRANTED. Monetary sanctions
are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the total amount of $3,816.65.
 