 Case Number:  23STCV11894    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 26 EDWARD NEWMAN,                        Plaintiff,            v. PROSEGUR SECURITY USA, INC, et al                        Defendants.   Case No.:  23STCV11894   Hearing Date:  April 16, 2024 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS AS TO THE COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendants Prosegur Security USA, Inc., Joshua Letourneau, Ty Stafford, Dave Schiller, Kelly Mucray, Prosegur Security Monitoring, Inc., Prosegur Security Integration, LLC, and Prosegur EAS USA, LLC,RESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiff Edward NewmanThe Court considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. BACKGROUND            On May 25, 2023, plaintiff Edward Newman (“Plaintiff”), commenced this action against defendants Prosegur Security USA, Inc., Joshua Letourneau, Ty Stafford, Dave Schiller, Kelly Mucray, Prosegur Security Monitoring, Inc., Prosegur Security Integration, LLC, Prosegur EAS USA, LLC, and Does 1 to 100 (collectively “Defendants”) alleging (1) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (2) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3) Hostile Work Environment; (4) Unlawful Retaliation in Violation of Public Policy; and (5) Wrongful Termination.The complaint in relevant part alleges the following: Plaintiff was employed as a director of business development and sales at Prosegur Security USA, Inc. since February 27, 2017. He was recognized as a top salesman, responsible for substantial revenue generation and consistently exceeding sales quotas.  (Compl. ¶ 14.)  In May 2022, Prosegur underwent significant changes in management that adversely affected Newman. These changes included a new sales strategy and company culture that Plaintiff found to be degrading and intimidating. His sales region and available products were significantly reduced, yet he was still expected to meet and exceed prior sales goals.  (Compl. ¶ 16-18.)  Plaintiff was placed on a Performance Improvement Plan (“PIP”), which he perceived as a guise for pushing him out of his sales role.  This plan was implemented in a manner that he found to be dubious and prolonged, further contributing to his stress and anxiety.  (Compl. ¶ 18-19.) The new management team excluded Plaintiff from sales meetings and reduced his involvement in the sales process.  He was offered a lesser role of account manager despite his proven track record in sales, which added to his feelings of marginalization (Compl. ¶ 20-22.)  The changes at Prosegur and the resulting work environment caused Plaintiff significant emotional and physical distress, including depression, anxiety, gastrointestinal issues, and an overall inability to function effectively both personally and professionally.  These symptoms were confirmed by medical diagnosis.  (Compl. ¶ 23-28.)  Plaintiff’s work environment became increasingly hostile, marked by isolation and strategic changes that severely impacted his ability to perform his job duties.  This hostile environment was maintained over several months, worsening Plaintiff’s mental health and exacerbating his physical symptoms.  (Compl. ¶ 29-31.)On November 28, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion for judgment on the pleadings.  On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition and on April 9, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. LEGAL STANDARDA motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).) Except as provided by statute, the rules governing demurrers apply. (Civic Partners Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1012.) “Like a demurrer, the grounds for the motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Id. at 1013.) In ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon which judicial notice may be taken are assumed to be true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.)DISCUSSIONMeet and ConferPer CCP section 439(a), before filing a judgment on the pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings...” (CCP § 439(a).) The moving party shall file and serve with the motion for judgment on the pleadings a declaration concerning the parties meet and confer efforts.  (CCP § 439(a)(3).)Defendants have not filed a declaration showing that it complied with the meet and confer requirement. Plaintiff does not contest this lack of confirmation, therefore the Court will consider the motion on the merits. Procedural Defects            Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings has been improperly brought.  Plaintiff relies on Code Civ. Proc. section 438, which states a motion for JOP may be brought: “If the moving party is a defendant, and the defendant has already filed his or her answer to the complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to the complaint has expired.”  Plaintiff argues that Defendants filed their motion before a single Defendant filed an Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.  Also, Plaintiff contends that Defendants never filed an extension to file a demurrer or filed a Demurrer.In reply, Defendants argue that their motion is procedurally proper because according to Section 438(f)(1), a motion for judgment on the pleadings can be made after the defendant has filed an answer to the complaint and the time for the plaintiff to demur to the answer has expired.  Defendants point out that Section 438(g)(1) states that such a motion can still be made even if the party did not demur to the pleading on the same grounds as the motion.  Defendants highlight that they are utilizing this provision, arguing that they did not need to demur or answer the complaint on the same grounds before filing their motion.The Court finds Defendants’ arguments to be persuasive as section 438(g)(1) allows a motion for JOP to be made even if a party did not previously demur to the complaint or answer on the same grounds as those being used in the motion for JOP.  Thus, the Court will consider the merits.Merits            Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressDefendants argue that the alleged actions are typical business decisions and not “extreme and outrageous” as required for this claim.  They contend that such actions are reasonable for business purposes and not excessive beyond what is tolerated in a civilized community. They also point out that there is no evidence these actions were intended to cause distress or that they were done with reckless disregard of the probability of causing such distress. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants’ actions go beyond mere business decisions, describing a hostile campaign aimed at forcing out the existing sales team.  He argues that the overhaul of the sales process, along with the removal of resources and established clients, created a hostile work environment.  This was coupled with demeaning behavior and threats aimed at undermining the sales team’s confidence and performance.  Plaintiff contends that these actions were intended to distress the sales team and were not ordinary business practices, thus supporting his claim of intentional infliction of emotional distress.In reply, Defendants reassert the arguments made in their motion.The Court finds that Plaintiff fails to allege that Defendants’ conduct was intended to cause distress or done with reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress.  The allegations also fail to show that the actions taken by Defendants were so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society. Thus, the motion for JOP as to the IIED claim is GRANTED with leave to amend.            Negligent Infliction of Emotional DistressDefendants argue that there is no independent tort for NIED as it is a form of negligence, requiring a duty to the plaintiff.  They contend that Plaintiff has not sufficiently defined any specific duty owed to him, nor has he articulated how any duty was breached.  Defendants describe the actions taken by Prosegur as standard business decisions necessary for its operation, not extreme actions that would traditionally support an NIED claim.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends that Defendants breached a duty of care by making business changes that foreseeably caused severe emotional distress.  He asserts that the changes in sales processes, removal of resources, and direct demeaning comments were known or should have been known by Defendants to cause distress, arguing that the management’s actions were negligent given their predictable negative impact on his and others’ mental health.In reply, Defendants reassert the arguments made in their motion.Here, the Court agrees with Defendants’ arguments in that Plaintiff fails to sufficiently identify a duty that Defendants owed to Plaintiff.Thus, the motion for JOP as to the NIED claim is GRANTED with leave to amend.            Hostile Work EnvironmentDefendants point out that Plaintiff fails to cite any statutory basis for this claim, such as the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) or Title VII, which are typically used to outline a hostile work environment claim based on discrimination.  They argue that being a “salesperson” is not a protected class and that the described workplace changes do not meet the legal definition of harassment that is severe or pervasive enough to alter employment conditions significantly.In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ actions created a hostile work environment by making derogatory comments, stripping resources, and altering sales processes that affected all sales personnel, not just him.  He asserts that the environment was not only toxic but also intentionally designed to be difficult, which qualifies as harassment under legal standards by significantly altering the conditions of employment.In reply, Defendants reassert the arguments made in their motion.            The Court agrees with Defendants’ arguments that Plaintiff provides no statutory basis for the hostile work environment claim, specifically by failing to identify how he belongs in a protected class.  Further, the Court does not find that allegations to meet the level of harassment that would be severe or pervasive enough to alter employment conditions significantly.Thus, the motion for JOP as to the hostile work environment claim is GRANTED with leave to amend.            Retaliation in Violation of Public Policy ClaimDefendants state that Plaintiff has not alleged any actual whistleblowing or reporting of illegal activities, which are necessary elements for a retaliation claim.  They describe the purported retaliatory actions as standard business practices applied universally across the company, not targeted actions against Plaintiff.  This, they argue, negates the basis for a retaliation claim.In opposition, Plaintiff claims that the changes in his employment conditions were retaliatory, intended to demote him and reduce his income after he resisted the new, harsher employment conditions.  He suggests that his reduction in sales area and consequent loss of commissions were punitive actions for not accepting the new role of account manager, which would have further decreased his earnings potential.In reply, Defendants reassert the arguments made in their motion.            Plaintiff has not alleged any report of illegal activity he made nor that he has suffered any retaliatory action as a result thereof, and thus fails to allege facts to state a cause of action under this claim.Thus, the motion for JOP as to the hostile work environment claim is GRANTED with leave to amend.            Wrongful TerminationDefendants emphasize that Plaintiff was not actually terminated but resigned, which critically undermines a wrongful termination claim.  They also challenge the lack of identification of any public policy that was allegedly violated, which is required to substantiate a wrongful termination claim under public policy exception criteria.            In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that he was constructively discharged, a condition where the employer’s actions make the work environment so intolerable that a reasonable person in the employee’s position would feel compelled to resign.  He argues this was effectively a wrongful termination as it forced him out of the company under duress, rather than him voluntarily deciding to leave.            In reply, Defendants assert that Plaintiff was not actually terminated but resigned, and thus his claim for wrongful termination is invalid.  They argue that even if he was claiming constructive discharge, it alone does not establish wrongful termination without additional evidence of a violation of specific legal rights or public policy, which Plaintiff has not provided.            Here, Plaintiff does not identify a public policy that was allegedly violated, such that his claim for wrongful termination cannot stand.Thus, the motion for JOP as to the wrongful termination claim is GRANTED with leave to amend.CONCLUSION AND ORDER            Thus, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.            Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend.Moving Party is ordered to provide notice of this order and file proof of service of such. DATED: April 16, 2024                                                         ___________________________                                                                                          Yolanda Orozco                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court