  Case Number:  20STCV21076    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
CLARK &
  TREVITHICK,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
VIVIAN JASPER; JAMES GLEN JASPER; BRANDON J. JASPER; NICHOLAS J.
  JASPER; HALEY N. SANDERLIN; BRIZO DRESSING, LLC; JTL JASPER LOGISTICS, LLC; et al. 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  20STCV21076
 
  Hearing Date:  April 16, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
  RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
 



 
Procedural Background
            On June 4, 2020, Plaintiff Clark
& Trevithick (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant conversion action.  On February 4, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) conversion action against defendants
James Glen Jasper; Brandon J. Jasper; Nicholas J. Jasper; Haley N. Sanderlin;
Brizo Dressing, LLC; JTL Jasper Logistics, LLC; and Vivian Jasper. The FAC alleges
six causes of action for: (1) Conversion, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3)
Breach of Duty of Loyalty, (4) Unjust Enrichment, (5) Voidable/Fraudulent
Transfer, and (6) Constructive Trust.  On
March 19, 2021, defendants James Glen Jasper; Brandon J. Jasper; Nicholas J.
Jasper; Haley N. Sanderlin; Brizo Dressing, LLC; and JTL Jasper Logistics, LLC
were dismissed from the FAC without prejudice.
            On June 25, 2021, Plaintiff filed a
motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One from the remaining Defendant Vivian
Jasper (“Defendant” or “Vivian”) in which the Defendant raised 5th
Amendment Privilege against self-incrimination. 
On September 20, 2021, the Court held an informal discovery conference
for the at issue discovery request. 
(Minute Order 9/20/21.)  
            On October 26, 2021, the Court
stayed discovery as to Defendant until February 10, 2022, where the parties
were ordered to file a joint statement advising whether any criminal charges
had been filed against Defendant no later than one week prior to the April 26,
2022 status conference. 
            On February 21, 2024, the Court
lifted the stay by stipulation of the parties. The Court ordered the parties to
file a joint statement as to the motions to compel further discovery set for
April 16, 2024 and April 23, 2024 in the event they were unable to resolve all
discovery disputes by March 13, 2024, and also attach any supplemental
responses that Defendant has served since the filing of the motions and
detailing what discovery items remain in dispute.
            To date, the parties have not filed
a joint statement. 
 
Factual Background
            The FAC alleges that from 2012 to
February 10, 2020, Defendant Vivian worked for Plaintiff as an Office
Manager.  (FAC ¶ 7.)
            “During her employment with
Plaintiff, Vivian was responsible for, among other things, overseeing company
human resources policies and practices, and reviewing and authorizing payment
of business-related invoices and credit cards. Vivian possessed authority to
make payments on Plaintiff's behalf and was an approved signatory on a number
of Plaintiff’s bank accounts. Vivian possessed intimate knowledge of
Plaintiff's finances and was entrusted with ensuring that only expenses
incurred in the ordinary course of Plaintiff's business were paid with
Plaintiff's funds.”  (FAC ¶ 8.)  
            “Vivian was Plaintiff’s highly
compensated employee and, as a result of her efforts, caused Plaintiff to vest
in her responsibilities, authority, and autonomy similar to those of a
corporate officer, and not like a more traditional office manager. During her
employment with Plaintiff, Vivian acted in a way to engender Plaintiff's
confidence and trust in her. Vivian outwardly appeared to act to Plaintiff’s
benefit by, among other actions, offering to find ways to decrease certain
expenses, attempting to increase office morale through parties and gifts, and
allying herself with certain members of the office. Vivian developed skill in
using Plaintiff’s specialized accounting software so that Plaintiff's
management would come to entirely rely upon her for financial statements,
paying bills, and bank statement reconciliation. Vivian’s conduct created such
confidence with Plaintiff, that she was permitted to work hours and at
locations that were of her choosing; she frequently came and went from
Plaintiff's office at non-standard hours and worked from home.”  (FAC ¶ 9.) 

            In January 2020, Plaintiff
discovered accounting discrepancies in its records and that Vivian had used her
position of authority and control to misappropriate and embezzle money from
Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶ 10.)  “Vivian has admitted to paying herself
certain monies that were not approved by Plaintiff, including unauthorized
bonuses. Specifically, Vivian gave herself a bonus in October 2019 to which she
was not entitled.”  (FAC ¶ 11.)  
            “Vivian paid her Nordstrom credit
card, her American Express credit card, and other personal credit cards
directly from Plaintiff's general checking account, all without authorization.
In addition, in June 2019, Vivian gave herself three payroll payments, when she
should only have been paid two. When confronted by another of Plaintiff's
employees regarding this payment, Vivian promised to correct it; she did not.
In addition, Vivian deposited monies to her personal account by writing checks
to cash and endorsing them for deposit to her personal account.”  (FAC ¶ 12.)
            “Vivian undertook specific efforts
to hide her wrongful conduct, including, but not limited to; (a) writing checks
to cash that she deposited in her personal bank account; (b) withdrawing cash
from Plaintiff’s accounts and not detailing how it was used; (c) failing to
fill out the required expense reimbursement form filled out by any employee of
Plaintiff who seeks reimbursement for legitimate business expenses; and (d)
entering the activity in Plaintiff's records without a specific journal entry or
referring only to ‘American Express’ when the amounts were paid to Vivian’s
other personal credit card accounts.”  (FAC
¶ 13.)
            When confronted with these
allegations in February 2020, Vivian claimed that they were false and had
evidence to prove otherwise but has not provided any such evidence.  (FAC ¶ 14.)
            On February 10, 2020, Vivian was
terminated.  On March 15, 2020, Vivian submitted
a claim for unemployment.  (FAC ¶ 15.) 
Legal Standard
If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.¿
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).  The
statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have
been served.  All that need be shown in
the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of
any kind has been served.  (Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  Failure to timely respond waives all
objections, including privilege and work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)
On receipt of a response
to a Request for Production of Documents, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems
that (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a representation
of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an
objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).)  Motions to compel further responses to RPDs
must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the request.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310(b).)  To establish good cause,
a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in
the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or
disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or
disprove the fact.  (Digital Music
News LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224, disapproved on
other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531; see
also Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98
[characterizing good cause as “a fact-specific showing of relevance”].)  If good cause is shown by the moving party,
the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to
disclosure of the documents.  (Kirkland,
supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at 98.) 
Discussion
            Plaintiff
requests an order compelling Defendant Vivian Jasper to serve a further
response and document production to the First Set of Request for Production of
Documents and Things, and First Set of Form Interrogatories propounded on March
31, 2021, without assertion of her Fifth Amendment right or an order be issued
that she is barred from offering evidence during this litigation, including at
trial.
            The
parties have failed to provide a joint statement detailing what discovery items
remain in dispute and an attachment of any supplemental responses provided by
Defendant if any.  The Court
CONTINUES the discovery motions to May 16, 2024, and ORDERS the parties to file
the joint statement at least 7 days before the rescheduled hearing.
Conclusion and ORDER
The Motions to Compel Further Responses
to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set
One is CONTINUED to May 16, 2024. The Court ORDERS the parties to file the
joint statement at least 7 days before the rescheduled hearing.
            Moving Party is to give notice and
file proof of service of such.
 
DATED:  April 16, 2024                                            ___________________________
Yolanda Orozco
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court
 