  Case Number:  20CHCV00390    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 20CHCV00390

 
Motion filed: 7/5/23 
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: Mark T. Young (“Counsel”)
CLIENT: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mary Jo Davis (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order relieving Counsel as attorney
of record for Plaintiff. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is CONTINUED.  
 
In a civil action, an attorney may
move to be relieved as counsel at any time during the proceedings after giving
notice to his client. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284.) The moving attorney shall file
with his motion: (1) a notice of the motion, directed to the client using
Judicial Council form MC-051; (2) a declaration in support of the motion using
Judicial Council form MC-052; and (3) a proposed order granting the motion; all
to be served on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) If the notice is served on the client by
mail, the motion must also be supported by a declaration “stating facts showing
that either: (A) The service address is the current residence or business
address of the client; or (B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved.” (Id., subd.
(d)(1).)  
 
In his declaration, the moving
attorney is required to state “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Id., subd. (c).) The client
must be provided no less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.
An attorney may withdraw from a case when it can be accomplished without undue
prejudice to the client’s interests. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) On the other hand, if the attorney withdraws at a
critical point in the action, thereby prejudicing his client, he has violated her
ethical duties. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Counsel filed and served this
motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff on 7/5/23. Counsel served his
client by mail, and has filed a declaration stating that the client’s mailing
address was verified by searches on various online databases. (Decl. of Mark T.
Young, ¶ 3b.) Counsel also filed a proof of service showing that the requisite
documents were served on Plaintiff by mail and Defendant’s counsel by email on 7/5/23.  However, the proof of service is missing a
signature.  
 
Counsel properly filed an
accompanying notice of the motion using MC-051, a declaration in support of his
motion using form MC-052, and a proposed order granting the motion. In the
MC-052 declaration, Counsel cited Plaintiff’s failure to communicate and pay
for legal services such that Counsel must withdraw from representation of. (Young
Decl., ¶ 2.) The next hearing date in this action is an OSC re: Dismissal
(Settlement), set for 11/29/23. Therefore, Counsel’s withdrawal does not raise
the risk of unduly prejudicing his client. 
 
Accordingly, the statutory
requirements for the motion have been satisfied, however, the Court is
continuing the motion so counsel can file a properly signed proof of
service.  Counsel can bring the proof of
service on the date of tomorrow’s hearing. 
If the signature cannot be obtained, the Motion will be continued to …..