 Case Number:  SC123657    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  I The court has received the following updated FSC materials:
(1) Joint Witness List (47.5 hours of direct, 37 hours of cross for a total of
94.5 hours); (2) Joint Exhibit List (230 plaintiffs’ exhibits and 59
defendants’ exhibits, with a few notations that the exhibit has not been
produced); (3) Joint Short Statement of the Case; (4) Joint Report on Jury
Instructions (with four tabs—A and B are tabs to which there are no objections;
C is plaintiffs’ proposed instructions to which defendants object and D is defendants’
proposed instructions to which plaintiff objects); (5) Joint Report on Jury
Instructions (the court cannot tell if this is different than (4)); and (6)
Joint Report on Special Verdict.
 
As to the witness list, the court is concerned about the
growing length of the trial.  The court
will ask for (1) the parties’ good faith joint estimate on the total time for
testimony and (2) the parties’ joint good faith estimate on the total trial
time from the start of voir dire until the matter is in the jury’s hands.  The latter will be told to the jury when
determining hardship, so the court will hold counsel to it strictly.  The court believes that the good faith
estimate is 50 hours—25 for each side, but the court wants to be sure.
 
As to the exhibit list, the court appreciates the work
done.  The parties should be sure that
they have exchanged all exhibits.
 
As to the short statement of the case, the court appreciates
the work done.
 
As to the jury instructions, there should only be 3
tabs.  The first are agreed
instructions.  They should be in the
order in which they are to be read to the jury and with the wording to be
read.  What are now tabs C and D will
become tabs B and C.  The court
appreciates the parties’ work on this.
 
As to the special verdict, the court appreciates the work
done.
 
The court will ask the parties to re-submit a courtesy copy
by noon tomorrow any previously filed trial brief they want the court to see as
well as a copy of any other FSC materials that were previously filed.
 
The court’s view is that the court will hold a hearing on
what is set to be the first day of the trial to discuss where we are on the
jury instructions and verdict form. 
Specifically, the court will want to discuss the nature of the
objections.  As the court sees it, as to
jury instructions, there are different types of objections.  One is a wording objection—there is no
objection to the instruction in theory, just the way it is worded.  Another is an objection because the parties
believe that the evidence will not support the instruction.  To that extent, little need be done now.  Rather, the court will determine whether to
give the instruction when the evidence is in. 
Finally, there are objections because the instruction is just not proper
for this case as alleged.  The latter is
what the court will want to discuss at the next hearing.  As to the special verdict, the court will
want to discuss similar issues.  Assuming
they are resolved, the court will issue its MIL rulings at that time.
 
The court sees that quite a lot of work has been done.  The court has a 3 day trial set for next
week.  The court believes that, assuming
the next conference goes well, this case will trail that one and begin within a
day or two of that case’s conclusion.