 Case Number:  23SMCV03279    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to strike is GRANTED WITH 30 DAYS’ LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
 
Plaintiff is the executor of the decedent’s estate.  She sues Citibank for improperly releasing
the decedent’s money to a person with no apparent right to it—Sheets.  Plaintiff is seeking treble damages under the
Probate Code, which permits such damages where money is improperly transferred
to one having no right thereto.  The
treble damages are assessed against the “transferee.”  Citibank asserts here that Sheets is the
transferee—after all, Sheets got the money. 
Thus, Citibank seeks to strike the request for treble damages.  Citibank also contends that even if it ought
not have given Sheets the money, there is no allegation that it did so
corruptly—only negligently.  And the
negligent transfer of the money to Sheets would not support treble damages or
any other form of enhanced damages under the Probate Code.  In opposition, plaintiff notes that the form
Sheets provided to Citibank was flawed on its face and should never have been
accepted.   Thus, plaintiff argues,
Citibank aided and abetted Sheets’ fraud and is equally liable for treble
damages.  Plaintiff also contends that
Citibank did not aid plaintiff in her efforts to obtain information that would
allow her to go after Sheets. 
 
The court agrees that it is possible to read the statute as
applying not only to Sheets—the transferee—but also to those who aid and abet
Sheets.  The problem is that aiding and
abetting requires intent.  In other
words, it is not enough that one does something innocent or negligent or even
grossly negligent that has the effect of assisting another in a crime or
tort.  To be liable for aiding and
abetting, the defendant must know of the unlawful or improper act and
deliberately do something in furtherance of it. 
(People v. Campbell (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 402; Casey v. United
States Bank National Association (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1138.)  There is no allegation that Citibank knew
Sheets was trying to steal the money or take it improperly, and there is
nothing in the complaint that would allow the court rationally to infer
it.  Because it appears from the
complaint that Citibank acted negligently, or grossly negligently at worst, it
is not liable under an aiding and abetting theory. 
 
Given that, the treble damages provision simply does not
apply to Citibank.  It is properly
stricken and the motion will be GRANTED. 
Because this is the original complaint, the court is somewhat bound to
allow leave to amend.  The court urges
plaintiff, however, not to do so unless plaintiff has a good faith belief that
Citibank actually harbored such ill intent. 
If plaintiff has a basis for such a belief, plaintiff may amend the
complaint to allege it and support it with some factual allegations that would
lead to such an inference.  If not,
plaintiff should move forward.  Because
Citibank has already answered, unless plaintiff amends Citibank need do nothing
further to finalize the pleadings.
 
The court reminds the parties that they have a trial coming
up in August.  The court further reminds
the parties of the court’s order that they be familiar with and comply with the
court’s final status conference and trial rules, which can be found on
line.  They are significant and require a
lot of work.  The parties should start
preparing materials shortly to ensure that all is timely done.  The court further warns the parties that it
is very unlikely that the trial will be moved or continued for any reason.