

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff, Levelworks Construct
& Renovate, Inc. and Defendants Ron Green and Brenda Green, entered into a
contract on or about May 3, 2023, in which Levelworks was to perform
construction work on the Greens’ residence (“Contract”) located at 26239 Beecher
Lane, Stevenson Ranch, California 91381 (“Property”).
 
Levelworks completed all work under
the Contract on the Greens’ Property. The Greens claim they made oral change
orders to the Contract that changed the scope of work Levelworks was supposed
to perform and that those changes reduce the amount owed to Levelworks.
However, it is alleged that no agreement as to a reduction in price was ever
made between the Greens and Levelworks. Levelworks completed the work under the
Contract, yet the Greens have refused to pay the final invoice.
 
On January
4, 2024, Plaintiff Levelworks Construct & Renovate, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Ron Green, Brenda Green  (collectively, “Defendants”) and Does 1
through 50 for (1) breach of contract, (2) quantum meruit, (3) common count –
account stated, (4) common count – open book, and (5) to enforce mechanics lien.

 
On April
2, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion. 
 
On May 9,
2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition. 
 
On May
15, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendants seek
an order compelling Levelworks to arbitrate the claims set forth in the
Complaint and stay proceedings because of the Paragraph 26 arbitration
provisions of the Agreement. (Not. of Mot. at p.4.) Defendants also seek an
award of reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $2,580.00 for
attorney’s fees and $50.00 in filing fees for having to file this motion
because Paragraph 25.8 of the Agreement allows for attorney’s fees. (Id.)
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff concedes that it is not opposed to arbitration and
requests attorney’s fees and costs incurred as a result of opposing this
motion. (Opp’n. at pp. 4-5.) However, Plaintiff argues that the Agreement
requires that the parties first go through mediation. (Id. at p. 4.)
Alternatively, Plaintiff seeks an order requiring mediation prior to
arbitration. (Id. at p.5) Moreover, Plaintiff argues that in order to
preserve its mechanics lien rights, it was forced to file the lawsuit enforcing
the mechanics lien. (Id. at pp. 3-4.) 
 
REPLY
 
            In
Reply, Defendants state that Plaintiff conceded that arbitration is required.
(Reply at p. 1.) Defendants argue that the arbitration provision in the
agreement is enforceable. (Reply at p. 5.) Therefore, Defendants argue that
they are entitled to any award of attorney fees and costs as they were forced
by Plaintiff to bring this petition in order to enforce their rights. (Id.)

 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings 
B.        Legal Standard 
            “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (Code
Civ. Proc. §1281.2, subds. (a), (b).)
 
            A proceeding to compel arbitration is in essence a suit
in equity to compel specific performance of a contract. (Freeman v. State
Farm Mutual Auto Insurance Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479.) Such
enforcement may be sought by a party to the arbitration agreement. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1280, subd. (e)(1).)
 
            The petition to compel arbitration functions as a motion
and is to be heard in the manner of a motion, i.e., the facts are to be proven
by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken
only in the court’s discretion. (Code Civ. Proc., §1290.2; Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413–414.) The
petition to compel must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and
the arbitration clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and incorporated
by reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see Condee, supra, 88
Cal.App.4th at 218.)
 
            Once petitioners allege that an arbitration agreement
exists, the burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity of the purported
agreement, and no evidence or authentication is required to find the
arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at
219.) However, if the existence of the agreement is challenged, “petitioner
bears the burden of proving [the arbitration agreement’s] existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; see also Espejo v. Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058–1060.)
 
II.        Discussion 
 
            Defendants
move to compel arbitration on the ground that an agreement to arbitrate exists which
covers the controversies in Plaintiff’s case against Defendants. Ultimately,
the motion will be granted. 
 
            Here, Plaintiff
concedes to arbitration with the caveat that mediation occur before
arbitration. (Opp’n. at p. 4.) 
 
            The
arbitration provision states: “Arbitration of Disputes: Any controversy or
claim arising out of or related to this contract, or breach thereof, shall be
settled by binding arbitration in accordance with the Construction Industry
Arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association, and judgment upon
the award rendered by the arbitrator( s) may be entered in any court having
jurisdiction thereof. Claims within the monetary limit of the small claims
court shall be litigated in such court at the request of either party, so long
as both parties limit their right to recovery to the jurisdiction of the small
claims court . . ..” (Schreiber Decl. ¶ 2;Ex. 1.) Notably, Plaintiff does not
dispute the existence of the arbitration clause or claim that it is
unenforceable. Therefore, arbitration is warranted. Plaintiff argues that
mediation is required prior to arbitration. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
reliance on the mediation provision is misguided. Provision 25.5 states “[a]ny
dispute or claim in law or equity arising out of this agreement or any
resulting transaction, including disputes or claims involving the parties to
this agreement, their officers, agents, or employees, shall be submitted
to neutral, non-binding private mediation prior to the commencement of
litigation. The parties to the dispute or claim agree to act in good
faith to participate in mediation, and to identify a mutually acceptable
mediator. All parties to the mediation shall share equally in its cost. The
parties may proceed to litigation should the dispute or claim not resolve with
mediation.” (emphasis added.) (Schreiber Decl. ¶ 2;  Ex. 1 – Provision 25.5.) Here, Plaintiff filed its complaint on January 4, 2024 and did
not attempt to engage in mediation attempts until February 26, 2024. (Nash
Decl. ¶ 7.) Therefore, the mediation provision is inapplicable, and mediation
is not required because Plaintiff failed to engage in mediation prior to filing
the complaint. 
 
            Thus,
the Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is GRANTED. 
 
            Attorney’s
Fee Award
 
            Defendants
argue that they are entitled to an award of attorney fees and costs as they
were forced by Plaintiff to bring this petition in order to enforce their
rights. Defendants seek attorney’s fees in the amount of $2,580.00 plus filing
fees of $50.00.
 
            Here,
attorney’s fees for Defendants are warranted. Paragraph 25.8 provides: "In
any litigation, arbitration, or other proceeding by which one party
either seeks to enforce its rights under this Agreement (whether in contract,
tort, or both) or seeks a declaration of any rights or obligations under this
Agreement, the prevailing party shall be awarded its reasonable
attorney fees, and costs and expenses incurred.” (emphasis added.) (Schreiber
Decl. ¶ 2;  Ex. 1 – Provision 25.8.)
Here, the Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings will be granted
which will make Defendants the prevailing party. Pursuant to Paragraph 25.8, Defendants
are entitled to attorney’s fees for bringing this motion. Nevertheless, the
Court finds the amount sought is excessive due to the simplicity of the motion.
The Court awards attorney’s fees in the reduced amount of $1,850.00 which includes 1.5
hours drafting the Motion, 1.5 hours for drafting the reply and hearing appearance,
at a $600.00 hourly rate, plus the $50.00 filing fee. (Schreiber Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            In all, Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Proceedings is GRANTED. 
 
                                                                                              
Additionally, Defendants request for attorney’s fees is GRANTED IN PART,
in a reduced amount of $1,850.00. Plaintiff is ordered to pay Defendants Sanctions
in the amount of $1,850.00 for their reasonable attorney’s fees within 20 days
of this Court’s order. 
            
            Civil proceedings
are STAYED pending the parties’ completion of arbitration. 
 
The Court sets a Post- Arbitration Status Conference for
December 4, 2024, at 9:30am in Department 25 in the Spring Street
Courthouse.  
 
Counsel are ordered to electronically file a JOINT Report
Re:  Status of Arbitration Proceedings (5)
days prior to 12/04/2024.
 
The 07/03/2025 Trial is advanced to this date and hereby
taken off calendar/vacated.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 