  Case Number:  24STCV104497    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  56     SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR  THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      DARA SUE CRIPPEN,                             Plaintiff,             vs.   LYFT, INC., a corporation; WALTER ROBINSON; URIEL HERNANDEZ; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,,                                                                                                            Defendants.                                               CASE NO.:  24STCV04497   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:  MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY PROCEEDINGS   DEMURRER TO THE 2ND – 6TH    CAUSES OF ACTION IN PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT   Date: July 15, 2024 Time: 8:30 a.m. Dept. 56          MOVING PARTY: Defendant  Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”)    RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Dara Sue Crippen (“Plaintiff”)               The Court has considered the moving,  opposition, and reply papers.    BACKGROUND             The case stems from a motor vehicle  accident on February 25, 2023.  Plaintiff  claims to have been injured while on a ride arranged through Lyft’s  ride-sharing service.  The vehicle in  which Plaintiff was riding, driven by Defendant Walter Robinson (“Robinson”),  collided with a vehicle driven by Defendant Uriel Hernandez. On  February 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging  causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) negligence per se; (3) false  imprisonment; (4) assault; (5) battery; (6) intentional infliction of emotional  distress.  The first two causes of action  are asserted against all Defendants, and the remaining ones are asserted only  against Defendant Robinson.  On April 16,  2024, Robinson filed a demurrer to the 2nd – 6th causes  of action in Plaintiff’s complaint (the “Demurrer”).               On May 28, 2024, Lyft filed a motion  to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay proceedings (the “Motion”).  Plaintiff filed an opposition July 3, 2024.  Lyft filed a reply on July 10, 2024.    DISCUSSION Standard  “California law reflects a strong public policy in favor  of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving  disputes.  To further that policy,  section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration  agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a  party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the  arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates  the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.”  (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate  Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Similarly, “under the FAA, the strong federal  policy favoring arbitration agreements requires courts to resolve any doubts  concerning arbitrability in favor of arbitration.”  (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185  Cal.App.4th 153, 176 (internal quotations omitted).)     In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial  courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between  the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the claims are  covered within the scope of the agreement.   (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  The opposing party has the burden to establish  any defense to enforcement.  (Gatton  v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579 [“The petitioner,  T–Mobile here, bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration  agreement and the opposing party, plaintiffs here, bears the burden of proving  any fact necessary to its defense.”].)     Procedurally, a petition to compel arbitration or  stay proceedings must state verbatim the provisions providing for arbitration,  or must have a copy of them attached.   (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1330.)     Existence of Arbitration Agreement  “With respect to the moving party’s burden to  provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally  sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC  (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)   Here, Lyft has met its initial burden of showing  that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties.  Plaintiff affirmatively accepted Lyft’s Terms  of Service within the Lyft application on eight (8) separate occasions – at the  first instance during the account creation process, and subsequently thereafter  when Lyft updated its Terms of Service.   (Declaration of Paul McCachern (“McCachern Decl.”), ¶ 12 a-d; Exhs. 1-5.)   The arbitration provision (“Arbitration Agreement”) in  the operative December 12, 2022 Terms of Service states in pertinent part:   YOU AND LYFT MUTUALLY AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION  OF DISPUTES IN A COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE TO RESOLVE ANY  DISPUTE BY ARBITRATION, as set forth below… Except as expressly provided below, ALL DISPUTES AND CLAIMS BETWEEN US  (EACH A “CLAIM” AND COLLECTIVELY, “CLAIMS”) SHALL BE EXCLUSIVELY RESOLVED BY  BINDING ARBITRATION SOLELY BETWEEN YOU AND LYFT. These Claims include, but are  not limited to, any dispute, claim or controversy, whether based on past,  present, or future events, arising out of or relating to: this Agreement and  prior versions thereof (including the breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation  or validity thereof), the Lyft Platform, the Rideshare Services, the Lyft  Services… and all other federal and state statutory and common  law claims. All disputes concerning the arbitrability of a Claim (including  disputes about the scope, applicability, enforceability, revocability or  validity of the Arbitration Agreement) shall be decided by the arbitrator,  except as expressly provided below.   (McCachern Decl., Exh. 5, ¶ 17(a).) The Federal Arbitration Act (the "FAA") applies to the  present agreement[1],  a point not contested in the opposition.  Therefore, the third-party litigation  exception under California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2(c) is  preempted.  (Dias v. Burberry Ltd.  (S.D.Cal. June 9, 2021) 2021 WL 2349730, at *18 [holding that Section 1281.2 was  inapplicable because FAA governs the Agreement.])  The FAA  requires the arbitration of all claims within the scope of an arbitration  provision even if the action includes nonarbitrable claims by or against third  parties.  (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4.)   Because Lyft establishes the existence of a valid  and binding arbitration agreement, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show why  the Arbitration Agreement should not be enforced.   In opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute that she affirmatively  consented to the Arbitration Agreement with Lyft or that the Arbitration Agreement  covers the claims asserted in the Complaint.   Plaintiff’s sole argument is that the Motion should be denied because  the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally and substantively unconscionable.     Unconscionability  Regardless of the claim asserted, arbitration  agreements are only enforceable if they are not unconscionable.  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare  Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113; Baxter v. Genworth N.  Am. Corp., (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 713, 721.)  “Both procedural and substantive  unconscionability must be present for a court to refuse to enforce a contract,  although they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Baxter, supra, 16 Cal.App.5th at 721  (citing Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243.)  Procedural unconscionability focuses on (1)  “oppression” resulting from unequal bargaining power that adheres the weaker  party to nonnegotiable terms and (2) “surprise” involving “the extent to which  the supposedly agreed-upon terms are hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by  the party seeking to enforce them.”  (Flores  v. Transamerica HomeFirst, Inc., (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 853.)  Substantive unconscionability “focuses on  overly harsh or one-sided results [that lack substantial justification].” (Baxter,  supra, 16 Cal.App.5th at 724; Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at  117-18.)    Procedural Unconscionability             Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally  unconscionable because it was presented on a “take-it-or-leave-it” basis.  The Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s  assertion.  The attempt to highlight a power imbalance between Lyft and Plaintiff overlooks  the fact that this is not an employment scenario where an offer is conditional  upon agreeing to arbitrate claims against an employer.  Even in the context of employment, existing  case law holds that a mandatory arbitration agreement only establishes a small  degree of procedural unconscionability.   (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 113  (“The term [contract of adhesion] signifies a standardized contract, which,  imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to  the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject  it.”); Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215  Cal.App.4th 695, 704 (“It is well settled that adhesion contracts in the  employment context, that is, those contracts offered to employees on a  take-it-or-leave-it basis, typically contain some aspects of procedural  unconscionability.)     Here, the Arbitration Agreement was presented to  Plaintiff not in the context of employment, but as a customer who wishes to  avail of Lyft’s rideshare service.  Plaintiff  had the option to use or not use the Lyft platform.  She could easily have chosen to seek  transportation from various other network companies competing with Lyft or  utilized different methods of transit to reach her destination.  The risk of coercion in this context is  minimal, and Plaintiff has not presented evidence to suggest otherwise.  Plaintiff’s opposition does not establish any  other basis for finding the agreement procedurally unconscionable.     Substantive Unconscionability  Plaintiff's only argument concerning substantive  unconscionability pertains to the requirement of arbitration on an individual  basis and the waiver of class actions.   This objection, however, is irrelevant to the present lawsuit as  Plaintiff is bringing claims on behalf of herself only and not in any  representative capacity.  In any case, even  if she were asserting representative claims, Plaintiff’s representative claims  would simply be stayed pending the conclusion of arbitration of his individual  claims.  It is well within the Court’s power  to do so as contemplated by both courts and the Legislature, and thus does not  contribute to unconscionability.  (Cal.  Civ. Proc., § 1281.4; Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc., 14 Cal.5th  1104, 1123-24 (2023).  Plaintiff,  therefore, has failed to demonstrate any substantive unconscionability.   The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to meet her  burden of establishing that the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable.     RULING             Accordingly, the Motion is  GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s claims are stayed  pending completion of arbitration.  The  Court sets a Status Conference for January 13, 2025, regarding the status of  arbitration.                 Because the Motion is GRANTED, the  Demurrer is MOOT               Moving Party is ordered to give  notice of this ruling.               Parties who intend to submit on this  tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed  by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email  and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off  calendar.   Dated this 17th day of July 2024                     Hon. Holly J.    Fujie Judge of the    Superior Court           