 Case Number:  23SMCV05467    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Weiss v. Horowitz, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV05467


Complaint Filed:


11-17-23         




Hearing Date:


4-18-24


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


12


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


Ok


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF
SUMMONS FOR LACK OF PJ
MOVING
PARTY:   Specially Appearing Defendant
Philip M. Horowitz
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Marvin Weiss 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Specially Appearing Defendant
Philip M. Horowitz’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons for Lack of Personal
Jurisdiction is GRANTED. Plaintiff Marvin Weiss does not meet his burden on the
purposeful availment prong to show that Defendant expressly aimed or targeted
his conduct toward California, with the knowledge that this intentional conduct
would cause harm in the forum. 
 
Plaintiff Marvin Weiss’s request
for jurisdictional discovery is DENIED. 
 
“California's long-arm statute
authorizes California courts to exercise jurisdiction on any basis not
inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of
California. A state court's assertion of personal jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant who has not been served with process within the state comports with
the requirements of the due process clause of the federal Constitution if the
defendant has such minimum contacts with the state that the assertion of
jurisdiction does not violate “ ‘traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.’ ” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 434, 444, citing International Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945)
326 U.S. 310, 316; see Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10; see also Burnham v.
Superior Court (1990) 495 U.S. 604, 618–619.) “Personal jurisdiction
may be either general or specific.” (Vons Companies, Inc., supra,
14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)
 
“When a defendant moves to quash
service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.” Vons
Companies, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 445.) “Once facts showing
minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it becomes the
defendant's burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable.” (Ibid.)
 
Horowitz has established he is a
resident of Naples, FL, who is licensed to practice law in DC and Virginia, ha
Horowitz is a resident of Naples, FL, who is licensed to practice law in DC and
Virginia, has never been licensed to practice law in California, nor has he
resided in California, nor been assigned to the Veneble Los Angeles, CA office.
(Horowitz Decl., ¶¶ 5–8.) Horowitz further shows he was not involved in either
lawsuit described in the Complaint, specifically United States of America v.
California Stem Cell Treatment Center, Inc., et al., Case No.
5:18-cv-01005- JGB-KK) (the “FDA Lawsuit”), and Trujillo v. US Stemology,
LLC, et al., Case No. 22-2-00729- 0 SEA) (the “Washington Lawsuit”).
(Horowitz Decl., ¶ 3.) And finaly Horowitz shows his role with Veneble is to
“engage in collection efforts on behalf of Veneble when clients or former
clients have outstanding unpaid invoices,” and it was in this capacity that he
emailed Weiss which resulted in this lawsuit. (Horowitz Decl., ¶ 4; Compl., Ex.
5 “Email”)
 
The evidence submitted by Weiss is
sparse.  In his declaration Weiss states:
 

“2. When HOROWITZ
emailed VENABLE LLC’s former, and my then known, clients, attaching a letter to
me from attorney Stewart Webb regarding positions I had taken with regard to my
client’s dispute with VENABLE over actions I professionally opined had breached
its ethical and contractual duties to my clients, and characterizing such
positions as “groundless,” it strained my relationship with my clients,
embarrassed me, and caused them to question their confidence in my judgment, as
they had held VENABLE, a major firm with a national reputation, in high regard.
Although we overcame that intrusive disruption and improper attack on my
relationship with my clients, it nevertheless had a tangible impact on my
reputation in their eyes and, consequently on my relationship with them. 
3. I am informed
and believe that HOROWITZ conducts extensive and pervasive collection efforts
on behalf of VENABLE in California.”
 
Weiss does not offer any foundation
to support his opinions that his unidentified client’s receipt of an email from
Horowitz caused his relationship with those clients to become “strained,” or
caused them to “question his judgment,” or that it has had a “tangible impact
on my reputation in their eyes” or Weiss’ relationship with them.  “[A] boilerplate sentence, ‘If called as a
witness I could and would competently testify under oath to the above facts
which are personally known to me,” is not sufficient to establish personal
knowledge. (Citation.) ‘Where the facts stated do not themselves show it, such
bare statement of the affiant has no redeeming value and should be ignored.’
”).” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 168–169.)  More
important, there is no foundation for Weiss’ information and belief that
Horowitz “conducts extensive and pervasive collection efforts on behalf of
VENABLE in California.”  In sum, Weiss
has not submitted any competent evidence to meet his burden to show it is
proper for the Court to exercise personal jurisdiction over Weiss.
  
I.               
Plaintiff does not assert General Jurisdiction
 
“A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts
in the forum state are “substantial ... continuous and systematic.” (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) 
 
Plaintiff Marvin Weiss (“Weiss”) does
not argue or submit any evidence to demonstrate that the Court has general
jurisdiction over Defendant Phillip M. Horowitz (“Horowitz”). Thus, Weiss has
not met their burden to demonstrate general jurisdiction.
 
II.            
Specific Jurisdiction 
 
As the party asserting jurisdiction
over Horowitz, Weiss is responsible for establishing all elements of specific
jurisdiction.  (See Ziller Electronics Lab GmbH v. Sup. Ct. (1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.)  “When determining whether specific
jurisdiction exists, courts consider the relationship among the defendant, the
forum, and the litigation. A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed
himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or
arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of
personal jurisdiction would comport with ‘fair play and substantial justice.’” (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553, citing
Pavlovich v. Supr. Ct. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268; Farina v. SAVWCL
III, LLC (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 286, 294.)
 
 
A.             
Purposeful Availment
 
“The purposeful availment inquiry
focuses on the defendant's intentionality.  This prong is only satisfied
when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs his activities toward
the forum so that he should expect, by virtue of the benefit he receives, to be
subject to the court's jurisdiction based on his contacts with the
forum.”  (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at 269.)  “When
a defendant purposefully avails itself of the privilege of conducting
activities within the forum State, it has clear notice that it is subject to
suit there, and can act to alleviate the risk of burdensome litigation by
procuring insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers, or, if the
risks are too great, severing its connection with the State.”  (Id.)
 
            “Courts
apply the “ ‘effects test’ ” to determine purposeful availment in the
defamation context. [citation ]. Under this test, intentional conduct occurring
elsewhere may give rise to jurisdiction in California where it is calculated to
cause injury in California. The defendant must expressly aim or target his
conduct toward California, with the knowledge that his intentional conduct
would cause harm in the forum.” (Dongxiao Yue v. Wenbin Yang (“Yue”)
(2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 539, 547.) The effects test is not applied uniformly but
“[m]ost courts have agreed, nonetheless, that merely asserting that a defendant
knew or should have known that his intentional acts would cause harm in the
forum state is not enough to establish jurisdiction under the effects test.” (Burdick
v. Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 19 [holding that “posting
defamatory statements about a person on a Facebook page, while knowing that
person resides in the forum state, is insufficient in itself to create the
minimum contacts necessary to support specific personal jurisdiction in a
lawsuit arising out of that posting”]; see also Walden v. Fiore (2014)
571 U.S. 277, 283–284.)
 
            Weiss
argues that the purposeful availment prong of specific jurisdiction is met
because because Horowitz sent a single email communication “purposefully
directed to [Weiss] a recipient in California” to create mistrust and encourage
Weis’s Clients “to not follow the advice of their California attorney, citing
to Moncrief and Yue as dispositive. (Moncrief v. Clark (“Moncrief”)
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1000; see Oppo., pp. 6–9.) 
 
            However, Moncrief
does not involve defamation, nor the use of the effects test to analyze
purposeful availment, and thus is not dispositive. Furthermore, Moncrief
does not involve just one email, or one form of communication to reach
purposeful availment, but instead revolves around one transaction with multiple
forms of communications related to the single transaction to support specific
jurisdiction over the cross-defendant there. (See Moncrief, supra,
238 Cal. App. 4th at pp. 1003–1004, 1006–1007.) 
 
            Weiss
argues Yue is dispositive because like in Yue where the focus of
the purposeful availment analysis is “whether the sender targeted his
communications to a California audience with knowledge that the communication
would cause harm in the forum,” here, Horowitz’s intention was to engender
mistrust and encourage the Clients to not follow the advice of their California
attorney” via a single email. (Oppo., p. 8; Yue, supra, 62
Cal.App.5th at p. 547.) 
            
            However,
even though the situation in Yue does involves a defamation claim, the
communications at issue in Yue were more numerous, more threatening, and
more directly related to California as a forum and the residents of California
than the issue here of one email communication related to outstanding legal
fees. (See Yue, supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at p. 547–549 [finding non-resident
defendant worked with a California-based defendant to commit the alleged torts,
by making online posts to a California audience in which he threatened to bully
the plaintiff in California, announced a plan to travel to California to do so,
announced he had arrived in California, and urged others in California to join
him in harming the plaintiff]
 
            The Court
finds that Weiss has not met his burden to show that Horowitz purposefully
availed himself to the specific jurisdiction of California through the email
communication at issue. Weiss does not provide persuasive authority to show
that a similar form of communication has supported a finding of specific
jurisdiction. Nor has Weiss shown any further evidence of Horowitz intent to
harm Weiss other than arguing, without any foundation that Horowitz knew or
should have known his one email would cause Weiss harm in the forum state.  That is not enough to establish specific
jurisdiction. (See Burdick, supra, 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 19.)
 
B. “Controversy is related to or
arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum” 
 
A lawsuit arises out of a
defendant’s forum-related contacts if “there is a substantial nexus or
connection between the defendant’s forum activities and the plaintiff’s
claim.”  (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th
1054, 1068.)  The ‘arising out of or relating to’ standard is in the
disjunctive, and is intended as a relaxed, flexible standard.”  (Gilmore
Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Limited (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1558,
1573.  “A claim need not arise directly from the defendant's forum
contacts in order to be sufficiently related to the contact to warrant the
exercise of specific jurisdiction.  Moreover, the forum contacts need not
be directed at the plaintiff in order to warrant the exercise of specific
jurisdiction.  Indeed, only when the operative facts of the
controversy are not related to the defendant's contact with the state can it be
said that the cause of action does not arise from that contact.”  (Snowney
v. Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1068.) 
 
Weiss does not provide any facts or
evidence as to the second prong other than conclusively stating Horowitz’s
communication “harmed Weiss’s reputation with his clients” which as analyzed
above is not enough to support specific jurisdiction for a defamation cause of
action under the effects test. (See Burdick, supra, 233
Cal.App.4th 8, 19.)
 
C.  “Fair play and
substantial justice” 
 
Once a plaintiff shows that the
nonresident defendant has “purposefully availed” itself of benefits and
protections of forum law, that defendant bears the burden of proving it would
be unreasonable for local courts to exercise jurisdiction, i.e. violate notions
of fair play and substantial justice.  (Burger King Corp, supra,
471 U.S. at p. 475.) 
 
 In determining whether
assertion of jurisdiction would be unreasonable, the court must consider (1)
the burden on the defendant; (2) the forum State's interest in adjudicating the
dispute; (3) the plaintiff's interest in obtaining convenient and effective
relief; (4) the interstate judicial system's interest in obtaining the most
efficient resolution of controversies; and (5) the shared interest of the
several States in furthering fundamental substantive social policies.  (See
World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980) 444 US 286, 292.)
 
Here, Weiss has not shown that
Horowitz has purposefully availed himself to the California courts, but even if
Weiss had done so, Horowitz has met his burden to show it would be unreasonable
for California courts to exercise jurisdiction. 
 
III.      Plaintiffs
Request for Jurisdictional Discovery is DENIED.
 
“A trial court has the discretion
to continue the hearing on a motion to quash service of summons for lack of
personal jurisdiction to allow the plaintiff to conduct discovery on
jurisdictional issues.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1173.) a continuance for jurisdictional discovery is only
appropriate if the plaintiff identifies the “specific area of inquiry that they
would pursue if they were allowed to conduct discovery” and “demonstrate[s]
that discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts
establishing jurisdiction.” (Preciado v. Freightliner Custom Chassis
Corporation (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 972–973, review denied (May
3, 2023).) When a court could “reasonably conclude further discovery would not
likely lead to production of evidence establishing jurisdiction,” it is proper
to deny the request.” (Beckman v. Thompson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 481, 487.)

 
Weiss fails to identify specific
areas of inquiry he would pursue in either a general or specific jurisdictional
inquiry as to Horowitz specifically. Thus, the Court concludes that further
discovery would not likely lead to Weiss’s request is DENIED. 
