 Case Number:  22TRCV00278    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                   Thursday, January 18, 2024
Department B                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 11  



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
W.M.
Klorman Construction Corporation v. 1215 Cerise ZV, LLC, et al.
22TRCV00278
1.     
Hawthorne
Creative, LLC’s Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement     
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Hawthorne Creative, LLC’s Motion to Enforce Settlement
Agreement is denied. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 12, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. The underlying dispute arises out of the
construction of the Cerise Parking Structure located at 12515 Cerise Avenue,
Hawthorne, California 90250 (“Project”). Plaintiff contracted with Defendant
12515 Cerise ZV, LLC to act as the designer builder general contractor. Defendant
failed to pay for Plaintiff’s services. Defendant Hawthorne Creative, LLC is
the current owner of the property. On November 30, 2022, Plaintiff and
Defendant 1215 Cerise ZV, LLC entered into a written settlement agreement. On
August 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of withdrawal of notice of settlement.
 
Objections
 
Hawthorne’s objections 1 and 3 to 5 are sustained.
Hawthorne’s objection 2 is overruled.
 
Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement
 
CCP § 664.6(a) states: “If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of
the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”
 
Defendant Hawthorne Creative
LLC (“Hawthorne”) moves for an order to enforce the settlement agreement that
was previously executed on November 30, 2022, by and between non-moving parties
Plaintiff and Defendant 1215 Cerise ZV, LLC (“Cerise”). Moving party Hawthorne
contends that, while it is not a named party to the agreement, it is a
signatory and third party beneficiary to the agreement and that Plaintiff and Cerise
have not fully performed the agreement.
 
“On a motion to enforce, the
court must determine whether the settlement agreement is valid and binding.” Estate
of Jones (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 948, 952. Moving party and Plaintiff both contend
that the settlement agreement was executed on November 30, 2022.  (Decl., Mary A. Salamone, Ex. 2.)  Plaintiff states that Defendant Cerise breached
the terms of the settlement agreement.  According to Plaintiff, Defendant Cerise
failed to comply with the payment obligations of the agreement by failing to
make the January 31, 2023 payment.  (Id.,
at ¶ 12.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that it rescinded the agreement.  “A
party to a contract may rescind the contract in the following cases: (4) If the
consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party, before it is rendered
to him, fails in a material respect from any cause.”  Civ. Code, § 1689(b)(4).  Plaintiff contends that it satisfied its
obligations under the agreement, but the key payment term was not satisfied by
Defendant Cerise. Thus, here, consideration for the obligation of the
rescinding party failed and Plaintiff attempted to rescind the agreement on
August 2, 2023 by filing a notice of withdrawal of settlement.  “Where one party to a
contract partly performs and the other party breaches the agreement, the
former, among other things, may treat the contract as rescinded and recover
from the latter by common count in quantum meruit for part performance.”
Mayo v. Pacific Project Consultants,
Inc. (1969) 1 Cal.App.3d 1013, 1018–19.  Because the settlement agreement was properly
rescinded by Plaintiff, there is no settlement agreement to enforce and the
motion to enforce the settlement agreement must be denied.
 
In the reply, Hawthorne
points to the language of Section 10 of the agreement which states, in relevant
part: “This agreement may only be amended, changed or cancelled by a writing
signed by the parties.”  Hawthorne argues
that there is no writing signed by the parties.  However, the terms amend, change, and cancel
have distinct meanings differing from the statutory remedy of rescission which
is specifically governed by the statutory scheme set forth in CC § 1688 et seq.
 
Second, Hawthorne argues
that Plaintiff failed to comply with CC § 1691.  CC § 1691 states: “Subject to Section 1693, to
effect a rescission a party to the contract must, promptly upon discovering the
facts which entitle him to rescind if he is free from duress, menace, undue
influence or disability and is aware of his right to rescind:
(a) Give notice of
rescission to the party as to whom he rescinds; and
(b) Restore to the other
party everything of value which he has received from him under the contract or
offer to restore the same upon condition that the other party do likewise,
unless the latter is unable or positively refuses to do so.
When notice of rescission
has not otherwise been given or an offer to restore the benefits received under
the contract has not otherwise been made, the service of a pleading in an
action or proceeding that seeks relief based on rescission shall be deemed to
be such notice or offer or both.” Civ. Code, § 1691.
 
Hawthorne states that
Plaintiff did not act promptly and did not restore the consideration provided
by Cerise which was the dismissal of the Cross-Complaint. However, the
provisions of CC § 1693 must also be considered. 
 
“When relief based upon
rescission is claimed in an action or proceeding, such relief shall not be
denied because of delay in giving notice of rescission unless such delay has
been substantially prejudicial to the other party. A party who has received
benefits by reason of a contract that is subject to rescission and who in an
action or proceeding seeks relief based upon rescission shall not be denied
relief because of a delay in restoring or in tendering restoration of such benefits
before judgment unless such delay has been substantially prejudicial to the
other party; but the court may make a tender of restoration a condition of its
judgment.” Civ. Code, § 1693. 
 
Here, there is no showing of
any prejudice by the delay to Cerise, the other party to the agreement.  In addition, the delay in tender of the
restoration of the benefit has also not substantially prejudiced Cerise.
Instead, as part of the Court’s ruling herein, the Court hereby sets aside the
dismissal of Cerise’s Cross-Complaint as a condition of rescission.
 
            The
Court further notes that moving party Hawthorne admits that it is not a party
to the rescinded settlement agreement.  The
fact that Hawthorne’s attorney also signed the agreement does not transform it
into a party to the agreement. 
 
            The
full text of CCP 664.6 states, as follows:
 
“(a) If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the
terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain
jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in
full of the terms of the settlement.
“(b) For purposes of this
section, a writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any of the
following:
(1) The party.
(2) An attorney who
represents the party.
(3) If an insurer is
defending and indemnifying a party to the action, an agent who is authorized in
writing by the insurer to sign on the party's behalf. This paragraph does not
apply if the party whom the insurer is defending would be liable under the
terms of the settlement for any amount above the policy limits.
(c) Paragraphs (2) and (3)
of subdivision (b) do not apply in a civil harassment action, an action brought
pursuant to the Family Code, an action brought pursuant to the Probate Code, or
a matter that is being adjudicated in a juvenile court or a dependency court.
(d) In addition to any
available civil remedies, an attorney who signs a writing on behalf of a party
pursuant to subdivision (b) without the party's express authorization shall,
absent good cause, be subject to professional discipline.
(e) This section shall
remain in effect only until January 1, 2025, and as of that date is repealed.”
 
The provision of CCP § 664.6(b)
allowing for the agreement to be memorialized by the attorney means that the
attorney for the party to the agreement may sign and does not mean that a party
not named in the agreement can be transformed into a party to the agreement because
the attorney for that party signed the agreement. Sections (a) and (b) must be
read in conjunction. The “party” reference in section (b) refers to one of the
“parties” to the agreement referenced in section (a) and not simply any other
party to the litigation which is not a party to the settlement agreement. If
Hawthorne wished to be a party to the agreement, it should have ensured that it
was a named party to the agreement.
 
Hawthorne argues that it is
an intended third party beneficiary to the contract.  “The test for determining whether a contract
was made for the benefit of a third person is whether an intent to benefit a
third person appears from the terms of the contract. [Citation.] If the terms
of the contract necessarily require the promisor to confer a benefit on a third
person, then the contract, and hence the parties thereto, contemplate a benefit
to the third person.” Souza v. Westlands Water Dist. (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 879, 891. The Court declines to rule on this issue because even
assuming Hawthorne is an intended beneficiary, even an intended third party
beneficiary to the contract cannot enforce a rescinded contract.  “[T]he intended beneficiary has a right of
action that continues until the contract has been rescinded in compliance with
the rescission statute.” Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1024.
 
            Thus,
for the foregoing reasons, Hawthorne’s Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement
is denied. 
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.