 Case Number:  23STCV20076    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On January  5, 2022, Plaintiff Armaund Aaron Urquidez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Jose Almanza and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort in Ventura  County Superior Court.  Plaintiff  later amended the complaint (1) to include Defendant G&J Neon Signs, Inc. (“G&J”)  as Doe 1 and (2) to replace the name “Jose Almanza” with the correct name, Jose  Adrian Gonzales Saldana (“Saldana”).  On  February 1, 2023, Saldana filed an answer.   On July 6, 2023, G&J filed an answer.  On  August 22, 2023, the case was transferred to Los Angeles County Superior Court.  On  October 30, 2024, Saldana and G&J (“Defendants”) filed a motion for a  protective order limiting the scope of the deposition of Plaintiff’s retained  expert Kendal Wagner, M.D., and for sanctions.   The motion was set for hearing on December 23, 2024.  On December 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition and request for sanctions.  On  December 16, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.   The Court continued the hearing to January 2, 2025.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 22, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendants  ask the Court to limit the scope of the deposition of Plaintiff’s retained  expert Kendal Wagner, M.D. and impose sanctions on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Defendants’ counsel.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides in part:  “(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party,  any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly  move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and  confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any  order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural  person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or  oppression, or undue burden and expense.  This protective order may include, but  is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:  * * *  (5) That the deposition be taken only on certain  specified terms and conditions.  * * *  (9) That certain matters not be inquired into.  (10) That the scope of the examination be limited to  certain matters.  * * *  (g) If the motion for a protective order is denied in  whole or in part, the court may order that the deponent provide or permit the  discovery against which protection was sought on those terms and conditions  that are just.  (h) The court shall impose a  monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for  a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,  subds. (a), (b)(5), (b)(9), (b)(10), (g), (h).)  DISCUSSION            Defendants assert that Plaintiff designated Dr. Wagner to  testify about Plaintiff’s lower extremity injuries and designated another  expert, Dr. Kasimian, to testify about Plaintiff’s spine injuries.  According to Defendants, Plaintiff now wants  Dr. Wagner’s deposition to include his opinions about Plaintiff’s spine  injuries even though (1) Dr. Wagner was not designated on this subject, (2)  Plaintiff has not amended or augmented his expert witness list, and (3) Defendants  have already deposed Dr. Kasimian about Plaintiff’s spine injuries.  Based on these arguments, Defendants ask the  Court to issue a protective order excluding Dr. Wagner’s opinions about  Plaintiff’s spine injuries from Dr. Wagner’s deposition.            Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing (among other things) that  his designation of Dr. Wagner encompassed Dr. Wagner’s opinion about Plaintiff’s  spine injuries.            Plaintiff’s expert designation served on August 26, 2024  stated that Dr. Kasimian was “a qualified, board-certified physician in  Orthopedics focusing on spine injuries” who would “offer opinions regarding  causation and damages focusing on Plaintiff’s spine injuries.”  The designation also stated: “[Dr.  Kasimian’s] testimony is expected to include, but is not limited to, the  following areas: orthopedic injuries suffered by Plaintiff as a result of  Defendant rear- ending Plaintiffs’ vehicle; review of medical records and films  concerning Plaintiff; nature and extent of orthopedic injuries suffered by  Plaintiff as a result of Defendant rear-ending Plaintiff’s vehicle;  reasonableness of medical care provided to Plaintiff as a result of Defendant  rear-ending Plaintiff’s vehicle; Plaintiff’s diagnosis; Plaintiff’s prognosis;  reasonable cost of past medical care provided to Plaintiffs as a result of  Defendant rear-ending Plaintiff’s vehicle; reasonable cost of future medical  care for Plaintiff as a result of Defendant rear-ending Plaintiff’s vehicle;  any and all issues raised by Defendants, Defendants’ counsel, and Defendants’  expert witnesses within his areas of expertise.”           Plaintiff’s expert designation stated that Dr. Wagner was “a  qualified, board-certified physician in Orthopedics focusing on lower extremity  injuries” who would “offer opinions regarding causation and damages focusing on  Plaintiff’s lower extremity injuries.”   The designation also stated:  “[Dr.  Wagner’s] testimony is expected to include, but is not limited to, the  following areas: orthopedic injuries suffered by Plaintiff as a result of  Defendant rear-ending Plaintiffs’ vehicle; review of medical records and films  concerning Plaintiff; nature and extent of orthopedic injuries suffered by  Plaintiff as a result of Defendant rear-ending Plaintiff’s vehicle;  reasonableness of medical care provided to Plaintiff as a result of Defendant  rear-ending Plaintiff’s vehicle; Plaintiff’s diagnosis; Plaintiff’s prognosis;  reasonable cost of past medical care provided to Plaintiffs as a result of  Defendant rear-ending Plaintiff’s vehicle; reasonable cost of future medical  care for Plaintiff as a result of Defendant rear-ending Plaintiff’s vehicle;  any and all issues raised by Defendants, Defendants’ counsel, and Defendants’  expert witnesses within his areas of expertise.”            Plaintiff’s designation of Dr. Wagner is fairly read to  include his opinions about Plaintiff’s “orthopedic injuries” resulting from the  accident, including spine injuries.  The  designation does not restrict Dr. Wagner to expressing opinions only about  Plaintiff’s lower extremity injuries, although the designation states that  these injuries would be Dr. Wagner’s “focus.”  The Legislature did not intend that the an expert designation's “brief narrative  statement” containing the “general substance” of an expert’s testimony (see  Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.260, subd. (c)(2)) be written in strict legal terms.  (See Castaneda v. Bornstein (1995) 36  Cal.App.4th 1818, 1828, disapproved of on other grounds by Bonds v. Roy  (1999) 20 Cal.4th 140.)  “[T]hese ‘brief  narrative statements’ were intended to give the opposing party fair notice of  the subject areas the expert would address in trial testimony in order for the  opposing party to prepare cross-examination and rebuttal.”  (Ibid. [expert witness declaration put  defendant on notice that expert would testify about both breach of duty and  causation; if defendant chose not to depose the expert on these issues “based  on a narrow, technical interpretation of the narrative statement, we find he  has no justification to complain”].) Defendants have cited no authority preventing a party from designating experts with duplicative or overlapping areas of expertise.  In light of the identical language contained in the expert designations of Dr. Kasimian and Dr. Wagner, Defendants should have been on notice that Dr. Wagner might testify about the same subjects Dr. Kasimian testified about at his deposition.  Defendants do not explain why they did not confirm with Plaintiff, prior to Dr. Kasimian's deposition, that this would not happen.  The  Court denies Defendants’ motion to limit the scope of Dr. Wagner’s deposition.  Plaintiff  requests $2,000.00 in monetary sanctions against Defendants’ counsel under Code  of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (h), based on four hours of  attorney time at a rate of $500.00 per hour.   The Court imposes sanctions of $750.00 based on three hours of attorney  time at a reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES the motion for a protective order filed by Defendants Jose Adrian Gonzales Saldana and G&J Neon Signs,  Inc.  The  Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Armaund Aaron Urquidez’s request for sanctions  and orders Defendants’ counsel to pay Plaintiff $750.00 by February 3, 2025.  In all other respects, the Court denies  Plaintiff’s sanctions request.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.