 Case Number:  22STCV02508    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
January 21, 2022, Plaintiff Jose Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Byambadorj Tsendayush, Uber Technologies, Raiser LLC,
Raiser-CA LLC, and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
October 2, 2023, Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc. (erroneously sued as Uber
Technologies), Rasier, LLC (erroneously sued as Raiser LLC), and Rasier-CA, LLC
(erroneously sued as Raiser-CA LLC) (collectively, “Uber”) filed an answer. 
On
October 4, 2023, Defendant Byambadorj Tsendayush filed an answer. 
On October
9, 2024, Uber filed (1) a motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to request for
production of documents, set three, (2) a motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses
to special interrogatories, set three, and (3) a motion to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to form interrogatories, set three. 
The motions were set for hearing on January 2, 2025.  On November 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On December 24, 2024, Uber
filed a reply. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Uber
asks the Court to compel Plaintiff to serve responses to request for production of documents,
set three, special interrogatories, set three, and form interrogatories, set
three.  Uber also asks the Court to
impose sanctions. Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the motions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Inspection demand 
 “If a party to
whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails
to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order compelling
a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent
exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or
any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored
information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of
the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) 
B.   Interrogatories 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290.) 
DISCUSSION 
On August
12, 2024, Uber served request for production of documents, set three, special
interrogatories, set three, and form interrogatories, set three, on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff did not serve timely responses and
had not served responses by the time Uber filed these motions.  Uber now moves to compel Plaintiff to serve
responses. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motions, arguing he served verified objection-free responses to the
discovery requests on October 17, 2024. 
In
its reply, Uber admits that Plaintiff’s service of verified responses renders
the motions moot but asks the Court to sanction Plaintiff $1,860.00 for failing to serve timely responses to
the discovery requests and failing to engage in meet and confer efforts, requiring Uber to file these motions. 
When
the propounding party proceeds with a motion to compel discovery responses
despite the service of untimely responses, the trial court “has discretion to
rule on the motion.”  (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 409.)  Among the court’s options,
the court may “deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary,
in whole or in part, and just impose sanctions . . . .”  (Ibid.) 
The
Court finds that sanctions are appropriate and imposes $750.00 in sanctions on Plaintiff based on three hours of
attorney time at a reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion of Defendants Uber
Technologies, Inc. (erroneously sued as Uber Technologies), Rasier, LLC
(erroneously sued as Raiser LLC), and Rasier-CA, LLC (erroneously sued as
Raiser-CA LLC) to compel Plaintiff Jose Rodriguez’s responses to request for production
of documents, set three. 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc. (erroneously sued
as Uber Technologies), Rasier, LLC (erroneously sued as Raiser LLC), and
Rasier-CA, LLC (erroneously sued as Raiser-CA LLC) to compel Plaintiff Jose
Rodriguez’s responses to special interrogatories, set three. 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc. (erroneously sued
as Uber Technologies), Rasier, LLC (erroneously sued as Raiser LLC), and
Rasier-CA, LLC (erroneously sued as Raiser-CA LLC) to compel Plaintiff Jose
Rodriguez’s responses to form interrogatories, set three. 
The
Court GRANTS in part the request for sanctions of Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc. (erroneously sued
as Uber Technologies), Rasier, LLC (erroneously sued as Raiser LLC), and
Rasier-CA, LLC (erroneously sued as Raiser-CA LLC) and orders Plaintiff Jose
Rodriguez and his counsel to pay Defendants
Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC $750.00 by February 3,
2025. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.