 Case Number:  20STCV06784    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 18, 2020, Plaintiff Manuel Rivas (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for public employee negligence (vicarious liability—Gov.
Code, § 815.2) and negligence by common carrier. 
On
July 16, 2020, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of settlement. 
On
November 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel, Eduardo A. Brito, Esq. of LA Injury
Attorneys, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel.  The motion was set for hearing on January 2,
2025. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Eduardo A. Brito, Esq. of LA Injury Attorneys asks
to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 284 provides: 
“The attorney in an action or special proceeding may
be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination as
follows: 
1.             
“Upon the consent
of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; 
2.             
“Upon the order
of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice
from one to the other.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 284.) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties
who have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service,
electronic service, or mail. 
“(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A) The service address is the current residence or
business address of the client; or 
“(B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2) If the notice is served on the client by
electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,
it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service
address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Although
counsel’s declaration states that the moving papers were personally served on
Plaintiff, the proposed order states that Plaintiff was served by mail. 
The
Court continues the hearing and orders counsel to submit a proof of service
showing service of the moving papers and the continued hearing date on Plaintiff
no later than five days before the continued hearing. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on motion to be relieved as counsel filed by
Eduardo A. Brito, Esq. of LA Injury Attorneys to
January 21, 2025, at 1:30 p.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street
Courthouse.   No later than five days before the continued hearing, Plaintiff's counsel is to submit proof of service showing service of the moving papers and the continued hearing date on Plaintiff Manuel Rivas.
Counsel
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.