 Case Number:  22PSCV00879    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:   Hector Olavarria, Jr. v. Doe Unified  School District, et al.Defendant El  Monte Union High School District’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings TENTATIVE RULINGThe  Court DENIES the motion for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiff  is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of service of  same within five days of the Court’s order. BACKGROUNDThis  is a childhood sexual assault case based on events that occurred between 1987  and 1988 and the recent enactment of AB 218 which revived a plaintiff’s right  to pursue childhood sexual assault claims. On August 17, 2022, Plaintiff Hector  Olavarria, Jr. (Plaintiff) filed this action. Plaintiff filed the operative  Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on October 26, 2022, against Defendant El Monte  Union High School District (Defendant) and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes  of action for negligence, negligence per se, negligent hiring, retention, and  supervision of an unfit employee, negligent supervision of a minor, and  negligent failure to warn, train, or educate. On November 16, 2022, Defendant  filed an answer to the SAC. On  October 2, 2023, Defendant  filed the instant motion for judgment on the pleadings. On October 16, 2023,  Plaintiff filed an opposition.[1] On October 19, 2023, Defendant replied. LEGAL  STANDARDA defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings when the  “complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action  against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (b)(1),  (c)(1)(B)(ii).)  A motion for judgment on the pleadings tests the legal sufficiency  of the complaint and is analyzed in all material respects as though it were a  demurrer. (Wise v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2005) 132  Cal.App.4th 725, 738; Kapsimallis v. Allstate Insurance Co.  (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 667, 672.)  “A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function  as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of  the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 [citations omitted].)  PRELIMINARY ISSUES            Plaintiff’s opposition is 20 pages  long. This exceeds the 15-page limit for opposition memorandums. (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1113, subd. (d).) Plaintiff did not previously  obtain permission from the Court to file an extended opposition. (Id.,  subd. (e).) This renders Plaintiff’s opposition memorandum untimely. (Id.,  subd. (g).) Nevertheless, Defendant did not raise this issue in its reply  papers. The Court therefore exercises its discretion to still consider the  opposition but admonishes the parties to comply with the requirements of the  California Rules of Court going forward. (Id., rule 3.1300(d); Juarez  v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) MEET AND CONFERPer  Code of Civil Procedure section 439, subdivision (a), the parties were required  to meet and confer telephonically or in person before bringing this motion for  judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a).) The Court finds  Defendant’s supporting declaration regarding the parties’ meet and confer  efforts to be insufficient, as it contains no indication that the parties met  and conferred telephonically or in person as is required. (Cheung Decl., ¶ 4.) However,  inadequately meeting and conferring cannot be a basis for overruling a motion  for judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(4).) Accordingly,  the Court will still consider the motion for judgment on the pleadings but  admonishes the parties to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil  Procedure going forward. DISCUSSION            Procedural IssuesThe  Court notes that Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings based on the  First Amended Complaint (FAC) filed on September 12, 2022. (Notice, 1:24-25; Cheung  Decl., Ex. A.) However, the operative pleading in this action is the SAC, which  was filed on October 26, 2022, and to which Defendant filed an answer on  November 16, 2022. Plaintiff’s opposition tacitly notes this issue by referring  to the allegations of the SAC instead of the FAC. (Opp., 2:12-4:8.) Defendant  has moved for judgment on the pleadings based on a pleading that is no longer  operative. This by itself is a sufficient basis for denying the motion. Moreover,  even assuming for the sake of argument that Defendant intended to move for  judgment on the pleadings based on the SAC and the Court was to consider the  substance of Defendant’s motion, the Court would still deny the motion for the  reasons set forth below. Vicarious  LiabilityGovernment  Code section 815.2, subdivision (a) provides that, “[a] public entity is liable  for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the  public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would,  apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee  or his personal representative.” (Gov. Code § 815.2, subd. (a).) School personnel owe a  duty of care to students under their supervision and may be held vicariously  liable for the breach of such duty. “We conclude plaintiff's theory of vicarious liability for  negligent hiring, retention and supervision is a legally viable one. Ample case  authority establishes that school personnel owe students under their  supervision a protective duty of ordinary care, for breach of which the school  district may be held vicariously liable. [Citations.]” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union  High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 865.) Defendant  moves for judgment on the pleadings as to all of Plaintiff’s causes of action  on the grounds that Defendant cannot be vicariously liable for an employee’s  sexual molestation of a student since such misconduct is outside the scope of  employment. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff’s  causes of action against Defendant are not for the sexual molestation itself,  but rather for Defendant’s failures to protect Plaintiff from the sexual  molestation carried out by Perpetrator (as defined in the SAC, ¶ 4), whom  Plaintiff alleges to have been an employee of Defendant during the incidents in  question. (SAC, ¶¶ 4-6, 14-53.) Moreover, as C.A. above makes clear,  school personnel can be held liable for failing to protect students against the  sexual misconduct of other school personnel. (C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at pp.  865-866 [“If a supervisory or administrative employee of the school  district is proven to have breached that duty by negligently exposing plaintiff  to a foreseeable danger of molestation by his guidance counselor, resulting in  his injuries, and assuming no immunity provision applies, liability falls on  the school district under section 815.2.”]) Furthermore,  the Court otherwise finds the SAC alleges sufficient facts to demonstrate that  Defendant owed Plaintiff a duty of protective care. First, Plaintiff alleges he  was a student at a school supervised by Defendant. (SAC, ¶¶ 4, 17; Doe v. Lawndale Elementary Sch. Dist. (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 113, 125–126, quoting C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 869  [“’[A] school district and its employees have a special relationship with the  district's pupils, a relationship arising from the mandatory character of  school attendance and the comprehensive control over students exercised by  school personnel, ‘analogous in many ways to the relationship between parents  and their children.’”]) Second,  Plaintiff alleges that Perpetrator was an employee of Defendant who provides  school services to children and minors like Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶¶ 4-6, 14, 21-22.)  It is foreseeable that Defendant would have employees like Perpetrator who may  sexually abuse a child if Defendant failed to take reasonable precautions to  prevent such abuse. (Doe, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 170 [“the issue  here is not whether it is foreseeable a particular adult will sexually abuse a  student if left alone with the student… the issue is whether it is reasonably  foreseeable that organizations or entities that provide services primarily or  exclusively for children have employees who may sexually abuse a child if the  organization fails to take reasonable measures to prevent the abuse.”]) Based  on the foregoing, the Court denies Defendant’s motion for judgment on the  pleadings on the basis of lack of vicarious liability. Retroactive  Application of AB 218 Code  of Civil Procedure section 340.1 provides in pertinent part as follows: (a)  In an action for recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual  assault, the time for commencement of the action shall be within 22 years of  the date the plaintiff attains the age of majority or within five years of the  date the plaintiff discovers or reasonably should have discovered that  psychological injury or illness occurring after the age of majority was caused  by the sexual assault, whichever period expires later, for any of the following  actions: (1)  An action against any person for committing an act of childhood sexual assault. (2)  An action for liability against any person or entity who owed a duty of care to  the plaintiff, if a wrongful or negligent act by that person or entity was a  legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the  plaintiff. (3)  An action for liability against any person or entity if an intentional act by  that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that  resulted in the injury to the plaintiff…            (f)  Every plaintiff 40 years of age or older at the time the action is filed shall  file certificates of merit as specified in subdivision (g). (g)  Certificates of merit shall be executed by the attorney for the plaintiff and  by a licensed mental health practitioner selected by the plaintiff declaring,  respectively… (h)  If certificates are required pursuant to subdivision (f), the attorney for the  plaintiff shall execute a separate certificate of merit for each defendant  named in the complaint… (q)  Notwithstanding any other law, a claim for damages described in paragraphs (1)  through (3), inclusive, of subdivision (a) that has not been litigated to  finality and that would otherwise be barred as of January 1, 2020, because the  applicable statute of limitations, claim presentation deadline, or any other  time limit had expired, is revived, and these claims may be commenced within  three years of January 1, 2020. A plaintiff shall have the later of the  three-year time period under this subdivision or the time period under  subdivision (a) as amended by the act that added this subdivision. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 340.1, subds. (a), (f), (g), (h), (q).)             Government Code section 905,  subdivisions (m) and (p) provide as follows: There  shall be presented in accordance with Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 900)  and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) all claims for money or damages  against local public entities except any of the following… (m)  Claims made pursuant to Section 340.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure for the  recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault… (p) The changes  made to this section by the act that added this subdivision are  retroactive and apply to any action commenced on or after the date of enactment  of that act, and to any action filed before the date of enactment and still  pending on that date, including any action or causes of action that would have  been barred by the laws in effect before the date of enactment. (Gov. Code §  905, subds. (m), (p).)             Defendant contends that AB 218,  which revives a plaintiff’s ability to sue for childhood sexual assault claims,  is unconstitutional because it violates Article XVI, Section 6 of the  California Constitution, i.e. the “Gift Clause.” More specifically, Defendant  contends it violates the Gift Clause by imposing liability for a past  occurrence where, before the law was passed, the plaintiff had no enforceable  claim. Defendant contends Plaintiff did not have an enforceable claim against  Defendant before the passage of AB 218 because Plaintiff failed to present a  government claim or an application to present a late claim under the California  Government Tort Claims Act within a year of the alleged misconduct. The Court  disagrees.             First, the Government Tort Claims  Act was enacted in 1963. (Stats. 1963, c. 1681, p. 3268, § 1.) This clearly  predates the underlying events of 1987 and 1988. (SAC, ¶ 14.) Thus, Plaintiff  would have had an enforceable claim under Government Code section 815.2.  Defendant cites no authority for the proposition that Plaintiff’s failure to  file a claim equates to his not having had an enforceable claim at the time the  events occurred. Second,  the cases Defendant cites in support of the contention that the Gift Clause  invalidates Plaintiff’s claims are inapposite and distinguishable. In Conlin  v. Board of Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal. 17, the plaintiff had waived his  claim, and the effect of the statute would have been to pay him for that which  he had waived. (Id., at p. 23.) In Bourn v. Hart (1892) 93 Cal.  321, the state could not be sued at the time of the plaintiff’s injuries. (Id.,  at p. 327.) In Powell v. Phelan (1903) 138 Cal. 271, the law at the time  the plaintiff performed juror services did not provide for the payment of such  services. (Id., at p. 276.) In Heron v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal.  507, the Supreme Court did not consider Article XVI, Section 6 of the  California Constitution. (See generally Id.) Other  cases cited, such as Jordan v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2002) 100  Cal.App.4th 431 and Orange County Foundation v. Irvine Co. (1983) 139  Cal.App.3d 195 are similarly unavailing since they are cited primarily for the  argument that the legislature may not use public monies to compensate for an  unenforceable claim. As noted above, Plaintiff has alleged a valid claim at  this stage of the litigation under Government Code section 815.2. Perez v.  Roe 1 (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 171 is inapplicable because it was not decided  based on the Gift Clause and dealt with a prior version of Code of Civil  Procedure section 340.1 which revived claims where a prior judgment had been  entered. The Court also finds that the statute was enacted for the benefit of  both the victims of childhood sexual assault and for the public at large by  facilitating the punishment of bad actors who inflict such sexual assault.            Third,  the express language of Government Code section 905, subdivision (m) makes  clear that the claims presentation requirement would no longer be required for  childhood sexual assault claims brought under Code of Civil Procedure section  340.1, which is the basis for Plaintiff’s claims here. (Gov. Code § 905, subd.  (m).) Government Code section 905, subdivision (p) also expressly states that  it applies retroactively to the date the California Government Tort Claims Act  was enacted. (Id., § 905, subd. (p).) Code of Civil Procedure section  340.1, subdivision (q) further makes clear that any prior limitations due to  the claims presentation requirement would not bar claims like Plaintiff’s if  filed within the three-year timeframe provided thereunder. (Code Civ. Proc., §  340.1, subd. (q).) Plaintiff filed this action on August 17, 2022, and is  therefore within the relevant timeframe. Defendant’s  arguments regarding Coats v. New Haven Unified School District (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 415 are unpersuasive. While the Court agrees that Coats does  not address the Gift Clause, that is beside the point. Plaintiff cited to Coats  for the proposition that the Legislature has the power to revive claims  previously barred by a claim presentation requirement. (Id., at p. 428.)  Coats is directly on point since it addresses Code of Civil Procedure  section 340.1, subdivision (q), which, as noted above, expressly provides that  the claims presentation requirement is not required for a childhood sexual  assault claim under section 340.1. (Id.; Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd.  (q).)             Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES  the motion for judgment on the pleadings. CONCLUSIONThe  Court DENIES the motion for judgment on the pleadings.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the  Court’s ruling and file proof of service of same within five days of the  Court’s order.     