  Case Number:  24PSCV01314    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
BISHOP
AMAT MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL’s MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
is GRANTED (see CCP section 425.14, infra); leave to amend is
TBD. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from an assault on campus. Plaintiff LUKE VIOLA alleges the following
against Defendant BISHOP AMAT MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL, an entity unknown (the
“School”): On September 8, 2022, a student (Moises Escobedo) spit on and
slapped Plaintiff; the assault was recorded by other students. (Complaint ¶14.) Over a month later, Plaintiff
told his mother about the video. (¶15.)
Plaintiff alleges that the School knew of the video but kept it a secret.[1]
(Complaint p. 6.) The complaint alleges that Plaintiff endured ongoing abuse[2] and
lost his senior year.
 
On April 24,
2024, Plaintiff filed suit against the School for: 1.     Negligent Supervision 2.     Negligent Training, Hiring and/or
Supervision 3.     Assault and Battery (Does 1-50)[3]
 
On May 31,
2024, the School filed its answer. 
 
On June 3,
2024, the School filed the instant motion to strike (MTS).
 
On June 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 
On July 3,
2024, the School filed its reply.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 435(b) provides, in relevant part, that “Any party within the
time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” The Court may, upon such motion, or at
any time at its discretion “(a) [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading; and (b) [s]trike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of the state, a court
rule or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) An MTS is the proper
procedural vehicle to challenge improper remedies, including punitive damages.
(Motion p. 4, citing United Western Medical Center v. Superior Court
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 500.)
 
Discussion
 
The School
seeks to strike punitive damages on two grounds: (i) punitive damages are
precluded by Code of Civil Procedure section 425.14 and (ii) the complaint
fails to plead facts that the School is guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
As the first argument is dispositive of the issue, the court will focus its analysis
on whether Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages against a religious
organization (Complaint ¶10) without
first obtaining an order from this court is proper. For all the reasons set
forth by the School, the motion is granted. 
 
CCP section
425.14 is unambiguous in its requirements for the pleading of punitive damages
against a religious corporation. 
 
No claim for punitive or exemplary damages against a religious
corporation or religious corporation sole shall be included in a complaint or
other pleading unlesss the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading
that includes a claim for punitive or exemplary damages to be filed. The court may allow the filing of an
amended pleading claiming punitive or exemplary damages on a motion by
the party seeking the amended pleading and upon a finding, on the basis of
the supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has
established evidence which substantiates that plaintiff will meet the clear and
convincing standard of proof under Section 3294 of the Civil Code. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 425.14) (emphasis added). 
 
The legislative history of the statute reflects an intent
to afford religious organizations protection against unsubstantiated punitive
damages claims without regard to the conduct giving rise to the claim. (See
Motion pp. 4-5 citing Little Co. of Mary Hosp. v. Superior Court (2008)
162 Cal.App.4th 261, 265; Rowe v. Superior Court (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th
1711, 1721, 1723, fn. 13.) “By its terms, section 425.14's requirements must be
satisfied whenever the defendant is a religious organization, regardless of the
nature of the conduct giving rise to the plaintiff's claim.” (Little Co. of
Mary Hosp. supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at p. 269.)
 
Plaintiff does not
dispute the applicability of the foregoing authority. (Opp. p. 3:5-6 [“I was not aware of
Code of Civil Procedure 425.14.”].) Instead, Plaintiff argues that the statute
is unconstitutional, and he raises the issue to preserve it for appeal. (Opp.
p. 3:8-13 [“Students in religious schools should have a constitutional right,
without court permission, to sue for discrimination and the conduct alleged in
the complaint.”].) 
 
Here, even if the
statute is unconstitutional, Plaintiff has presented no analysis. "'Issues
do not have a life of their own: If they are not raised or supported by
argument or citation to authority, [they are] ... waived.' [internal citation
omitted.] It is not our place to construct theories or arguments to undermine
the judgment and defeat the presumption of correctness. When [a party] fails
to raise a point, or asserts it but fails to support it with reasoned argument
and citations to authority, we treat the point as waived." (Benach
v. County of Los Angeles (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 838, 852, emphasis
added.) Thus absent an analysis, the issue of the statute’s constitutionality
is waived. 
 
As for leave to amend, though failure to provide
leave to amend on the first motion generally constitutes as an abuse of
discretion, leave to
amend would likely not resolve the underlying issues involved in the complaint.
The court will hear from Plaintiff on leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the MTS punitive damages is
GRANTED; leave to amend is TBD. 


