Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV10907
Case Name: Serop Bejanian v. Jamie Gao
Plaintiff's Name: Serop Bejanian
Defendant's Name: Jamie Gao
People: Serop Bejanian, Jamie Gao
Company Names: Smash Me Baby Holdings, LLC
Places: N/A
Dates: April 17, 2024, May 16, 2023, July 10, 2023, August 25, 2023
Events: Demurrer, Motion to Strike
Money: N/A
Intentions: To determine the validity of the First Amended Cross-Complaint
Facts: The First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges that the Defendant failed to deliver assets as agreed upon in a contract.
Disputes: The Defendant demurred to the First Amended Cross-Complaint and moved to strike portions of the Cross-Complaint.
Acts: The Judge sustained the demurrer to the first cause of action with leave to amend and overruled the demurrer to the second cause of action.
Agreements: N/A
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court
Case Citations: Hahn v. Mirda, Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power, Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., SKF Farms v. Superior Court, Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, Shields v. County of San Diego, Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court
Roles: Serop Bejanian (Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant), Jamie Gao (Defendant/Cross-Complainant)
Significant Statements:
* The Judge sustained the demurrer to the first cause of action with leave to amend.
* The Judge overruled the demurrer to the second cause of action.
* The Judge granted the Motion to Strike as to the request for attorney's fees.
* The Judge denied the Motion to Strike as to the prayer for treble damages.
```

Summary:

The Judge issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer and motion to strike filed by the Defendant/Cross-Complainant. The Judge sustained the demurrer to the first cause of action for conversion with leave to amend. The Judge overruled the demurrer to the second cause of action. The Judge granted the Motion to Strike as to the request for attorney's fees. The Judge denied the Motion to Strike as to the prayer for treble damages.