 Case Number:  23STCV10907    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 17, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Serop Bejanian v. Jamie Gao
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV10907            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF FIRST AMENDED
CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Serop Bejanian
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Jamie Gao
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/16/23: Complaint filed.
·        
07/10/23: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
08/25/23: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract and fraud. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant agreed to sell all his rights and interests in a holding company
that was jointly owned by the parties but failed to deliver the assets pursuant
to the agreement. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant demurs to
the First Amended Cross-Complaint and moves to strike portions of the
Cross-Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
Cross-Defendant’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend
as to the first cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
            Cross-Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED as to the request for attorney’s fees and otherwise
DENIED as moot.
 
//
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant demurs to
the First Amended Cross-Complaint and moves to strike portions of the
Cross-Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint or cross-complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept.
of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in
a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The ultimate facts alleged in the [cross-] complaint
must be deemed true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from
those expressly alleged. (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields v. County of San Diego
(1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n demurrer, pleadings are read
liberally and allegations contained therein are assumed to be true”].) “This
rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences
favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire
Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The declaration of Matthew Eanet in
support of the demurrer states that his office sent a letter to
Cross-Complainant’s counsel on September 20, 2023 identifying the issues raised
in this demurrer, but received no response. (Declaration of Matthew Eanet ISO
Dem. ¶¶ 3-5, Exh. 1.) Cross-Defendant has therefore satisfied his statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
First Cause of Action: Conversion
 
            Cross-Defendant
demurs to the first cause of action for conversion for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            “Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015)
61Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) “‘Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for
conversion unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where
an agent accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails to make the
payment.’ A ‘generalized claim for money [is] not actionable as conversion.’” (PCO,
Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395 [internal citations omitted].) 
 
            Cross-Defendant
contends that the First Amended Cross-Complaint does not allege sufficient
facts because it merely alleges a generalized claim for money, not misappropriation
of a specific sum of which Cross-Defendant was the custodian. The
Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendant “has diverted profits from the
operations of [Smash Me Baby Holdings, LLC] or arising from the use of the
assets belonging to SMB and has retained them for himself. (FAXC ¶ 45.)
Cross-Complainant argues that this allegation is sufficient because a 50%
interest in the company is a specific, identifiable sum. Cross-Complainant
attempts to analogize this case to Mendoza v. Continental Sales to argue
that profits from a business venture are a specific sum for which a party may
maintain a conversion claim. (Mendoza v. Continental Sales (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1395.) As Cross-Defendant argues in reply, this analogy is
misplaced because Mendoza concerned crop consignment agreements in which
a commission merchant sold crops entrusted to it and thereafter kept a
specific, definite sum of the sale proceeds in excess of the agreement. (Mendoza,
supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at 1405.) The Cross-Complaint does not allege such a
definite sum, but rather makes a general claim for uncertain profits. 
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Uncertainty
 
            Cross-Defendant
also demurs to the cross-complaint in its entirety as uncertain. 
 
Demurrers¿for uncertainty are disfavored,
because discovery can be used for clarification, and they apply only where
defendants cannot reasonably determine what issues or claims are stated.¿(Chen
v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822; Khoury v. Maly's of Cal.,
Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) If the complaint is sufficiently
comprehensible that Defendant can reasonably respond, the complaint is not uncertain.
(Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841,
848 n.3.)  
Cross-Defendant
argues that the Cross-Complaint is uncertain because it conflates two different
corporate entities regarding dividend distributions, does not specify the terms
of the Asset Purchase Agreement at issue, does not set forth the circumstances
of dividend distributions, and does not specify damages. "The objection of
uncertainty does not go to the failure to allege sufficient facts." (Brea
v. McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) These arguments, which go to
the failure to allege sufficient facts, are not sufficient to demonstrate
uncertainty.
 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Leave to Amend
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a party “has pleaded the general set of facts upon which
his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since the cross-complainant should not “be
deprived of his right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings
were defective for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152
Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on
the cross-complainant to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their
pleadings to state their claims against a cross-defendant.  (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend
constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on its face it is
incapable of amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the
rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given."
(Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
            Here, Cross-Complainant has not shown how the
Cross-Complaint might be amended to cure this defect. However, in deference to
the policy strongly in favor of amendment, the Court will exercise its
discretion to grant leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the first cause
of action and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike
Portions of First Amended Cross-Complaint
            Cross-Defendant
moves to strike portions of the First Amended Cross-Complaint pertaining to
treble damages and attorney’s fees. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
The declaration of Matthew Eanet in
support of the motion states that his office sent a letter to
Cross-Complainant’s counsel on September 20, 2023 identifying the issues raised
in this demurrer, but received no response. (Declaration of Matthew Eanet ISO
Mot. ¶¶ 3-5, Exh. 1.) Cross-Defendant has therefore satisfied his statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
Analysis
 
            Cross-Defendant
moves to strike portions of the First Amended Cross-Complaint pertaining to treble
damages and attorney’s fees.
 
            With
respect to the prayer for treble damages, Cross-Complainant argues in
opposition that this request is justified by the first cause of action for
conversion. As the Court has sustained the demurrer to that cause of action
with leave to amend, the motion to amend is moot as to this prayer for relief and
must be denied on that basis.
 
            As to the
request for attorney’s fees, Cross-Defendant argues that the Cross-Complaint
discloses no basis for attorney’s fees. Such fees are only recoverable when
authorized by contract, statute, or other law. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1033.5(a)(10).) In opposition, Cross-Complainant argues that this request is
“premature.” It is not. Nothing in the Cross-Complaint demonstrates entitlement
to attorney’s fees, and Cross-Complainant offers no argument demonstrating why
those fees are proper. The request for attorney’s fees must therefore be
stricken.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED as to the request for attorney’s
fees and otherwise DENIED as moot. 
 
//
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint
is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the first cause of action and otherwise
OVERRULED. 
 
            Cross-Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED as to the request for attorney’s fees and otherwise
DENIED as moot.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 17, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part. 