 Case Number:  23STCV13260    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 17, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Le Cui v. HicksLander LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV13260            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT (x3)

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendant Jerry Mao in pro per; (2) Defendant Jack
Chao in pro per; (3) Defendant Michael Perry in pro per.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2)(3) Plaintiff
Lei Cui
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            Plaintiff filed this action on June 9, 2023, alleging breach
of contract in connection with Defendants’ failure to repay and guarantee a loan
agreement codified in two promissory notes dated March 5, 2020, and June 7,
2020. 
 
Defendants demur to the second,
third, and fourth causes of action in the Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Jerry Mao’s Demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            Defendant
Jack Chao’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            Defendant
Mike Perry’s Demurrer is stricken as improper. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Complaint (Jerry Mao)
 
            Defendant
Jerry Mao demurs to the second, third, and fourth causes of action.
 
//
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
            The
Declaration of Jerry Mao attached to the demurrer states that he attempted to
meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel via email on August 31, 2023, but the
parties could not resolve this dispute. (Declaration of Jerry Mao ISO Dem. ¶¶ 3-4.)
Defendant has satisfied his statutory meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Intentional Misrepresentation
 
            Defendant
Jerry Mao demurs to the second cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. 
 
The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of its falsity;
(c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  
 
            Defendant
first argues that the terms of the June 7, 2020 promissory note are unambiguous
and that, since the note is fully integrated, Plaintiff cannot contradict the
note by arguing, in violation of the Parol Evidence Rule, that Defendant
HicksLanders, LLC falsely represented that it had pledged five airplanes as
collateral to secure the loan. The interpretation of the contract has no
bearing on the question of whether Defendant made a tortious misrepresentation
in the context of its negotiation or execution. That said, the Complaint
alleges that Defendants falsely represented that they had pledged five
airplanes as collateral to secure repayment of the June 7, 2020 promissory note,
when they had not done so. (Complaint ¶ 67.) However, as Defendant argues, the
June 7, 2020 promissory note appears to contain an express term to this effect.
(Complaint Exh. G.) In other words, Defendant promised to pledge five airplanes
as collateral, and thereafter executed a loan contract by which the planes were
pledged. 
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, argues
that there is ambiguity between the English and Chinese versions of the note as
to when the “securities,” i.e., the aircraft, will be “processed.” Leaving
aside the impropriety of offering extrinsic evidence in the context of a
demurrer, this contention misses the point: the execution of the Note is the
act which pledges the aircraft as security for the loan. The Court therefore
finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for intentional misrepresentation because she has failed to
allege a representation that was false. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer
to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Third Cause of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
 
            Defendant
also demurs to the third cause of action for negligent misrepresentation on the
same grounds as the second cause of action. Accordingly, for the reasons stated
above, Defendant’s Demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Breach of Guaranty Contract
 
            Defendant
Mao demurs to the fourth cause of action for breach of the guaranty contract
for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, a plaintiff must plead the contract, the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, Defendant’s breach,
and finally the resulting damage. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation
Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.)
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot prevail on this cause of action because the
underlying June 7, 2020 promissory note charged excessive interest in violation
of the California Constitution. The California
Constitution prohibits loans with interest rates exceeding 10% per year, with
certain exemptions not at issue here. (Cal. Const., art. XV, § 1.) The
Complaint alleges that the parties initially agreed to a $250,000 loan at 18%
interest per annum, but before executing the note agreed to adjust the loan to the
provision of $285,000 at 3.5088% interest.
(Complaint ¶ 39.) The copy of the note attached to the Complaint does not
clearly support this allegation, but also is so unclear and confusing that it
cannot be construed as an evident contradiction of the allegations in the
Complaint. The first page of the note states in typewritten text that it
is a loan for $285,000 (in numbers) or two hundred fifty thousand US dollars
(in writing) at 3.5088% interest. (Complaint Exh. G. p.1.) However, that first
page contains numerous handwritten notes in black pen that appear to adjust
the principal down to either $250,000 or $253,000 and the interest up
to 18%. (Id.) But the typewritten payment schedule on the second
page of the Note, specifying eleven monthly payments of $3,750 plus a lump sum
payment of $253,750, does not reflect the typewritten terms of the loan but
rather the handwritten loan of $250,000 with an 18 percent interest rate. (Id.
p.2.) The guaranty agreement contains similar revisions, adjusting the
principal sum down from $295,000 to either $250,000 or $253,000. (Complaint
Exh. G. p. 8.)  Taking Plaintiff’s
Complaint and attached exhibits together, it is not clear whether Plaintiff
seeks to recover interest at the rate of 3.5088% or 18% or what she alleges the
interest terms to be on the parties’ agreement. 
The problem here is a stark lack of clarity in both Plaintiff’s allegations
in the Complaint and the heavily revised promissory note attached to the
Complaint.  As a result, the Court cannot
discern the thrust of Plaintiff’s claim much less find that the confusing
attached documents should dictate the terms of the parties’ arrangement, in the
absence of explanatory parol evidence that may not be considered on demurrer.  As a result, the Court will sustain the
demurrer for uncertainty.
 
            The Court
observes, however, that even if it were to conclude that the parties’ agreement
included a usurious interest rate, that fact would not undermine Plaintiff’s
contract claim against Defendants, because he could still sue to recover the
principal amount of the loan.  (Hardwick
v. Wilcox (2017) 11 Cal. App. 5th 975, 979 [“When a loan is usurious, the
creditor is entitled to repayment of the principal sum only. He is entitled to
no interest whatsoever.” (citations omitted)].) 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Mao’s Demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            With
respect to the second and third causes of action, Plaintiff has not shown how
the Complaint might be amended to cure this defect. However, in light of the
strong presumption in favor of amendment when no opportunity has been provided,
the Court will exercise its discretion to permit leave to amend as to these
claims. 
 
As to the fourth cause of action, Plaintiff
has not shown how the Complaint might be amended to cure the confusing nature
of the allegations supporting this cause of action.  For example, it is not clear whether
Plaintiff is seeking to enforce a loan contract with an 18 percent interest
rate or a 3.5088 percent that is plainly below the 10% limit set by the
California Constitution. What is more, the errors and handwritten revisions in
the promissory note raise questions regarding their origin and the timing of
their addition to the note. Since Plaintiff alleges that the parties agreed to
adjust the interest on the note down to 3.5088% but does not explain whether
this agreement was intended incorporated into the note and other documents, the
Court finds that Plaintiff should be presented an opportunity to amend the
pleadings to clarify the specific terms of the contract he seeks to enforce,
including the interest rate that governs that contract (according to
Plaintiff), and to address by allegation the meaning of the handwritten changes
to the Note. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Jerry Mao’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Demurrer to Complaint (Jack Chao)
 
            Defendant
Jack Chao demurs to the second and third causes of action in the Complaint on
the same basis as Defendant Mao. Accordingly, for the reasons stated above,
Defendant Chao’s Demurrer is likewise SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.
 
Demurrer to Complaint (Mike Perry)
 
            Defendant
Perry was defaulted on September 5, 2023. As a party in default, Defendant
Perry is not entitled to demur to the Complaint. (E.g. Forbes v. Cameron
Petroleums (1978) 83 Cal.App.3d 257, 262.) 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Perry’s Demurrer to the Complaint is stricken as improper. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendant
Jerry Mao’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            Defendant
Jack Chao’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            Defendant
Mike Perry’s Demurrer is stricken as improper. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 17, 2024                        ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part. 