  Case Number:  24STCP01361    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, October 16, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCP01361
CASE NAME:                        ABC Funding, LLC v. Nicholas Gross
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Applicable.  
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

MOVING PARTY:                 Respondent Nicholas Gross
OPPOSING PARTY:             Petitioner ABC Funding, LLC
PROCEEDING:                      Petition to Vacate
Arbitration Award
OPPOSITION:                        29 July 2024
SUPP. OPPOSITION:             4 October 2024
 
REPLY:                                  9
August 2024
SUPP. REPLY:                       11 October 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Respondent’s motion to vacate the
arbitration award is denied. 

                                                                                                                                                

 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner ABC Funding, LLC
 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Respondent Nicholas Gross
PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Confirm
Arbitration Award
OPPOSITION:                        28 June 2024
REPLY:                                  None
Filed. 
 
TENTATIVE:                         Petitioner’s Motion to confirm the
arbitration award is granted. 

 

                                                                                                
Background
 
On April 29, 2024,
ABC Funding LLC (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award.
Nicholas Gross (“Respondent”) moves to vacate the arbitration award. On June
28, 2024, Respondent filed a Response to the Petition and a Cross-Petition to
Vacate the Arbitral Award.  The
arbitration occurred before the International Court of Arbitration of the International
Chamber of Commerce (“ICC”) before Arbitrator David Huebner (“Arbitrator”). 
The arbitration arose
due to a dispute about a document titled “Guaranty” purportedly entered by the
parties to this arbitration and dated as of September 25, 2020 (the
“Guaranty”). On its face, the Guaranty references and guarantees certain
obligations arising under a Financing Agreement dated September 25, 2020, and
subsequent modifications thereto. 
 
The arbitration
hearing took place between November 27 and 29, 2024.  On April 16, 2024, the Arbitrator issued the
Final Award (“Award”). 
 
Petitioner now moves
to confirm the Arbitration Award. Respondent opposes the Motion and moves to
vacate the Award. After hearing the arguments of counsel on September 23, 2024,
the Court continued the hearing and requested supplemental briefing on the
issues of waiver and the mandatory forum selection clause. The matter is now
before the court. 
 
petition
to vacate arbitration award[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
CCP § 1286.6 provides that the court “shall correct the
award and confirm it as corrected if the court determines that:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a)
There was an evident miscalculation of figures or an evident mistake in the
description of any person, thing or property referred to in the award;¿ 
(b) The
arbitrators exceeded their powers but the award may be corrected without
affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted; or¿ 
(c) The
award is imperfect in a matter of form, not affecting the merits of the
controversy. 
 
CCP § 1286.2(a) provides that the court shall vacate an
arbitration award if it determines any of the following:¿¿ 
 
1) the award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other
undue means;¿ 
2) the arbitrator was corrupt;¿ 
3) the arbitrator's misconduct substantially prejudiced a
party's rights;¿ 
4) the arbitrator exceeded his power and the award cannot
be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision;¿ 
5) the arbitrator refused to hear material evidence, to
postpone the hearing, or acted contrary to the provisions of the code
concerning arbitration;¿ and 
6) the arbitrator was subject to disqualification but did
not disqualify himself.¿ 
¿¿ 
This statute provides the exclusive grounds upon which a
court may review private arbitration awards. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase
(1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 26-28 (Moncharsh).)¿ A court may not set aside an
arbitration award even if the arbitrator made an error of law because the
parties have agreed to bear the risk of an erroneous decision in return for a
quick, inexpensive, and conclusive resolution to their dispute.¿ (Schlessinger
v. Rosenfeld, Meyer & Susman (1995) 40 Cal. App. 4th 1096, 1109; Moncharsh,
at p. 11-12.)¿ Courts may not review the merits of the controversy, the
validity of the arbitrator's reasoning, or the sufficiency of the evidence. (Jordan
v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 431, 443.)¿ An
arbitrator's decision is not generally reviewable for errors of fact or law,
even if the error appears on the face of the award and causes substantial
injustice. (Ibid.) This ensures that the arbitrator’s decision is the
end, not the beginning, of the dispute. (Ibid.)¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
            A.        Factual
Background
 
As part of a Financing Agreement
(“Financing Agreement”), affiliates of Petitioner, known as  Summit, loaned $35.5 million to ReKTGlobal LLC
(“ReKT LLC”), a subsidiary of ReKT Global, Inc. (“ReKT Inc.”). (Award, ¶¶
138-140.) On September 25, 2020, ReKT issued warrants that entitled the Lenders
to purchase a certain number of shares of ReKT. (Id., ¶ 141.) The
warrants are referenced in the Financing Agreement. (Id; see also White
Decl., Ex. 28 [Financing Agreement, §§ 1.01, 5.01(d)(xiii)].) As a condition to
completing the financing, Respondent agreed to act as Personal Guaranty for the
loan. (Award, ¶¶ 142, 145-146; see also Bobroff Decl., Ex. 2 [Guaranty]; White
Decl., Ex. 30 [Guaranty].) 
 
When ReKT LLC failed to fulfill certain
obligations, Petitioner moved to enforce the terms of the Guaranty through
arbitration, pursuant to the arbitration clause in the Guaranty. At issue was
whether the warrants referenced in the Financial Agreement which entitled
Summit/Petitioner under certain conditions to either obtain ReKT Inc. shares in
exchange for its warrants or to exercise an option, known as “put”, the
required ReKT Inc. to pay Summit the fair market value of the shares that the
warrants represented. (Award, ¶¶ 148, 180; Bobroff Decl., Ex. 6 [Warrant PW-5
issued by ReKT Inc. to Summit, § 3].) On April 16, 2024, the Arbitrator issued
a final award (“Award”) in favor of Petitioner and against Respondent in the
sum of approximately $35 million. (Award, ¶¶ 195, 301-302, 307.) 
 
Respondent
moves to vacate the arbitration award on four grounds: (1) the Arbitrator
exceeded his authority by compelling Respondent to arbitrate a non-arbitrable
claim of fraud in the execution; (2) the Arbitrator resolved conflicting forum
selection provisions when such questions should have been decided by a court
rather than an arbitrator, (3) the Arbitrator abused his discretion by refusing
to postpone the hearing in favor of pending state court litigation, thus
prejudicing Respondent; and (4) the Arbitrator exceeded his powers by ignoring
Petitioner’s failure to fulfill a condition precedent to any right to
arbitrate. The court examines each contention in turn. 
 
B.        Arbitrator Did Not Exceed His Authority in
Deciding the Issue of Jurisdiction 
 
At the commencement of
arbitration, Respondent submitted to the Arbitrator objections to the Arbitrator
and the ICC jurisdiction to hear the dispute by asserting there was no
agreement to arbitrate because the Guaranty was procured through fraud in the
execution, thus making the Guaranty void ab initio. (White Decl., Ex.
12, 16, ¶ 17.) 
 
On May 9, 2023, the Arbitrator
ruled on the Respondent’s objection to jurisdiction. (White Decl., Ex.
16.)  Section 11 of the Guaranty states
that New York law applied to the dispute. (Attachment 4(b) to Petition
[Guaranty]; Respondents Ex. 2 [Guaranty]; see also Award, ¶ 31.) The Arbitrator
found that the language of section 11 of the Guaranty was “detailed and
unambiguous” but despite this finding Respondent insisted that California law
governed his jurisdictional objection. (Award, ¶¶ 31-34; White Decl., Ex. 16, ¶
33.)
 
The Arbitrator concluded that there was
no meaningful distinction between New York and California authorities and under
the authorities reviewed the Arbitrator he was “unpersuaded that a mere
allegation of fraud in the inducement or execution of a contract invalidates an
agreement to arbitrate embedded therein or necessarily propels a dispute into
state or federal court.” (White Decl., Ex. 
16, ¶¶ 36, 47.) 
 
After fully considering the legal
authorities submitted by the parties, the Arbitrator was unpersuaded by
Respondent’s core contention that a mere allegation of fraud in the inducement
or in the execution of a contract invalidates per se an agreement to
arbitrate embedded therein and necessarily propels a dispute into state or
federal court. If such were the case, all arbitration agreements would be
subject to unilateral repudiation by a party who, at the time a dispute arises,
sees advantage in court proceedings. The Arbitrator reads no case presented by
Respondent supporting such an expansive proposition, particularly in a
situation, such as presented here, in which the record is devoid of any
evidence, allegation, or even vague hit of disagreement, confusion, or
deception as to the dispute resolution provision at issue.
 
(Award,
¶ 44.) 
 
Relying on Rent-A-Center,
West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 70-71, the Arbitrator severed out
the arbitration clause from the Guaranty and found that there was no allegation
of fraud in the execution of the arbitration clause itself because Respondent
did not dispute that on September 8, 2020, he had signed an earlier version of
the Guaranty that contained the same abirritation clause. (White Decl. Ex. 16,
¶¶ 45-48; (Award, ¶¶ 41-42, 144.) While Respondent alleged that the Guaranty
signed in late September 2020 was modified as to the loan term and certain
definitions in the financing agreement referenced in the Guaranty, no fraud in
the execution was alleged as the arbitration clause itself.  (Award, ¶¶ 45-48, 54-56, 181-197.) 
 
Despite the language of Section
11, Respondent continues to assert that California law governs the Guaranty and
under California law, the whole dispute is not subject to arbitration if fraud
in the execution is alleged. “California law distinguishes between fraud in the
‘execution’ or ‘inception’ of a contract and fraud in the ‘inducement’ of a
contract.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 415.) In Rosenthal, the California Supreme Court concluded
that “California law distinguishes between fraud in the “execution” or
“inception” of a contract and fraud in the “inducement” of a contract.” (Id.,
at p. 415.) This is because a claim for fraud in the execution goes “to the
validity of the making of the arbitration clause itself.” (Duffens v.
Valenti (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 434, 449.) 

Respondents
assert that because he alleged fraud in the execution of the Guaranty, a court
should have decided the issue of validity of the agreement to arbitrate.
Section 12 of the Guaranty contains the arbitration clause which provides
states: 
 
            Section
12.      Dispute Resolution.
If any dispute arises under this Guaranty which cannot otherwise be amicably
resolved between under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of
Commerce by one or more arbitrators appointed in accordance with the said
Rules. The place of arbitration shall be Los Angeles, California. The
arbitrators will make a decision in writing, but need not provide a statement
of reasons unless requested by the Individual Guarantor and/or either Agent.
All matters relating to the arbitration, including any final award, shall be considered
confidential pursuant to section 12.19 of the Financing Agreement. The decision
of the arbitrators shall be final and binding, and any award of the arbitrators
may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. The Individual Guarantor
and the Agents each agree that any disputes or claims arising out of or in
connection with this Guaranty and/or the Financing Agreement, including disputes
or claims about their subject matter or formation, and including noncontractual
disputes or claims, may, at the option of the Agents, be made or consolidated
in a single arbitration.
 
(Guaranty, § 12.) 
 
Respondent asserts that even if
the arbitration clause contained a delegation clause, the Arbitrator exceeded
his authority by usurping the court’s role in deciding if a valid agreement to
arbitrate exists, even when a delegation clause confers arbitrability to the Arbitrator.
“Notwithstanding a provision that clearly and unmistakably
delegates arbitrability issues to the arbitrator, if a party ‘is claiming that
it never agreed to the arbitration clause at all—e.g., if it is claiming
forgery or fraud in the factum—then the court must consider that claim.’” (Trinity
v. Life Ins. Co. of North America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 1111, 1122.) “If
the party's challenge is directed to the agreement as a whole--even if it
applies equally to the delegation clause--the delegation clause is severed out
and enforced; thus, the arbitrator, not the court, will determine whether the
agreement is enforceable.” (Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 1551, 1559–1560; see also Rent-A-Center,
supra, 561 U.S.
at pp. 70-71.) 
 
The
court finds that the arbitrator did not exceed his authority in deciding the
issue of arbitration because the Respondent failed to show that New York law
distinguishes between fraud in the execution and fraud in the inducement claims
in the same way California law does, thus requiring a court to decide whether a
valid arbitration agreement exists. Respondent fails to show that California
law applies to the interpretation of the arbitration clause and under federal
and New York law, the arbitrator exceeded his authority in deciding issues of
arbitrability despite the provisions of Section 12 and the incorporation of the
ICC rules.  Moreover, because the Parties
submitted the question of jurisdiction to the Arbitrator, and because the Respondent
presented the objection based on jurisdiction to the Arbitrator, the Arbitrator
had the authority to rule on the issue of jurisdiction. Even after the
objection was overruled, the Respondent proceeded with the arbitration without
seeking judicial intervention. Consequently, the Arbitrator was right in
concluding the Respondent “waived” any argument that a court in the United
States rather than the ICC Court should decide the issue of arbitrability
because “Respondent waived this argument by
expressly agreeing to submit the question of jurisdiction to the Arbitrator[.]”
(Award, ¶ 17.) 
 
                                    a)
        Respondent’s Conduct Supports the
Finding of Waiver 
 
Respondent
contends that because he objected to the Arbitrator’s jurisdiction, he did not
waive the right to challenge the Arbitrator’s jurisdiction even if he
participated in the arbitration. “There is no risk that
the jurisdictional issue will be waived by participation in the arbitration as
long as the jurisdictional objection is raised prior to participation.” (International Film Investors v. Arbitration
Tribunal of Directors Guild (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 699, 706.)
While the court agrees that submitting objections based on jurisdiction to the Arbitrator
does not constitute waiver of the issue of jurisdiction, the Respondent’s
subsequent conduct after the Arbitrator overruled the objection manifests waiver
of the right to challenge the Arbitrator’s jurisdiction. (See Douglass v. Serenivision, Inc. (2018)
20 Cal.App.5th 376, 390 (Douglass).) 
 
In
First Options of
Chicago, Inc. v. Kaplan (1995) 514 U.S. 938, the United States
Supreme Court found there was no agreement to arbitrate when the Kaplan’s filed
“a written memorandum objecting to the arbitrators' jurisdiction.” (Id.,
at p. 946.) However, the Kaplan’s participation was limited solely to filing
objections to the arbitrator’s jurisdiction and is inapposite to the facts in
this action wherein the Respondent continued to consent to the Arbitrator’s
jurisdiction long after the Arbitrator had overruled Respondent’s objection to
jurisdiction. (White Decl., Ex. 16.) 


Similarly,
in Keller Construction Co. v. Kashani (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 222, the
party’s participation was limited to appearing before the arbitrator in order
to object to the arbitration “on the ground that he was not personally subject
to the arbitration agreement, and then left the proceeding without any further
participation.” (Id., at pp. 224-225.) For this reason, the appellate court
found that the party’s “limited participation in the arbitration did not
constitute a waiver of his right to later contest the arbitrator's jurisdiction
over him.” (Id, at p. 225, fn. 2.) Unlike the case above, the
Respondent did not participate in the arbitration solely to object to the
Arbitrator’s jurisdiction. The Respondent fully participated in the arbitration
without further objection. 
 
The
facts of this case are more akin to Fidelity
& Cas. Co. of New York v. Dennis (1964) 229 Cal.App.2d 541 (Fidelity).  There, at the arbitration proceeding,
“counsel for appellant again argued the matter of the arbitrator's jurisdiction
and was overruled.” (Id., at p. 543.) “Reserving the right thereafter to
raise the question of jurisdiction, counsel then participated in the
arbitration hearing which culminated in an award in favor of respondent.” (Ibid.)
 The party’s continued participation in
the arbitration proceeding despite the objection to jurisdiction being
overruled, was sufficient for the Fidelity Court to find waiver of the right
to challenge jurisdiction of the arbitrator before the court. “Having thus
submitted that issue for determination by the arbitrator, and having lost on
the issue so submitted, its subsequent protests at the hearing came too late
and its ‘reservation’ of jurisdiction at that time was fruitless because there
then remained nothing to reserve.” (Id., at p. 544.) 


Respondent
would have this Court find that because he raised objections to the
arbitrator’s jurisdiction at the initiation of arbitration, the court should
disregard Respondent’s subsequent conduct and find there was no waiver on the
issue of jurisdiction. Such a proposition is in contrast to holdings in Douglass
and Fidelity. In Douglass, Douglass asserted the contract at
issue, including the arbitration clause, was unenforceable because the subject
matter of the contract was unlawful. (Douglass, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th
at p. 382.) Nevertheless, Douglass informed the arbitrator that he was
appearing voluntarily and submitting to the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator. (Ibid.)
Before the evidentiary hearing was held, Douglass informed the arbitrator that
he was terminating his voluntary appearance and would make no further appearances
in the arbitration proceedings. (Id.) The Arbitrator proceeded to issue
a written order against Douglass and “ruled that Douglass had
consented to having the arbitrator decide the question of his own jurisdiction
by participating in the arbitration proceeding for months” and “that the
arbitrator had jurisdiction over Serenivision's claim because Douglass signed
the Insertion Order[.]” (Id., at p. 383.) 
 
The Douglass
court noted that while consent to arbitration “will not be inferred solely from
a party's conduct of appearing in the arbitral forum to object to the
arbitrator's exercise of jurisdiction” “consent to arbitration (or to the
arbitrator's power to decide arbitrability) will be inferred from a party's
conduct of litigating an issue up to the point of submitting it for decision in
the arbitral forum, at least if the party does so without objection.” (Douglas,
supra, Cal.App.5th at p. 388.) The record before the court reflects that
on May 9, 2023, the Arbitrator overruled the Respondent's objection to the
issue of jurisdiction, but the Respondent continued to arbitrate the dispute
despite the objection being overruled. “However, where, as here, the objection
is raised, the arbitrability issue is argued along with the merits, and the
case is submitted to the arbitrator for decision, it becomes readily apparent
that the parties have consented to allow the arbitrator to decide the entire
controversy, including the question of arbitrability.” (George Day Const. Co., Inc. v. United Broth. of Carpenters and Joiners
of America, Local 354 (9th Cir. 1984) 722 F.2d 1471, 1475.) 
 
In
Kemper v. Schardt (1983) 143
Cal.App.3d 557, the appellate court found it was too late for the appellant to
challenge the arbitrator’s jurisdiction when “[i]n subjecting his person to
arbitration and in participating in the arbitration process both through the
presentation of witnesses testifying on his behalf and through his own direct
testimony, appellant in effect submitted to the arbitrator's authority to
decide both the substantive issue regarding liability for payments and the
issue of whether there was a valid arbitration agreement.” (Id., at p.
560.) “Consequently, he cannot now be heard to complain that the arbitrator was
without jurisdiction to determine the issues because fraud vitiated the
arbitration clause in the agreement.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here,
despite knowing that the Arbitrator had overruled his objections to
jurisdiction, the Respondent proceeded to fully participate in arbitration
and took full advantage of the arbitration forum. Unlike the party in Douglass,
the Respondent did not wait until the evidentiary hearing to
inform the Arbitrator he was withdrawing from arbitration. Instead, the Respondent
waited for the arbitration proceeding to conclude and for the Arbitrator to
issue an award on the merits to raise the issue of jurisdiction again. There
are no facts before the court to show that after the Arbitrator overruled Respondent’s
objection to the issue of jurisdiction on May 9, 2023, the Respondent continued
to object to the arbitrator’s jurisdiction and never consented to the Arbitrator’s
jurisdiction. Given the Respondent’s silence, failure to seek a stay of the
arbitration proceeding to challenge the issue of jurisdiction before a court,
and the Respondent’s subsequent participation in the arbitration, the
Arbitrator was correct in finding that the Respondent had waived the issue of
jurisdiction. (Award, ¶ 17.)
 
The
Douglass Court found that a party would waive resolution of issues,
including the arbitrator’s jurisdiction, by their conduct. (Douglass, supra,
20 Cal.App.5th
at p. 389.) The “relevant factors include whether: (1) ‘the
party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate’ because he ‘substantially
invoked’ ‘the litigation machinery’ of” of the arbitration forum, “(2) the
party ‘has unreasonably delayed’” “and (3) the party has acted in ‘bad faith’
or with ‘willful misconduct.’ ” (Id., at p. 390, see also St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of
California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187 [overruled in part by Quach v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (2024)
16 Cal.5th 562 (Quash) [“To establish waiver, there is no requirement
that the party opposing enforcement of the contractual right demonstrate
prejudice or otherwise show harm resulting from the waiving party's
conduct.”].)

The record before the court supports the finding that by
clear and convincing evidence, the Respondent knew he could challenge the
Arbitrator's jurisdiction by submitting the question of arbitrability to the
court, as evidenced by the submission of his objections to the arbitrator and
raising the objection in his answer and asserting that only a court should
decide the issue of arbitrability. (White Decl., Ex. 12, 14, 16; Award, 13.7.) 
 
The
Respondent waived his right to challenge the Arbitrator’s jurisdiction after
the Arbitrator overruled the objection to jurisdiction because the Respondent
did not seek judicial review of the issue of jurisdiction and raised no more
objections to the issue of jurisdiction. The Respondent’s conduct after his
objection was overruled supports the finding that he did not object to the
Arbitrator’s jurisdiction and consented to the Arbitrator’s exercising
jurisdiction of the dispute by submitting the
questions regarding the merits of the dispute to the Arbitrator, availing
himself of the Arbitrator’s authority to issue orders, and fully participated
in the arbitration proceeding by presenting evidence, witness, and his own
testimony so that the Arbitrator could make findings of fact, decide issues of
law, and rule on the merits of the dispute. (Award, ¶¶ 57-127.) “[A] party who
questions the validity of the arbitration agreement may not proceed with
arbitration and preserve the issue for later consideration by the court after
being unsuccessful in the arbitration.” (Bayscene Resident Negotiators v.
Bayscene Mobilehome Park (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 119, 129.) Accordingly, the
Respondent substantially invoked the litigation machinery of the arbitration
forum. 
 
It was not until Petitioner sought to confirm the
Award, that Respondent sought judicial review of the issue of arbitrability by
requesting that the Award be vacated because the Arbitrator lacked jurisdiction
to rule on the dispute. The “intentional relinquishment or abandonment of the right may be
proved by evidence of words expressing an intent to relinquish the right or of
conduct that is so inconsistent with an intent to enforce the contractual right
as to lead a reasonable factfinder to conclude that the party had abandoned
it.” (Quash, supra, 16 Cal.5th at p. 584.)
 
To find that the
Respondent may initially object to the Arbitrator’s jurisdiction but after the
objection is overruled, subsequently fully participate in the arbitration without
further objection would allow the Respondent to “‘both to have his cake and eat
it too.’ ” (Douglass,
supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p. 389.) “A claimant may not voluntarily submit
his claim to arbitration, await the outcome, and if the decision is
unfavorable, challenge the authority of the arbitrator to act.” (University
of San Francisco Faculty Assn. v. University of San Francisco (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 942, 954.)
 
Based on the record before the court, the court agrees
with the Arbitrator that the Respondent waived the right to challenge the
Arbitrator’s jurisdiction. Moreover,
to vacate an arbitration award based on the Arbitrator exceeding his authority,
the court must also find that “the award cannot be corrected without affecting
the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted.” (CCP, § 1286.2(a)(4).)
For reasons articulated below, the court finds that even if the Arbitrator
exceeded his jurisdiction, there are no facts to support the finding that the
Arbitrator’s findings of fact and conclusions of law were erroneous, and the
Award cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision. 
 
            C.        The
Record Before the Court Does Not Support the Finding of Fraud in the Execution
of the Guaranty or the Arbitration Clause 
 
Even
if the Respondent did not waive the right to challenge the Arbitrator’s jurisdiction,
the record before the court does not support the finding that the Award should
be vacated based on fraud in the execution of the Guaranty. 
 
First,
the court agrees with the findings of the Arbitrator that there was no fraud in
the execution of the arbitration clause because the Respondent
did not challenge the validity of the earlier signed Guaranty that contained an
identical arbitration clause requiring arbitration before the ICC court.
(Award, ¶¶ 41-42, 144.) Furthermore, while Respondent alleged that the Guaranty
signed in late September 2020 was modified as to the loan term and certain
definitions in the Financing Agreement referenced in the Guaranty, no fraud in
the execution was alleged as the arbitration clause itself.  (Award, ¶¶ 36-38, 45-48, 54-56,
181-197.)  Respondent’s allegations of
fraud did not concern the arbitration clause, but other provisions in the
Guaranty related to the definitions of “Obligations” and “Loan Documents” that were
defined in the Financing Agreement but not the Guaranty. (Id., ¶ 38.) Respondent
asserted that he was misled because he was not made aware that the definitions
of “Obligations and “Loan Documents” had materially changed and he was not
shown the final version of the Financial Agreement before being asked to sign
the Guaranty. (Id., ¶¶ 38-40.) 
 
Second,
the court agrees that the record before the court does not support a finding of
fraud in the execution of the Guaranty as a whole. Respondent had executed at least
one personal guaranty before and understood the purpose, significance, and
operation of a guaranty. (Award, ¶ 187(b).) Either on September 8 or September
11, Respondent read and sought advice on the Guaranty and Financing Agreement,
thus understanding the interrelationship of both documents “well before the
operative version was later executed (as of September 25, 2020).” (Id.,
¶ 187(e)). Respondent testified that he knew that the drafts were not “final”
and would subsequently be revised but he did not read or ask to review the
documents or share the document with his lawyer. (Id., ¶ 187(l).) 
 
The
Respondent was a member of ReKTGlobal’s three-person board of directors. (¶
187(a).) There were no facts to support the finding that Amish Shah, another
Director of ReKTGloal, made any representations to Respondent about the
Guaranty. (Id., ¶¶ 136, 187 subd. (a),(m), (o), (p). Amish Shah did not
affirmatively advise the Respondent as to his obligations, nor did the Respondent
ask Sha for an explanation. (Id., ¶ 137(m)(o)(p). Patrick Murphy of
Summit informed Respondent of the final changes and confirmed with Respondent
that he could affix Respondent’s signature to the updated Guaranty on September
24, 2010. (Id., 187 subd. (q), (r).) 
 
On
September 25, 2020, ReKTGlobal’s attorneys presented Respondent with a final
version of the Financing Agreement, and he authorized those lawyers to release
his signature on certain board resolutions, including the Guaranty. (Award, ¶ 187(u).)
Respondent had access to ReKTGlobal’s attorneys and an advisor at Goldman
Sachs. (Id., 187(w).) Yet Respondent did not ask his own legal counsel
or other advisors to review the documents before he authorized the release of
his signature. (Id., 187(u).) 
 
As
a board member, he also voted to approve the Summit financing transactions,
including the Financing Agreement. (Award, ¶ 187(u).) Summit made no
representations to Respondent as to his obligations under the Guaranty or the
Financing Agreement. (Id., ¶ 187(n), (v), (x).) There are no facts
before the court that preclude the court from finding that the Arbitrator erred
in finding there was no evidence of anyone preventing Respondent from seeking
legal or financial advice or preventing him from receiving and reading the
documents at issue. (Id., ¶ 187(y).) Moreover, there is no evidence that
Respondent objected to using his “personal liquidity” to push the transaction
forward with Summit. (Id., ¶ 187(z).) Respondent voted in favor of the
merger with Infinite Realty, which triggered the Petitioner’s exercise of put
rights under the Warrants. (Id., ¶ 187(aa).) 
 
Because
a claim for fraud requires misrepresentation of a material fact, Respondent’s
claim fails because there is no evidence that Summit made any representations
to Respondent about his obligations under the Guaranty. (Award, ¶ 187-196.) There
is no evidence that the Respondent did not know what he was signing or did
not intend to sign the Guaranty due to the conduct of Petitioner or anyone
else. There is no evidence to challenge the Arbitrator’s finding that “[t]he email
transmittal of which Respondent complained in this proceeding (see, e.g.,
¶ 183, supra) accurately conveyed the changes made to the Guaranty; it
made no representations about the terms of the Financing Agreement.” (Id.,
¶ 192.) The record before the court does not dispel the Arbitrator’s finding
that the Respondent knew the Financing Agreement was being revised yet the Respondent
chose to not read the drafts or the final version before signing it. (Id.,
¶ 193.) Moreover, Summit had no legal obligation to provide legal advice to
Respondent when it was the counterparty in the transaction at issue. (Id.,
¶ 194.) 
 
Based
on the record before the court, the court finds there are no facts supporting
Respondent’s contention that the Guaranty was fraudulently executed. Accordingly,
the court finds that the Arbitrator did not exceed his powers in arbitrating
the dispute pursuant to the Guaranty. (CCP, § 1286.2.) 
 
D.        The Forum Selection Clause in the Joiner
Agreement Does Not Conflict with the Guaranty’s Arbitration Clause Requiring that
the Dispute be Adjudicated by a New York Court Rather than in Arbitration 
Respondent asserts that the Arbitrator did not have the
power to arbitrate the dispute because the Joiner Agreement contained a
mandatory forum selection clause: 
27. Submission to Jurisdiction.
Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Warrant
or the transactions contemplated hereby may be instituted in the federal courts
of the United States of America or the courts of the State of New York in each
case located in the city of New York, and each party irrevocably submits to the
exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding.
Service of process, summons, notice or other document by certified or
registered mail to such party’s address set forth herein shall be effective
service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such
court. The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the
laying of venue of any suit, action or any proceeding in such courts and
irrevocably waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any
such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in
an inconvenient forum. 
(White Decl., Ex. 36 [Ex. A: Warrant, ¶27].) 
Respondent asserts that pursuant to Coinbase, Inc. v.
Suski (2024) 144 S.Ct. 1186, issues arising out of and based on the
warrants, as referenced in the Joiner Agreement, were to be decided by New York
courts rather than in arbitration. 
What happens if parties have multiple agreements that
evidence a conflict over the answer to the third-order question of who decides
arbitrability? That question can be answered as to these parties only by
determining which contract applies. Homing in on the conflict between the
delegation clause in the first contract and the forum selection clause in the
second, the question becomes whether the parties agreed to send the given
dispute to arbitration. And that question must be answered by a court.
 
(Coinbase, Inc., at p. 1189.)
Petitioner contends that Coinbase is not applicable
because the sole contract at issue was the Guaranty and Respondent’s
obligations under said contract. (Award, ¶ 128; Respondent’s Ex. 23, ¶ 12.) Petitioner
asserts Respondent is not a signatory to the warrants and Petitioner could not
have sued Respondent under the warrants. (Bobroff Decl., Ex. 6.)  
Petitioner states the Joiner
Agreement, signed on the same day of the Guaranty, imposed limited obligations
on Respondent, not in his individual capacity, but in his capacities as
shareholder and board member of ReTK Inc., and are unrelated to Respondent’s
obligations to pay under the Guaranty. (Opposition, at p. 2:7-11.) The Joiner
Agreement only required the Respondent to comply with three provisions: 
 
1.         Joiner.
To directly and to cause each Affiliate of the Joining Party to comply with,
and to vote (whether as a stockholder and/or member of the Company’s board of
directors) to cause the Company to comply with, the following provisions of the
Warrants: (1) Section 7 (Tag-Along), (ii) Section 29 (Preemptive Rights) and
(iii) Section 30 (Registration of Warrant Shares). 
 
(White Decl., Ex. 36, ¶ 1.) Accordingly,
the Respondent’s obligations under the Joiner Agreement did not implicate the
Parties’ dispute regarding the Respondent’s obligations under the Guaranty. 
 
Petitioner does not dispute that
the warrants contained a forum selection clause but asserts that the clause was
incorporated to enforce the substantive rights under the Joiner Agreement. Petitioner
contends that the Joiner Agreement does not apply to the dispute because Petitioner
never claimed that Respondent failed to comply with the Tag-Along, Preemptive
Rights, or Registration provisions of the warrants. Most importantly, the
Joiner Agreement did not make Respondent a party to the warrants. Therefore,
because the Joiner Agreement imposed different obligations on the Respondent,
the dispute resolution provision in the Guaranty did not implicate the Joiner
Agreement. This contrasts with the forum dispute in Coinbase, wherein
the cryptocurrency exchange sought to impose an arbitration clause contained in
a User Agreement to a dispute governed by the sweepstakes rules that provide
for adjudication in court. (Coinbase, supra, 144 S.Ct, at pp.
1191-1192.) 
 
Petitioner further contends that Coinbase does not
apply because the forum section clause is not mandatory and does not bar
arbitration:
27. Submission to Jurisdiction.
Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Warrant
or the transactions contemplated hereby may be instituted in the
federal courts of the United States of America or the courts of the State of
New York in each case located in the city of New York, and each party
irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such
suit, action or proceeding. . . .
 
(White Decl., Ex. 36 [emphasis
added].)  Even if the court were to find that the warrants contain a
mandatory forum selection clause due to the use of the words “exclusive
jurisdiction,” the Respondent fails to show that he had standing to challenge
the warrants before a court of law given that the Joiner Agreement gave
Respondent limited rights. (See Whitaker v. Monroe
Staffing Services, LLC (4th Cir. 2022) 42 F.4th 200,
210, fn. 7 [finding a similar provision with the word “exclusive” to be a mandatory
forum selection clause].) 
 
In its
supplemental brief, the Respondent asserted that the mandatory forum selection governs
this dispute because it implicated the alleged debts that arise out of the warrants
and is tied to the dispute between “Petitioner and ReKT” regarding the
shareholder agreement and other agreements between them. (See Respondent’s
Supp. Reply, at pp. 8:23-9:7.) Respondent brought the issue of the forum clause
to the attention of the Arbitrator in a motion to modify the procedural timetable
for arbitration. (White Decl., Ex. 20, at p. 19.) However, Respondent’s request
to modify the timetable did not argue that the Guaranty dispute required
adjudication by a court rather than by arbitration. Instead, Respondent argued the
issue of warrant defenses should be decided by New York courts and the arbitration
proceeding should be postponed. (Id., Ex. 20, at pp. 16-19.) Respondent
contended that the arbitration clause in the Guaranty should be narrowly
construed and deemed inapplicable to the warranty defenses. (Id., Ex.
20, at pp. 17-19.) 
Respondent specifically contends that the following issues
related to the warrants should have been decided by a New York court rather
than the Arbitrator: 
(1) whether the put options had been timely and validly
exercised in accordance with the terms of the warrants, (2) when, pursuant to
the terms of the warrants, the alleged put amounts were immediately payable or
payable over time, (3) how much, if anything, was owed upon exercise of the put
rights given the fair market value provisions of the warrants, and (4) whether
Petitioner and ReKT had reached agreement regarding the valuation.
 
(Motion, at p. 12:2-7.) 
The Arbitrator responded to Respondent’s motion by noting
that the Parties had not sought to join additional parties, such as those
involved in the New York litigation. (White Decl., Ex. 23, 4.) Furthermore, the
Respondent failed to show he had standing to enforce the terms of the warrants,
let alone any defenses related to the warrants. 
As the Respondent fails to show that he had standing to challenge the
warrants, the court cannot find the forum selection clause is inextricably
intertwined with the dispute such that Coinbase applies. 
Second, the Arbitrator was unpersuaded that the Guaranty’s
language limited the issues to be decided in arbitration. (White Decl., Ex.
23.) However, the Arbitrator noted: “[t]he Arbitrator’s conclusion with respect
to the interpretation of the language of the Guaranty is without prejudice to
the parties presenting testimony and other evidence of contractual
interpretation at the merits hearing.” (Id., Ex. 23, ¶ 14(d); Ex. 40, §
14.11.) 
Third, the Arbitrator explained that on April 5, 2023, the
Parties approved and executed the Terms of Reference setting out the issues to
be decided in arbitration, including Respondent’s defenses, Petitioner’s lack
of entitlement to immediate payment because of the prematurity of its demand,
Respondent’s non-compliance with the terms of the warrants on which it purposes
to rely, and Petitioner’s erroneous valuation of the securities it purports to
put up for sale. (White Decl., Ex. 23, ¶ 10.) 
Accordingly, the issues of the warrants that Respondents now
contend should have been decided by a court were instead submitted to
arbitration with the express consent and authorization of Respondent. This fact
is distinguishable from the facts in Coinbase, wherein the users never acquiesced
to arbitration and instead argued in court that the sweepstakes dispute
required adjudication by a court and no arbitration agreement existed. (Coinbase,
supra 144 S.Ct. at p. 1191.) 
Therefore, the court considers any issues regarding the Arbitrator’s
authority to decide the warrant issues as waived by the Respondent because the
warrant issues were presented to the Arbitrator and the Respondent acquiesced
to the arbitration of those issues. (Award, ¶¶ 128, 129.) The Respondent fails to
show he had standing to avail himself of the forum selection clause, thus
requiring that the dispute be adjudicated by a New York court. 
Respondent fails to show that the Arbitrator exceeded his
powers by deciding questions of arbitrability related to the warrants.  The Respondent also fails to show that the
forum selection clause applied to the dispute due to his lack of standing under
the warrants. Lastly, the Respondent fails to show that even if the arbitrator
exceeded his authority, the Award cannot be corrected without affecting the
merits of the decision. (CCP, § 1286.2.) 
E.        The Arbitrator’s Refusal to Postpone the
Arbitration Pending State Court Litigation Did Not Substantially Prejudice Respondent
Respondent asserts that the Arbitrator abused his discretion by refusing to postpone the hearing in favor
of pending New York litigation, thus prejudicing Respondent’s ability to
effectively present ReKT’s defenses. According to respondent, the focus of
ReKT’s defenses included:
(1) the existence of a
payoff letter acknowledging that all payment obligations related to the
Financing Agreement between Petitioner and ReKT were satisfied and released,
(2) Petitioner’s failure to fulfill the warrants’ requirement of appointing an
independent appraiser to determine the fair market value of the shares
Petitioner sought to put, and (3) the warrants’ provision that payment is not
due unless and until ReKT has sufficient funds legally available to pay, with
any unpaid amount becoming an unsecured loan accruing interest at 2% per year.
 
(Motion, at p. 15:18-24.) 
In denying Respondent’s
motion for bifurcation and request to stay the arbitration, the Arbitrator
stated that the ICC Rules provided useful guidance on case management
techniques but “[t]he record currently before the Arbitrator, however, provides
no basis for a finding that the bifurcation sought by Respondent ‘may genuinely
be expected to result in a more efficient resolution of the case.’ ” (White
Decl., Ex. 23, ¶ 15(f).) “Rather, it appears that bifurcation is more likely to
produce extended delay, a certain amount of redundant activity, and increased
costs.” (Id.)
The Arbitrator asserted
that he was “not persuaded that there is a meaningful risk of actual prejudice
to Respondent if this Arbitration proceeds as currently configured and
scheduled.” (Id., ¶ 14(b).)  The
Arbitrator proceed to note: 
On the record currently
established, the Arbitrator sees insufficient basis for concluding that
Respondent’s ability to be heard and to receive a fair and reasonable hearing
in this arbitration will be impaired if determination of certain claims or
defenses herein are not deferred until such time as the New York Action
concludes. The balance of equities, as evidenced on the record currently
establish, weighs in favor of proceeding with the case as set forth in the
existing Procedural Timetable. 
 
(Id., ¶ 15(h).) Lastly,
the Arbitrator noted that by their own accord, the Parties had conducted “fulsome
‘discovery’ in this arbitration, including document productions and
deposition.” (Id., ¶ 13.) 
“‘[A] court's review of the arbitrator's decision to postpone or
not postpone the hearing is quite limited.’” (SWAB Financial, LLC v. E*Trade
Securities, LLC (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1197 (SWAB).) Respondent
fails to show that the Arbitrator’s decision to not postpone the arbitration was
without reasonable justification. (See City of Fresno v. California Highway
Com. (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 687, 700 [“Abuse of discretion is arbitrary
determination, capriciousness or ‘whimsical thinking.’ ”].) “The arbitrator, and
not the court, decides questions of procedure and discovery. [Citations.]” (Titan/Value
Equities Group, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 482, 488 [footnote
omitted].) 
 
Arbitrators may exceed
their powers when they act in a manner not authorized by the contract or by
law, act without subject matter jurisdiction, decide an issue that was not
submitted to arbitration, arbitrarily remake the contract, uphold an illegal
contract, issue an award that violates a well-defined public policy, issue an
award that violates a statutory right, fashion a remedy that is not rationally
related to the contract, or select a remedy not authorized by law. 


(Cohen v. TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program, LLC (2019)
31 Cal.App.5th 840, 868.)
 
CCP § 1286.2 mandates that an arbitration award be vacated upon a
showing that “[t]he rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by the
refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause
being shown therefor[.]” (Id. [italics added].)  The record before the court reflects that at
the time Respondent requested a postponement, the Arbitrator sufficiently
explained why Respondent had not made a sufficient showing that a postponement
was necessary. (See White Decl., Ex. 23.) 
 
“Where, as here, a party complains of excluded material evidence,
the reviewing court should generally focus first on prejudice, not materiality.
To find substantial prejudice the court must accept, for purposes of analysis,
the arbitrator's legal theory and conclude that the arbitrator might well have
made a different award had the evidence been allowed.” (Hall v. Superior
Court (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 427, 439.) Respondent asserts that presenting
ReKT defenses required knowledge and access to the history of negotiations
between Petitioner and ReKT and that an expedited discovery severely curtailed
Respondent’s access to such discovery. (Motion, at pp. 15:25-16:9.)
 
Respondent fails to show that if Respondent had an adequate
opportunity to conduct discovery, Respondent would have uncovered evidence that
would have resulted in a different outcome than the one produced at
arbitration. Furthermore, Respondent’s discovery pertained to defenses related
to the warrants, which the Arbitrator found to be without merit. 
 
The Arbitrator sided with the
Petitioner in determining that case law did not support the proposition that
guarantors are entitled to the same defenses as borrowers. (Award, ¶ 219.)
Accordingly, any defenses that ReKT could assert did not mean that Respondent
could also assert the same defenses to excuse his obligations under the
Guaranty. The Arbitrator further noted that Section 1 of the Guaranty provides,
“‘The Individual Guarantor hereby uncondi-tionally irrevocably and absolutely
guarantees to each of the Secured Parties, as primary obligor and not merely as
a surety, the full and prompt payment when due of all Obligations
arising under or out of the Financing Agreement and other Loan Documents . . .’
” (Id., ¶ 220, [italics original].) Therefore, Respondent fails to show
he was substantially prejudiced by not being given a full opportunity to engage
in discovery regarding ReKT’s defenses to the warrants. 
Respondent asserts that the biggest prejudice resulted from
Respondent being deprived of the benefit of an independent appraisal process contemplated
by the warrants. However, the Arbitrator determined that as an independent
appraisal was not required, no postponement was required. CCP § 1283.4
provides that an arbitration “shall include a determination of all the
questions submitted to the arbitrators the decision of which is necessary in
order to determine the controversy.” Here, the arbitrator necessarily decided
that the Warrants fall within the ambit of the Guaranty. In determining the
scope of the Guaranty, the Arbitrator stated in the relevant part:
 
The Guaranty applies to “all Obligations arising under or out
of the Financing Agreement and other Loan Documents”; “Loan Document” is
defined in the Financing Agreement to include “any Equity Document”; and
“Equity Document” is defined expressly to include “the Warrants” here at issue.
[Citation]. 
 
(Award, ¶ 168.) 
Section 1 of the Guaranty provides, “The Individual Guarantor
hereby unconditionally, irrevocably and absolutely guarantees each of the
Secured Parties, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, the full and
prompt payment when due of all Obligations arising under or out of the
Financing Agreement and the other Loan Documents . . .” (Emphasis added). As
set forth in ¶¶ 145, 146, & 161-63, supra, the defined terms
“Obligations” and “Loan Documents” clearly bring the Warrants, and obligations
thereunder, within the ambit of the Guaranty’s mandate of “full and prompt
payment  when due.” 
 
(Award, ¶ 120.) 
“The determination of which issues are actually necessary to
the ultimate decision is a question of fact to be resolved by the arbitrator.”
(United Food & Commercial Workers Union, supra, 154
Cal.App.3d at p. 288.) Here, the arbitrator necessarily decided that the
warrants fall within the ambit of the Guaranty. The Arbitrator determined that
the warrants defined “Fair Market Value” as “the fair market value per share as
determined jointly by the Board of ReKT and the Holder” and that a formal
appraisal process was only required if the two parties were unable to agree on
the fair market value per share. (Award, ¶ 246.) The Warrant in the Joiner
Agreement similarly triggers the appraisal process only upon disagreement
between the ReKT board and the Holder: 
“Fair Market Value” means the fair market value per
share as determined jointly by the Board and the Holder; provided, that
if the Board and the Holder are unable to agree on the fair market value per
share of the Common Stock within a reasonable period of time (not to exceed 20
days from the Company’s receipt of the Notice of Exercise), each of the Board
and the Holder, at the cost of the Company, shall select, within 10 days of the
expiration of such 20-day period, an independent appraiser experienced in valuing
securities or other applicable consideration of companies comparable to the
Company (the “Company Appraiser” and the “Holder Appraiser”, respectively).
Within 10 days of their appointment, the Company Appraiser and the Holder
Appraiser shall mutually agree as to the appointment of a third independent
appraiser experienced in valuing securities or other applicable consideration
of companies comparable to the Company (the “Independent Appraiser”). The
Independent Appraiser shall be instructed to complete its valuation within 30
days following appointment and the Independent Appraiser shall deliver its
determination of valuation in writing to the Board and the Holder within such
30-day period. The Independent Appraiser’s determination of Fair Market Value
shall be binding  upon the Board and the
Holder. 
 
(White Decl., Ex. 36 [Ex. A Warrants at p. 4] [emphasis
original].) 
The Arbitrator determined that the condition requiring an
independent appraisal was not triggered because Petitioner and ReKT agreed as
to the fair market value of the shares.
“Nothing in the record before the
Arbitrator establishes or even suggests a contemporaneous disagreement between
ReKTGlobal and Summit over the fair market value of the Warrants.” (Award, ¶
242.) 
 
In Summary, no formal appraisal process or
external/independent validation of “fair market value” was required if the
company and the warrant holder agreed on share valuation. The record herein
establishes that ReKTGlobal and Summit agreed – not disagreed – on the
valuation of Summit’s warrant shares at times relevant to the dispute in this
arbitration.  Respondent has failed to
establish any basis for overturning or reconsidering, almost two years later,
such contemporaneous agreement. 
 
(Id, ¶ 245.) 
 
The Arbitrator had the authority
to decide whether the warrants required Petitioner and ReKT to engage in an
independent appraisal process. (Award, ¶¶ 228-248.) This was also a question
that was expressly submitted to the arbitrator for adjudication by the Parties:

 
Claimant and Respondent each engaged in valuation expert who
offered testimony at the final hearing. The Arbitrator will not list and
evaluate the scores of disagreements in their respective calculations and
conclusions with respect to valuation process, offsets, comparable
transactions, and retrospective valuation ranges because the record established
that ReKTGlobal and Summit actually agreed at the relevant time on the
valuation of Summit’s warrant shares.
 
(Award, ¶ 246.) 
The court has no authority to
vacate an arbitration award based on findings of errors of law or fact by the
Arbitrator. 
 
‘When parties contract to resolve their disputes by private
arbitration, their agreement ordinarily contemplates that the arbitrator will
have the power to decide any question of contract interpretation, historical
fact or general law necessary, in the arbitrator's understanding of the case,
to reach a decision. [Citations.] Inherent in that power is the possibility the
arbitrator may err in deciding some aspect of the case. Arbitrators do not
ordinarily exceed their contractually created powers simply by reaching an
erroneous conclusion on a contested issue of law or fact, and arbitral awards
may not ordinarily be vacated because of such error, for ‘[t]he arbitrator's
resolution of these issues is what the parties bargained for in the arbitration
agreement.’ [Citations].


(Cable Connection, Inc. v.
DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1360–1361 (Cabel Connection).)
As no independent appraisal was required under the warrants, the Respondent was
not prejudiced by the inability to conduct an independent appraisal. Moreover,
Respondent fails to show he was a party to the warrants and had standing to
enforce the independent appraisal process contemplated by the warrants. 
 
“Only if the arbitrators
abused their discretion and there was resulting prejudice could the trial court
properly vacate the arbitration award.” (SWAB, supra, 150
Cal.App.4th at p. 1198.) Respondent fails to show the Arbitrator abused his
discretion in denying postponement of the arbitration and that postponement
substantially prejudiced Respondent who had no defenses to the enforcement of
the Guaranty, there was no basis for an independent appraisal of ReKT’s shares,
and Respondent had no standing to order an independent appraisal. 
Therefore, the arbitration
award will not be vacated on this basis. 
F.        The Arbitrator Did
Not Exceed His Powers by Ignoring Petitioner’s Failure to Fulfill a Condition
Precedent to Any Right to Arbitrate 
 
Respondent asserts that under the warrants, a condition precedent
was that “the amount payable” on account of the put options required Petitioner
to participate in an independent appraisal process. 
 
As stated above, the Arbitrator determined that no independent appraisal
process for the shares was required because Petitioner and ReKT were both in
agreement as to the fair market value of the shares.  (Award, ¶¶ 242, 245.) “ ‘Fair
Market Value’ means the fair market value per share as determined
jointly by the Board and the Holder[.]” (White Decl., Ex. 36 [Ex. A Warrants at
p. 4.] The obligation to conduct an independent appraisal was only triggered “if
the Board and the Holder are unable to agree on the fair market value per share
of the Common Stock[.]” (Id.) 
 
The
findings of the Arbitrator were that “[N]othing in the record before the
Arbitrator establishes or even suggests a contemporaneous disagreement between
ReKTGlobal and Summit over the fair market value of the Warrants.” (Award, ¶
242.) Any finding that the Arbitrator erred in determining that an appraisal
was not required, is not grounds for vacating the Award. (Cable Connection,
supra, 44 Cal.4th at pp. 1360–1361.) Respondent also fails to point to the
provision in the Guaranty or Financing Agreement that required Petitioner to submit
to an independent appraisal process before seeking the dispute to arbitration. 
 
On reply,
Respondent asserts that Section 12 of the Guaranty required arbitration only if
a dispute could not be amicably resolved. (Bobroff
Decl., Ex. 2 [Guaranty, § 12]; White Decl., Ex. 30 [Guaranty, § 12].)
Respondent speculates that had Petitioner complied with the terms of the
warrants and conducted an independent appraisal, the dispute could have been
amicably resolved making arbitration unnecessary. However, Respondent fails to
show that Respondent did not comply with the terms of the warrants, or that an
independent appraisal was required. Respondent failed to point to any evidence
that showed ReKT disagreed with the appraisal of its stock or that ReKT and
Petitioner plan to conduct an independent appraisal due to disagreement. 
 
Based on the above, the Respondent fails to show that the
Petitioner’s participation in an independent appraisal was a condition
precedent to seeking arbitration. Therefore, the Award will not be vacated on
these grounds.
 
Respondent’s motion to vacate the Award is denied. 
 
petition
to confirm arbitration award
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
“Any party to an arbitration award
in which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct, or
vacate the award.” (CCP § 1285.) A petition under this chapter shall: 
 
(a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the
agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an
agreement. 
 
(b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators. 
 
(c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the
written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.
 
 (Id. § 1285.4.) “A response to a
petition under this chapter may request the court to dismiss the petition or to
confirm, correct or vacate the award.” (Id. § 1285.2.) 
 
A petition to confirm an
arbitration award must set forth the substance of or attach the arbitration
agreement, include the name of the arbitrator, and attach a copy of the award
and the written opinion of the arbitrator, if any. (CCP § 1285.4.) The petition
must be served no earlier than 10 days, but no later than 4 years, after
service of the award on the petitioner. (Id., §§ 1288, 1288.4.) The
petition, written notice of the time and place of the hearing on the petition,
and any other papers upon which the petition is based must be served in the
manner provided in the arbitration agreement for service of such petition and
notice. (Id., § 1290.4(a).)  
 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Petitioner moves to confirm the
April 16, 2024, Arbitration Award rendered by the
Arbitrator David Huebner (“Arbitrator”). A copy of the Award is attached
to the Petition as Attachment 8(c). A summary of the dispute is articulated
above and in Paragraph 5 of the Petition filed on April 29, 2024. 
 
The arbitration hearing occurred
in Los Angeles, CA in between November 27, 2023 to November 29, 2023. (Petition,
¶ 7.) The Arbitrator found against Respondent and awarded Petitioner $30,996,257.22
in damages and pre-judgment interest in the amount of 2% per annum as to
$30,051,983.00 of the award. (Id., ¶ 8; see also Award, ¶ 307(A)-(B).) The
Arbitrator also ordered the Respondent to pay $2,470,873.56 to Petitioner in
legal fees and expenses incurred in arbitration. (Id., ¶ 307(B)(1).) The
Arbitrator also ordered the Respondent to pay $140,000.00 to the Petitioner for
the Petitioner’s share of the arbitration costs and expenses as fixed by the
ICC Court. (Id., ¶ 307(B)(2.) 
 
“[A]n arbitrator's decision cannot
be reviewed for errors of fact or law.” (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 9.) An arbitrator’s award may only
be challenged based upon narrow, limited grounds articulated in CCP § 1286.2. As
articulated in the ruling denying Respondent’s petition to vacate the Award,
Respondent’s assertion the arbitration agreement was procured by fraud in the
execution is without merit as is Respondent’s contention that the Arbitrator
lacked authority to decide the issue of jurisdiction. Moreover, Respondent
failed to demonstrate that one of the limited grounds articulated within
Section 1286.2 supported vacating the Award. 
 
Therefore, the court fails to see
any basis as to why the Petition to confirm the Award should be denied.
Petitioner’s motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Respondent’s
motion to vacate the arbitration award is denied. Petitioner’s Motion to
confirm the arbitration award is granted. 
 


