 Case Number:  23SMCV03520    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  I The court has not imposed the sanction of striking the
answer—it has only set an OSC.  The court
will view the ex parte application as a response to the OSC and the
court believes it is sufficient. 
Assuming defendant or counsel appears at the next hearing, the court
will discharge the OSC.
The first CMC was held on 1/29/24.  Plaintiff appeared but defendant did not
apparently because counsel had not signed in early enough..  The matter was continued and the court issued
an OSC.  The next hearing was March 28,
2024, and the defense was absent again, although plaintiff was present.  This was due to an administrative error.  It was only then that the court actually
imposed the sanctions.
The court has reviewed the declaration.  In light of the declaration, the court is
satisfied that the failures to appear did not arise from improper motive—they
were honest mistakes that are often made even by the very best of counsel.  That said, though, the purpose of the
sanctions was to compensate plaintiff’s counsel for the fees incurred by
appearing twice for hearings that could not go forward because defense counsel
was not present, not really to punish the defense.  The error is hardly a mortal sin, but the
burden of it should fall on the party that was not responsible for the
problem.  
The court will therefore CONTINUE this ex parte to
the CMC scheduled for May 1, 2024, at 8:30. 
The court recommends that the parties meet and confer and moot this
out.  It is a good chance for plaintiff
to obtain a little bit of good will, and, frankly, in light of the declaration,
the court’s preference would be to vacate the sanctions.  In the meantime, the time to pay the
sanctions is extended until 10 calendar days after the May 1, CMC or such other
time as the court may set.  That will
allow the parties to try and work it out and, if they cannot do so, for the
court to hear the matter on May 1.
The court does not intend to hear argument on this today. 