  Case Number:  19SMCV02200    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  I The motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED IN PART AND
GRANTED AS TO THE ALTERNATIVE REQUEST TO EXCLUDE ADMISSION OF ANY OPINION OR
TESTIMONY CONCERNING THE TEST IN QUESTION. 
The motion to disqualify is DENIED. 
The application for an order nunc pro tunc is GRANTED, as the
prior order did contain a clerical error as suggested by defendant.  That order will be amended in the manner
suggested in defendants’ application filed 2/26/24.  The court will inquire whether the sanctions
were paid.
 
This is a landlord-tenant action filed by the tenant against
the landlords.  Although plaintiff has
not lived in the unit for some time due to alleged hazardous conditions, she
has continued to maintain legal possession of the unit.  At issue in this motion is an inspection done
by her expert.
 
Although plaintiff has possession of her unit, and she has
legal access to common spaces, she does not have access to the entire
property.  Some of that property is under
defendants’ exclusive control.  As to
those areas, plaintiff cannot insist on access, even to do an inspection
relevant to the case.  What she can do,
of course, is serve process demanding an inspection and, if there is an
objection, bring the matter to the court’s attention.  Indeed, she attempted that once already,
although her motion was denied for procedural reasons.
 
The basic facts underlying the instant motion are not really
disputed.  Plaintiff wanted an inspection
of the crawlspace under the unit. 
However, that is not a part of the leasehold and thus remains within
defendants’ exclusive control.  Rather
than seek a judicial order allowing her expert to inspect that area for mold or
other hazards (as she had done unsuccessfully before due to technical issues
but had done successfully at another point in the past), plaintiff, with her
counsel’s knowledge, invited the expert to the premises.  While there, the expert removed an unlocked
screen giving him access to the crawl space. 
The expert did not enter the crawl space—apparently because it would
have been a tight fit.  What he did do
was to shine a flashlight into that area and put his head in and breathe and
observe.  He then replaced the screen.  At his deposition, he testified as to what he
observed during that visit.
 
That led the defense to seek terminating sanctions and to
disqualify the expert and counsel (because counsel had advance knowledge that
the expert would do this).  The court
thinks that defense counsel’s motion overkill—to put it nicely.
 
The court agrees with the defense that this is technically a
trespass.  Plaintiff did not have a
possessory right to the crawl space.  The
expert should not have removed the screen—even though doing so apparently did
no damage and the screen was replaced—and should not have physically intruded
into the space, even though it was only his head.  Were defendant to sue in tort, defendant
would likely recover, but only nominal damages—perhaps $1.00.  It is that minor.  Terminating sanctions are an extreme remedy
and ought to be imposed only with extreme caution.  (Raush v. Seagate Technology, LLC
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 210.)  This
technical trespass hardly warrants that. 
What it does warrant, though, is an order that plaintiff not be allowed
to gain by its unlawful action—even if the unlawful part was pretty darn
minor.  Thus, the expert will be
precluded from opining based on that examination or testifying about the
examination at trial unless the defense opens the door by bringing the
inspection up.  (Bringing up the issue of
mold is not opening the door; the defense would have to bring up the inspection
itself, for example.)  With that
exclusion, the court sees no basis to disqualify the expert.  Further, disqualification of counsel is also
an extreme remedy, often smacking of an attempt to obtain a tactical advantage
more than truly trying to protect the court’s integrity.  The court will not comment further.
 
Because the motion was so far over the top, monetary
sanctions are DENIED.
 
The court will inquire as to third party mediation
efforts.  The court notes that there is a
trial coming up next month.  The court is
aware that the parties mediated back in 2021. 
The court believes that another effort ought to be made using a third
party.  The court will discuss that
matter with the parties or, in the alternative, an MSC.  The court states that it is more likely than
not that at least an MSC will be ordered. 
If that occurs, the court expects lead counsel, any carrier, and all
parties to be present at the MSC (perhaps virtually) and with full authority to
settle the case at the other side’s last offer/demand without the need to
obtain further permission.  That does not
mean that the case must settle (of course), but it does mean that the players
must all be present and with full authority to act.
 
The court also notes that there is a hearing on the motion
to file additional in limine motions coming in a couple of weeks.  The court will not rule prior to the hearing
date, but advises the moving party that (in the words of the Magic 8-Ball) the
chances of success are “Very doubtful.”