 Case Number:  22STCV15837    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Defendant and Cross-Complainant Las Palmas
Silver, LLC’s, Motion for Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint. 

 
The motion is granted. 

Within 10 days, Defendant/Cross-Complainant may serve
and file the proposed amended cross-complaint as a separate document. 
 
Background
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant ON POINT BUILDERS, INC. (“Plaintiff”)
bring this case against Defendant and Cross-Complainant LAS PALMAS SILVER, LLC (“Defendant/Cross-Complainant”)
and Defendant DAVID PARTIEL (“Defendant”) for claims arising out of Defendants’
alleged failure to pay for Plaintiff’s work on a construction project. 
On 9/22/2022, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant ISAAC POSADA, alleging
claims based on the alleged failure to complete the construction work, doing
substandard work, and abandoning the project.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant now files this motion to
amend the Cross-Complaint to add Noe Posada and Luis Posada as ROE
Cross-Defendants to the already-existing breach of contract and fraud causes of
action, and to add a cause of action for piercing the corporate veil against
all Cross-Defendants. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
Legal Standard
The Court may allow a party to amend a pleading in the
furtherance of justice. CCP § 473(a). “If discovery and investigation develop
factual grounds justifying a timely amendment to a pleading, leave to amend
must be liberally granted.”  Mabie v.
Hyatt (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 581, 596. 








­




 


A party filing a motion for leave to amend a pleading
must comply with California Rule of Court 3.1324, including submitting a
declaration specifying the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is
necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier. CRC
3.1324(b).  
Analysis
Defendant/Cross-Complainant has met its burden of
showing the effect of the proposed amendment, that is, to seek to hold the
individual Cross-Defendants personally liable for the claims at issue in the
Cross-Complaint. Defendant/Cross-Complainant also explains that it learned of
the facts giving rise to the proposed alter ego additions to the
Cross-Complaint at Noe Posada’s deposition in June 2023, and subsequently sought
to amend the Cross-Complaint. As the attorney for Defendant/Cross-Complainant
explains in his declaration, his client also did not seek to amend earlier
because counsel substituted into the case in the fall of 2022 and discovery in
the case proceeded slowly. 
The Court does not find Plaintiff’s arguments against
the motion convincing. While Plaintiff contests the merit of
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s alter ego allegations, courts generally do not
consider the validity of proposed amendments to a pleading when considering
whether to permit the filing of a proposed amended pleading.  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Sup. Ct.
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047. 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
delay in seeking the amendment is prejudicial and militates against permitting
the amendment. Even though leave to amend is liberally granted, courts have
discretion to deny leave to amend if the party’s delay in presenting the
amendment was unwarranted. Miles v. City of Los Angeles (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 728, 739. But here Defendant/Cross-Complainant has presented
sufficient evidence supporting the Court’s finding that Defendant/Cross-Complainant
recently learned the facts regarding the alter ego factors in discovery in June
2023. (Spolsky Decl., ¶¶ 5-8).  The
attorney for Defendant/Cross-Complainant substituted into the case in 11/2022,
which constitutes an excusable delay in obtaining this discovery. See Richter
v. Adams (1941) 43 Cal. App. 2d 184, 187. The fact that
Defendant/Cross-Complainant may have known the identity of Noe Posada earlier
in the case does not equate with discovering bases for alleging claims against
him that have more required elements.  
Finally, Plaintiff contends that the statute of
limitations bars the claims in the proposed amended Cross-Complaint. The filing
of a valid DOE amendment means that the amendment relates back to the time of
the original complaint’s filing, unless there was no, or an insufficient,
attempt in the complaint to charge the fictitious defendants with
responsibility for plaintiffs' injuries. 
Winding Creek v. McGlashan (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 933, 942.  The filing of a valid DOE amendment means
that the amendment relates back to the time of the original Complaint’s filing,
for purposes of analyzing the statute of limitations. Woo v. Sup. Ct.
(1999) 75 Cal. App. 4th 169, 176.  A
statute of limitations defense must be apparent on the face of the complaint. Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort  (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 881.  
Here, there is relation back because Defendant/Cross-Complainant
expressly sued the Cross-Defendants as ROES. Further, the three-year statute of
limitations is not revealed by the pleading, which alleged fraud done at some
unspecified time on and around 12/10/21. 
The Court therefore grants the motion.