This is an action relating to elder abuse at a skilled nursing facility.   Plaintiff Nathan Bears seeks to compel further responses to its special interrogatories (“SI”), set one, and requests for production, set one, propounded on Defendant Roseville Point Health & Wellness Center, LLC.Special Interrogatories Plaintiff seeks further responses to SI nos. 31-32.   SI no. 31 states, “Please IDENTIFY each resident of the FACILITY during the time period(s) in which the PLAINTIFF was a resident of the FACILITY. [. . . The term ‘IDENTIFY’, as used in this and all subsequent inquiries, means to provide the name, last known residence address and telephone number of the individual(s). . . .]” SI no. 32 states, “Please IDENTIFY the RESPONSIBLE PARTY for each resident of the FACILITY during the time period(s) in which the PLAINTIFF was a resident of the FACILITY.” The Motion is denied because the requests are overbroad and overburdensome to the extent relating to a seven year period that Plaintiff was a patient. The Court declines to award sanctions.Requests for Production Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to its requests for production, nos. 2, 3, 10, 20-23, 25, 27, 30, 32-37, 44, and 45.The issue for request no. 2 is whether a privilege log should be provided.  Defendant contends that Plaintiff agreed that a privilege log was not necessary.  However, Plaintiff stated that no privilege log was necessary for litigation materials, but “with that limitation, we need a code compliant response to determine whether other material is being withheld.”  To the extent there are other documents being withheld, a privilege log should be provided.  If not, nothing further is required. Request no. 3 seeks, “any ‘Incident Report’ and/or ‘Unusual Occurrence Report’ and/or any other DOCUMENT utilized by the FACILITY to report or memorialize any occurrence relating to a resident which in any fashion mentions or relates to the PLAINTIFF.”  Defendant responded that “After a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry, responding party is unable to comply with the request because the documents have either never existed, or have been lost or misplaced.”  Defendant should provide a further response specifying whether these documents ever existed in the first place.Request no. 10 seeks, “all completed 24-Hour Communication logs the FACILITY during the time period of the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.”Defendant responded that it “will comply with the request in part, and all documents in the requested category that are in the possession, custody, or control of responding party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production. The documents that are not being produced are those 24-Hour Reports which do not mention plaintiff and the 24-Hour reports from May 27, 2021 through November 20, 2021 and December 4, 2021 through September 9, 2022, which are lost.”The Court finds Defendant’s response to be sufficient and that Plaintiff’s request is otherwise overbroad and overburdensome.  Request no. 20 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS referencing, evidencing or pertaining to complaints regarding the provision of NURSING SERVICES at the FACILITY by anyone, including, but not limited to, employees, outside consultants, residents, family members of residents, and/or visitors at any time during the time period of January 1, 2020 to September 9, 2022.”The Court will require a further response to request no. 20 as Defendant’s objections largely lack merit.  The identifying information of other patients is to be redacted.  Request no. 21 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS received from employees of the FACILITY which in any manner whatsoever reference the staffing levels at the FACILITY during the time period of January 1, 2020 to September 9, 2022.”Request no. 22 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS which were provided by YOU to any other named Defendant in this action referencing FACILITY staffing levels during the time period of January 1, 2020 to September 9, 2022.”Request no. 23 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS which were provided to YOU by any other named Defendant in this action referencing FACILITY staffing levels during the time period of January 1, 2020 to September 9, 2022.”The Motion is denied as to request nos. 21-23, which are overbroad and overburdensome.Request no. 25 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS which were provided to YOU by any other named Defendant in this action, referencing FACILITY census levels during the time period of January 1, 2020 to September 9, 2022.”Request no. 27 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS which were provided by YOU to any other named Defendant in this action referencing FACILITY interaction with the State of California Department of Public Health during the time period of January 1, 2020 to September 9, 2022.”The Court will require a further response to request nos. 25 and 27, which seek relevant information.  The objections lack merit.  Request no. 30 seeks, “the FACILITY UNUSUAL OCCURRENCE logs or reports and/or 24 Hour Communication logs as it pertains to the operations of the FACILITY for the time period during which the PLAINTIFF was a resident in the FACILITY.”As was the case for request no. 10, the Court will not require a further response as to request no. 30.Request no. 32 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS utilized by the FACILITY to reflect the number of residents in the FACILITY who suffered from pressure sores during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.”Request no. 33 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS to reflect the number of residents in the FACILITY who suffered falls during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.”Request no. 34 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS to reflect the number of residents in the FACILITY who suffered from infections during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.”Request no. 35 seeks, “Produce all DOCUMENTS to reflect the number of residents in the FACILITY who utilized restraints during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.”Request no. 36 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS to reflect the number of residents in the FACILITY who suffered from bowel or bladder incontinence during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.”Request no. 37 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS to reflect the number of residents in the FACILITY who utilized psychotropic medications during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.” The Court will require a further response to request nos. 32-37, but will only require that documents having generalized or compiled information be provided.Request no. 44 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS upon which the FACILITY relied during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY to ensure that FACILITY personnel who provided NURSING SERVICES to the PLAINTIFF, as well as Brigitte Loesch (Administrator) and Erin Mancinas (Director of Nursing), were fit to perform their job duties in the FACILITY during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.”The Motion is denied as to request no. 44 because it is overboard in light of employment privacy rights. Finally, Request no. 45 seeks, “all DOCUMENTS evidencing and/or consisting of all professional services agreement, management agreements, consulting agreements or administrative services agreements between the responding party and any other named Defendant in this action in effect during any portion of the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.”A further response should be provided because Defendant’s objections lack merit.In sum, the Motion to Compel is granted in part as set forth herein.  Further responses and production are to be provided within 30 days. The Court declines to award sanctions.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 