 Case Number:  23PSCV01928    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  K Plaintiff Luis Angel
Espinoza’s Demurrer to the Answer Filed by Defendants County of Los Angeles and
Ray Andrew Gurango is OVERRULED in part (i.e., as to the first, second and
fourteenth affirmative defenses), SUSTAINED with leave in part (i.e., as
to the third through thirteenth and fifteenth through twenty-first affirmative
defenses) and SUSTAINED without leave in part (i.e., as to the
twenty-second affirmative defense).
Background   
Plaintiff Luis Angel Espinoza (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that he sustained injuries in a July 15, 2021 automobile collision.
On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint, asserting a cause of action against County of Los Angeles
(“County”), Ray Andrew Gurango (“Gurango”) and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Negligence
On August 24, 2023, County and
Gurango filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Pedro Adrio
and Roes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Declaratory Relief
2.                 
Apportionment of Fault
3.                 
Implied Indemnity 
4.                 
Total Equitable Indemnity
A Case Management Conference is
set for December 4, 2023.
Legal Standard
“The answer to a complaint shall contain: (1) The general or
specific denial of the material allegations of the complaint controverted by
the defendant. (2) A statement of any new matter constituting a defense.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (b).)
“Under Code of Civil Procedure section 431.30, subdivision
(b)(2), the answer to a complaint must include ‘[a] statement of any new matter
constituting a defense.’ The phrase ‘new matter’ refers to something relied on
by a defendant which is not put in issue by the plaintiff. Thus, where matters
are not responsive to essential allegations of the complaint, they must be
raised in the answer as ‘new matter.’ Where, however, the answer sets forth
facts showing some essential allegation of the complaint is not true, such
facts are not ‘new matter,’” but only a traverse.” (State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1991)
228 Cal.App.3d 721, 725.)
A demurrer to an answer may be made upon any one or more of
the following grounds: (1) The answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense; (2) The answer is “uncertain,” i.e., ambiguous or
unintelligible; (3) Where the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be
ascertained from the answer whether the contract is written or oral. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.20.)
Discussion
Plaintiff demurs to the first through
twenty-second affirmative defenses in County’s and Gurango’s answer.
The affirmative defense of failure
to state cause of action (i.e., first affirmative defense) do not raise any new
matter, but are merely responsive to the allegations pleaded by Plaintiff.
Plaintiff’s demurrer to same is overruled.
The second affirmative defense
(i.e., statute of limitations) is authorized by Code of Civil Procedure § 458,
which merely requires setting forth the applicable code section when pleading
the statute of limitations. Plaintiff’s demurrer to same is overruled.
The affirmative defenses of fault
of others (i.e., third affirmative defense), contributory fault (i.e., fourth
affirmative defense), superceding cause (i.e., fifth affirmative defense), estoppel
(i.e., seventh affirmative defense), failure to mitigate damages (i.e., eighth
affirmative defense), waiver (i.e., ninth affirmative defense), laches (i.e.,
tenth affirmative defense), unclean hands (i.e., eleventh affirmative defense),
acts of God (i.e., twelfth affirmative defense), consent (i.e., thirteenth affirmative
defense), knowing exposure to conditions (i.e., fifteenth affirmative defense),
notice (i.e., sixteenth affirmative defense), assumption of the risk (i.e.,
seventeenth affirmative defense), no opportunity to cure (i.e., eighteenth
affirmative defense), peculiarities of Plaintiff (i.e., nineteenth affirmative
defense), government immunity (i.e., twentieth affirmative defense) and claims
variance (i.e., twenty-first affirmative defense) all raise new matter; as
such, Plaintiff’s demurrer to same is sustained, with leave given to amend.
Civil Code § 1431.2 (i.e., the
sixth affirmative defense) does not constitute new matter, but applies whenever
liability for personal injury, property damage, or wrongful death is based upon
principles of comparative fault. Plaintiff’s demurrer to same is sustained,
with leave given to amend.
The defense of “no speculative or
future loss recovery” (i.e., fourteenth affirmative defense) is not properly an
affirmative defense but instead denies part of Plaintiff’s damages allegations.
Plaintiff’s demurrer to same is overruled.
County’s and Gurango’s twenty-second affirmative defense
(i.e., reserved defenses) is not an “affirmative defense;” rather, it is a
statement that “Defendants reserve the right to assert additional defenses that
become apparent in the future.” This is an improper attempt at requesting an
amendment rather than a defense. 
Amendments may be requested from the court; they are not reserved on an
answer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).) The
demurrer, then, is sustained without leave.