  Case Number:  23PSCP00298    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  K Petitioner Quality
Loan Service Corp.’s Motion to Deposit Surplus Funds Pursuant to Civil Code §
2924j and to Discharge Petitioner is GRANTED. 
Background   
On July 6, 2023, Quality Loan Service Corp. (“Quality”)
filed a “Petition and Declaration Regarding Unresolved Claims and Deposit of
Undistributed Surplus Proceeds of Trustee’s Sale” (“Petition”). Quality is the
trustee under the deed of trust executed on August 19, 2020 and recorded on
August 26, 2020, which encumbered the real property commonly known as 122 E. 5th
St., San Dimas, CA 91773 (“subject property”). The subject property was sold at
a March 23, 2023 trustee’s sale. Quality’s Petition seeks a determination of
claims to surplus proceeds. 
Legal Standard
Under Civil Code section 2924j:
Unless an interpleader action has been
filed, within 30 days of the execution of the trustee’s deed resulting from a
sale in which there are proceeds remaining after payment of the amounts
required by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 2924k, the
trustee shall send written notice to all persons with recorded interests in the
real property as of the date immediately prior to the trustee’s sale who would
be entitled to notice pursuant to subdivisions (b) and (c) of Section 2924b.
The notice shall be sent by first-class mail in the manner provided in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of Section 2924b and inform each entitled
person of each of the following: 
(1)       That there has been a trustee’s sale of
the described real property. 
(2)       That the noticed person may have a claim
to all or a portion of the sale proceeds remaining after payment of the amounts
required by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 2924k. 
(3)       The noticed person may contact the trustee
at the address provided in the notice to pursue any potential claim. 
(4)       That before the trustee can act, the
noticed person may be required to present proof that the person holds the
beneficial interest in the obligation and the security interest therefor. In
the case of a promissory note secured by a deed of trust, proof that the person
holds the beneficial interest may include the original promissory note and
assignment of beneficial interests related thereto. The noticed person shall
also submit a written claim to the trustee, executed under penalty of perjury,
stating the following: 
(A)       The amount of the claim to the date of
trustee’s sale. 
(B)       An itemized statement of the principal,
interest, and other charges. 
(C)       That claims must be received by the
trustee at the address stated in the notice no later than 30 days after the
date the trustee sends notice to the potential claimant.
 
(Civ. Code § 2924j, subd. (a).)
“The trustee shall exercise due diligence to determine the
priority of the written claims received by the trustee to the trustee’s sale
surplus proceeds from those persons to whom notice was sent pursuant to
subdivision (a). In the event there is no dispute as to the priority of the
written claims submitted to the trustee, proceeds shall be paid within 30 days
after the conclusion of the notice period. If the trustee has failed to
determine the priority of written claims within 90 days following the 30-day notice
period, then within 10 days thereafter the trustee shall deposit the funds with
the clerk of the court pursuant to subdivision (c) or file an interpleader
action pursuant to subdivision (e). Nothing in this section shall preclude any
person from pursuing other remedies or claims as to surplus proceeds.” (Civ.
Code § 2924j, subd. (b).)
“If, after due diligence, the trustee is unable to determine
the priority of the written claims received by the trustee to the trustee’s
sale surplus of multiple persons or if the trustee determines there is a
conflict between potential claimants, the trustee may file a declaration of the
unresolved claims and deposit with the clerk of the superior court of the
county in which the sale occurred, that portion of the sales proceeds that
cannot be distributed, less any fees charged by the clerk pursuant to this
subdivision. The declaration shall specify the date of the trustee’s sale, a
description of the property, the names and addresses of all persons sent notice
pursuant to subdivision (a), a statement that the trustee exercised due
diligence pursuant to subdivision (b), that the trustee provided written notice
as required by subdivisions (a) and (d) and the amount of the sales proceeds
deposited by the trustee with the court. Further, the trustee shall submit a
copy of the trustee’s sales guarantee and any information relevant to the
identity, location, and priority of the potential claimants with the court and
shall file proof of service of the notice required by subdivision (d) on all
persons described in subdivision (a).
“The clerk shall deposit the amount with the county
treasurer or, if a bank account has been established for moneys held in trust
under paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 77009 of the Government Code,
in that account, subject to order of the court upon the application of any
interested party . . . Upon deposit of that portion of the sale proceeds that
cannot be distributed by due diligence, the trustee shall be discharged of
further responsibility for the disbursement of sale proceeds . . .” (Civ. Code
§ 2924j, subd. (c).)
“Before the trustee deposits the funds with the clerk of the
court . . ., the trustee shall send written notice by first-class mail, postage
prepaid, to all persons described in subdivision (a) informing them that the
trustee intends to deposit the funds with the clerk of the court and that a
claim for the funds must be filed with the court within 30 days from the date
of the notice, providing the address of the court in which the funds were
deposited, and a telephone number for obtaining further information.
“Within 90 days after deposit with the clerk, the court
shall consider all claims filed at least 15 days before the date on which the
hearing is scheduled by the court, the clerk shall serve written notice of the
hearing by first-class mail on all claimants identified in the trustee’s
declaration at the addresses specified therein . . .” (Civ. Code § 2924j, subd.
(d).)
Discussion
Quality moves the court to deposit surplus funds and to be
discharged from further responsibility for disbursement of the funds.
On July 6, 2023, Quality filed a Petition in compliance with
Civil Code § 2924j, subdivision (c).
Quality is the trustee under the deed of trust executed by
William Eugene Wantland and recorded on August 26, 2020, which encumbered the
property located at 122 E. 5th St., San Dimas, CA 91773 (“subject
property”). The subject property was sold at a trustee’s sale on March 23,
2023.
The motion is granted. Quality is ordered to deposit surplus
funds from the trustee’s sale in the amount of $217,640.50 (i.e., $220,764.32[1] minus
$2,688.82 in costs and expenses pursuant to Civil Code § 2924k, subd. (b)[2] and
$435.00 filing fee) with the court. Quality is ordered discharged of further
responsibility for the disbursement of sale proceeds pursuant to Civil Code §
2924j, subdivision (c) and is not required to make further appearances in this
matter.
It is further ordered that, within 90 days after deposit with the clerk, the court shall consider
all claims filed at least 15 days before the date on which the hearing is
scheduled by the Court pursuant to Civil Code section 2924j, subdivision (d).
The clerk shall schedule and serve written notice of the hearing by first-class
mail on all claimants identified in Quality’s declaration at the addresses
specified therein. The clerk is to give notice.


