  Case Number:  23STCV13104    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  61 RAYMOND GHERMEZIAN, et al. vs ALMA NUNEZ, et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiffs Raymond Ghermezian and Raymond Ghermezian, A Professional Corporation’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production from Defendants Alma Nunez and Joseph H. Low IV are GRANTED. No sanctions are awarded.Plaintiff to give notice.DISCUSSION“A party may demand that any other party produce . . . a document that is in the possession, custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010(b).) The demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand,” and “[t]he motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).)A motion to compel a further response to an inspection demand must set forth specific facts showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance. (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 444.) Once the moving party demonstrates good cause for the discovery, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully respond to the inspection demand. (Coy v Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220.)Plaintiff Raymond Ghermezian (Plaintiff) moves to compel further responses to Requests for Production No. 5–9 from Defendants Alma Nunez and Joseph Low (Defendants). These requests in essence sought the production of an audio recording made by Nunez of Plaintiff in his office. (Separate Statement.) Defendants objected based on attorney-client and work-product privilege. (Ibid.)Good cause supports the requests. Defendants’ responses made clear that they hope to use the recording at trial to impeach Plaintiff’s testimony. Plaintiff has filed an amended complaint addressed in part to Plaintiff’s recording. The recording is relevant to the subject matter of this action. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)The motion was preceded by adequate meet and confer efforts. Plaintiff sent a meet and confer letter outlining the discovery at issue and the deficiency of Defendants’ responses on July 8,2024. (Ghermezian Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. C.) Although Nunez’s counsel denies receiving the letter (Zavalasoto Decl. ¶ 3), Plaintiff in reply presents the email in which it was sent to him. (Ghermezian Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.)Defendants’ privilege objections are without merit. If the recording represents attorney work-product, it is the work-product of Plaintiff, the attorney and party seeking the recording. “The attorney is the holder of this [work product] privilege.” (Citizens for Ceres v. Superior Court (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 889, 911.) Defendants cannot object to disclosing attorney work product to the attorney who produced it.Similarly, if the recording is of a privileged attorney-client communication, it is of a communication between Nunez and Plaintiff — meaning no breach of privilege is made by allowing him to review it. (See Evid. Code § 952 [defining confidential communication for privilege purposes as “information transmitted between a client and his or her lawyer in the course of that relationship and in confidence”].) Defendants indeed offer no argument for the proposition that the recording is privileged under either work-product or attorney-client doctrines. They instead argue in conclusory fashion that the recording of Plaintiff represents the work-product of Defendant Low. (Low Opposition at pp. 4–5.) How a recording of Plaintiff, made by Nunez, could be the work-product of Low, is not explained.The motions are therefore GRANTED.Plaintiff seeks $3,600 in attorney fees as monetary sanctions in connection with each motion. (Ghermezian Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff is not entitled to attorney fees because he is self-represented. “[S]elf-represented litigants, whether lawyers or not, cannot recover fees as discovery sanctions,” (Do v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1217.) No sanctions are therefore awarded.