  Case Number:  21STCV45537    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  A` 
21STCV45537 Grace Rodriguez, et al. v. Paramount
 Convalescent Group, Inc., dba Paramount Convalescent Hospital
Friday
 November 1, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
(Continued
from October 8, 2024)
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO TAX COSTS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF COSTS AND ATTORNEY’S FEES REGARDING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SANCTIONS AND ENTRY OF ORDER
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The first
amended complaint filed January 8, 2024, alleges that Plaintiff, Grace
Rodriguez, is a sister and heir of Evangeline Rodriguez (“Decedent”), who was a
resident of Defendant’s skilled nursing facility. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant failed to establish mandated safety protocols due to the COVID-19
pandemic. As a result, Decedent died on December 17, 2020, after contracting
the virus. Plaintiffs alleged claims for elder abuse, violation of residents’
rights, negligence, and wrongful death.
       A jury trial
commenced on March 13, 2024. The court declared a mistrial on March 18, 2024,
at Plaintiffs’ oral request. On May 3, 2024, the court determined that
Plaintiffs were entitled to an award of attorney’s fees and costs pursuant Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5  as a result of defense
counsel’s frivolous and bad faith conduct but deferred determination of the
amount of those sanctions until the conclusion of the matter. (M.O.
5/3/24.)
       On June 10,
2024, the court entered judgment on special verdict in favor of Defendant with
the amount of costs to be determined. (Jgmt.
6/10/24.) On October 8, 2024, the court granted Plaintiffs’ motion for
protective order and continued the ORAP hearing to this date to be heard with Plaintiffs’
Motion for Attorney’s Fees and Plaintiffs’ Motion to Strike Defendant’s Costs. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiffs
argue that this motion was belatedly filed because of unforeseen and unavoidable
staffing changes. As a result, the deadline to file this motion was not
calendared. Defendant is not a prevailing party since Plaintiffs obtained
relief in the form of sanctions against Defendant for causing a mistrial.
Defendant is entitled to cost only where dismissal is filed. No prejudice will
result to Defendant. The court should reduce Defendant’s costs as set forth in
Plaintiffs’ separately filed objections. 
       Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs failed to timely file a Motion to Tax Costs by July 11,
2024, resulting in the court entering costs on the judgment. The motion is
untimely. Plaintiffs waived their right to challenge the cost memorandum. Plaintiffs’
claim of inadvertence lacks credibility since Plaintiffs waited over four weeks
after judgment was entered and over seven weeks after Defendant served its
Memorandum of Costs. Defendant is the prevailing party and entitled to costs as
a matter of law. 
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
       Plaintiffs
motion contesting Defendant’s costs was untimely filed more than 15 days after
Defendant filed its cost memorandum.  On
June 24, 2024, Defendant filed and electronically served its Memorandum of
Costs. (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700.) Plaintiffs’ motion was due on July 11, 2024
(15 days extended by two court days for electronic service). (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1005 subd. (b).) Plaintiffs filed this motion on August 15, 2024. 
       In the
absence of the parties’ agreement to extend the time for serving and filing a
motion to strike, the court may extend the time for filing for a period not to
exceed 30 days. (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700 subd. (b)(3).)  The 30th day fell on Saturday,
August 10, 2024. The next court day was August 12, 2024. Plaintiffs did not
file this motion until three days later. 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
       As
Plaintiffs have exceeded the 30-day limit to extend the time for filing a
motion to strike or tax costs, the Plaintiffs’ Motion to Tax Costs is DENIED. 

 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING THE
HEARING ON PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF COSTS AND ATTORNEY’S FEES REGARDING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SANCTIONS AND ENTRY OF ORDER
 
I.       
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiffs
request an award of fees totaling $68,450 and costs of $34,857.81, incurred in
connection with their motion for sanctions, which the court granted. Plaintiffs
contend that the request is warranted given the highly specialized nature of
the claims for elder abuse. Plaintiffs request fees for 63.5 hours of work
expended as a result of defense counsel’s conduct. 
       Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs are not entitled to relief because the jury decided in
Defendant’s favor. Plaintiffs incurred 13.5 hours attributable to the mistrial.
All costs and fees are not recoverable pursuant to the sanctions motion. The
court has yet to rule on the amount of sanctions. Plaintiffs seek additional
costs and fees which should be denied because Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions
sought $81,536 in fees and costs. Plaintiffs’ request should be reduced to
between $10,125 and $14,850 and costs reduced to $8,564.26. 
       In
reply, Plaintiffs contend that that they seek a determination of fees and costs
incurred as a result of the mistrial since the court already determined that
Plaintiffs were entitled to an award of sanctions.  
II.     
PROCEDURAL FACTS
       The
court previously determined that Plaintiffs met their burden of showing that
Defendant engaged in “frivolous actions or tactics” entitling Plaintiffs to
fees and costs incurred as a result of such conduct. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5 subd. (a); (M.O.
5/3/24.) The court previously heard Plaintiffs’ motion tor determine of
fees and costs on August 13, 2024, but continued the hearing as Plaintiffs did
not provide sufficient facts from which the court could exercise its discretion
to determine whether reasonable fees and costs claimed by Plaintiffs could be
attributed to Defendant’s bad faith actions or tactics. Therefore, the court
ordered Plaintiffs' counsel to provide additional evidence, including billing
records and a supplemental declaration to be filed 10 court days before the
hearing. Plaintiffs subsequently moved to continue this hearing, which the
court granted based on the parties’ stipulation. (M.O.
10/8/24.) 
       The
court’s file does not reflect that Plaintiffs filed the supplemental
declaration in support of the motion for determination of attorney’s fees. Plaintiffs’
counsel, Dawn M. Smith, filed a declaration on October 31, 2024, requesting that
the court stay further hearings presently set in the trial court while
Plaintiffs perfect their appeal of the judgment on special verdict in favor of
Defendant. Plaintiffs contend the stay is automatic; without a stay Plaintiffs claim
they will be irreparably harmed. 
III.   
DISCUSSION
       Plaintiffs’
request for a stay of this matter pending the perfecting of Plaintiffs’ appeal
is improperly made by declaration one day before the hearing on other matters. Contrary
to Plaintiffs’ argument, a stay under Civil Procedure Section 916 is not
“automatic”; rather an appeal "stays all further trial court proceedings ‘upon
the matters embraced’ in or ‘affected’ by the appeal.” (Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 189.) 
       The
determination of the amount of sanctions to be imposed on Defendant pursuant to
Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, is not affected by the appeal of the jury verdict.
This is a matter that the parties must brief, as “a postjudgment proceeding
that is ancillary or collateral to the appeal is not stayed ‘if the proceeding
could or would have occurred regardless of the outcome of the appeal.” (Id.
at p. 191.) If the postjudgment proceedings would not affect the effectiveness
of the appeal, the proceedings are permitted. (City
of Santa Maria v. Adam (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 266, 311.)
IV.   
CONCLUSION
       If
Plaintiffs request a court order staying all future matters, Plaintiffs are
ordered to file a noticed motion. The hearing on Plaintiffs’ motion for
determination of fees as sanctions is continued to January
 14, 2025,  at 8:30 a.m. in
Department A of the Compton Courthouse. Plaintiffs are ordered to comply with
the court’s prior order requiring billing and other relevant records and a
supplemental declaration 10 court days prior to the hearing. 
 
 
 
       