  Case Number:  23STCV07457    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ISABEL RENDON,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
DIRT DOG INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV07457
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
  DISCOVERY RESPONSE TO FORM INTERROGATORY 11.1
 
Date: 
  April 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendant Dirt Dog, Inc. (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Isabel Rendon (“Plaintiff”)
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint in
this action against Defendant on April 4, 2023 for violations of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act. The Complaint alleges in relevant part that Defendant denies
blind individuals equal enjoyment of and access to the products, services,
privileges, advantages, and accommodations and information made available
through its website (the “Website”) by preventing them from freely navigating
the Website. The Website is alleged to contain access barriers that prevent
free and full use by Plaintiff and other blind persons using screen reading
software. (Complaint, ¶21.)
 
            On November 13, 2023, Defendant
filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiff’s further response to Form
Interrogatory No. 11.1. On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition, and on
April 8, 2024, Defendant replied.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
Responses to interrogatories
must be “as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(a).)¿
If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, then it must be answered to
the extent possible.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(b).)¿ “If the responding
party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an
interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good
faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(c).)¿
 
Under CCP § 2030.300(a), a
court may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when
the court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive
or incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under
Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general.”
The burden is on the
responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully answer the
interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th
245, 255.)
 
Form Interrogatory 11.1
            Form Interrogatory No.
11.1 asks: “Except for this action, in the past 10 years have you filed an
action or made a written claim or demand for compensation for your personal
injuries?” If so, the interrogatory requests details as to the claims. 
 
            Plaintiff responded with
the following: “Plaintiff objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it seeks
information that is irrelevant and unlikely to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections,
Plaintiff states as follows: No.” 
 
            Defendant argues that
the objection of relevance is meritless and that the answer of “no” is
incorrect. Defendant represents that Plaintiff has filed at least 46 Unruh
personal injury claims/actions (see Link Decl., Exh. 4), the information on
which is very relevant to the subject matter of the pending action, and
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Defendant further argues that an Unruh case is a personal injury action.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that she is not claiming any sort of personal injury as a result of the
incident that gave rise to this action. Plaintiff contends that the Unruh Civil
Rights Act is a strict liability statute and requires no proof of damage, loss
or injury. (Civ. Code, § 52(a), setting damages of “in no case less than four
thousand dollars ($4,000);” see Koire v. Metro Car Wash (1985) 40 Cal.3d
24, 33-34.) Plaintiff asserts that Civil Code section 55.56 has no application
to this case because it does not contain a “construction-related accessibility
claim.”  
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s answer of “no” to
be insufficient. While Plaintiff objected on the ground of relevance, which the
Court finds without merit, as it goes towards whether Plaintiff is a repeat
litigant, Plaintiff did not object to the request on the basis that the term “personal
injuries” is vague or ambiguous. Thus, the Court need not consider any issues raised
by Plaintiff as to that term. Accordingly, Plaintiff is required to provide a
further response without objection to No. 11.1, including the information as to
the claims to which Defendant refers, within twenty (20) days of the date of
this order..
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar.
 
  Dated
this 15th day of April 2024
 
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 