  Case Number:  21STCP03121    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  86 WILSHIRE GAYLEY, LLC v. LOS ANGELES COUNTY
METROPOLITAN TRANSIT AUTHORITY
Case No. 21STCP03121
Hearing Date: January 19, 2024
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
SUSTAINING DEMURRER
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
GRANTING MOTION TO STRIKE
 
                                                                                                                                                                                            
 
Respondent, Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (MTA), joined by Respondent, the City of Los Angeles,
demurrers to the Verified Second Amended and Supplemental Petition for
Peremptory Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory Relief (SAP). Petitioner,
Wilshire Gayley, LLC, opposes the demurrer.
 
MTA also moves to strike the SAP’s prayer at paragraph
4 requesting an injunction. The City joins MTA’s request. Petitioner opposes
the motion to strike.
 
MTA’s request for judicial notice is granted.
 
The demurrer is sustained as to the second cause of
action only.
The motion to strike is granted as to all that follows
“(a).”
 
ANALYSIS
 
DEMURRER
 
The SAP alleges three causes of action. The first
cause of action is asserted against the City for an ordinary writ of mandate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 (Section 1085). The City has not
challenged that cause of action. The second cause of action seeks an ordinary
writ of mandate compelling MTA to “comply with the Metro Design Criteria . . .
.” (SAP, Prayer ¶ 2.) The third cause of action is asserted
against both MTA and the City, and it seeks declaratory relief. Through its
third cause of action, Petitioner seeks a declaration that Zoning Information
(ZI) No. 1117, issued by the City, “does not apply to or have any legal effect
on” Petitioner’s project.
 
Second
Cause of Action
 
MTA
argues Petitioner’s second cause of action for ordinary mandate fails to state
a cause of action because (1) Petitioner has not identified a ministerial, mandatory,
non-discretionary duty that will support a claim under Section 1085; (2) even
assuming Petitioner has identified such a duty, Petitioner has not sufficiently
alleged MTA failed to comply with such duty; and (3) Petitioner’s Section 1085
claim is barred by the applicable statute of limitations.
 
              Ministerial, Mandatory, Non-Discretionary
Duty:
 
“To
obtain a writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, the
petition has the burden of proving a clear, present, and usually ministerial
duty on the part of the respondent, and a clear, present, and beneficial right
in the petitioner for performance of that duty.” (Marquez v. State Dept. of
Health Care Services (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 87, 103.)
 
MTA
asserts:
 
Rather
than allege that Metro failed to follow a law, [Petitioner] alleges Metro
failed to follow its own unpublished design criteria, i.e. criteria
“established” by Metro and that Metro admittedly has the power to change and
“update[] regularly”. (SAP, ¶ 104.) By alleging a writ of mandate cause of
action based on compelling obedience to Metro’s own internal unpublished
policies, and by failing to allege that Metro did not perform a ministerial act
specially enjoined by law, WG’s proposed pleading fails to satisfy the
requirements of section 1085 et seq.
 
Petitioner contends MTA
failed to comply with its own “mandatory design criteria for preliminary
engineering and final design of a Metro rail project[].” (SAP ¶ 104.) According to the SAP, MTA’s “Metro Design
Criteria” constitute “mandatory rules that must be followed for the design of
Metro’s transit projects, . . . .” (SAP ¶ 106.) MTA’s design criteria are “not
available on Metro’s website.” (SAP ¶ 104.)
 
Petitioner argues under Section 1085, “an agency’s
own internal rules and procedures can establish mandatory, ministerial duties
with which the agency must comply.” (Opposition 10:23-24.) Petitioner relies on
two authorities as support for its position—Pozar v. Department of Transportation (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 269, 271 [Pozar] and Galzinski
v. Somers  (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 1164, 1170-1171 [Galzinski].
 
As MTA points out, however, both Pozar and Galzinski
concerned internal
rules that had been published as controlling. For example, in Pozar, the rules subjecting the agency to a writ of
mandate had been published on a form the agency used for competitive bidding.
The form served as the agency’s “published procedure for resolving
discrepancies in bid figures.” (Pozar,
supra, 145 Cal.App.3d at
270.) “Pozar thus stands for the proposition that a ‘published
procedure’ adopted by the public entity which provides the public entity will do a certain thing (such as calculate, in a
particular manner, a bid with an apparent discrepancy in it) can provide the basis for a ministerial duty that may be enforced by means
of a writ of mandate.” (Galzinski,
supra, 2 Cal.App.5th at
1172.)
 
In Galzinski,
a law enforcement
agency published a procedure to investigate complaints against law enforcement
officers as it was required to do pursuant to the Penal Code. (Id. at 1170-1171.) The published procedure—described to the public in a
brochure—established the mandatory, ministerial, non-discretionary duty to
undertake an investigation after a complaint. (Id. at
1172-1173.)
 
The SAP alleges the Metro
Design Criteria “is not available on Metro’s website.” (SAP ¶ 104.) In fact, MTA argues the criteria is
“internal” to MTA. (Reply 2:10.) Petitioner has not specifically alleged the
Metro Design Criteria has been published in some way—such as a contract (Pozar) or policy (Galzinski). Absent
an allegation of publication or some other reason MTA’s internal policies subject
to discretionary updating can serve as the basis for Section 1085 relief, the
demurrer is properly sustained for failure to allege a mandatory, ministerial,
non-discretionary duty.
 
              Failure to Comply With its Duty
 
As argued by MTA, even assuming the Metro Design
Criteria provided a mandatory, ministerial, non-discretionary duty, the SAP
does not sufficiently allege a failure to comply with the express terms of the
Metro Design Criteria. Of the seven duties alleged by Petitioner, only one
could provide a basis for Section 1085 relief:[1]
 
A minimum [earth] surcharge load of 400 psf shall be used in the design
of tunnels and underground structures. If there is the potential for future
development adjacent to the tunnels and underground structures, the surcharge
from the actual development shall be used in the design of the structure. In
lieu of a well defined loading, a minimum value of 1000 psf shall be used when
future development is a possibility. (SAP ¶ 107.)
 
The SAP alleges MTA used a “1000 psf surcharge load
for future development adjacent to the tunnels and station.” (SAP ¶ 70.) MTA’s
use of a “1000 psf surcharge” for future development is permissible under the
Metro Design Criteria where MTA does not “have the surcharge from the actual
development” to use for planning. (SAP ¶ 107.) The SAP does not allege MTA has
or had knowledge (or knew or knows) of any calculation of “surcharge from the
actual development” or that Petitioner has provided that information to MTA. 
 
While Petitioner argues it “has supplied Metro with
information regarding the design of the Project, including building plans and
other details” (Opposition 11:18-20), nothing in the SAP’s allegations are
specific to MTA’s knowledge of surcharge calculations such that it could not
use “1000 psf” “[i]n lieu” of those specific calculations in compliance with the
Metro Design Criteria. (SAP ¶ 107. See SAP ¶¶ 56, 64, 69-74, 78-79, Exs. 4, 6,
8.) The closest Petitioner comes to alleging MTA had calculations available of
“a well defined loading” are facts alleged in paragraphs 78 and 79. Those
paragraphs, however, do not suggest MTA had available to it accurate
calculations about surcharge it could use.
 
Further, the other six alleged duties are
discretionary in nature and do not lend themselves to enforcement under Section
1085 or inapplicable. Petitioner’s project does not exist. MTA is not required “to
design for loading” for not yet existing adjacent buildings. (SAP ¶ 107.)
Finally, that “attention shall be paid” is discretionary—exactly how much
attention need be paid depends upon the task.
 
Assuming Petitioner alleged a mandatory,
ministerial, non-discretionary duty, the demurrer must nonetheless be sustained
based on Petitioner’s failure to sufficiently allege MTA has failed to comply
with that duty.
 
              Statute of Limitations
 
To sustain a demurrer on statute of limitations
grounds, “[i]t must appear clearly and affirmatively that, upon the face of the
complaint, the right of action is necessarily barred.” (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell,
Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCourt (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 881.) MTA has not met its burden here.
 
At some point, it is not entirely clear when,
Petitioner learned MTA “planned to move the Station structure extremely and
dangerously close to the western boundary” of Petitioner’s property. (SAP ¶ 41.)
MTA released an addendum in June 2018 noting a shift in the station’s entrance
“slightly to the east and closer to Gayley avenue.” (SAP ¶ 37.) Petitioner
alleges MTA “failed to provide any notice” to Petitioner of the change. (SAP ¶ 38.)
Petitioner further alleges concealment (SAP ¶ 39) of pre-construction
renderings that revealed the extent of the design changes.
 
Assuming, without deciding, Code of Civil Procedure
section 388 provides a three-year statute of limitations for Petitioner’s
claims, the court cannot determine clearly and affirmatively Petitioner’s claim
is time barred. Petitioner initiated this action on September 20, 2021. The
addendum, available in June 2018, did not reveal the extent of the station
relocation. It is not clear from the SAP when Petitioner learned MTA had
repositioned the station “extremely and dangerously close” to Petitioner’s
property. (SAP ¶ 41.) This is especially true given Petitioner’s allegations of
concealment and the three months between MTA’s addendum and the date Petitioner
initiated this proceeding. (SAP ¶ 39.)
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled on statute
of limitations grounds.
 
Third Cause of Action
 
Petitioner’s third cause of action concerns ZI No.
1117 and the extent of its application, if at all, to Petitioner’s project.
Petitioner seeks a declaration ZI No. 1117 “does not apply to or have any legal
effect on” Petitioner’s project. (SAP ¶ 116, Prayer ¶ 3.) Petitioner alleges ZI
No. 1117 is “not a law, ordinance, regulation, statute, code, or standard” and
nothing more than “[i]nter-departmental correspondence . . . .” (SAP ¶ 47.) Petitioner
also alleges its rights to build are paramount to those of MTA and cannot
interfere with Petitioner’s permitting process with the City. (SAP ¶ 116.)
 
MTA argues Government Code section 66498.1,
subdivision (c)(1) allows it to condition a permit based on health and safety
concerns. (Memo 6:3-16.) MTA also notes the City may refuse to issue permits
where it determines there would be danger to the health and safety of the
public in doing so.
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is
overruled. While the City may have the authority to determine its method for
issuing building permits, Petitioner contends under the circumstances here MTA
cannot control the issuance of Petitioner’s building permits through ZI No.
1117. Petitioner has sufficiently alleged a controversy. Petitioner alleges ZI
No. 1117 cannot be applied to it here under the circumstances. In addition, MTA’s
position raises a factual claim related to ZI No. 1117, the health and safety
of the public and Government Code section 66498.1, subdivision (c)(1). 
 
The Sham Pleading Doctrine/Mootness Bars Relief
Through the Second and Third Causes of Action
 
MTA argues Petitioner came before this court
seeking relief through its verified pleadings (the original and first amended
petitions) claiming its entitlements would expire on July 2, 2023. (Memo
7:20-21.) MTA notes, “For nearly two years until filing its SAP, [Petitioner]
asked for injunctive, writ, and declaratory relief largely on the basis that if
that relief was not obtained prior
to the expiration
of its entitlements on July 2, 2023, the ‘the Project’s entitlements, and thus
the entire Project, will be lost before [Petitioner] can begin construction.’ ”
(Memo 7:21-24.) Accordingly, MTA asserts Petitioner must be held to its
allegations, and the court must find Petitioner’s SAP is moot—that is, Petitioner
cannot now avoid its report to the court it would lose its entitlements on July
2, 2023 absent judicial relief.
 
The court finds MTA’s claim unpersuasive. “A
judicial admission is an unequivocal concession of the truth of a matter and
may be made in a pleading.” (Humane
Society of U.S. v. Superior Court (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1249.) “[A] judicial admission is
ordinarily a factual
allegation by one party that is admitted by the opposing party. The factual allegation is removed from the issues
in the litigation because the parties agree as to its
truth.” (Barsegian
v. Kessler v. Kessler (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) Importantly, a “judicial admission is not set in stone,
however, because the trial judge has discretion to relieve a party from the
effects of a judicial admission by permitting amendment of a pleading. In
addition, in certain contexts a party may be permitted to introduce evidence
contradicting a party’s own allegations even in the absence of amendment.” (Id. at 452, fn. 2.)

 
First, the allegations identified by MTA from
Petitioner’s earlier pleadings are not unequivoacal—“If [Petitioner]
cannot record its final map . . . the Project’s vesting will be lost” and “[Petitioner]
may run out of time . . . .” (Memo 8, fn. 2.) That Petitioner filed its
prior pleadings prior to June 2, 2023 when loss of its entitlements may
have been a risk, the court cannot find this proceeding is moot based on
Petitioner’s prior allegations under the circumstances here.
 
Petitioner Has Not Sufficiently Pleaded Facts to
Support an Injunction
 
Noting that injunctive relief requires a finding that
monetary damages would prove inadequate, MTA argues the SAP does not support
Petitioner’s request for an injunction. (Memo 9:19-21.) Petitioner notes prior
allegations included the claim monetary damages would be “immeasurable” here.
(Memo 10:7.) MTA also reports Petitioner filed a claim under the Government
Claims Act acknowledging monetary damages would be adequate if Petitioner is
successful in this litigation.
 
Petitioner may properly seek an injunction when a
writ may not provide full and complete relief. While Petitioner seeks an
ordinary writ to compel MTA to comply with its (allegedly) mandatory,
ministerial, nondiscretionary duties, Petitioner may request MTA be enjoined from
taking any further action to develop its project until MTA has complied with
its duties. If Petitioner is successful in this litigation, an injunction
precluding MTA from taking actions that are not incompliance with an
(allegedly) mandatory, ministerial, nondiscretionary duties may be appropriate.
Certainly, the request for an injunction is not inappropriate at the pleading
stage.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
As the court has sustained the demurrer as to the second
cause of action, the relief related thereto (Prayer, paragraph 4 at (a)) is
properly stricken. The court finds, however, the balance of paragraph 4 should
not be stricken as the court overruled the demurrer to the third cause of
action.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is sustained. Petitioner shall argue whether there is a
reasonable likelihood it could cure the deficiency (mandatory, ministerial,
nondiscretionary duty and failure to comply with same) in an amendment. The
demurrer is otherwise overruled.
 
The motion to strike is granted as to the language
following “(a)” in paragraph 4 of the Prayer.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
January 19, 2024                                                                                                                                                           
________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


