 Case Number:  23STCP00757    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  86 ROJAS v. CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Case Number: 23STCP00757
Hearing Date: January 19, 2024 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
GRANTING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 
 




















 
Petitioner, Vincent Marc Rojas, seeks a writ of
administrative mandate directing Respondents, City of Los Angeles and Michel
Moore, Chief of Police (Respondents), to set aside a final administrative
decision of the Chief of Police, after a Board of Rights hearing, to suspend
Petitioner for 10 days and demote him from Detective to Police Officer II with
the Los Angeles Police Department (Department). Respondents oppose the
petition.
 
The petition is granted and the matter is remanded
to Respondents.
 
BACKGROUND
 
At the time of the administrative hearing,
Petitioner had worked for the Department for approximately 16 years. (AR 951.) By
that time, Petitioner had attained “dual status” as a sergeant and detective.
His dual status allowed him to switch back and forth between the positions. (AR
952.) 
 
While working as a detective at 77th
Street Station, the Department charged Petitioner with misconduct relating to a
trial in criminal court in October 2019 (counts one through seven), and failure
to timely renew the registration on his personal car with the Department of Motor
Vehicles between 2017 and 2019 (counts eight and nine). The complaint alleged
in part:
 
·      
Count 2: On or
about October 4, 2019, you, while on duty, failed to respond to DDA Goodrich’s
text messages and voicemails in a timely manner. 
 
·      
Count 3: On or
about October 4, 2019, you, while on duty, failed to ensure witnesses were
transported to a court trial in a timely manner. (AR 1.)
 
After a hearing, the Board of Rights
(Board) found Petitioner guilty on all but two counts of the nine counts
alleged in the complaint. (AR 1592-1599.) As a penalty, the Board recommended the
Chief Moore impose a 10-day suspension and demote Petitioner from his Detective
I position to a Police Officer II position. (AR 1602.) Chief Moore adopted the
recommendation.  (AR 1603.)
 
This proceeding ensued. 
 
///
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Petitioner
seeks relief pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, subdivision (b), the issues for review
of an administrative decision are: whether the respondent has proceeded without
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An
abuse of discretion is established if the respondent has not proceeded in the
manner required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or the
findings are not supported by the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd.
(b).)
 
This
proceeding concerns Petitioner’s fundamental vested right in employment.
Accordingly, judicial review is pursuant to the court’s independent judgment. (See Wences
v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 305, 314; Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130,
143.)  
 
Under
the court’s independent judgment, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.” (Bixby v. Pierno,
supra, 4 Cal. 3d at 143.) The court may draw its own reasonable
inferences from the evidence and make its determinations as to the credibility
of witnesses. (Morrison v. Housing
Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal.
App. 4th 860, 868.) Exercise of
independent judgment “does permit (indeed, [] requires) the trial court to
reweigh the evidence by examining the credibility of witnesses.” (Barber v.
Long Beach Civil Service Com. (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 652, 658.) Under
independent judgment, “abuse of discretion is established if the court
determines that the findings are not supported by the weight of the evidence.”
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b).)
 
“In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.” (Fukuda v. City of Angels
(1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817; see also Evid. Code, § 664.)
 
Petitioner bears the burden of proof to
demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record, that the weight of the evidence
does not support the administrative findings. (Strumsky v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil
Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal. App. 2d 129, 137.) A reviewing court “will not act as
counsel for either party . . . and will not assume the task of initiating and
prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of discovering errors not
pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v.
Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.) 

 
///
 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Petitioner contends
the Board’s guilty findings for counts 2 and 3 of the complaint are not
supported by the weight of the evidence. Petitioner also contends the penalty imposed
by Chief Moore was “too harsh.” (Opening Brief 15:18.) Petitioner does not otherwise
challenge the administrative proceedings. 

 
Factual Background
 
On July 3, 2019, 77th
Street Division police officers Jonathan Grube and Paul Wellman arrested Vertis
Portis for suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon (ADW). (AR 784-785, 1381.)
The alleged victim was Dallreco Montgomery of the ADW. Montgomery’s girlfriend,
Teresa Jarrison, witnessed the incident. (AR 1381.) Montgomery and Jarrison
lived in the same residence in the 77th Street Division area. (AR
1381)
 
On July 5, 2019, the
Department assigned Petitioner the ADW investigation. (AR 1381.) On July 31,
2019, Petitioner presented his investigation to the district attorney’s office
for filing consideration. (AR 1381.) On
September 13, 2019, the district attorney electronically served Petitioner with
a subpoena[1]
and placed him on-call for the ADW trial as of October 2, 2019 for 10 days
thereafter. (AR 1381-1382, 1417.)
 
On Friday, September
27, 2019, the district attorney’s office assigned Deputy District Attorney (DDA)
Rebecca Goodrich to try the Portis/ADW case. (AR 1381, 784-785.) “On September 27, 2019, Goodrich sent an electronic
mail (email) to [Petitioner] to introduce herself as the DDA assigned to the
Portis criminal trial. Goodrich provided [Petitioner] with the trial date [set
to commence Wednesday, October 2, 2019], requested Digital In Car Video
(DICVs), and photographs of the weapon (a knife) used during the ADW.
Additionally, Goodrich requested [Petitioner’s] assistance with locating and
serving Montgomery and Jarrison subpoenas and transporting them to court. Goodrich
provided [Petitioner] with her work and cellular telephone number. Goodrich
requested [Petitioner’s] cellular telephone. Goodrich asked [Petitioner] to
notify her if he had any scheduling conflicts during the week of the Portis
jury trial, which was scheduled between October 2, 2019 and October 11,
2019.”  (AR 1381 [administrative
complaint investigation report]; see also AR 1415-1416 [Goodrich’s
emails].)  DDA Goodrich also informed
Petitioner in her September 27 email that she would be off work on Monday,
September 30, 2019, “for the jewish holiday” (Rosh Hashanah) but that she could
be reached by cell phone or text on that date. (AR 1415; see also AR 791.) 
 
Petitioner did not work from Friday, September
27, through Monday, September 30. (AR 970.) Petitioner usually worked Tuesday
through Fridays from 5 a.m. to 3 p.m. (AR 966-967.)  Petitioner did not respond to DDA Goodrich’s emails
from September 27 at any time, including after he returned to work on Tuesday,
October 1. (AR 791-792, 970, 1419-1420.)
 
By Tuesday, October 1, DDA Goodrich
had not heard from Petitioner and became concerned. She called a detective she
knew, Detective Matthew Snyder, and obtained Petitioner’s cell phone number.
(AR 739-740 [Goodrich “pretty frantic”, 1382.) Thereafter, after obtaining
Petitioner’s cellphone number, DDA Goodrich corresponded with Petitioner by
text message and voicemail regarding the Portis/ADW case. (See AR 1418-1430.) 
 
Specifically, on
October 1, 2019, at 4:29 p.m., DDA Goodrich texted Petitioner: “Please call me
to discuss tomorrow’s trial, this is dda Rebecca Goodrich.” (AR 1419.) Sometime
thereafter, on October 1, Petitioner responded by text: “I’ll be in meeting
until at least 8pm[.] How can I help[?]” (AR 1419.) DDA Goodrich then texted
Petitioner: “I sent you an email last week, regarding disc but mostly letting
you know that I need color photos of knife and for you to bring it to court for
trial. Also victim’s car broke down and he needs a ride to court for his
testimony as well.” (AR 1419.) That same day, Petitioner texted back: “I
haven’t been in the office. .” (AR 1420.) DDA Goodrich responded: “Okay. I
still need that stuff for trial starting tomorrow and victim cant get to court
to testify[.] Can you bring the knife and victim and Victim's girlfriend to
court for testimony, either Thursday or Friday depending on jury selection[?]” (AR
1420.)
 
That next morning,
at 4:26 a.m., Petitioner responded: “I'll need there [sic] addresses and
phone #. Are they all at one location? I'll need to arrange for them somehow to
be picked up..I only have one other Detective to help out, if he's not already
in court. I have no idea which case this is. . .” (AR 1420-1421.)  
 
Additional relevant
text messages, voicemails, and other evidence are discussed below in connection
with Petitioner’s challenge to the Board’s findings on counts 2 and 3 of the
complaint.
 
Does the Weight of the Evidence Support the
Board’s Findings for Count 2?
 
Count 2 alleges:
“On or about October 4, 2019, you, while on duty, failed to respond to DDA
Goodrich’s text messages and voicemails in a timely manner.” (AR 1595.)
 
The Board found
Petitioner guilty of count 2 and explained: 
 
[1] On October 1st by text message, DDA Goodrich asked you to call to
discuss the trial. It's undisputed that you did not call her. [2] On October
1st by text message, DDA Goodrich advised you about the e-mail she sent you,
which you did not reply to nor did you acknowledge receipt of. [3] On October
3rd, DDA Goodrich by text asked you to ‘please let me know who will be picking
them up, so i can let them know. And then you will meet them at court with the
knife because you will need to testify?’ You admitted that you did not answer
her question as to who will pick them up. (AR 1595.)
 
The court addresses both of the Board’s
findings on count 2 in turn.
 
              [1] October 1 Text Message
Asking Petitioner to Call
 
The Board found
Petitioner guilty of count 2, in part, because he did not call DDA Goodrich on
October 1 in response to her 4:29 p.m. text message stating “Please call me to
discuss tomorrow’s trial, this is dda Rebecca Goodrich.”  (AR 1595, 1419.)  
 
Petitioner contends
his failure to respond to DDA Goodrich on October 1 cannot support Count 2.
Petitioner advises he had completed his work for the Department at 3 p.m. that day.
DDA Goodrich did not send her text message to him until well after he had stopped
working on October 1. That is, DDA Goodrich texted him after he was no longer
on duty. The court agrees.
 
The Department explicitly
charged Petitioner in count 2 with misconduct “while on duty.” The complaint alleged
“while on duty, [Petitioner] failed to respond to DDA
Goodrich’s text messages and voicemails in a timely manner.” (AR 1595 [emphasis
added].) 
 
There is no dispute Petitioner worked for the Department four days a week—Tuesday
through Friday—from 5 a.m. to 3 p.m. (AR 966-967.) There can also be no dispute
DDA Goodrich texted Petitioner on his cellphone for the first time after he had
ended his duty on October 1 at 4:29 p.m. (See AR 971-974.) Respondents also
concede DDA Goodrich sent her first text message to Petitioner on October 1 “while
he was off-duty.” (Opposition 11:6.)
 
Lieutenant Victoria Lim, Petitioner’s supervisor
in 2019 (AR 532-533, 760), testified she had no expectation that Petitioner
monitor his cellphone for work communications while off duty unless he made
prior arrangements to do so. (AR 760.) Moreover, Lim did not direct Petitioner
to monitor his cellphone during the hours he was not actually working. (AR
760.)
 
The weight of the evidence does not
support the Board’s finding Petitioner committed misconduct “while on duty” by failing
to respond to DDA Goodrich’s text message on October 1 at 4:29 p.m. Additionally,
according to Petitioner’s supervisor, Lieutenant Lim, Petitioner had no obligation
to monitor his cellphone for work communications when he was not actively working.
 
Respondents contend the Department’s “while on
duty” part of Count 2 was “incidental.” (Opposition 11:13-14.) The meaning of
Respondent’s just “incidental” claim is unclear. Respondents further argue: “as
an investigating officer for the case, he had the obligation to respond timely
to Goodrich whether he was on or off duty.” (Opposition 11:14-15.) 
 
Respondents’ position directly conflicts with
the testimony of Lieutenant Lim, Petitioner’s supervisor. That is, absent direction
from a supervisor, Petitioner was not required to monitor his cellphone for
work communications during the hours he was not on duty. (AR 760.) Respondents
provide no evidence of the Department’s policies, applicable statutes or caselaw
provides otherwise. Respondents’ argument is unsupported. (Nelson v.
Avondale Homeowners Assn. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863 [failure to
support claim with reasoned argument and citations constitutes waiver].)

 
Further, Petitioner’s discipline must be based
on the Department’s policies and standards. Whether an officer is on or off
duty is relevant to the charge. Here, for example, Chief Moore’s complaint alleged
nine counts. (AR 1.) Of those counts, Chief Moore alleged seven occurred while
Petitioner was on duty, one while he was off duty and one was unspecified. (AR
1. Compare counts 1 through 7 [“while on-duty”] with count 8 [“while off-duty”].)
 
Respondents also contend: 
 
Petitioner was under
subpoena, on-call to Goodrich from October 2 on for ten days thereafter.
On-call meant he was obligated to respond to the prosecutor’s contacts and to
appear in court within one hour, if necessary, whether he was on or off-duty.
Officers get paid for their on-call time, and for responding to a subpoena as
on-duty time. (Opposition 11:10-13.)
 
Respondents provide no citations
to the record to support of their contention Petitioner was somehow “on duty”
at the time of the October 1 text messages because he had received a subpoena
specifying that he was “on call” beginning on October 2. Accordingly, Respondents’
position is unsupported and unpersuasive. 
 
Based on its review of the record, the court
finds no evidence that the “e-Subpoena” worked to convert Petitioner to “on
duty” on October 1 when DDA Goodrich texted him. (See AR 1417 [e-Subpoena].) Lieutenant
Lim testified “on-call status” means that the district attorney or court has
placed the officer “on call, meaning you don’t have to be physically present in
court, however, during the hours, and typically otherwise specified, it would
be between 8:30 and 4:00 p.m. that you will be available to respond to court,
and I believe the parameters is you have to respond within one hour of being
called to court.” (AR 760-761.) 
 
Lieutenant Lim explained the officers receive compensation
for their on-call time. (AR 761.) Lieutenant Lim did not testify or suggest an
officer who is “on call” is considered “on duty” during the entire period of
the criminal trial for which he/she received an “e-Subpoena.” She also did not
testify that an “on-call” subpoena obligates an officer, during his or her
off-duty time, to perform any duties other than timely respond to court when
called to testify. Because DDA Goodrich did not place Petitioner on call until
October 2 for the Portis/ADW case, there can be no reasonable argument
Petitioner was “on duty” on October 1 at 4:29 p.m.
 
Respondents next assert “Petitioner, as
investigating officer for the case, had the obligation to respond timely to
Goodrich whether he was on or off-duty.” (Opposition 11:14-15.)  Respondents do not support their position
with any citation to the administrative record or legal authorities. Further, the
issue, as alleged in the complaint, Petitioner’s on-duty conduct. Chief Moore
did not allege and the Board did not find Petitioner committed misconduct by
failing to respond to DDA Goodrich while he was off duty.
 
Finally, Respondents contend “while not
mentioned by the Board, texts on October 4 at 6:50 a.m., 9:21 a.m., 9:55 a.m.,
and 10:15 a.m. were delivered to Petitioner while on-duty to which Petitioner
failed to respond timely.” (Opposition 11:7-9; see also Opposition 11, fn. 4.) The
Board did not find Petitioner was guilty on count 2 because he failed to
respond in a timely manner to text messages sent on October 4. (AR 1595.)[2] The Board made explicit
factual findings for Count 2; it did not include any misconduct findings based
on communications made on October 4 communications. (AR 1595.) Where the Board
has specifically identified the misconduct by date (October 1), the court cannot
find the Board intended to find Petitioner guilty of count 2 based on Petitioner’s
acts on another date (October 4). (See American Funeral Concepts v. Board of
Funeral Directors & Embalmers (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 303, 311 [court
cannot “supply its own finding” to cure agency’s improper finding].)
 
Based on the
foregoing, the weight of the evidence does not support the Board’s finding that
Petitioner was guilty of misconduct, as alleged in Count 2, for failing to call
DDA Goodrich on October 1, 2019, “while on duty,” in response to her text
message sent at 4:29 pm that date.[3]  
 
              [2] October 1 Text Message
Regarding DDA Goodrich’s Emails 
 
The Board also found
Petitioner guilty of count 2 because “[o]n October 1st by text message, DDA Goodrich
advised [Petitioner] about the e-mail she sent [to him], which [Petitioner] did
not reply to nor did [Petitioner] acknowledge receipt of.”[4] (AR 1595.)
 
It appears the Board
found Petitioner guilty of Count 2, in part, because he did not directly
acknowledge receipt of the September 27 emails in his text messages to DDA
Goodrich on October 1. The weight of the evidence, however, does not support such
a finding.
 
DDA Goodrich’s second
text to Petitioner on October 1 after 4:29 p.m. stated:
 
I sent you an email last week, regarding
disc but mostly letting you know that I need color photos of knife and for you
to bring it to court for trial. Also victim’s car broke down and he need a ride
to court for his testimony as well. (AR 1419.)
 
Petitioner stated in
response to DDA Goodrich: “I haven’t been in the office.” (AR 1419-20.) Petitioner’s
text appears responsive; he explained he had not been at work to receive the
email. His response acknowledged her statement about the email contrary to the Board’s
finding he did not acknowledge the email. The only part of DDA Goodrich’s text
to which “I haven’t been in the office” is her statement she sent him an email
last week. That is, “I haven’t been in the office” is non-responsive to DDA
Goodrich’s need for color photos and the victim needing a ride to court.  
 
Although not entirely
clear, it appears the Board faulted Petitioner for failing to respond to the
emails sent to him by DDA Goodrich on September 27. The evidence demonstrates Petitioner did not respond (by email) to DDA
Goodrich’s September 27 email at any time, including after Petitioner returned
to work on October 1 and was back on duty. (AR 791-792, 970, 1419-1420.) 
 
Nonetheless, the Department
did not charge Petitioner with failing to respond to DDA Goodrich by email—count
2 alleges misconduct for failing to respond to “text messages and voicemail.” Accordingly,
to the extent Board found guilty of Count 2 for failing to respond to DDA Goodrich
by email, the Department did not make such an allegation. (See generally Doe
v. University of Southern California (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 221, 240 [in administrative proceedings, “[n]otice of the charges sufficient to
provide a reasonable opportunity to respond is basic to . . . the common law right to a fair
procedure” and the accused must be told “what he is accused of doing and what the basis of the accusation is”].)[5]
 
              [3] October 3 Text Message
Regarding DDA Goodrich’s Emails 
              
Finally, the Board
found Petitioner guilty of count 2, in part, because “[o]n October 3rd, DDA Goodrich
by text asked [Petitioner] to ‘please let me know who will be picking them [the
witnesses] up, so i can let them know. And then you will meet them at court
with the knife because you will need to testify?’ [Petitioner] admitted that [he]
did not answer her question as to who will pick them up.” (AR 1595.)
 
Petitioner
challenges the Board’s finding because the “Board
did not identify which of Goodrich’s messages went unanswered” and “[i]f it was
her last one at 4:56 p.m., [Petitioner] was off duty by that time, and he
responded to her at 6:14 a.m. the next morning.” (Opening Brief 14:9-11.)[6]  
 
The Board expressly
found Petitioner never responded to DDA Goodrich’s direction to let her know
who would be transporting the witnesses. Thus, Petitioner is incorrect when he
states the Board did not identify which of DDA Goodrich’s messages went
unanswered.
 
Petitioner also points
out that “[a]s for the finding that [Petitioner] failed to respond to one of DDA
Goodrich’s text messages on October 3rd, the record shows they exchanged
numerous text messages between 7:55 a.m. (A.R. 1424) and 4:56 p.m. (A.R.
1424-1427), mostly concerning difficulties getting the witnesses to court.” (Opening
Brief 14:6-9.)  
 
The record shows the following exchange of text
messages between DDA Goodrich and Petitioner on October 3:
 
DDA
Goodrich (at 7:55 am): You already have
on call subpoena for trial but if you need one for tomorrow please let me know.
I need you to bring [the witnesses] by 12 tomorrow for me to go over everything
with them before they testify at 1:30 and I need you to bring knife to court
from evidence and most likely testify to chain of custody of it  
 
Petitioner:
Sounds good see you then..
 
DDA Goodrich: Thank you. What time should I tell them
you will pick them up to be at court around 12? They live at 813 1/2 w 85th
Street.
 
Petitioner: I won't be able pick them up.. I'll see if
I can arrange something.  I have multiple
cases going this week and next.  
 
DDA Goodrich: Please let me know who will be picking
them up so I can let them know. And then you will meet them at court with knife
because you will need to testify?
 
Petitioner: Knife and testifying no problem. Their
logistics is going to be..
 
DDA Goodrich: Okay well they don't live that far from
court so then maybe a patrol officer can pick them off and drop them off after
court if you aren't able to. Please let me know today.
 
DDA Goodrich (at 1:27 pm): Able to find anyone?
 
Petitioner: Unfortunately no.  
 
DDA Goodrich (at 2:47 pm): Who do I need to call to
make this happen when I get out of court?
 
DDA Goodrich (at 4:56 pm): Please be here at 9:30
tomorrow and meet me on the 17th floor. (AR 1423-1427.)
 
DDA Goodrich: Okay well they don't live that far from
court so then maybe a patrol officer can pick them off and drop them off after
court if you aren't able to. Please let me know today.
 
Petitioner and DDA
Goodrich continued to exchange text messages the morning of October 4 about the
transportation issues with the witnesses. (AR 1427-1428.) As discussed below with
count 3, Petitioner did arrange for the witnesses to be transported to the
court building.
 
The above-quoted October
3 text messages demonstrate Petitioner informed DDA Goodrich on October 3 that
he had been unable to find someone to transport the witnesses. In his
testimony, Petitioner admitted he did not respond to DDA Goodrich’s request to
let her know who would be transporting the witnesses. Petitioner explained he
did not know on October 3 who was going to transport the witnesses so he could
not tell her. (AR 1185.) The court finds Petitioner’s explanation credible. He
failed to identify who would be transporting the witnesses because he could not
do so on October 3. The text messages in context reflect just that—it appears
DDA Goodrich requested Petitioner let her know who would be transporting the
witnesses after he arranged it:
 
Petitioner: I won't be able pick them up.. I'll see
if I can arrange something.  I have
multiple cases going this week and next. 

 
DDA Goodrich: Please let me know who will be
picking them up so I can let them know. And then you will meet them at
court with knife because you will need to testify?
 
Petitioner: Knife and testifying no problem. Their
logistics is going to be.. 
 
DDA Goodrich: Okay well they don't live that
far from court so then maybe a patrol officer can pick them off and drop them
off after court if you aren't able to. Please let me know today. (AR 1425-1426
[emphasis added].)
 
Further, DDA Goodrich’s
text hours later, “Able to find anyone?” expresses her understanding Petitioner
did not have identifiable transportation plans in their earlier text exchange.
 
The issue is whether
Petitioner could be found guilty of Count 2 for failing to inform DDA Goodrich
on October 4 of the names of the officers who would be transporting the
witnesses after Petitioner made the arrangements. The parties do not
address the issue in their briefing. More importantly, the Board did not find misconduct
based on any failure later (on October 4) to identify who would be transporting
the witnesses to court. Petitioner clearly communicated to DDA Goodrich he did
not have the transportation logistics settled. The weight of the evidenced
supports a finding DDA Goodrich understood Petitioner did not yet have a plan
and could not on October 3 provide the names.
 
Exercising its
independent judgment, the court concludes that the weight of the evidence does
not support finding Petitioner guilty of count 2 for a failure to provide DDA
Goodrich with the name of who would be transporting the witnesses to court. The
text messages show an ongoing responsive discussion between Petitioner and DDA
Goodrich, including on October 4, about how the witnesses would be transported
to and from court.  
 
For example, on the
morning of October 4 at 6:41 a.m., Petitioner and DDA Goodrich exchanged text
messages concerning whether a district attorney investigator could assist with
transportation from court after the witnesses testified. (AR 1427-1428.) DDA
Goodrich discussed the matter with a sergeant, who indicated that a district
attorney investigator could not assist with transportation due to liability
issues. (AR 1427-1428.) DDA Goodrich did not reiterate her request for the
names of the officers transporting the witnesses to court on October 4. (AR
1427-1428.) 
 
The Board did not find
Petitioner failed to respond in a timely manner to text messages or voicemails
received from DDA Goodrich on October 4. While it may have been prudent for
Petitioner to provide DDA Goodrich the names of the officers transporting the
witnesses on October 4 based on her earlier request on October 3 when there was
no transportation plan in place, Petitioner timely responded to DDA Goodrich’s
October 3 text message by informing her that he had not yet been able to
arrange transportation. Petitioner responded to DDA Goodrich in the only way
possible on October 3—he did not know who would be transporting the witnesses because
he did not yet have a plan in place. The text messages, considered in context,
indicate DDA Goodrich at that moment understood Petitioner’s response that he
had no names to provide.
 
Respondents argue: “As
for the October 3 example, Petitioner’s response to Goodrich was again
untimely. Petitioner had done nothing up to that point securing the
transportation of the witnesses and predictably had Goodrich very concerned.” (Opposition
10:12-14.) While that may be true, the argument is unpersuasive. The Department
did not allege in count 2 did not that Petitioner committed misconduct by
failing to find transportation for the witnesses on October 3 or in a timely
manner. Petitioner cannot be disciplined for allegations not reasonably
presented in the administrative complaint.
 
Respondents point out Petitioner did
not respond on October 3 to DDA Goodrich’s text messages sent on 2:47 p.m. and
4:56 p.m. on October 3 (quoted above). (See Opposition 10:12-23.)  However, the Board did not find Petitioner
guilty of count 2 in connection with those text messages. (AR 1595.) The Board
expressly found Petitioner guilty of failing to advise DDA Goodrich on October
3 about who was going to transport the witnesses to the court. (See American Funeral Concepts v.
Board of Funeral Directors & Embalmers, supra, 136 Cal.App.3d at 311
[court cannot “supply its own finding” to cure agency’s improper finding].)
 
 
Respondents next
contend: 
 
Petitioner’s response under the circumstances was
again untimely. Petitioner left Goodrich in a state of uncertainty regarding
whether the key witnesses could testify at all. Petitioner should have
explained what he had done, what he planned to do that day and the next day,
and what his plan B was. Even assuming that there was nothing that Petitioner
could do, he had an obligation as the investigating officer under subpoena to
communicate with Goodrich in a timely manner to fix the problem and to acknowledge
that he would meet Goodrich at 9:30 a.m. the next day. (Opposition 10:24-11:2.)
 
These opposition
arguments are unpersuasive. They far exceed the scope of the Board’s findings
and the allegations in count 2. The Department did not allege in count 2, and the
Board did not find, Petitioner committed misconduct because he failed to
explain “what he had done, what he planned to do that day and the next day, and
what his plan B was.” The Board found Petitioner was guilty of count 2, in
part, because he did not timely answer DDA Goodrich’s question from the morning
of October 3 about who would be transporting the witnesses to court. (AR 1595.)
However, as discussed, the weight of the evidence supports a finding Petitioner
timely responded to that question on October 3 when he stated that he had not yet
found transportation for the witnesses and that DDA Goodrich understood the
status of the transportation arrangements. 

 
Based on the
foregoing, the weight of the evidence does not support the Board’s findings
Petitioner committed misconduct for failing to
respond to DDA Goodrich’s text messages and voicemails in a timely manner while
on duty on or about October 4, 2019. The finding must be set aside.
 
Does the Weight of the Evidence Support the Board’s
Findings for Count 3?
 
Count 3 alleges: “On or about October 4, 2019, you, while on duty,
failed to ensure witnesses were transported to a court trial in a timely
manner.” (AR 1595.)  
 
The Board found
Petitioner guilty of count 3 and explained: 
 
Although, [Petitioner] arranged the pickup of the witnesses
by patrol who delivered them to the courthouse, [Petitioner] did not ensure
that they found their way timely to DDA Goodrich. It’s uncontested that they
were dropped off ‘at the front outside.’ See exhibit 12, addenda at 12.
Moreover, when [Petitioner] was arranging the transport, he texted patrol
officer Wellman that ‘their phones are disconnected . . . Just roll by. If they
answer, they answer.. No biggie. We tried.’ Certainly, the obligation to
ensure witness and victim appear at a trial is a biggie. Thus, the witnesses
were not timely transported. (AR 1595-1596.)
 
On October 3, at
7:55 a.m., DDA Goodrich initially instructed Petitioner “to bring [the witnesses] by 12 tomorrow for me to go
over everything with them before they testify at 1:30.” (AR 1424.) At
approximately 4:15 p.m. on October 3, DDA Goodrich left a voicemail stating the
trial had been moved to the morning of October 4; DDA Goodrich asked Petitioner
to meet her at 9:30 a.m. the next day. (AR 810, 994, 995.) A bit later that
day, 4:56 p.m., DDA Goodrich instructed Petitioner to “[p]lease be here at 9:30
tomorrow and meet me on the 17th floor.” 
(AR 1427.)  
 
On October 4, at 6:34 a.m., Petitioner
texted Officer Wellman and asked whether he could transport Montgomery and
Jarrison to court. (AR 1384.) The complaint investigation report notes:
“Wellman agreed to transport them.  At
approximately 0815 hours, Wellman and his partner, . . . transported [] Montgomery
and Jarrison to [the courthouse], and arrived at approximately 0845 hours.
Wellman responded to the LAPD Court Liaison Office and signed in on the Court
Check-in Roster.” (AR 1384; see also AR 1015, 1444-1445.)  Accordingly, the weight of the evidence shows
Petitioner ensured the witnesses were transported to court by 8:45 a.m., well
before the 9:30 a.m. time specified by DDA Goodrich.
 
The Board also found Petitioner guilty of
count 3 because he “did not ensure that they found their way timely to DDA
Goodrich.” (AR 1596.) Petitioner contends “[t]he charge dealt with transporting
the witnesses to court, not with connecting the witnesses with the District
Attorney.”  (Opening Brief 14:22-23.) Respondents
do not address this argument in opposition apparently conceding it.(See Opposition
11:16-12:13; Sehulster Tunnels/Pre-Con v.
Traylor Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345, fn. 16 [failure
to address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  
 
Count 3 explicitly
alleged Petitioner committed misconduct because he “failed to ensure witnesses were transported
to a court trial in a timely manner.” (AR 1595 [emphasis added].)  Although there may be some ambiguity as to whether
“court trial” referred to the court building or some specific location therein,
there is no ambiguity in the word “transported.”[7]
 
The Department did not allege in count
3 of the complaint that Petitioner failed to ensure the witnesses were timely
brought or escorted to DDA Goodrich at some location within the courthouse, or
that Petitioner failed to give sufficient instructions to Wellman or the
witnesses about where to meet DDA Goodrich.[8]
Rather, as Petitioner argues and Respondents do not dispute, count 3 concerned
the transportation of the witnesses to court. It is undisputed Petitioner
ensured the witnesses were timely transported to the courthouse well before the
9:30 a.m. deadline specified by DDA Goodrich.
 
Respondents contend “Petitioner should
have given specific instructions to Wellman or the witnesses themselves as to
where to go, whom to meet, and by what time.” (Opposition 11:22-23.) Respondents
also argue: 
 
Petitioner, based on his experience, should have known
better. Predictably, the witnesses were lost until it was almost 11 a.m., right
before the trial began. Instead of having time to prepare the witnesses,
Goodrich spent time and effort to locate the witnesses by gathering other DDA’s
and interns to search the entire building to look for them. Eventually, the
witnesses were located but it was too late for Goodrich to prepare them for
their testimony. They testified without adequate preparation and according to
Goodrich, it negatively affected the outcome of the trial. (Opposition 12:2-8.)
 
These opposition arguments are
unpersuasive because they far exceed the scope of both the administrative
complaint and the Board’s findings. The Department did not allege in Count 3,
and the Board did not find, that Petitioner should have given specific
instructions to Wellman or “should have known better” based on his experience. While
it may have been prudent for Petitioner to give the witnesses specific
instructions of where to go at court, to direct Wellman to escort the witnesses
to DDA Goodrich, or for Petitioner to escort the witnesses himself, the
administrative complaint did not make such allegations. Respondents develop no
argument, and cite no authority, that Petitioner can be disciplined for such
allegations that were not reasonably presented in the administrative complaint.
(See Doe v. University of Southern California, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at
240.)
 
In its finding, the Board cited
Petitioner’s text message to Officer Wellman, which stated “[t]heir phones are
disconnected . . . just roll by if they answer they answer . . . no biggie. We
tried.” (AR 1596, 1445.) While certainly troubling and unfortunate, the Board
did not explain how this evidence is relevant to the charge—whether Petitioner
ensured that the witnesses were timely “transported” to court.  Since the witnesses were in fact timely
transported to court, it is immaterial to count 3 that Petitioner informed
Wellman that it was “no biggie” if the witnesses did not answer their phones
and were not available for pick up.
 
Based on the foregoing, the weight of
the evidence does not support the Board’s findings for count 3.
The Board also prejudicially abused its discretion to the extent it found Petitioner
failed to ensure the witnesses “found their way” to DDA Goodrich, and to the
extent the Board may have impliedly found Petitioner should have given specific
instructions to Wellman or the witnesses concerning where they should report
once having arrived at the courthouse.  
 
Propriety of the Penalty
 
“The propriety of a penalty imposed by an
administrative agency is a matter vested in the discretion of the agency, and
its decision may not be disturbed unless there has been a manifest abuse of
discretion.” (Williamson v. Board of
Medical Quality Assurance (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1343, 1347.)   
 
Here, as
discussed above, the court has found that the weight of the evidence does not
support the Board’s findings of guilt for counts 2 and 3. Both counts were
material to the Board’s determination of the appropriate penalty. (See AR
1600-1602.)  Accordingly, the matter must
be remanded to Respondents to reconsider the penalty in light of the court’s
opinion and judgment.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (f).)
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The petition for writ of mandate is GRANTED. The
Board’s findings of guilt on counts 2 and 3 are set aside. The matter is
remanded for Respondents to reconsider the decision and appropriate penalty in
light of the court’s opinion and judgment.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
January 19, 2024                                                                                                                                                          
________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


