  Case Number:  22GDCV00593    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 05/09/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 
Trial Date: 06/17/2024
Case Name: VISIONARY CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT PARTNERSHIP CO, a California
Corporation v. ANTRANIK DAVOODI, an individual; ANET BIDROUSIAN, an individual
BACKGROUND
On
09/09/2022, Plaintiff, Visionary Construction Management Partnership, Co.
(Visionary), filed a Complaint alleging four causes of action: (1) breach of
contract, (2) account stated, (3) open book account, and (4) reasonable value
against Defendants Antranik Davoodi and Anet Bidrousian. The action pertains to
Plaintiff alleging it entered into a construction contract with Defendants and
Defendants failing and refusing to make progress payments as dictated in the
contract.
On 11/18/2022, Antranik Davoodi and Anet Bidrousian
filed a Cross-Complaint alleging (1) breach of contract [against Visionary
Construction Management Partnership Co. (Visionary) and Shahik Sean Baghdasian
(Baghdasian)]; (2) claim against license surety bonds [against Wesco Insurance
Company (Wesco) and Navigators Insurance Company (Navigators)]; and (3)
disgorgement [against Visionary and Baghdasian].
On 01/13/2023, Navigators Insurance Company filed a
Cross-Complaint alleging two causes of action for (1) indemnity [against
Visionary and Baghdasian] and (2) interpleader [against Antranik Davoodi; Anet
Bidrousian; Horizon Mesa LLC; and BMC West LLC]. 
MOTION 1 – MOTION TO BIFURCATE
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant
ANTRANIK DAVOODI will move this Court for an order to bifurcate the trial pursuant
to CCP §598 and 1048(b) for Plaintiff to provide offer of proof pursuant to
B&P Section 7031, that Plaintiff and the subcontractors, such as AHS
Protection (fire sprinkler); R&B Plumbing (Robert Baghoomian), framing
(Jose Lazaro), concrete (Everardo Elizarraraz) and roofing (Juan Jaminez)
subcontractors hired to perform work at the project where licensed at all the
time during the construction.
The
motion to bifurcate is made pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
§1048(b) and the Court's authority to order a separate trial of any cause of
action or separate issue "in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy." The motion to bifurcate is further made pursuant to California
CCP §598, which authorizes the Court, upon motion by a party, to order trial of
any issue before trial of any other "when the convenience of witnesses,
the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation
would be promoted thereby."
The
motion to bifurcate will be and hereby is based on this Notice and Motion, the
Memorandum of Points and Authorities in support thereof filed concurrently
herewith, the Declaration of Rafik Ayvazi filed concurrently herewith, and all
pleadings and papers on file in this action, and such argument as may be
presented at the hearing[.]”
(Def.
Mot. p. 2.)
Procedural
Moving
Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Antranik Davoodi (Defendant or Movant)
Responding Party: No Opposition by Plaintiff or Cross-Defendants
Proof
of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok

16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): No- This motion was not timely filed
and served under CCP § 1005(b). Sixteen court days before the May 9, 2024
hearing would be April 17, 2024. However, since this motion was served via
email, two calendar days had to be added. This means that the motion would had
to have been served by April 15, 2024. Here, the motion was not filed and
served until April 16, 2024; therefore, this motion is a day late.
Proper
Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): No.
It
appears that Plaintiff, Visionary, and Cross-Defendant, Shahik Sean Baghdasian,
were served this motion.
It
is unclear if this motion was served to Cross-Defendant, Wesco. Movant’s proof
of service indicates that Wesco was served via email at csosa@hausmansosa.com; however,
eCourt indicates Wesco’s email address as jpagan@hausmansosa.com. This issue
needs to be addressed at the hearing.
It
is unclear if Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Navigators, was served this
motion. Movant’s proof of service indicates that Navigators was served via
email at jeff@jdhorowitzlaw.com; however, eCourt lists Navigators’ email
address as jeff@jdhorowiotzlaw.com. This issue needs to be addressed at the
hearing.
It
is unclear if this motion was served to Cross-Defendant, BMC West LLC (BMC).
Movant’s proof of service indicates that BMC was served via email at
mca@constructionlawinc.com; however, eCourt lists BMC’s email address as
mca@agrlaw.com. This issue needs to be addressed at the hearing.
It
is unclear if this motion was served to Cross-Defendant, Horizon Mesa LLC
(Horizon). Movant’s proof of service indicates that Horizon was served via
email at Roya.Fohrer@manningkass.com; however, eCourt lists Horizon’s email
address as hannah.ellenhorn@manningkass.com. This issue needs to be addressed
at the hearing.
Moving
Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition
Papers: No Opposition
Reply
Papers: Notice of No Opposition
LEGAL
STANDARD

“In general, “[w]hether there shall be a severance and
separate trials on issues in a single action is a matter within the discretion
of the trial court…”” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales &
Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 911 citing Downey Savings
& Loan Assn. v. Ohio Casualty Ins. Co. (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1072,
1086.)
C.C.P. § 598 provides as follows: 
The court may,
when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of
pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held,
or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried
first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may
make such an order at any time. Where trial of the issue of liability as to all
causes of action precedes the trial of other issues or parts thereof, and the
decision of the court, or the verdict of the jury upon such issue so tried is
in favor of any party on whom liability is sought to be imposed, judgment in
favor of such party shall thereupon be entered and no trial of other issues in
the action as against such party shall be had unless such judgment shall be
reversed upon appeal or otherwise set aside or vacated. If the decision of the
court, or the verdict of the jury upon the issue of liability so tried shall be
against any party on whom liability is sought to be imposed, or if the decision
of the court or the verdict of the jury upon any other issue or part thereof so
tried does not result in a judgment being entered pursuant to this chapter,
then the trial of the other issues or parts thereof shall thereafter be had at
such time, and if a jury trial, before the same or another jury, as ordered by
the court either upon its own motion or upon the motion of any party, and
judgment shall be entered in the same manner and with the same effect as if all
the issues in the case had been tried at one time.
 
(CCP § 598.)
 
As stated in CCP § 1048(b):
The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause
of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any
separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the
right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state
or of the United States.
 
(CCP §1048(b).)
 
“The major objective of bifurcated trials is to
expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.” (Foreman &
Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)  
Bifurcation frequently occurs when the determination
of one issue, such as an affirmative defense, renders other issues moot.
(See, e.g., Buran Equipment v. H& C Investment Co. (1983)
142 Cal.App.3d 338, 343-344.) Trial courts also often bifurcate
equitable and legal issues, resolving the issues of equity first in order to
promote judicial economy. (Darbun Enters, Inc. v. San Fernando
Community Hosp. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 399, 408-409.) 
ANALYSIS
As
a preliminary matter, a large portion of Movant’s motion is difficult to
understand. For example, it is not entirely clear what Movant is trying to
explain or argue with respect to the portion of the motion starting on page 3,
line 15, and ending on page 6, line 18. It is also unclear how page 3, line 15,
to page 6, line 18, is legally relevant to the instant motion to bifurcate.
 
Many times
throughout the motion, Movant cites to cases but fails to cite to a page number
to support its arguments.
 
Generally
speaking, the Court agrees with Movant’s general argument that in order to
maintain the Complaint against Defendants, it appears that Plaintiff must
establish that it was a duly licensed contractor. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint, in relevant part, states, “Plaintiff is now, and at all times
mentioned herein, was a duly licensed contractor operating under the laws of
the State of California and authorized to perform the work stated below.”
(Compl. ¶2.)
 
As stated in
Business and Professions Code (BPC) § 7031(a)-(d):
 
(a) Except as provided in subdivision (e),
no person engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of a contractor,
may bring or maintain any action, or recover in law or equity in any action, in
any court of this state for the collection of compensation for the performance
of any act or contract where a license is required by this chapter without
alleging that they were a duly licensed contractor at all times during the
performance of that act or contract regardless of the merits of the cause of
action brought by the person, except that this prohibition shall not apply to
contractors who are each individually licensed under this chapter but who fail
to comply with Section 7029.
 
(b) Except as provided in subdivision (e),
a person who utilizes the services of an unlicensed contractor may bring an
action in any court of competent jurisdiction in this state to recover all
compensation paid to the unlicensed contractor for performance of any act or
contract.
 
(c) A security interest taken to secure
any payment for the performance of any act or contract for which a license is
required by this chapter is unenforceable if the person performing the act or
contract was not a duly licensed contractor at all times during the performance
of the act or contract.
 
(d) If licensure or proper licensure is
controverted, then proof of licensure pursuant to this section shall be made by
production of a verified certificate of licensure from the Contractors State
License Board which establishes that the individual or entity bringing the
action was duly licensed in the proper classification of contractors at all
times during the performance of any act or contract covered by the action.
Nothing in this subdivision shall require any person or entity controverting
licensure or proper licensure to produce a verified certificate. When licensure
or proper licensure is controverted, the burden of proof to establish licensure
or proper licensure shall be on the licensee.
 
 
(BPC § 7031(a)-(d).)
 
Further, as stated
in Wright v. Isaak:
 
“The purpose of the licensing law is to
protect the public from incompetence and dishonesty in those who provide
building and construction services....The licensing requirements provide
minimal assurance that all persons offering such services in California have
the requisite skill and character, understand applicable local laws and codes,
and know the rudiments of administering a contracting
business.... [¶] Section 7031 advances this purpose by
withholding judicial aid from those who seek compensation for unlicensed
contract work. The obvious statutory intent is to discourage persons who have
failed to comply with the licensing law from offering or providing their
unlicensed services for pay. [¶] Because of the strength and clarity of this
policy, it is well settled that section 7031 applies despite
injustice to the unlicensed contractor. ‘Section 7031 represents a
legislative determination that the importance of deterring unlicensed persons
from engaging in the contracting business outweighs any harshness
between the parties, and that such deterrence can best be realized by
denying violators the right to maintain any action for compensation in the
courts of this state.’ ” (Hydrotech Systems, Ltd. v. Oasis Waterpark (1991)
52 Cal.3d 988, 995, 277 Cal.Rptr. 517, 803 P.2d 370, original
italics.)
 
(Wright v.
Isaak (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1116, 11123.)
 
“[S]ection 7031
bars even a licensed general contractor in California from bringing an action
for compensation for an act or contract performed by an unlicensed
subcontractor where a license is required.” (Kim v. TWA Construction , Inc. (2022)
78 Cal.App.5th 808, 831.)
 
“We conclude the
authorization of recovery of “all compensation paid to the
unlicensed contractor for performance of any act or contract” (§ 7031(b),
italics added) means that unlicensed contractors are required to return all
compensation received without reductions or offsets for the value
of material or services provided.” (White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 506, 520-521.)
 
While the Court
tends to agree with Movant’s general argument – that  in order to maintain the Complaint against
Defendants, Plaintiff must establish that it was a duly licensed contractor and
that this issue should be determined first – the Court is not entirely certain
as to specifically what this motion seeks or what Movant thinks this motion
establishes. 
 
The Court has
concerns because there are many unsupported conclusions throughout the motion,
and there are several instances where the Court is not certain what Movant is
asking for. 
 
An example of this
can be seen on page 7 of Movant’s motion:
 
In their
affirmative defenses Defendants have raised B&P Section 7031 as to
Plaintiff’s license and in their cross complaint, Defendants have a cause of
action for disgorgement. 
 
Pursuant to CCP
section 1048(b) Defendants requests that the court order the trial of
affirmative defense as to proper compliance with licensing law precede the
trial of any other issue in the case. This issue will also address
Defendants/Cross complainants’ third cause of action for disgorgement. The
trial of the affirmative defense as to whether Plaintiff and its subcontractors
were duly licensed will substantially reduce the trial time and if the outcome
is for Defendants, the trial on the complaint will be over. The Bifurcation as
to the issue of license will also address the disgorgement cause of action and
substantially reduce the trial on cross complaint issues and will promote
economy and efficiency. 
 
The Bifurcation
will resolve the following: 
 
1. Did Plaintiff
have workers at the Project, but characterized as independent contractors? 
2. Did Plaintiff
have unlicensed subcontractors working at the Project? 
3. Did Plaintiff
under reported or failed to report its payroll or failed to pay payroll taxes? 
4. Can Plaintiff
charge for subcontractor’s scope of work when the subcontractors were
unlicensed?. 
5. Does Plaintiff
have to disgorge funds paid by Owner while unlicensed or when its
subcontractors were unlicensed?
 
(Def. Mot. p. 7.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 1
The
Court will hear argument.
 
Movant did not timely serve this motion;
therefore, it should be denied. The Court will hear argument.
 
Movant needs to address the service issues
the Court pointed out as to whether this motion was properly served on all
parties.
 
If this motion is heard, Movant needs to
be clearer on what exactly this motion seeks and what it thinks this motion is establishing.

 
Movant’s motion is confusingly written.
Many times throughout the motion, for example on page 7, Movant argues that
this bifurcation will resolve several specific issues. However, the Court is
unclear if this motion actually resolves those issues because Movant does not
clearly explain why this motion will resolve those issues. Further, there is no
Opposition, so it is not entirely clear how the Plaintiff plans to present its
case. Additionally, Movant states how this motion implicates other
cross-complaints and other causes of actions in cross-complaints, but it is
unclear how, based on Movant’s explanation, or lack thereof. Generally
speaking, the Court agrees with Movant that it appears that it should first be
determined whether Plaintiff was properly licensed under BNP 7031; however, since
Movant’s motion appears to seek and argue that this motion establishes several other
things, the Court needs Movant to be more specific and support whatever
arguments it is trying to assert with legal authority in a comprehensible
manner.
 
Further, Movant’s introduction section states,
“The WESCO INSURANCE COMPANY and NAVIGATORS INSURANCE COMPANY who are parties
in the action have deposited surety funds with court, and are no longer a
party. There are couple more defendants who have been brought by Surety
companies and have noting to do with main litigation. Their involvement is as
to pro rata share of $7500 of proceed of surety bonds.” (Def. Mot. p. 3.)
 
Movant is to address this introduction statement
at the hearing because Navigators filed a motion to sever. It is unclear to the
Court why Movant claims that Navigators is allegedly no longer a party in this
action if  Navigators has a motion to
sever that is also scheduled to be heard on 5/9/2024.
MOTION 2 – MOTION TO SEVER
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Cross-Defendant
and Cross-Complainant NAVIGATORS INSURANCE COMPANY (“Navigators”) will move the
court, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1048(b), for an order that:
1. In furtherance of convenience and because a
separate trial will be conducive to expedition and judicial economy,
Navigators’ cross-complaint for indemnity against Visionary Construction
Management Partnership Co. and Shahik Baghdasian be severed from the present
action.
This motion is made on the grounds that:
a.       Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 1048(b), the court, in furtherance of
convenience or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint.
This Motion is based on this Notice, the Points and
Authorities set forth below, the attached Declaration of Jeffrey D. Horowitz,
the complete files and records of this action, and on such further oral and
documentary evidence as may be presented at the hearing on this motion.”
(Navigators’ Mot. p. 2.)
Procedural
Moving Party: Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
Navigators Insurance Company 
Responding Party: No Opposition
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Yes/No- 
This motion was not timely filed and served under CCP
§ 1005(b) for all parties. Sixteen court days before the May 9, 2024 hearing
would be April 17, 2024. 
The proof of service for this motion indicates that
Visionary and Baghdasian were served personally, via email, and via electronic
service. As to Visionary and Baghdasian, these two are the only parties who
were served personally. Since service was delivered personally on April 17,
2024, it appears as if service to these two was timely. 
However, as to all other parties in this action,
service was completed via email on April 17, 2024, and service would be two
calendar days late because under CCP § 1005(b) two calendar days would have to
be added to April 17, 2024. Therefore, the motion should have been filed and
served on April 15, 2024 for those who were electronically served via email.
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): 
It appears that Plaintiff, Visionary, and
Cross-Defendant, Shahik Sean Baghdasian, were served this motion.
It appears that Defendants/Cross-Complainants Antranik
Davoodi and Anet Bidrousian were served this motion.
It is unclear if this motion was served to
Cross-Defendant, Wesco. Movant’s proof of service indicates that Wesco was
served via email at csosa@hausmansosa.com; however, eCourt indicates Wesco’s
email address as jpagan@hausmansosa.com. This issue needs to be addressed at
the hearing.
It is unclear if this motion was served to
Cross-Defendant, BMC West LLC (BMC). Movant’s proof of service indicates that
BMC was served via email at mca@constructionlawinc.com; however, eCourt lists
BMC’s email address as mca@agrlaw.com. This issue needs to be addressed at the
hearing.
It is unclear if this motion was served to
Cross-Defendant, Horizon Mesa LLC (Horizon). Movant’s proof of service
indicates that Horizon was served via email at Roya.Fohrer@manningkass.com;
however, eCourt lists Horizon’s email address as hannah.ellenhorn@manningkass.com.
This issue needs to be addressed at the hearing.
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Horowitz Declaration;
Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: No Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply
LEGAL STANDARD
See Motion 1 Legal Standard.
ANALYSIS
Navigators’
attached the declaration of their counsel, Jeffrey D. Horowitz. The Horowitz
declaration stated:
2. This Motion is made in connection with
the statutory Contractor's License Bond No. NAV00040197 (the “Bond"),
issued by Navigators as Surety, in connection with VISIONARY CONSTRUCTION
MANAGEMENT PARTNERSHIP CO. ("Visionary") as bond principal, in the
penal sum of Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($ 15,000.00), pursuant to former Business
and Professions Code §§ 7071.5 through 7071.11. 
3. Navigators filed a motion to deposit
the Bond funds and to be discharged from liability, which was granted by this
court on February 16, 2024. That resolved Navigators' second cause of action in
its cross-complaint, for interpleader. It also resolved the Davoodi and
Bidrousian cross-complaint against Navigators as to their claim against the
Bond. 
4. In its cross-complaint in the present
action, Navigators included a cause of action for indemnity against Visionary
and against its individual indemnitor, Shahik Baghdasian
("Baghdasian"). That cause of action for indemnity remains pending. However,
Navigators will not know its full damages against Visionary and Baghdasian
until after this court determines whether, how much of, and to whom the Bond
monies should be paid. 
5. In furtherance of convenience and
because a separate trial will be conducive to expedition and economy,
Navigators' cross-complaint for indemnity against Visionary and Baghdasian
should be severed from plaintiff Visionary's complaint and Davoodi and
Bidrousian’s cross-complaint. In this manner, Navigators' cross-complaint can
be dealt with as a separate trial after the trial of the main dispute between
Visionary and Davoodi/Bidrousian, and after it is determined by the court
whether, how much of, and to whom, the Bond monies should be paid. Severing
Navigators' cross-complaint for indemnity is authorized by Code of Civil
Procedure 1048(b). 
6. It would not be economical for
Navigators and its counsel to have to sit through the trial of the main
complaint and cross-complaint, waiting to proceed only with its cross-complaint
for indemnity.
(Horowitz Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.)
TENTATIVE RULING


The Court will
hear from the parties.
 