  Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-
RODRIGUEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08440  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 26, 2024




 
Cosentino’s
motion to quash for improper service is DENIED. 
 
Cosentino’s
motion to quash based on lack of jurisdiction is CONTINUED, consistent with the
ruling set forth BELOW.  
 
On February
2, 2024, Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara
Sanchez (collectively, Plaintiffs)
filed the operative first amended complaint against
39 Defendants, alleging: (1)
negligence; (2) strict liability—warning defect; (3)
strict liability—design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium.
 
Now,
specially appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. moves for an order
quashing service of summons and
dismissing the action as to Defendant.
 
Background
 
This is a
toxic tort case arising from Plaintiff Jose Guadalupe Soto-
Rodriguez’ (Plaintiff) claim that he
developed silicosis and consequential injuries
through his employment working with
stone products manufactured, distributed,
and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
Legal Standard
 
Cal Code of Civil Procedure § 418.10(a)(1)
states:
 
“(a) A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve
and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:
 
(1) To
quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.
(2)
To stay or dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient forum.
(3) To
dismiss the action pursuant to the applicable provisions of Chapter 1.5 (commencing
with Section 583.110) of Title 8.
 
Plaintiff
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence that
service was properly accomplished.
“When a nonresident defendant challenges
personal jurisdiction the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a
preponderance of the evidence that all
necessary jurisdictional criteria are met.
This burden must be met by competent
evidence in affidavits and authenticated
documentary evidence. An unverified
complaint may not be considered as an
affidavit supplying necessary facts.” (Ziller
Electronics Lab Gmbh v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 1222,
1232-1233.) “In the absence of a voluntary
submission to the authority of the
court, compliance with the statutes governing
service of process is essential to
establish that court's personal jurisdiction over a
defendant(§ 410.50.) When a defendant
challenges that jurisdiction by bringing a
motion to quash the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction
by proving, inter alia, the facts
requisite to an effective service.” (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439-1440.)
 
Discussion
 
Specially
appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. (Defendant) moves
for an order quashing service of
summons and dismissing the action as to
Defendant.
 
Objections
 
Plaintiffs
object to different portions of the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo
Vela.
 
Plaintiffs’
objections are uniformly OVERRULED. The declaration is based on
Vela’s personal knowledge as
Defendant’s Vice President, Legal and Compliance,
and review of the relevant business
records. Vela’s statements are not
conclusionary, nor are they contrary to
other evidence.
 
Defendant
objects to different portions of the Declaration of Raphael
Metzger.
 
Defendant's objections are OVERRULED.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs
request the Court take judicial notice of the following in support of
Plaintiffs’ position that Defendant was
properly served in compliance with the
Hague Convention:
 
-        
Convention on the Service Abroad of
Judicial and Extrajudicial
Documents
In Civil Or Commercial Matters (the “Hague Convention”)
(RIN,
Exh. A.}
 
-        
Canada - Central Authority &
practical information (RJN, Exh. B.)
  
United States - Central Authority & practical information (RJN, Exh.
C.)
 
-        
Pages 7 and 8 of the Practical Handbook
on the Operation of the Service
Convention
published by the Hague Conference on Private International
Law
Permanent Bureau in 2016 regarding “Place of service as
determining
factor.” (RJN, Exh. D.)
 
-        
Page XL of the Glossary of the
Practical Handbook on the Operation of
the
Service Convention published by the Hague Conference on Private
International
Law Permanent Bureau in 2016 defining State of
destination
as “the State where service is, or will be, effected.” (RIN,
Exh.
E.)
 
Plaintiffs’
requests for judicial notice are GRANTED.
 
Defendant's Moving Argument and
Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela
 
Defendant
first contends that Plaintiffs did not serve Defendant properly
according to the requirements of the
Hague Convention. Instead of serving
Defendant through Spain’s central
authority, Plaintiffs made two attempts to serve
Defendant in compliance with the Hague
Service Convention under article 10,
subdivisions (a) and (b), both of which
were invalid.
 
First,
Plaintiffs attempted to personally serve an officer of Defendant while
he was visiting Canada under 10(b) of
the Hague Service Convention and British
Columbia Supreme Court Civil Rule 4-3(2)(b).
Spain did not object to 10(b) of the
Convention, thereby consenting to
personal “service within its boundaries”
(Volkswagenwerk, supra, 486 U.S.
at p. 699), “directly through the
judicial officers, officials or other
competent persons” of Spain. (Hague Service
Convention, art. 10, subd. (b).) A
signatory to the Hague Service Convention that
does not object to 10(b) does not
consent to personal service in any country in the
world that also happens to be a
signatory, even if that country has no connection
whatsoever to the summons being served.
 
Second,
Plaintiffs improperly attempted to serve Defendant using Federal
Express under 10(a). Plaintiffs’
“attempted service by Federal Express did not
constitute valid service of process
under California law, and as a result, did not
comply with the Hague Service
Convention pursuant to article 10, subdivision (a).”
(Inversiones Papaluchi S.A.S. v.
Superior Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1067.
 
Defendant
submits the following portions of the Declaration of Jorge
Cuervo Vela in support of its position
that service was not proper:
 
-        
“Suministros” is a location where
supplies and occasionally FedEx deliveries are received. No one working at this
location is authorized to accept service of process on behalf of Defendant.
(3-18-2024 Declaration, para. 5.)
 
-        
Vela reviewed the return receipt that
Plaintiffs’ counsel claims shows service of the summons in this matter by
United States Postal Service registered mail, return receipt requested. In the
space for the signature of the addressee, there is a Cosentino Global, S.L.U.
stamp. This stamp is used by receptionists and mail clerks who are not
authorized to accept service of process on behalf of Defendant. (3-18-2024
Declaration, para. 6.)
 
Next,
Defendant contends that, even if Plaintiffs had properly served Defendant, it
would be unconstitutional to subject Defendant to jurisdiction in California as
it would violate traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.
 
The FAC
alleges that Plaintiffs were injured from inhaling dust from various stone
products manufactured by 39 defendants, including Defendant and its indirect
United States subsidiary, C & C North America, Inc. (“C & C”).
 
Defendant
submits the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela in support of its position that it
has not established minimum contacts in California to support general or
specific jurisdiction. Vela, Defendant’s and Defendant’s subsidiaries’ current
Vice President, Legal and Compliance, who has held various positions with companies
owned by Cosentino Group since 2011, submitted two declarations, one in support
of the initial moving papers and one in support of the reply, stating:
 
-        
Defendant is organized under the laws
of Spain, its headquarters are in
Spain, and it
operates exclusively in Spain. (10-11-2023 Declaration, para.
4.)
 
-        
Defendant has never conducted any
business in California. (10-11-2023
Declaration,
para. 5.)
 
-        
Defendant is a holding company that
does not develop, design, manufacture,
distribute,
sell, advertise, or market any products. (10-11-2023 Declaration,
para. 6.)
 
-        
C & C is a Delaware corporation
with its principal place of business in Coral
Gables,
Florida. C & C is an indirect subsidiary of Defendant. (10-11-2023
Declaration,
para. 7.)
 
-        
Defendant and C & C are separate
and independent corporate entities. Defendant does not manage or control the
day-to-day operations of C&C. C & C keeps its own separate bank
accounts and business records, and C&C pays and manages its own employees.
(10-11-2023 Declaration, para. 8.)
 
-        
Defendant does not own, maintain, or
control the website www.cosentino.com. (3-18-2024 Declaration, para. 4.)
 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs cannot successfully show that C & C's contacts
with California should be imputed to Defendant because Plaintiffs cannot show
Defendant exercised excessive control over C & C’s forum-based operations as
holding companies such as Defendant do not participate in making day-to-day business
decisions in the companies that they own.
 
Plaintiffs’ Opposition
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that regarding compliance with the service
requirements of the Hague Convention,
the Hague Convention does not apply
where an officer of the foreign
corporation is personally served with the summons
in compliance with the laws of the
forum (California in this case) and the place of
service (British Columbia in this
case).
 
Plaintiffs
contend they attempted to serve the Executive Vice President of
Defendant, Eduardo Cosentino, at his
office and his personal residence in Florida,
but their process server was barred
from entry in the gated community and his
workplace. Therefore, they were forced
to hire an international process server.
However, upon discovering Cosentino was
in Vancouver on September 13, 2023, a
process server served him with the summons
and complaint. Cosentino was
personally served in British Columbia
at a ribbon-cutting event for the opening of a
new Cosentino showroom at 1640 West 3rd
Avenue, in Vancouver, Canada.
Plaintiffs’ counsel also sent copies of
the summons and complaint via Federal
Express International Priority,
Tracking Number 783826293331, to Cosentino’s
corporate headquarters in Spain on
September 15, 2023. The package was
delivered to Cosentino in Spain on
September 20, 2023 and was signed for by S.
Uministros at Cosentino’s corporate
headquarters in Cantoria, Spain. Additionally,
Plaintiffs’ counsel sent copies of the
summons and complaint to Defendant's
corporate headquarters in Spain by
First Class Mail, postage pre-paid, with return
receipt requested, and received written
confirmation of Federal Express service.
 
Plaintiffs
also argue, regarding personal jurisdiction, Plaintiffs have submitted massive
evidence that Defendant has long conducted business in California, even naming
Los Angeles a “Cosentino City.”
 
Compliance with Hague Convention
 
1. Applicability of the Hague Service
Convention
 
Plaintiffs
contend the Hague Service Convention does not apply. Plaintiffs argue that as
long as service is proper under state law and the Due Process Clause, no
official transmittal through the Hague Service Convention need be made. However,
California law is clear that service on a foreign company completed in a foreign
country must be completed through the Hague Service Convention. (Rockefeller
Technology Investments (Asia) VII v. Changzhou SinoType Technology Co.,
Ltd. (2020) 9 Cal.Sth 125, 138.) Thus, Plaintiff’s service on Cosentino
must be valid under the Hague Service Convention, Art. 10(b).
 
2. Application of the Hague Service
Convention
 
In its
tentative ruling, the Court agreed with Defendant that service was not properly
effected in compliance with the Hague Convention. However, after Plaintiff’s
counsel advised the Court of case law he believed supported a contrary
conclusion, the Court continued the hearing and directed the parties to file
supplemental briefing.
 
Having
reviewed the supplemental materials, the Court finds service to be
adequate.  
 
Article 10 of
the Hague Service Convention provides in pertinent part that
“[p]rovided the state of the
destination does not object, the present Convention shall
not interfere with - ... b) the freedom
of judicial officers, officials, or other
competent persons of the State of
origin to effect service of judicial documents
directly through the judicial officers,
officials, or other competent persons of the
State of destination, ... .” (Hague
Service Convention art. 10, Nov. 15, 1965, 20
U.S.T. 361.)
 
Neither Spain
nor Canada have objected to Article 10(b). (A treaty is to be
understood by its plain language unless
such would create a result inconsistent with
the expectations of its signatories. (Landstar
Global Logistics, Inc. v. Robinson &
Robinson, Inc.
(2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 378, 385.)
 
            CCP section 413.10 provides:
Except as otherwise provided by statute, a summons shall
be served on a person:
(a) Within this state, as provided in this
chapter.
(b) Outside this state but within the United States, as
provided in this chapter or as prescribed by the law of the place where the
person is served.
(c) Outside the United States, as provided in this
chapter or as directed by the court in which the action is pending, or, if the
court before or after service finds that the service is reasonably calculated
to give actual notice, as prescribed by the law of the place where the person
is served or as directed by the foreign authority in response to a letter
rogatory. These rules are subject to the provisions
of the Convention on the “Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial
Documents” in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service Convention).
            CCP
section 416.10 provides: 
 
A summons may be served on a corporation by delivering a copy of the
summons and the complaint by any of the following methods:
(a) To the person designated as agent for service of process
as provided by any provision in Section 202, 1502, 2105,
or 2107 of the Corporations Code (or
Sections 3301 to 3303, inclusive, or Sections 6500 to 6504, inclusive, of the
Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976, with respect to
corporations to which they remain applicable)
(b) To the president, chief executive officer, or other head
of the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a
treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, a
general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to receive service
of process.
(c) If the corporation is a bank, to a cashier or assistant
cashier or to a person specified in subdivision (a) or (b).
(d) If authorized by any provision in Section 1701, 1702, 2110, or 2111 of
the Corporations Code (or Sections 3301 to 3303, inclusive, or Sections 6500 to
6504, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976,
with respect to corporations to which they remain applicable), as provided by
that provision.
Rule 4-3
provides that, “if the chief place of business of the corporation is outside
British Columbia, every person who, within British Columbia, transacts or
carries on any of the business of, or any business for, that corporation is
deemed to be an agent of the corporation” and that service on a corporation may
be effected “by leaving a copy of the document with the president, chair, mayor
or other chief officer of the corporation.” (Rule 4-3(2)(b)(i).)
 
Here, first, the
Hague Service Convention does not require that service take place only within
the foreigner’s own country. Yamaha Motor Company, Ltd. v. Superior Court (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th is instructive on this point. There, it was claimed by Yamaha,
a Japanese company, that it was not properly served as a foreign entity as the
Hague Service Convention had not been utilized. The Court rejected the claim
that, as a foreign entity service had to be performed under the Hague Service
Convention, rather than merely comply with service rules under California law.
Relying on Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v Schlunk (1986) 486 U.S.
694, the Court wrote: “[w]here service on a domestic agent is valid and
complete under both state law and the Due Process Clause, our inquiry ends and
the Convention has no further implications.” The Court in Delinger v.
Chinadotcom (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th reached a similar conclusion.

 
Second,
Canada permits Article 10(b) service, the type of service used in this case,
and the Court finds that “State of destination” refers to the State where
service takes place. 
 
This means
that as long as a means of service authorized by California was used, and the
means of service was authorized by British Columbia law, the service is
consistent with Article 10(b) and is in compliance with the Hague Service
Convention. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s service of Cosentino Group was valid under California and British
Columbia law. As for California law, CCP section 416.10 governs service of a
corporation, and authorizes delivery of a copy of the summon and complaint to
an officer of the corporation as was performed here. As for British Columbia
law, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs’ interpretation of Rule 4-3 that “[a]s an
Executive Vice-President of Cosentino Group, Eduardo Cosentino is clearly an ‘agent
of the corporation’ within the meaning of subdivision (iii) and, since, at the
time of service, he was officiating at a ribbon-cutting event of Cosentino at
the opening of a new Cosentino City in Vancouver, he is a person who, ‘within
British Columbia transact[ed] or carrie[d] on . . . business of, or . . . for
[Cosentino Group, he] is deemed to be an agent of the corporation,’ within the
meaning of subdivision (iv) of Rule 4-3 of the Supreme Court Rules of British
Columbia Reg 168/20009.” (Opp., 10: 21-26.) 
 
            This conclusion is reinforced by the
authority set forth in Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing. While the holdings
cited there are not binding here, it is not irrelevant that other Courts have
concluded that that service by the Canadian process server of the summons and
complaints on Eduardo Cosentino in Vancouver was legally valid. Moreover,
Cosentino filed Petitions for Writ of Mandate in the Second Appellate District
challenging those rulings, and in both cases the petitions were denied, concluding
that service of process was valid. When Cosentino filed Petitions for Review in
the California Supreme Court, the California Supreme Court directed Plaintiff’s
counsel to file Answer Briefs. Upon reading and considering the facts and the
law cited in Plaintiff’s Answer Briefs, the California Supreme Court denied
Cosentino’s Petitions for Review. 
 
Therefore,
the court DENIES Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons.
 
            In
its tentative ruling, the Court also considered the personal jurisdiction
argument set forth by Cosentino. However, upon closer consideration and review
of the other opinions considering Cosentino’s claims, the Court concludes that
the jurisdictional argument is not ripe at this time. Plaintiff has sought
discovery addressing the jurisdictional facts. “A plaintiff attempting to
assert jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is entitled to an opportunity
to conduct discovery of the jurisdictional facts necessary to sustain its
burden of proof.” (Magnecomp Corp. v. Athene Co. (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d
526, 533.) “In order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for
jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is
likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing
jurisdiction.” (In re Automobile Cases (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.)

 
Here,
Plaintiff has submitted considerable evidence that Cosentino has long conducted
business in California. However, Cosentino objects to all of that evidence as
unauthenticated and inadmissible. Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to the
opportunity to authenticate and establish the admissibility of its evidence,
given that his evidence, if admissible, would likely establish the requisite
contacts with California to confer jurisdiction.
 
            Accordingly,
the Court directs the parties to meet and confer regarding jurisdictional
discovery, and the Motion to Quash based on a claim of lack of minimum contact
with the State of California is continued to a future hearing date to be set
after the requisite discovery and meet and confer has taken place. 
            
            Based
on the foregoing, Cosentino’s motion to quash for improper service is denied.
Cosentino’s motion to quash based on lack of jurisdiction is continued
consistent with the ruling set forth above. 

 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 