  Case Number:  22LBCV00965    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  S25 TENTATIVE RULING: The Court grants Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash as Defendant LBUSD did not comply with the mandatory procedures set forth in CCP § 2017.220.Procedural BackgroundPlaintiff John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint on December 12, 2022, for personal injury and damages from childhood sexual abuse against Doe defendants. The complaint was later amended to name Long Beach Unified School District (“LBUSD”) as Doe 1. Plaintiff, who is currently 45 years old, alleges that Doe 2, Kevin Huricks (“Huricks”), sexually assaulted him during the 1993-1994 school year, at school when Plaintiff was 16 or 17 years old. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11-15.) Huricks, who is now deceased, was a special education teacher’s aide at Jordan High School, where Plaintiff was a student. (Complaint, ¶ 14.) Huricks was subsequently criminally convicted in 1993 for committing sexual misconduct against at least two students at the school. LBUSD file a cross-complaint against Roes 1-10 for total and partial equitable indemnity as to all the cross-defendants.On November 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Quash and/or Modify Subpoena to Kenneth Lyn, LMFT, or in the Alternative for A Protective Order (“Motion”). LBUSD’s Opposition Papers followed on April 17, 2024. Plaintiff filed Reply Papers on April 23, 2024.AnalysisLBUSD’s November 7, 2023, subpoena requests the following:(1) All medical and mental health records, including but not limited to, all office, emergency room, inpatient/outpatient charts, notes, analysis, diagnoses, communications to and from the patient, or other documents pertaining to Plaintiff….(2) All records of payment and / or discount regarding any medical billing as well as the bills themselves, billing information, including but not limited to, procedure and diagnosis codes, CPT codes, statements, computer printouts, itemized breakdown of all charges, payments, adjustments/write-offs or balance due, including but not limited to, all charges, credits, payments, adjustments and/or write-offs, and the sources of each, such as all EOBs from any insurance carrier reflecting any and all credits and adjustments and write-offs to the bills by virtue of any payments and/or contractual agreements/adjustments, including fees, etc. for professional services including Medicare, Medicaid, etc., pertaining to Plaintiff….. )Code of Civil Procedure § 2017.220(a) provides that,In any civil action alleging conduct that constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, or sexual battery, any party seeking discovery concerning the plaintiff's sexual conduct with individuals other than the alleged perpetrator shall establish specific facts showing that there is good cause for that discovery, and that the matter sought to be discovered is relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. This showing shall be made by a noticed motion, accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, and shall not be made or considered by the court at an ex parte hearing. (Emphasis added).Unquestionably, Plaintiff’s civil action involves allegations of sexual assault and/or sexual battery. Based upon alleged statements made during Plaintiff’s deposition, LBUSD maintains there is “good cause” for discovery concerning Plaintiff's sexual conduct with individuals other than the alleged perpetrator and such information is relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. While LBUSD may be correct, before such information can be obtained, compliance with CCP § 2017.220 is mandatory. LBUSD failed to bring the required noticed motion before serving the November 7, 2023, subpoena. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash.The Court also notes the information requested in the subpoena appears overly broad. LBUSD essentially asks for all of Plaintiff’s medical and mental health records relating to any issue with no time limitation including “all office, emergency room, inpatient/outpatient charts, notes, analysis, diagnoses, communications to and from the patient, or other documents.” By way of a notice motion, LBUSD may be able to demonstrate that Plaintiff’s medical and mental health records related to Plaintiff’s sexual history or sexual abuse by third parties is relevant and reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence, however, any discovery requests should be more narrowly tailored to the issues in the case.