 Case Number:  22STCV21428    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21428




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Deem Matters Admitted
(2)
  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories
(3)
  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special Interrogatories
(4)
  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Citiguard, Inc.   




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Defendant Citiguard, Inc. (“Defendant”) now moves
for an order to deem admitted Requests for Admission, Set One and to compel verified
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production, Set One propounded
on Plaintiff Kenneth Moore (“Plaintiff”). Defendant seeks monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Requests
for Admission
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)  
 
If a motion to
compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against
the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a). 
 
Requests for Production 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant asserts that it served Requests for
Admission, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set
One, and Request for Production, Set One on
Plaintiff’s counsel, Simon Esfandi, Esq. and Julie Ahn, Esq, on April 22, 2024.
(Petrosyan Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Responses were due May 24, 2024. Pursuant to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s request, Defendant granted an extension until two weeks
after Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved was set to be heard, making
discovery due July 22, 2024. (Id. ¶ 4.) No responses were served. 
 
On July 8, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s (Simon
Esfandi, Esq./Julie Ahn, Esq /Compass Law Group, LLP) motion to be relieved. (Min.
Order, 7/8/24.) The order was signed on July 8, 2024. However, no proof of
service of the Order appears in the Court’s docket. (See Min. Order, 7/8/24.)[1]
 
Defendant has mailed notice of the motions to Plaintiff’s
addresses provided in the Order. Plaintiff has not responded and has not filed
an opposition to this motion. (Petrosyan Decl. ¶ 5.) Accordingly, the Court
grants the motions.
 
The Court finds that monetary sanctions are warranted, but
the amount requested is excessive given the type of motion, lack of opposition,
and because counsel may appear remotely at the hearing. Accordingly, the Court
awards monetary sanctions in the amount of $300 per motion (1.5 hour of
attorney time).
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to establish Request for
Admissions, Set One admitted is GRANTED. Defendant’s Motions to Compel Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request
for Production, Set One are GRANTED. Plaintiff shall
provide responses within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the
amount of $1200 to counsel for Defendant within 30 days. 
  
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 


