  Case Number:  21STCV30927    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV30927




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reconsider Issuance of Sanctions 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Corina Hernandez  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Corina Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court to reconsider
an issuance of sanctions that were ordered against Plaintiff’s counsel on July
11, 2024.[1] No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party or legal
representative from an order or other proceeding taken against him through his
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  This application must be filed no more than
six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought, and must
contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
“ ‘A party who seeks relief under section 473 on the basis
of mistake or inadvertence of counsel must demonstrate that such mistake,
inadvertence, or general neglect was excusable because the negligence of the
attorney is imputed to his client and may not be offered by the latter as a
basis for relief.’ [Citation.] In determining whether the attorney's mistake or
inadvertence was excusable, ‘the court inquires whether “a reasonably prudent
person under the same or similar circumstances” might have made the same
error.’ [Citation.] In other words, the discretionary relief provision of
section 473 only permits relief from attorney error ‘fairly imputable to the
client, i.e., mistakes anyone could have made.’ [Citation.] ‘Conduct falling
below the professional standard of care, such as failure to timely object or to
properly advance an argument, is not therefore excusable. To hold otherwise
would be to eliminate the express statutory requirement of excusability and
effectively eviscerate the concept of attorney malpractice.’” (Zamora v.
Clayborn Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 258 [finding
excusable mistake where counsel provided a settlement offer for judgment
“against” his client, as opposed to “in favor of”, since this was a clerical
mistake].)  
 
However, mere neglect or negligence is not a sufficient
ground for relief. (Cochran v. Linn (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 245, 251–52
[finding unexcused neglect where party failed to provide evidence that it
possessed months before, in opposition to a summary judgment motion]; Martin
v. Johnson (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 595, 606–607 [no abuse of discretion in
refusing to vacate summary judgment due to attorney's error in submitting
declarations not within the personal knowledge of the declarant].) 
 
Relief under this section is
mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise, it is
discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only available when a
party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are procedurally equivalent to
a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief
provision does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations
omitted], dismissals for failure to serve a complaint within three years
[citations omitted], dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations
[citations omitted], and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement
[citations omitted].” (Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            As
an initial matter, Plaintiff asserts the sanctions order took place on July 11,
2024. However, according to the docket in this case, the order was issued on
July 10, 2024.
 
Procedurally, the present motion is
timely because it was filed within six months after the order. However, the
mandatory provision of section 473(b) does not apply since the order imposing
monetary sanctions was not the equivalent of a dismissal motion. 
 
On June 11, 2024, the Court held an
Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal and/ Monetary Sanctions for Failure to Serve
Within Two Years/ alternatively Trial Setting Conference; Order to Show Cause
Re: Whether Plaintiff Will Seek Relief from Automatic Stay. Counsel for
Plaintiff represented he would file the request for service by publication and would
file a motion for relief in the bankruptcy court. (Min. Order, 6/11/24.) The
Court then continued the matter to July 10, 2024. The order stated, among other
things: “Counsel for plaintiff is to be prepared with specific answers as to
how they intend to proceed with this case as well as with Defendant Bank of
Hope.” (Ibid.)
 
At the July 10, 2024 OSC, the Court
found: “No applications for publication were filed. Counsel for plaintiff
represents, again, the attorney of record will file the request for service by
publication and will file a motion for relief in the bankruptcy court.” (Min.
Order, 7/10/24.) The Court then imposed $250 in sanctions to “Antonio Castillo,
III and - 5410 Rhodes Ave Ste. 101 Valley Village CA 91607” pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 177.5. (Min. Order, 7/10/24.) 
            
            The
Declaration of Vincent E. Chiaverini, an associate with DRE A.P.C., declares
that “Chief Trial Counsel Antino Castillo Antonio Castillo III, Esq., Bar No:
276891, and the handling attorney on this matter, Tory Pankopf Bar No: 202581,
left DRE Law A.P.C abruptly when the actions required in this matter were due.
These were the two attorneys handling attorneys on this matter which did not
allow DRE Law to proceed on this matter; until Vincent E. Chiaverini took the
matter over. I recently received the transferred case from the prior handling
attorney. The prior handling attorney is no longer with DRE A.P.C.” (Chiaverini
Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
            In the
memorandum, Plaintiff appears to only argue that because the counsel
responsible for the imposition of sanctions have left the firm, that sanctions
should not be imposed. However, this fails to show that the underlying mistake
or neglect at the July 10 OSC was excusable. 
 
            Accordingly, the Court denies the
motion to reconsider the order imposing monetary sanctions. 
             
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to Reconsider
Issuance of Sanctions. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 


