 Case Number:  22STCV25463    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25463




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Xiomara Palacios 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on August 12, 2024 by Petitioner Xiomara Palacios (Petitioner) on behalf
of Claimant Madigan Amaya, age 16.
The Court conditionally grants the petition.
 
As stated in the previous minute order, in the proposed
order (MC-351), Petitioner must include the gross amount in item 6: $25,000. (See
Min. Order, 5/14/24.) 
 
All other defects have been cured. 
 
Petitioner shall file an amended proposed order (MC-351)
within five (5) days in accordance with this ruling. 
 
Accordingly, the petition is conditionally granted,
pending receipt of the amended order. 
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 