 Case Number:  23STCV11758    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV11758




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Order Compelling Non-Party Alex Marroquin to Comply with Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Jill Reichman and Howard
  Reichman 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Jill Reichman and Howard
Reichman (“Plaintiffs”) now move to compel nonparty Alex Marroquin
(“Marroquin”) to comply with a deposition subpoena for the production of
business records. Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions. No opposition has
been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so
specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session
if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A
deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt
without the necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the
witness.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance with a
deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the
deposition record, the date objections are served, or the date specified for
production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson
& Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            The Declaration of Samuel Winokur,
Plaintiff’s counsel, states the following: “[o]n June 20, 2024, plaintiffs’
counsel sent a letter to Alex Marroquin asking that he comply with the
subpoena, and gave him until July 3, 2024 to respond to the letter. Alex
Marroquin did not respond to the letter or produce any records.” (Winokur
Decl., at p. 8:5-7.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement is met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case involves an alleged slip
and fall on a walkway owned by Defendant Brent Weisman (“Weisman”). On May 17,
2024, Plaintiffs issued a deposition subpoena for the production of business
records on Marroquin, who inspected and did work on the subject walkway both
before and after the incident. (Winokur Decl., at p. 7:20-21, Exh. 1.) The
subpoena’s date of production was June 14, 2024. 
 
Though Plaintiffs contend they
issued a valid subpoena, the proof of service of the subpoena shows it was
served by substitute service on Marroquin’s wife; therefore, the subpoena was
not served personally. (See Winokur Decl., Exh. 2; Code Civ. Proc. §
2020.220(b)(1) [“Any person may serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a
copy of it as follows: (1) If the deponent is a natural person, to that person.”].)
Plaintiffs provide no authority showing that substitute service is allowed to
effectuate service of a deposition subpoena. 
 
Furthermore, the proof of service
for this motion does not show that Marroquin was mailed notice. Therefore, the
motion is denied as procedurally defective. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the Motion for Order Compelling
Non-Party Alex Marroquin to Comply with Subpoena.
 
            Plaintiffs shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.