 Case Number:  23STCV27321    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ ESPERANZA MCCORKENDALE, Plaintiff(s), vs. JOE BYRON, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV27321 Hearing Date: September 30, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff Esperanza McCorkendale (“Plaintiff”) filed this breach of contract action against defendants Joseph James Byron AKA Joe Byron (“Byron”), Egg Heaven, LLC, Ramona Streit (Doe 1) (“Streit”), and Does 2 through 50. The complaint alleges as follows. Byron agreed to sell the restaurant known as Egg Heaven (“the Restaurant”) to Plaintiff and that the parties formalized the agreement in writing (“the Agreement”). (Id. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff renovated the Restaurant and assumed payments needed to keep the Restaurant open. (Id. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff would be an employee until she purchased the Restaurant; the Restaurant opened on December 14, 2022. (Id. ¶ 11.) In about late February 2023, Plaintiff informed Byron that she was prepared to purchase the restaurant, but Byron would not sell the restaurant for the $175,000 as promised. Plaintiff then quit. (Id. ¶12.) Byron took money out of the Restaurant’s bank account as “his” profit and has continued operating the Restaurant and earning profits. (Ibid.) Plaintiff was denied the right to purchase the Restaurant for the value as stated in the Agreement, not paid for ten weeks of work, not reimbursed to renovate the Restaurant, and denied profits from the operations and additional profits that would have resulted had defendants followed through with the sale. (Id. ¶ 13.) The complaint sets forth seven causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Intentional Misrepresentation, (3) Common Counts, (4) Promissory Estoppel, (5) Specific Performance, (6) Unjust Enrichment, and (7) Violations of Labor Code. Plaintiff later dismissed her fifth cause of action against all parties, and dismissed the first and second causes of action as to Ramona Streit only. Plaintiff filed three motions to compel further responses, set to be heard on September 30, 2024, namely: (1) Request for Admissions (“RFAs”), set one, served on defendant Byron, (2) RFAs, set one, served on defendant Streit, and (3) Form Interrogatories, set one, as to No. 15.1 served on defendants Byron and Streit. Defendants Byron, Streit and Egg Heaven, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”) oppose the motions, and Plaintiff filed her replies.  II. procedural REQUIREMENTS Meet and Confer A motion¿to compel further responses to requests for production “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290(b)(1); § 2030.300(b)(1).) The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.) Plaintiff’s counsel avers she met and conferred with defense counsel, but that defense counsel failed to respond to meet and confer attempts, and refusal to participate with Plaintiff’s attempt to schedule an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”). Defendants dispute that Plaintiff properly met and conferred. The Court notes that an IDC was conducted on July 12, 2024, where the issues were not resolved. At that time, the Court ordered Counsel to further meet and confer and to reserve a one hour IDC slot on a new date, at which the parties were ordered to appear in person. Defendant appears to have made no effort to respond to Plaintiff’s request to schedule the second IDC. The Court finds the meet and confer requirements satisfied. Separate Statement A motion to compel further responses requires a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)¿¿ The Court finds that Plaintiff properly filed a separate statement for each motion to compel further.¿  III.  DISCUSSION Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFAs Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290 states, “On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.” Plaintiff moves on the ground that each response contain unmeritorious objections, and that each request is relevant to the action. The Court has reviewed the call of the requests and the responses. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.220(a) provides that each answer “shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” Each answer shall follow at least one of the following: “(1) Admit so much of the matter involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party. (2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the request as is untrue. (3) Specify so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.220 (b)(1)-(3) [emphasis added].) Further, “If only a part of a request for admission is objectionable, the remainder of the request shall be answered.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.230.) The Court agrees with Defendants objections that many of Plaintiffs’ requests, as worded, are overbroad in time and scope. Nonetheless, the parties are aware of the nature of this underlying action, and Defendants should respond as reasonably possible and/or qualify their responses as necessary to provide a response. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2033.220, 2033.230.) In terms of Defendants’ contention that the requests are irrelevant, “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement ...”  (citation).” These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery, (Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790), and contrary to popular belief fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases. (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 385.) Thus, unless there is an objection based on privilege, Defendants should provide a response to the best of their knowledge. Defendants’ citation to authority regarding a party seeking personal and financial information from a third party-witness as not being discoverable, or seeking personal financial private matters, are not relevant. Both Byron and Streit are named defendants to the action, and the requests seeking information on their control or management over the Restaurant’s financial affairs is not so outside the ballpark of the complaint as to be completely irrelevant, nor does it seek confidential private information. Defendants’ general contention that to respond would be burdensome is unavailing. The Court will not split hairs over the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s complaint at this juncture, nor consider any arguments pertaining to the merits of the action. The Court will grant Plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses to RFAs, set one, served on defendants Byron and Streit in its entirety. Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1 The form, as approved by the Judicial Council of California, clearly provides instruction on the specific information that must be stated. Defendants’ general responses to “Plaintiff’s deposition testimony and Exhibits related to her testimony” is nonconforming to the call of the interrogatory. Defendants should be able to follow the outline. Additionally, the Court finds no prejudice to Defendants in terms of Plaintiff combining the motion instead of filing two separate motions for Byron and Streit for a single form interrogatory. Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatory, set one, served on defendants Byron and Streit as to No. 15.1 is granted.  IV. CONCLUSION Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFAs, set one, served on defendant Bryon is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFAs, set one, served on defendant Streit is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories, set one, as to No. 15.1 served on defendants Byron and Streit are GRANTED. The Court declines to award sanctions to any party.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: September 24, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 