  Case Number:  22STCV29728    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  A 22STCV29728
 Johnna Mike-Price, et al v. Toshiba Lifestyle Products and Services Corp., et
 al.
Thursday,
 October 24, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFFS’ SIX MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES BY GD MIDEA AIR CONDITIONING
EQUIPMENT CO., LTD. AND WUHU MATY AIR CONDITIONING CO., LTD. TO:
1)     
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
2)     
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO
3)     
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The complaint alleges that Plaintiffs sustained injury when
Plaintiff, Commander Mike-Price, who was then six years old, ingested a button
battery from the remote for an air conditioning unit made by Defendants.
Plaintiffs allege claims for negligence and strict products liability. 
II.      ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiffs
served three sets of written discovery at issue on Defendant, GD Midea Air
Condition Equipment Co., Ltd, (“Midea”) and three sets of written discovery on
Defendant, Wuhu Maty Air-Conditioning Equipment Co., LTD., (“Wuhu”)
(collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiffs argue Defendants responded with
identical, boilerplate objections to each and every one of the requests
although Plaintiffs permitted extensions of time to respond. 
       Defendants
file separate oppositions objecting to the motions because Defendants agreed to
supplement their responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery no later than Wednesday,
October 23, 2024. 
       In
reply, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants concede their objection-only responses
were deficient. Defendants’ intention to respond three days before the hearing is
not grounds to deny the motion. Plaintiffs are entitled to imposition of
monetary sanctions against Defendants and their counsel.
LEGAL
STANDARDS
       A
motion to compel further responses to a document request is proper where the
moving party believes the statement of compliance is incomplete, or a
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, evasive and/or an
objection is without merit or too general. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310 (a), Code
Civ. Proc., sections 2030.300 subd. (a); 2031.310
subd. (a).) All motions require the parties to meet and confer prior to filing
the motion. The motion must show good cause to justify the discovery and must
be supported by a meet and confer declaration. (Id. at
subd. (b).) Plaintiffs have complied with the foregoing requirements. 
       The
scope of discovery is liberally construed in favor of disclosure “as a matter
of right unless statutory or public policy considerations clearly prohibit it.”
(Greyhound
Corp. v. Superior Court of Merced County (1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355,
377-378.) The broad scope of permissible discovery includes “any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
       The
parties filed a joint status reprot on October 17, 2024. Plaintiffs contend the
motions are necessary as Defendants did not serve responses. Defendants contend
the hearing is not necessary as Defendants will provide supplemental responses
by Monday, October 21, 2024, three days before the hearing, or Wednesday,
October 23, 2024, which is not reasonable as Plaintiffs could not evaluate the
responses in time to take the motions off calendar, which further burdens the
court and Plaintiffs. 
       Defendants
do not dispute the relevance and discoverability of issues raised in
Plaintiffs’ six motions. The motions remain on calendar as there is no
confirmation that Defendants served supplemental responses at any time before
the hearing. Plaintiffs served discovery on July 25, 2024 and as of this
writing have not received substantive discovery responses. 
       Plaintiffs
are entitled to recover their costs and fees (reduced as the motions are
largely identical) incurred to prepare and file six motions and to appear as
follows:



Three motions to compel further responses from Wuhu


3 hours to prepare 3 motions
1 hour to prepare 3 replies
.25 hours to appear (4.25 x $400/hour)


$1,700.00




 


 


 




Three motions to
  compel further responses from Midea


3 hours to prepare 3
  motions
1 hour to prepare 3
  replies
.25 hours to appear
  (4.25 x $400/hour)


$1,700.00



 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ six  motions to compel further responses by both Defendants
to all written discovery at issue are GRANTED. Both Defendants are ordered to
provide further, verified, complete, responses to all requests at issue within 10
days. The court imposes monetary sanctions of $1,700 in fees and costs of $180
against Defendant Wuhu and Defense counsel, Gordon Rees Scully Mansukhani, LLP,
jointly and severally, payable to Plaintiffs within 10 days.
       Sanctions
of $1,700 in fees and costs of $180 against Defendant Midea and Defense
counsel, Gordon Rees Scully Mansukhani, LLP, jointly and severally, are payable
to Plaintiffs within 10 days.