 Case Number:  24CMCV00343    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  A 
24CMCV00343 Steen
 Sprouffske v. George Moa, et al.
Thursday,
 October 24, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S
 MOTION TO DETERMINE VALUE AND SEND BUYOUT NOTICE 
 
       This
is a partition action between Plaintiff and Defendant, George Moa (“Moa”), each
of whom own an undivided, one-half interest in real property. Moa answered the
complaint on August 20, 2024. On February 15, 1999, Defendant, City of Lynwood
(“Lynwood”) recorded liens against the property for nonpayment of water, sewer,
and refuse collection. Plaintiff and Lynwood signed a stipulation acknowledging
the superiority of Lynwood’s liens and agreeing that Lynwood’s participation in
the action is not required. Lynwood agreed to be bound by judgment issued in
this case. (Stip.
6/20/24.)
       The
complaint alleges that Defendant, Nova Casualty Company (“Nova”) recorded an
abstract of judgment against Defendant Moa. The clerk entered default against
Nova on July 16, 2024. Therefore, the remaining Defendant is Moa, who has not
filed an opposition despite proper notice of the motion. 
       Plaintiff
requests that the court determine the fair market value of the real property and
send a buyout notice to all parties as permitted by statute. 
       The
court is authorized to determine the fair market value of property if it
determines that "the evidentiary value of an appraisal is outweighed by
the cost of the appraisal, the court, after an evidentiary hearing, shall
determine the fair market value of the property and send notice to the parties
of the value." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 874.316 subd. (c).) The value of property may be shown only
by opinions of the owner or a witness qualified to express such opinions. (Evid.
Code, § 813.) That opinion must be "based on matter perceived by or
personally known to the witness or made known to the witness at or before the
hearing, whether or not admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be
relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion as to the value of property,
including but not limited to the matters listed in Sections 815 to 821,
inclusive, unless a witness is precluded by law from using such matter as a
basis for an opinion." (Evid.
Code, § 814.)
       However,
the right of an owner to testify to the fair market value is not absolute. (Contra
Costa Water Dist. v. Bar-C Properties (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 652, 661 [“an
owner is bound by the same rules of admissibility as any other witness.”].)
       There
is no evidence demonstrating the second element required to permit the court to
determine fair market value, which is that “the evidentiary value of an appraisal
is outweighed by the cost of the appraisal.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §874.316 subd. (c).) There is no evidence of the cost of an
appraisal. 
       The
court can order an appraisal by appointing a licensed and disinterested real
estate appraiser who "shall file a sworn or verified appraisal with the
court" on completion of the appraisal. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 874.316 subd. (d).)
       Plaintiff
is part owner of the real property but is not qualified as an appraisal expert.
He declares that the value of the property is $730,000 based on a real property
valuation report prepared by Aaron Montelongo, a realtor. (Sprouffske decl., ¶
3, Ex. 2.)  Mr. Montelongo does not
establish that he is a licensed real estate appraiser. (Montelongo decl., Ex.
1; Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 11314 ["The bureau is required to include in its
regulations requirements for licensure and discipline of real estate appraisers
that ensure protection of the public interest and comply in all respects with
Title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of
1989, Public Law 101-731 and any subsequent amendments
thereto."].) 
       Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED. 
 
 
 
 