 Case Number:  22STCV03637    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ELSA MEJIA, Plaintiff(s), vs.  TONY FRYKLUND, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV03637  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO SET ASIDE DISMISSAL  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 29, 2024  I. BACKGROUND  On January 28, 2022, plaintiff Elsa Mejia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Tony Fryklund (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident.   On July 28, 2023, this matter was called for non-jury trial. After no appearances or contact by either party, Plaintiff’s complaint was dismissed without prejudice. (Min. Order, July 28, 2023.)   On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to set aside the dismissal.   II. MOTION TO SET ASIDE  Legal Standard  Code Civ. Proc. (“CCP”) § 473 provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief under certain circumstances. “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 473, subd. (b).) Application for this relief shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. (Ibid.)  “[T]he court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Ibid.)  Discussion and Conclusion Plaintiff’s counsel (“Counsel”) declares neither the FSC or the trial date was calendared in his calendaring system, and therefore failed to appear. Counsel avers he was on vacation outside the United States on January 28, 2023, and that he did not arrange for any other attorney to appear on his behalf due to his unawareness of the trial date due to calendaring errors. Counsel avers he is a solo practitioner, and at the time the case was dismissed, he employed two legal assistants and a case manager. Counsel’s affidavit fails to explain why the FSC and trial date failed to make its way onto his calendar, when Counsel had employees to assist with case management. Nonetheless, despite the conclusory affidavit lacking explanation, Counsel’s affidavit of mistake regarding the calendaring error is sufficient to set aside the dismissal. (State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Pietak (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 609- 10 [In order to qualify for mandatory relief, an affidavit from an attorney must be a straightforward admission of fault.].) Because Plaintiff timely filed this instant motion within six months of dismissal, the motion to set aside the dismissal is GRANTED and the action is reinstated.   However, the Court notes that to date, no proof of service of the summons and complaint has been filed on Defendant. Therefore, the Court sets an Order to Show Cause re: Dismissal for Failure to File Proofs of Service for ________________.  Plaintiff’s counsel is required to appear at the OSC and provide evidence showing Defendant has been served with the summons and complaint or why such service has not occurred.  If Plaintiff fails to appear at the OSC and file proper proof of service with sufficient time prior to the hearing, Plaintiff risks the Court dismissing the action.      Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 26th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   