 Case Number:  22STCV30073    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MANDANA MIZRAHI, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  TRADER JOE'S COMPANY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV30073  [TENTATIVE] ORDER FINDING MOTION TO DEEM ADMISSIONS ADMITTED AND MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES MOOT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 29, 2024  I. MOTION TO COMPEL / DEEM RFAS ADMITTED Defendant Trader Joe’s Company (erroneously sued and served as Trader Joe’s East, Inc. and 10850 National Boulevard d.b.a. Trader Joe’s) propounded form interrogatories, set two, and requests for admissions (“RFAs”), set one, on Plaintiff Mandana Mizrahi (“Plaintiff”) on November 3, 2023. As of the date of Trader Joe’s Company filing the instant motion, Plaintiff has not served responses. Trader Joe’s Company therefore seeks an order to compel responses to the outstanding discovery, in addition to deeming its RFAs, set one, to be admitted against Plaintiff. Trader Joe’s Company further requests monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, contending responses were served, without objections, on January 10, 2024. Plaintiff’s counsel asserts responses were not timely served because counsel was out of the office at the time, and that there were office and calendaring errors.  Trader Joe’s Company filed an untimely reply on April 24, 2024. Although late, the Court will consider it. Trader Joe’s Company does not dispute that responses were indeed served, and only argues sanctions. Therefore, the Court finds the motions moot.  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc §2033.280(c); St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 776.)   The only remaining issue is sanctions.   II. MONETARY SANCTIONS Where a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Here, it is undisputed that responses were served after the motions had been filed. Plaintiff’s counsel declaration of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect for his office failing to properly calendar and follow office protocols are insufficient grounds to deny the request for monetary sanctions.  Trader Joe’s Company seeks $1,410 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s attorney of record for each motion. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.). Although the Court will grant sanctions, there is no justification for such a high amount, especially for such simple and straightforward motions.  Therefore, Trader Joe’s Company is awarded $225 per motion only as attorney’s fees, and two motion filing fees of $60, for a total of $120 as costs.  Sanctions are sought and imposed against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record, jointly and severally. Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Trader Joe’s Company, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $620, within twenty (20) days.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 26th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   