  Case Number:  21STCV36877    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  BETH BLAIR, Plaintiff(s), vs.  HOME DEPOT U.S.A., INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 21STCV36877  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. April 29, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Beth Blair (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. (“Home Depot”), Doe Manager, and Does 1 to 10 for injuries arising from a slip and fall on a wet floor because Doe Manager was pouring water onto the floor.    Home Depot now moves for a Protective Order to prevent Plaintiff from taking the depositions of Julio Monzon (“Monzon”) and Michael Lewis (“Lewis”). Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Home Depot filed a reply.  Moving Argument Home Depot avers that its employees Monzon and Lewis were investigating managers for prior slip and fall incidents, and that their testimony has no bearing on the instant action. Home Depot argues Plaintiff should be precluded from deposing them on the grounds of irrelevance, and that it would be unduly burdensome, an invasion of privacy of Monzon and Lewis, invasion of Home Depot’s propriety and trade secret information, hamper judicial expediency, and not lead to admissible evidence. Home Depot contends there is no probative value to these depositions, and that it that it is heavily outweighed by burdensomeness, needless cost, and unnecessary delay.   Opposing Argument Plaintiff argues that the testimonies of Monzon and Lewis, who witnessed prior falls near in time to Plaintiff’s own fall at the same incident site, is relevant to demonstrate that Home Depot has a dangerous practice in their gardening section of overwatering plants. Plaintiff asserts the depositions are necessary to demonstrate that Home Depot knew the area caused problems for guests, and that customers had repeatedly complained of the slippery surface such that putting up wet signs were insufficient to make the garden section safe. Plaintiff contends there is no substantial justification in moving for a protective order to prevent these employees’ depositions, and Plaintiff requests $3,435 in monetary sanctions.   Reply Argument Home Depot reiterates that the discovery sought is irrelevant and non-probative, because there is no issue that Home Depot had notice of the dangerous condition. Home Depot argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to conduct a fishing expedition of prior injury incidents.   II. MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER Meet and Confer CCP § 2025.420(a) states that “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” In this case, Home Depot, through counsel, asserts that it made good faith efforts to resolve this dispute. (Mot. Denis Decl. ¶16.) The Court finds this is sufficient to satisfy CCP § 2025.420(a).    Legal Standard  CCP § 2025.010 provides, “[a]ny party may obtain discovery within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action.”    Pursuant to CCP § 2025.420(b), “[t]he court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: That the deposition not be taken at all.” (CCP § 2025.420.) Furthermore, CCP § 2017.020(a) states “[t]he court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other affected person.”   “Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with [the discovery statutes], any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action ... if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action....”  (See Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1012-13.)  “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement....’ [Citation.] Admissibility is not the test and information unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence. [Citation.] These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery [citation], and (contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.”  (Id. at 1013.)  “Moreover, even were the questions designed to elicit irrelevant evidence, irrelevance alone is an insufficient ground to justify preventing a witness from answering a question posed at a deposition.”  (Id. at 1014.)    III. DISCUSSION  Here, Plaintiff has articulated a basis for Monzon’s and Lewis’ depositions on the grounds of attempting to establish a history of slip-and-fall incidents that is similar to Plaintiff’s own incident. Home Depot argues in a conclusory manner that the depositions are unduly burdensome and an invasion of these employees’ privacy, yet fails to articulate what exactly about the proposed depositions are so unduly burdensome or invasive. Further, Home Depot does not specify how its trade secret information would be imputed by its employees’ proposed testimonies regarding prior slip and fall incidents, nor does Home Depot properly support its contention of a generalized delay.  Even if the depositions may potentially yield no relevant results, Home Depot has not demonstrated good cause for a protective order barring Plaintiffs from deposing Monzon and Lewis. Unspecific and conclusory arguments are insufficient to show good cause to preclude testimony.  Additionally, “‘for discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement’ and ‘[a]dmissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.’”  These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery . . . and (contrary to popular belief) fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.” (Cruz v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653, citations omitted.)  IV. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Home Depot’s motion for a protective order is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is also denied.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 26th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    