 Case Number:  21STCV44536    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JADE CARRASCO by and through her Guardian Ad Litem JESSE RONALD CARRASCO, ET AL. Plaintiff(s),  vs.  POSITIVE INVESTMENTS, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV44536  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTIONS TO DEEM ADMISSIONS ADMITTED   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 29, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Jade Carrasco, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem Jesse Ronald Carrasco, (“Plaintiff Carrasco”) propounded separate requests for admissions (“RFAs”), set one, on defendants Joseph M. Radgowski, Mark A. Radgowski, and Ariana Arambula (collectively, “Defendants”) on December 27, 2023. Responses were due on or before January 27, 2024. However, Defendants have not served responses to date. Plaintiff Carrasco therefore seeks an order deeming the RFAs admitted against Defendants.  Defendants are in pro per. Any opposition was due on or before April 16, 2024. The motions are unopposed.  II. MOTION TO DEEM RFAS ADMITTED Legal Standard Where there has been no timely response to a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).) The court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Discussion & Conclusion Here, Defendants have not filed any opposition to the motion, nor have Defendants otherwise demonstrated that responses to the RFAs were served in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220 prior to the hearing. Accordingly, Plaintiff Carrasco’s RFAs, set one, is deemed admitted against defendants Joseph M. Radgowski, Mark A. Radgowski, and Ariana Arambula. (CCP §2033.280(b).)     III. SANCTIONS Where a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Plaintiff Carrasco requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,710 against each defendant. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)  The motions are straightforward and substantially similar, such that Plaintiff Carrasco’s request would be too punishing in nature. Furthermore, the ends of justice have already been met by granting the motions. Thus, although the Court will award monetary sanctions, it will be significantly reduced due to the lack of justification for such a high fee. Plaintiff is awarded $200 only for each motion as attorney’s fees, and the $60 motion filing fee as costs.  Sanctions are imposed against Joseph M. Radgowski, Mark A. Radgowski, and Ariana Arambula: Joseph M. Radgowski is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff Carrasco, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $260, within twenty (20) days; Mark A. Radgowski is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff Carrasco, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $260, within twenty (20) days; and Ariana Arambula is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff Carrasco, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $260, within twenty (20) days.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 26th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   