  Case Number:  22STCV14597    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  50  Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
Department 50
 



ALEX COTRAVIWAT,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
CHARLIE CHENG-HAN TSAI,
  et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV14597
  [r/w     21STCV37799] 
 




Hearing Date:


January 23, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF DEFENDANTS’ 1ST AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE



 
Background
On May 3, 2022, Plaintiff Alex Cotraviwat
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Charlie Cheng-Han Tsai (“Charlie
Tsai”) and Che-Chin Tsai (“CC Tsai”) (jointly, “Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes
of action for (1) set aside voidable transaction –Civil Code § 3439.04, subd. (a)(1), (2) set aside
voidable transaction – Civil Code § 3439.04, subd, (a)(2), (3) set aside
voidable transaction – Civil Code § 3439.05, (4) civil
conspiracy, and (5) declaratory relief.   
On July 5,
2022, CC Tsai filed an Answer to the
Complaint. The first affirmative defense of CC Tsai’s Answer is for “Good
Faith,” and alleges that “[a]ll grant deed and/or transfers of title
that are the subject of the Complaint were made in good faith by Defendants.” (Answer, p. 2:10-2:11.)  
On November 23, 2022, Charlie Tsai filed an
Answer to the Complaint. The first affirmative defense of Charlie Tsai’s Answer
is for “Good Faith,” and alleges that “[a]ll grant deed and/or transfers
of title that are the subject of the Complaint were made in good faith, and for
reasonably equivalent value, by Defendant.” (Answer,
p. 2:12-13.) 
Plaintiff now moves for an order granting summary adjudication in
Plaintiff’s favor and against Defendants with respect to their first
affirmative defenses set forth in their respective Answers to the Complaint. CC Tsai opposes. Charlie Tsai filed a joinder in CC Tsai’s opposition.  
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.  
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained 
Objection No. 2: sustained
Objection No. 3: sustained
Objection No. 4: overruled
Objection No. 5: overruled
Objection No. 6: sustained 
Objection No. 7: overruled
Objection No. 8: sustained 
Objection No. 9: sustained 
Objection No. 10: overruled
Objection No. 11: sustained 
Objection No. 12: overruled
The
Court notes that in CC Tsai’s separate statement in opposition to Plaintiff’s instant
motion for summary adjudication, CC Tsai interposes certain evidentiary
objections. However, pursuant to ¿California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354, subdivision
(b)¿, “¿[a]ll written
objections to evidence must be served and filed separately from the other
papers in support of or in opposition to the motion.¿” CC Tsai did
not comply with the format requirements of ¿Rule 3.1354¿ with respect to
the evidentiary objections set forth in CC Tai’s separate statement in
opposition to the motion. Thus, the Court declines to rule on these
objections.  
Legal Standard
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more
causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or
more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends
that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to
the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as
specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or
that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff
or plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)

The moving party bears
the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If the moving party
carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima
facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about April
21, 2020, [Plaintiff] loaned Charlie Tsai $1,250,000.00, evidenced by a secured
promissory note (the ‘Loan’). The Loan was due to be paid in full on July 21,
2020. However, Charlie Tsai failed to repay the loan as of the due date. After
Charlie Tsai’s default on the Loan, [Plaintiff] undertook repeated efforts to
recoup the borrowed funds from Charlie Tsai but to no avail.” (Compl., ¶
8.)  
Plaintiff alleges that pursuant to a settlement agreement
between Plaintiff and Charlie Tsai, “Charlie Tsai agreed, inter alia, to
pay [Plaintiff] the sum of $727,000.00 under an installment plan.” (Compl., ¶
10.) Plaintiff alleges that “Charlie Tsai failed to pay [the] initial
installment payment when due.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) In addition, Charlie Tsai failed
to pay the second installment payment when due. (Compl., ¶ 12.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that “[o]n September 9, 2021,
[Plaintiff], by and through his counsel of record, sent a demand letter to
Charlie Tsai informing him of his breach of the Settlement Agreement, and
demanding immediate payment of the unpaid amounts on the August 4th and August
21st installment payments, together with late fees and accrued interest by no
later than September 23, 2021.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges that he
“began communicating directly with Charlie Tsai’s father, CC Tsai telephonically
and by text message. [Plaintiff] informed CC Tsai of Charlie Tsai’s total
indebtedness under the terms of the Settlement Agreement and Charlie Tsai’s
breach of the same.” (Compl., ¶ 15.)  
Plaintiff alleges that “on September 23, 2021, just days
after receiving [Plaintiff’s] September 9, 2021 demand letter and Ms. Jeang’s
September 21, 2021 correspondence conveying Charlie Tsai’s representations to
issue payments due under the Settlement Agreement by no later than September
30, 2021, Defendants caused the preparation and execution of a Grant Deed
whereby Charlie Tsai, for no consideration whatsoever, transferred his 16.00%
interest in the Las Flores Property to his father, CC Tsai…” (Compl., ¶ 26.)[1] 
Plaintiff alleges that “the transfer…was part of a scheme
created, masterminded, and designed by Charlie Tsai and CC Tsai to transfer
Charlie Tsai’s interest in real property out of his personal name so that his
interest therein could not be reached by Charlie Tsai’s creditors, namely
[Plaintiff].” (Compl., ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges
that he “now seeks to set aside the transfer of the Las Flores Property
interest between Charlie Tsai and CC Tsai.” (Compl., ¶ 30.)
B.   
Defendants’ First Affirmative
Defenses. 
As set forth above, on July 5, 2022, CC
Tsai filed an Answer to the Complaint. The first affirmative defense of CC
Tsai’s Answer is for “Good Faith,” and alleges that “[a]ll grant deed
and/or transfers of title that are the subject of the Complaint were made in
good faith by Defendants.” (Answer, p. 2:10-2:11.) 
On November 23, 2022, Charlie Tsai filed an
Answer to the Complaint. The first affirmative defense of Charlie Tsai’s Answer
is for “Good Faith,” and alleges that “[a]ll grant deed and/or transfers
of title that are the subject of the Complaint were made in good faith, and for
reasonably equivalent value, by Defendant.” (Answer,
p. 2:12-13.) 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants’ first
affirmative defenses of “good faith transfer” have no factual or legal merit.
(Mot. at p. 7:19-20.) As set forth above, “[a] party may move for summary
adjudication as to…one or more affirmative defenses…if the party contends…that
there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action…A motion
for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of…an
affirmative defense...” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
In Plaintiff’s Complaint in
the instant action, the first cause of action is to “Set Aside Voidable
Transaction – Cal. Civil Code § 3439.04(a)(1),” the
second cause of action is to “Set
Aside Voidable Transaction – Cal. Civil Code §
3439.04(a)(2),” and the third cause of action is to “Set Aside Voidable
Transaction – Cal. Civil Code § 3439.05.”[2]
Plaintiff notes that Civil Code section 3439.08, subdivision (a) provides that “[a]
transfer or obligation is not voidable under paragraph (1) of subdivision (a)
of Section 3439.04, against a person that took in
good faith and for a reasonably equivalent value given the debtor or against
any subsequent transferee or obligee.” Plaintiff asserts that here, “CC
Tsai has unambiguously admitted that no value, let alone reasonably equivalent
value, was given to Charlie Tsai in exchange for Charlie Tsai’s interest in the
Property, which in and of itself completely negates the 2nd element of the good
faith transferee affirmative defense.” (Mot. at p. 8:9-11, emphasis omitted.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that on August 26, 2022, CC Tsai served
“Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s Request for Admission, Set No. One,” with
a verification. (Suh Decl., ¶ 19, Ex. O.) These responses state that Plaintiff’s
“Request for Admission of Facts No. 3 provides, “Admit
that YOU did not provide any consideration to Charlie Cheng-Han Tsai in
exchange for the undivided, 16% interest in the PROPERTY that is evidenced by
the 2021 GRANT DEED.” (Suh Decl., ¶ 19, Ex. O.) CC Tsai’s response to this
request states objections, and that “[w]ithout waving these objections, this
responding party answers as follows: Admit.” (Suh Decl., ¶ 19, Ex. O.)
Plaintiff’s counsel also indicates that on September 14, 2022, CC Tsai
served “Defendant’s Supplemental Response to Plaintiff’s Request for Admission,
Set No. One,” with a verification. (Suh Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. P.) These responses
state that Plaintiff’s “Request for Admission of Facts No. 6” provides, “Admit that Charlie Cheng-Han Tsai did not receive
reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the undivided, 16% interest in the
PROPERTY that was transferred to YOU by the way of the 2021 GRAND [sic] DEED.”
(Suh Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. P.) CC Tsai’s response to this request states objections,
and that “[w]ithout waving these objections, this responding party answers as
follows: Admit.” (Suh Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. P.)
Plaintiff asserts that he has “thus satisfied [his] initial burden of
showing that one or more elements of the good faith transferee defense set
forth in Cal. Civil Code § 3439.08(a) cannot be
established by Defendants…” (Mot. at p. 8:25-26.) The Court agrees. 
In the opposition, CC Tsai asserts that Plaintiff is not entitled to
summary adjudication. CC Tsai asserts that “Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication of Defendants’ 1st Affirmative Defense is based on a selective use
of CC Tsai’s earlier discovery responses where CC Tsai mistakenly responded
that the transfer of 16% interest in the subject Property was without
‘consideration.’” (Opp’n at p. 3:26-28.) 
In his declaration in support of the opposition, CC Tsai states that
“[o]n September 23, 2023, I provided supplemental responses to discovery
requests from Plaintiff, prepared with the assistance of my then counsel Evie
P. Jeang, stating that the transfer of a 16% property interest was ‘without
consideration’. My earlier response that there was no ‘consideration’ was in
error as I did not fully understand the meaning of the term ‘consideration’ as
it relates to the subject transaction. English is not my native language, and
my understanding of the English language is not very good, especially regarding
the legal terms.” (Che-Chin Tsai Decl., ¶ 7.) CC Tsai further states that “[o]n
January 5, 2024, I provided amended and corrected responses to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests clarifying such responses.” (Che-Chin Tsai Decl., ¶ 9.) 
CC Tsai’s “Amended and Corrected Response to Plaintiff’s Request for
Admission, Set No. One” indicates that Plaintiff’s Request for Admission of
Facts No. 3 states “[a]dmit that YOU did not provide any consideration to
Charlie Cheng-Han Tsai in exchange for the undivided, 16% interest in the
PROPERTY that is evidenced by the 2021 GRANT DEED.” (Che-Chin Tsai Decl., ¶ 9,
Ex. B.) CC Tsai’s “Amended and Corrected Response” to this request is “Denied.”
(Che-Chin Tsai Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. B.) In addition, CC Tsai’s “Amended and
Corrected Response to Plaintiff’s Request for Admission, Set No. One” indicates
that Plaintiff’s Request for Admission of Facts No. 6 states “[a]dmit that
Charlie Cheng-Han Tsai did not receive reasonably equivalent value in exchange
for the undivided, 16% interest in the PROPERTY that was transferred to YOU by
the way of the 2021 GRAND [sic] DEED.” (Che-Chin Tsai Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. B.) CC
Tsai’s “Amended and Corrected Response’ to this request is “Denied.” (Che-Chin
Tsai Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. B.)
Plaintiff counters that “Defendant’s ‘amended and corrected’ responses
to those RFAs are ineffective because Defendant did not comply with § 2033.300.” (Reply at p. 7:22-23.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.410, subdivision (a), “[a]ny matter
admitted in response to a request for admission is conclusively established
against the party making the admission in the pending action, unless the court
has permitted withdrawal or amendment of that admission under Section 2033.300.” Pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300, subdivision (a), “[a] party may
withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only
on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300, subdivision (b), “[t]he court
may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that
the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect,
and that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially
prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.” 
            Plaintiff
asserts that “[w]hile Defendant unilaterally served ‘amended and
corrected’ responses to RFA Nos. 3 and 6 (Opp., Exh. B) on the eve of opposing
summary adjudication, he failed to obtain leave of court on properly noticed
motion.” (Reply at p. 5:3-5.) Indeed, CC
Tsai does not show that the Court permitted the withdrawal or amendment of any
of his admissions under Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.300. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.410,
subd. (a).) 
In Lattimore v.
Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 961, cited by Plaintiff, “Appellant
Yvonne Lattimore brought a wrongful death action against respondents James W.
Dickey III, M.D., John R. Carlson, M.D., and Salinas Valley Memorial Healthcare
System…arising from their care and treatment of Yvonne’s father, decedent
Albert Lattimore. The trial court granted respondents’ separate motions for
summary judgment. Yvonne appeal[ed] from the judgments entered against her.” The
Lattimore Court found, inter
alia, that “even if Dr. Turner’s declaration could be
construed to raise a triable issue of fact on the element of causation,
the trial court properly granted Dr. Dickey’s motion for summary judgment based
on the August 2012 discovery order. Under the terms of that order,
Yvonne was deemed to have admitted that Dr. Dickey’s care and treatment of
Albert met the applicable standard of care. There is nothing in the record to
show that Yvonne made any attempt in the trial court to withdraw or amend these
deemed admissions. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.300 [setting forth procedure and criteria for party
to withdraw or amend admission].) [A] deemed admitted order
establishes, by judicial fiat, that a nonresponding party has responded to the
requests by admitting the truth of all matters contained therein.” (Id. at p. 971 [internal quotations omitted].) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court declines to consider CC Tsai’s
“Amended and Corrected Response[s]” to Plaintiff’s Request for Admission of
Facts No. 3 and Plaintiff’s Request for Admission of Facts No. 6.
In the opposition, CC Tsai also cites to deposition testimony in
support of the assertion that “there is a triable issue of fact whether the
transfer of 16% interest in the subject Property was supported by
consideration.” (Opp’n at p. 7:8-9.) 
CC Tsai indicates that his deposition was taken on January 10, 2023.
(Richardson Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. F.) CC Tsai cites to, inter alia, the
following testimony from his deposition: “Q[.] Okay. Understood. So June of
2021, you lend 300,000 dollars to your son. What were the terms of that loan?
A[.] There were no terms attached to the loan. Q[.] Was it a gift? A[.] He was
certainly expected to repay it. Q[.] Okay. What were the repayment terms? A[.]
There were no specific terms. Q[.] Okay. A[.] He was expected to repay the
money to me when he had the money. Q[.] Okay. And then around the same time,
you instruct your son to transfer his interest in the Arcadia property to you
for forgiveness of the 300,000 dollars debt? A[.] That pretty much is the
case.” (Richardson Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. F (Tsai Depo.) at pp. 56:14-57:4.) In the motion, Plaintiff asserts that “Defendants
cannot create a triable issue with impermissible after-the-fact attempts to
reverse prior admissions, and assertions of facts contrary to prior admissions
do not constitute substantial evidence of the existence of a triable issue of
fact.” (Mot. at p. 9:10-13.) 
Indeed, in Thompson v. Williams (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 566, 573-574, cited by Plaintiff, the Court of Appeal noted
that “[a]dmissions against interest have high
credibility value, particular when, as here, they are made in the context of
proceedings designed to elicit the facts. Accordingly, when such an admission
becomes relevant to the determination, on motion for summary judgment, of
whether or not there exist triable issues of fact (as opposed to
legal issues) between the parties, it is entitled to and should receive a kind
of deference not normally accorded evidentiary allegations in affidavits. After-the-fact
attempts to reverse prior admissions are impermissible because a party cannot
rely on contradictions in his own testimony to create a triable issue of fact. The
assertion of facts contrary to prior testimony does not constitute substantial
evidence of the existence of a triable issue of fact.” (Internal quotations,
citations, and emphasis omitted.) In addition,
in Murillo v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 730, 736,
cited by Plaintiff, the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]s a general rule an admission is conclusive in the
action as to the party making it. Absent leave of court to amend or withdraw
the admission, no contradictory evidence may be introduced.” (Internal citations omitted.) As discussed, CC
Tsai does not show that he obtained leave of court to amend or withdraw the
subject admissions to Plaintiff’s Request for Admission of Facts
No. 3 and Plaintiff’s Request for Admission of Facts No. 6.  
Based on the foregoing, the
Court does not find that CC Tsai has met his burden of demonstrating that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to Defendants’ first affirmative
defenses.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication as to Defendants’ first affirmative defenses. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  January 23, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


