  Case Number:  23SMCV00044    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
C.H. v. The
Regents of the University of California, Case No. 23SMCV00044
Hearing Date February
8, 2024 
Defendant Regents’
Demurrer to Plaintiff C.H.’s Third Amended Complaint 
 
Plaintiff inpatient
at UCLA Neuropsychiatric Institute sues defendants Regents and Dr. Casaus for
damages due to a sexual assault by another patient. The court sustained
demurrers to the first and second amended complaints, with leave to amend. Regents
now demur to the TAC’s causes of action for failure to provide adequate
equipment, personnel or facilities and cause of action for violation of the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). 
 
First Cause of
Action 
“Public entities
have broad immunity from liability for injuries suffered by an inpatient of a
mental institution.” State Dept. of State Hospitals v. Superior Court of
Napa County (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 1069. Cal. Gov. Code §854.8 states a
public entity is not liable for injury to or proximately caused by a patient of
a mental institution; exceptions include liability for failure to provide
adequate equipment, personnel or facilities. Id. at (c), Cal. Gov. Code §855. This
exception requires a plaintiff to identify a statute or regulation that sets a
specific minimum standard – rather than a general legal duty -- for staffing or
facilities. State Dept., supra, 84 Cal. App.5th at 1076. 
 
A public entity
may be liable for a dangerous condition of public property, even where the
immediate cause of a plaintiff’s injury is a third party’s negligent or illegal
act, if some physical characteristic of the property exposes its users to
increased danger from third party negligence or criminality. Mison v.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 124, 131. 
 
The previous
demurrers were sustained because C.H. had not alleged facts showing how the
Regents failed to meet specific regulatory or statutory standards. Though the TAC
provides more specifics, the Regents argue it still fails to allege enough
facts for liability under §855.
 
The Regents argue some
of the regulations alleged are “general regulations” which, since they do not
set forth a specific standard, cannot be the basis for liability under §855. See
State Dept., supra, Lockhart v. County of Los Angeles (2007) 155
Cal.App.4th 289, 308 “[W]e conclude that a regulation requiring sufficient
nursing staff . . . to meet the needs of the patients . . . is not the type of
regulation ‘prescribing minimum standards for equipment, personnel or
facilities,’ the breach of which can give rise to liability under government
code section 855.” 
 
22 Cal. Code of
Regs. 71205, cited in the TAC, requires “sufficient psychiatrists on the staff
to meet the needs of the patients.” No specific number of psychiatrists is
required, only that the number be “sufficient.” Under Lockhart this is a
“general regulation” that cannot support §855 liability. Section 71205 also
requires “one or more” clinical psychologists and “one or more” social workers
to be employed at a mental health facility. 22 Cal. Code of Regs. §71205 (d)(e).
Under Lockhart, failure to meet that minimum number of staff
psychologists and social workers, resulting in injury, can give rise to §855
liability. 
 
The TAC cites the
minimum bed requirement (§71609), room size requirement (§71611), and minimum
staffing requirements for each 24-hour period (§7706). These specific standards
established by regulation can support a public entity claim under §855. 
 
C.H. alleged
breaches of various standards and injuries resulting from those breaches.
Regents argue the claim of a causal link between alleged breaches and the
injuries is erroneous. Regents assert C.H. was in the hallway where the assault
began “not because there was some problem with the bed in her room, or because
the interdisciplinary plan needed to be updated, but because her own disruptive
behavior led to her being removed from a group therapy session.” Demurrer at
pg. 3. This factual contention is not a proper basis for demurrer. The TAC
alleges because C.H.’s room did not meet minimum standards, she was forced to be
on a mattress in the hallway, and because the Regents did not meet the minimum
staffing requirements, she was vulnerable to assault by another patient. For
purposes of pleading, these allegations must be treated as true, and the court
cannot engage in fact-finding or make factual determinations.
 
C.H. alleged facts
that, if proven, could establish an exception to statutory public entity
immunity under Cal. Gov. Code §855. OVERRULED. 
 
Fifth Cause of
Action
The Regents argue C.H.’s
ADA claim is subject to demurrer because in a private action for violation of Title
III only injunctive relief, not damages, are available. 42 U.S.C. §12188(a),
(b) (2) (B). Since the TAC seeks damages and does not request injunctive
relief, the ADA claim is faulty.
 
The Regents argue
the ADA falls outside purview of Cal. Gov. Code §855. If §855 does not apply to
the ADA claim, the Regents are shielded by governmental immunity. C.H. does not
address this argument in her opposition, which the court will treat as an
admission that the argument is valid. SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 