  Case Number:  23BBCV02572    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  X On the Court’s own motion,
the Hearing on Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses (4708) scheduled
for 10/16/2024 is advanced to this date and continued to 11/17/2024 at 08:30 AM
in Department X at Alhambra Courthouse.
 
On the Court’s own motion,
an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) is scheduled for 11/07/2024 at 02:00 PM
in Department X at Alhambra Courthouse.
 
As set forth in this
Department’s Courtroom Information, when a discovery dispute in a Song-Beverly
case arises, after exhausting all opportunities to meet and confer and reach an
agreement concerning the scope of discovery, the court will usually order that
the plaintiff and defendant exchange the following documents pursuant to
discovery requests:
 

“Warranty
     Policy and Procedure Manual” published by the defendant and provided to
     its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the
     period of [date of purchase] to present.
The
     defendant’s internal analysis or investigation regarding defects alleged
     in the plaintiff’s complaint in vehicles for the same year, make, and
     model of the subject vehicle.  This includes Recall Notices and
     Technical Service Bulletins.  The defendant is typically not required
     to do a search of emails.
Customer
     complaints relating to defects alleged in the plaintiff’s complaint in
     vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
     subject vehicle.
Defendant
     shall produce all documents evidencing policies and procedures used to
     evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly
     Consumer Warranty Act, for the period of [date of purchase] to present.
Repair
     orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.
Communications
     with dealer, factory representative and/or call center concerning the
     subject vehicle.
Warranty
     claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject
     vehicle.
Purchase
     and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle.
Repair
     orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.
Any
     documents supporting plaintiff’s claim for incidental and/or consequential
     damages.

 
Using this guidance and
prior to the November 8, 2024 IDC, the parties are ordered to further meet and
confer over the discovery at issue in the subject motion.  For any issues
which remain in dispute, the parties may appear and address those issues at the
IDC.
 
A virtual or remote
appearance is permitted for the IDC.
 
After further meet and
confer efforts between the parties, they are each to prepare and file an IDC
form (LACIV 094) indicating the discovery requests which remain at issue.
 This form is to be filed and electronically served by November 5, 2024.
 
Counsel for Plaintiff to give notice.