  Case Number:  JCCP5101    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  11 Southern California Clergy Cases (JCCP 5101) 
 
Siler (30-2020-01174722-CU-PO-CJC)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Demurrer to Second Amended Adopted Master
Complaint
 
Date:                           7/15/24
 
Time:                          1:45
pm
 
Moving Party:           Roman Catholic Bishop of Orange
(“RCBO”)
 
Opposing Party:        Michael
Siler 
 
Department:              11
 
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING


RCBO’s request for judicial notice is granted in full.  The documents are court records.  The Court will judicially notice the
documents’ existence.
 
RCBO’s demurrer is sustained as to the sexual-abuse-based
causes of action.
 
The
hearing is continued for supplemental briefing as to the settlement-based
causes of action.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case (30-2020-01174722-CU-PO-CJC) is part of the coordinated Southern
California Clergy Cases (JCCP 5101). 
Siler claims priests sexually abused him when he was a minor.  He alleges that RCBO and other Defendants
failed to protect him from the alleged abuse despite having actual or constructive
knowledge of the priests’ pedophilia.
 
Here, RCBO demurs to Siler’s second amended adopted master complaint
(“SAAMC”).
 
LAW
 
When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer
as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5
Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the
plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the
defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Res
Judicata and Separation of Powers
 
The
Court incorporates the tentative ruling pertaining to Doe Archdiocese and Doe 4
Parish’s demurrer.  The arguments and the
analysis are the same.  For the reasons
stated there, RCBO’s demurrer is sustained as to the sexual-abuse-based causes
of action.[1]
 
Settlement,
Fraudulent Misrepresentation, and Rescission
 
Siler
entered a settlement with RCBO on October 3, 2018.  (See SAAMC, ¶ 288.)  RCBO contends the settlement agreement
included a release that bars the instant case (see id. at pp. 11-12) whereas
Plaintiff alleges that the settlement agreement should be rescinded because
RCBO made fraudulent misrepresentations and fraudulently induced him to
sign.  (See SAAMC, ¶¶ 285-302.)
 
The
release is not part of the record, and neither side has asked the Court to
judicially notice it.
 
Even if
it were before the Court and could be considered, the Court would still have to
determine whether Plaintiff alleges facts supporting rescission.  
 
Which
brings the Court to the SAAMC.  Plaintiff
alleges:
 
286. At all times
material herein, the Defendants, and each of them, made certain material false
representations to the Plaintiff that the Settlement Agreement described below
was his best, only and final opportunity to settle his claim against the
Defendants. The Defendants, and each of them, fraudulently induced the
Plaintiff into a settlement agreement by knowingly concealing the fact that
AB-3120 or other similar bill was introduced to the Assembly which would revive
the statute of limitations for sexual assault victims. AB-3120 was introduced
by Assembly Member Gonzalez Fletcher on February 16, 2018, which is a bill that
was introduced to the Assembly that would revive the statute of limitations for
childhood sexual assault victims from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2022. On
February 16, 2018, AB-3120 was introduced and read for the first time to the
Assembly. On May 31, 2018 AB-3120 was introduced and read for the first time to
the Senate. On August 28, 2018 AB-3120 was passed in the Senate and on August
30, 2018 AB-3120 was passed in the Assembly. On September 11, 2018 AB-3120 was
enrolled and presented to the Governor. Additionally, the California Catholic
Conference, an advocacy group that the Defendants are members of, was
registered as a direct opponent of AB-3120. Had the Plaintiff known that
Defendants' representations, promises and concealments were false and
misleading, the Plaintiff would not have signed the Settlement Agreement and
would not have agreed to the significantly reduced settlement amount. The
Defendants knew if the statute of limitations were to be revived that the Plaintiff
would pursue the full and reasonable value of his claim. They concealed this
crucial information from the Plaintiff, oppressing and misleading him
accordingly. The Defendants purposely took advantage of the Plaintiffs weakened
and vulnerable state of mind inducing him into signing a Settlement Agreement
for a significantly reduced amount. 
 
287. At the time
Defendants made these representations and concealments they knew or should have
known them to be false and misleading, they knew or should have known that
AB-3120 was introduced to the Assembly and that this or other similar bill was
introduced that would revive the statute of limitations for childhood sexual
assault victims. The Defendants, and each of them, have been litigating
childhood sexual abuse claims for over twenty years and have been intimately
involved in the ligation of these claims. The Plaintiff reasonably relied on
the Defendants' representations that the Settlement Agreement was his .best,
only and final opportunity to settle his claim. The Defendants, and each of
them, wrongfully concealed the aforementioned facts from the Plaintiff which
further led the Plaintiff to the reasonable conclusion that this was his best,
only and final opportunity to settle his claim against the Defendants. 
 
288. The Roman
Catholic Diocese of Orange Deacon, Michael Stock, met with Plaintiff at a
Double Tree Hotel located in Orange, CA in, or about September 2018. At this
first meeting, the Plaintiff described to Deacon Michael Stock the sexual,
physical and emotional abuse, molestation, assault and battery, among other
things, that was perpetrated upon him between 1978- 27 1980 by the Defendants.
Then, approximately two weeks later, Deacon Michael Stock contacted Plaintiff
and requested that they meet again at the Double Tree Hotel located in Orange,
CA. At this second meeting, Deacon Michael Stock came with a check in hand,
along with a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release (herein referred to as
"Settlement Agreement"). Deacon Michael Stock told the Plaintiff that
this was his one and only opportunity to collect money for the wrongful acts
perpetrated upon him by the Defendants. He told the Plaintiff that this was a
take it or leave it offer, and that if he does not accept it, he will never
have this opportunity again because of the statute of limitations. In reliance,
Plaintiff was fraudulently induced into accepting the settlement offer and
signing the Settlement Agreement on October 3, 2018. 
 
289. The Defendants,
and each of them, perpetuated their fraudulent conduct and in so doing the
Defendants, and each of them, acted with oppression, fraud and/or malice within
the meaning of California Civil Code §3294(a) and (c). Specifically, Defendants
conduct was calculated, malicious, deliberate and intentional in that said
Defendants knew or should have known that AB-3120 or other similar bill was
introduced to the Assembly on, or about February 16, 2018, which is a bill that
would revive the statute of limitations for childhood sexual assault victims,
and represented to the Plaintiff that the Settlement Agreement was his best,
only and final opportunity to settle his claim against the Defendants and
coerced the Plaintiff into settling his claim for a significantly reduced
amount. Such fraudulent conduct also included a conspiracy between the
Defendants, and each of them, when they misrepresented to the Plaintiff that
the Settlement Agreement was Plaintiffs best, only and final opportunity to
settle his claim against the Defendants and concealed that AB-3120 or other
similar bill was introduced to the Assembly on, or about February 16, 2018,
which is a bill that would revive the statute of limitations for childhood
sexual assault victims and would allow the Plaintiff to pursue the full and
reasonable value of his claim. These representations were false because the
Defendants knew or should have known that AB-3120 or other similar bill was
introduced to the Assembly on, or about February 16, 2018. The Defendants, and
each of them, knew or should have known that their representations and
concealment about the introduction of the Assembly Bill were false and
misleading when they made the representations and concealment because the
Defendants, and each of them, had intimate knowledge, involvement and
opposition to AB-3120 or any other similar bill and they knew or should have
known that the Plaintiff was vulnerable and unaware that a bill was introduced
that would revive the statute of limitations for childhood sexual assault
victims. 
 
290. The Plaintiff
reasonably relied on the representations of the Defendants, and each of them,
and their agents, when Defendants fraudulently induced the Plaintiff into
signing the Settlement Agreement with the knowledge that AB-3120 or other
similar bill was introduced to the Assembly on, or about February 16, 2018. 
 
291. As the result
of the misrepresentations and fraud of the Defendants, and each of them, the
Plaintiff was fraudulently induced into settling his claim for a significantly
reduced amount. 
 
292. The Defendants,
and each of them, consciously disregarded their contractual, statutory,
decisional law and/or other obligations and duties and in so doing, defrauded
the Plaintiff from recovering the full and reasonable value of his claim. 
 
293. The Defendants,
and each of them, acted with fraud and bad faith as outlined above, and such
conduct constituted intentional misrepresentations, deceit and concealment of
material facts, known to them, with respect to fraudulently inducing a vulnerable
Plaintiff into signing the Settlement Agreement for a significantly reduced
amount and the Plaintiffs right to recover the full and reasonable value of his
claim, with the intention on the part of the Defendants, and each of them, of
thereby depriving Plaintiff of his legal and contractual rights to recover the
full and reasonable value of his claim. Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to
punitive and exemplary damages from Defendants, and each of them, in such
amounts as shall be necessary and appropriate to punish Defendants, and each of
them, for their acts, aforementioned practices, false misrepresentations and
concealment, and to deter them, and anyone else, from ever attempting to commit
similar wrongful acts in the future. 
 
294. As a further
direct, legal and proximate result of the aforementioned conduct of Defendants,
and each of them, the Plaintiff has suffered mental and emotional anguish and
distress in an amount believed to be within the jurisdiction of this Court. Plaintiff
will introduce the amount of said damages at the time of trial, or when
ascertained or upon proof thereof.
 
295. Accordingly,
Plaintiff is entitled to a judgment from this Court declaring that the
Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release is invalid, void and rescinded.
 
296. Plaintiff
re-alleges and incorporates by reference herein each and every allegation
contained herein above as though fully set forth and brought in this cause of
action. 
 
297. The Defendants,
and each of them, made certain material false representations and concealments
to the Plaintiff including, but not limited to, that AB-3120 or other similar
bill was introduced to the Assembly which would revive the statute of limitations
for sexual assault victims and that the Settlement Agreement described above
was his best, only and final opportunity to settle his claim against the
Defendants, thereby fraudulently inducing the Plaintiff into signing the
Settlement Agreement. The Defendants, and each of them, acted with fraud and
bad faith, and such conduct constituted intentional misrepresentations, deceit
and concealment of material facts, known to them, with respect to coercing a
vulnerable Plaintiff into signing the Settlement Agreement for a significantly
reduced amount and the Plaintiffs right to recover the full and reasonable
value of his claim, with the intention on the part of the Defendants, and each
of them, of thereby depriving Plaintiff of his legal and contractual rights to
recover the full and reasonable value of his claim.  
 
298. Accordingly,
Plaintiff is entitled to a judgment from this Court declaring that the
Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release (attached hereto as Exhibit "1
") is invalid, void and rescinded. 
 
Factual Allegations
which are Specific to Plaintiff: 
 
299. Plaintiff was
raised in a devoutly Roman Catholic family, was baptized, confirmed and
regularly celebrated weekly mass and received the sacraments through the Roman
Catholic Church. Plaintiff and his family were active parishioners at Defendant
DOE PARISH in Santa Ana, California. Plaintiff attended school for
approximately five years at Defendant DOE PARISH. In or about the year of 1976,
when Plaintiff was 11 or 12 years of age, he began training to be an altar boy
at Defendant DOE PARISH in Santa Ana, California, where Defendant DOE
PERPETRATOR was a priest. Plaintiff eventually became an altar boy at said
parish. Plaintiff therefore developed great admiration, trust, reverence and
respect for, and obedience to, Roman Catholic priests who occupied a position
of great influence and persuasion as holy men and authority figures. 
 
300. Plaintiff and
his family were active parishioners at Defendant DOE PARISH in Santa Ana,
California. During his membership and participation as a parishioner and altar
boy at Defendant DOE PARISH, Plaintiff came to know, admire, trust, revere and
respect Defendants DOE PERPETRATOR and DOES 1 through 500. 
 
301. Empowered by
Defendants DOE DIOCESE, DOE ARCHDIOCESE, DOE PARISH and DOES 1 through 500,
inclusive, Defendant DOE PERPETRATOR and DOES 1 through 500, inclusive,
obtained the trust of Plaintiffs parents. As a result, Plaintiffs parents
trusted the then minor Plaintiff to accompany Defendant DOE PERPETRATOR and
DOES 1 through 500, inclusive, while they performed parish business, for
evening outings and on various trips to, among other places, Sacramento, Hearst
Castle, San Francisco, San Diego, and other places in Southern California. 
 
302. Between
approximately, but not limited to, 1978 and 1980 and while Plaintiff was
entrusted to Defendant DOE PERPETRATOR and DOES 1 through 500, inclusive, they
sexually, physically and emotionally molested, abused, mistreated, assaulted,
battered and exploited Plaintiff by, among other things, plying Plaintiff with
alcohol and pornographic material, touching and fondling the genitalia of
Plaintiff, repeated attempts to masturbate Plaintiff, oral copulation, digital
manipulation and other lewd and lascivious acts.
 
(SAAMC, ¶¶ 286-302.)
 
The Court finds that the hearing
should be continued.  Plaintiff’s
allegations raise several questions.  The
Court orders supplemental briefing to address the following:
 
* Does the separation-of-powers
analysis apply to and resolve the settlement-based causes of action?
 
* Since the separation-of-powers
analysis disposes of the sexual-abuse-based causes of
action, and assuming arguendo that it does not resolve the settlement-based
causes of action, should the Court remove this case from the coordination proceeding and transfer it to the Orange Superior Court to preside
over the settlement-based causes of action?
 
* Siler
bases the settlement-based causes of action on RCBO’s alleged concealment of
AB-3120, a bill that Governor Jerry Brown vetoed, and unidentified similar
bills.  In general, ignorance of the law
is not a defense, and Deacon Stock was not an attorney or legal advisor
and did not represent Siler.  Is there a published appellate opinion
allowing misrepresentation and rescission causes of action for such a
defendant’s failure to disclose a pending or unsigned bill?
  
*
Relatedly, is there a published appellate opinion allowing misrepresentation
and rescission causes of action for a such a defendant’s misstatement or
concealment of actual law? 
 
* Siler
contends RCBO misstated or concealed the purported fact that the Legislature
intended to enact legislation that would revive his claims.  Given the separation-of-powers analysis, the
Legislature’s amendment to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 could not –
and, in effect, did not – revive his claims. 
How does the absence of revival impact the misrepresentation and
rescission causes of action?  
 
 


