 Case Number:  24SMCV03252    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV03252




MOTION


Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Masoud Atef




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Erin Pillman



 
MOTION
 
On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff Erin Pillman (“Plaintiff”) filed suit
against Defendant Masoud Atef (“Defendant”) alleging eleven causes of action
for (1) breach of the implied warranty of habitability; (2) breach of the
statutory warranty of habitability; (3) unfair business practices; (4)
nuisance; (5) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (6) negligence; (7)
breach of contract; (8) violation of FEHA; (9) violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act; (10) Violation of Santa Monica Municipal Code, § 4.56.020 et
seq.; and (11) violation of Santa Monica Municipal Code, § 4.56.030 et
seq.
 
Defendant now moves to strike the Complaint’s allegations requesting
punitive damages.  Plaintiff opposes the
motion and Defendant replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
7. On October 9, 2021, Plaintiff and Amanda Kuo
(“Kuo”) entered a rental agreement with Defendant for the Premises until March
31, 2022, at $2,500 per month rent. Residential Leasing Requirements Ordinance
(the “RLRO”), Santa Monica Municipal Code § 6.22.060, requires a minimum lease
term of one year for most residential tenancies. However, Defendant did not
register this tenancy with the Rent Control Board, nor did he provide either
the Information Sheet to Plaintiff or Kuo at the time they signed their lease.
Kuo vacated in February 2022, and Plaintiff located a new roommate, Sean
Frazier (“Frazier”). On February 28, 2022, Plaintiff and Frazier entered into
another short-term rental agreement with Defendant for a period of five months
through July 31, 2022. 
 
8. On March 14, 2023, Plaintiff sent an email to
Defendant asking if she could replace Frazier with a new roommate named Robert
Lacey (“Lacey”) beginning April 1, 2023, as is her right under the Rent Control
Law § 1806 (a)(2). On March 21, 2023, Defendant approved Lacey as a tenant.
However, Defendant presented Plaintiff with yet another proposed new lease,
raising the rent from $2,500 to $3,200, in violation of the Rent Control Law,
falsely claiming that her lease with Frazier was no longer valid. The proposed
lease would have made Plaintiff the only permitted occupant. Defendant also
conditioned any repairs on Plaintiff signing the new lease, and told her that
if she did not agree, she would have to find a new place to live. Defendant
then badgered Plaintiff for days through text messages and emails to pressure
her to sign the new lease. It was at this point that Plaintiff sought legal
advice, learned that her apartment was rent-controlled, and contacted the Rent
Control Board. 
 
9. On March 31, 2023, Plaintiff emailed Defendant
that she would not agree to sign a new lease because she had learned that her
existing lease was still valid under the Rent Control Law. Defendant responded,
“after careful consideration, I’m not allowing any roommate since we do not
have a valid agreement”, claiming that since Frazier moved out, the 2022 lease
is “null and void.” Defendant demanded that Plaintiff financially requalify for
the tenancy based on her income alone, something that she is not legally
required to do under the Rent Control Law. 
 
10. On March 31, 2023, the Rent Control Board
(“the Rent Board”) wrote a letter to Defendant, informing him that his demand
that Plaintiff signs a new lease with a $700 rent increase violated the Rent
Control Law and gave him 15 days to register the tenancy of Unit C with the
Rent Control Board. Instead of complying with the Rent Board’s letter,
Defendant sent another email to Plaintiff informing her that he was increasing
her rent from $2,500 to $2,640 starting May 1, 2023. 
 
11. On April 10, 2023, the Rent Board wrote
Defendant another letter about Unit C, reminding him that he had still failed
to register Plaintiff’s tenancy, failed to rescind the rent increase, and even
issued a new rent increase notice of $140, all in violation of the Rent Control
Law. That same day, Defendant emailed Plaintiff, claiming again that her 2022
lease was “null and void”, knowing very well that this was untrue. Defendant
wrote that Plaintiff would have to move out if she did not sign the new lease
by the end of April. 
 
12. On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff asked Defendant
for permission to have a roommate move into Unit C on May 1, 2023. In response,
Defendant emailed Plaintiff the proposed new lease again, and requested
Plaintiff provide him with financial documents to demonstrate she could afford
the rent on her own and an additional security deposit of $1,200. Defendant
wrote: “Before the new lease takes effect, NO other occupancy for any purposes
for any length and reason is NOT allowed.” He gave her two options: return Unit
C to him vacant or sign a new agreement, giving her 15 days to decide. As a
result, Plaintiff lost another viable roommate opportunity. The same day, 
 
13. On April 19, 2023, the Rent Board wrote
Defendant a third letter about Unit C, informing him that he is not permitted
by the Rent Control Law to require Plaintiff to sign a new lease that includes
a provision that would limit occupancy of the unit to just Plaintiff, as having
a roommate is a housing service that could merit the Rent Control Board
granting a rent decrease to Plaintiff worth 50% of the rent. 
 
14. On April 28, 2023, Defendant also finally
registered the tenancy in Unit C that had begun in 2021 with the Rent Control
Board. On April 30, 2023, Defendant wrote Plaintiff an email conceding that she
did not need to sign a new lease, allowing her to have one roommate and
informing her that her rent would be $2,649.50 beginning June 1, 2023. 
 
15. July 15, 2023, Defendant informed Plaintiff
that she could have Kelly McCann move in to replace Frazier “as long as she has
no special needs (medical, mental and physical) that requires special care and
handling.” On December 3, 2023, Kelly McCann moved out. Plaintiff emailed
Defendant on December 30, 2023, requesting to replace her roommate, as she is
entitled to replace a departed roommate under her lease on a one-for-one basis
under the Rent Control Law. On December 17, 2023 and January 7, 2024, Defendant
emailed Plaintiff, insisting that for her next roommate, she disclose to that
person that she has a dispute with Defendant; that she is pursuing a mold case
and filing for “substandard states”; and that she sign a release to that
effect. 
 
16. On January 9, 2024, the Santa Monica Deputy
City Attorney wrote an email to Defendant, informing him that the conditions he
was placing on Plaintiff getting a new roommate are impermissible and
unreasonable, and in violation of Rent Control Law, Section 1806(a)(2). She
informed Defendant that his unlawful refusal to allow Plaintiff to have a
roommate to share half of the rent would constitute another violation of the
THO, as it appeared that his refusal is in bad faith and could result in
Plaintiff having to relinquish her rent-controlled apartment due to the rent
burden. The Santa Monica Deputy City Attorney requested that Defendant confirm
in writing by January 14th that he would allow Plaintiff a roommate without
imposing unlawful conditions. 
 
17. On January 14, 2024, Defendant responded to
the Santa Monica Deputy City Attorney but did not remove any of his conditions
for allowing a roommate. He wrote in pertinent part, “You cannot deny my rights
to protect myself, especially with the recent events, and ignore other’s rights
just because you want to keep her here no matter what? Violating how many
people’s rights to protect one? As far as I’m concerned, she has the right to
stay and have a roommate as long as our rights and protection are not ignored.”
Defendant never informed Plaintiff that her roommate request was
unconditionally approved, worrying Plaintiff that she could be evicted if she
got a roommate; or, if she did not, for nonpayment of rent due to being unable
to afford the unit on her own.
 
HABITABILITY DEFECTS 
 
18. On March 21, 2023, Plaintiff sent an email to
Defendant with a list of necessary repairs to her unit, which included but was
not limited to the following: “termites in my bedroom”; “Broken sink sprayer in
kitchen sink”; and “mold in the in the wall under the kitchen sink”. 
 
19. On March 31, 2023, Plaintiff again informed
Defendant by email that there was mold under the kitchen and bathroom sinks and
bathroom baseboards. She asked Defendant to have someone who specializes in
mold remediation do the work because she has medical disabilities that make her
highly sensitive to chemicals and mold. 
 
20. On May 1, 2023, Plaintiff sent another email
to Defendant stating that she believed there was an active leak in the pipes in
the bathroom and again mentioned her health sensitivity to mold. 
 
21. On May 3, 2023, Defendant responded to
Plaintiff’s reasonable accommodation request by email stating: “If you have
special conditions (based on what you said) and require special care &
attention you should have mentioned them in your application not two years
later after the Rent Increase Notice. I would have advised against you moving
in because it is an old building with lots of plants, trees, and flowers in the
sounding, and Garbage cans next to your Window, maybe it is not a wise choice
for someone with a respiratory issue….” (Emphasis added.) 
 
22. On August 20, 2023, water poured through the
roof of the Property into the walls of Unit C, flooding the kitchen and
damaging the cabinets. Plaintiff informed Defendant the next day and requested
that Defendant come to the unit to assess the mold. 
 
23. In early September 2023, Plaintiff hired a
mold inspector who took moisture readings, confirming high levels of moisture.
Plaintiff also contacted the Santa Monica Code Enforcement Division. On
September 7, 2023, Santa Monica Code Enforcement Officer Benson Reed confirmed
even higher moisture readings (70-100% wet) in the bathroom and kitchen
ceilings/walls than Plaintiff’s inspector had found, and issued a Notice of
Violation, ordering Defendant to: “Locate the source causing the moisture [and]
[r]emediate any conditions causing the moisture/dampness (permits may be
required).” Reed did not authorize Defendant to open the walls in Unit C. 
 
24. On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff again emailed
Defendant, requesting that he hire a professional company to safely remediate
the mold because opening the walls would become a dangerous health hazard for
her. She told Defendant that there needs to be containment of the contaminated
area and HEPA filters, and she asked that Defendant temporarily relocate her as
a reasonable accommodation to her disability. Defendant ignored Plaintiff’s
reasonable accommodation request again, and informed her that he was sending a
crew the next day to start repairs. Out of concern for her health and worried
he would open the walls without taking any precautions to contain the mold
contamination, Plaintiff declined to have Defendant start the work, asking to
postpone to the following week. 
 
25. On or about September 14, 2023, Plaintiff
received a mold report from BH Environmental, whom she hired herself, showing
extremely elevated levels of Penicillium/Aspergillus, a particular toxic mold,
in the bathroom of the Premises. Plaintiff sent the report to Defendant, again
asking that he hire a mold professional. She informed Defendant that she was
experiencing chest pain and lung constriction, and she gave Defendant a letter
from her doctor, verifying that she is immune compromised. 
 
26. On September 23, 2023, without addressing
Plaintiff’s health concerns, Defendant sent Plaintiff an email, accusing her of
causing damage to the Property by delaying repairs for 15 days. Three days
later, on September 26, 2023, Plaintiff emailed Defendant stating that the
water damage was due to the roof leak, not her fault, and she offered to
provide names of experts to remediate the toxic mold. She even offered to pay
for the remediation, having obtained several repair estimates. 
 
27. Defendant ignored any risk to Plaintiff’s
health as well as her offer to pay; instead, notifying her by email that he was
entering on September 28, 2023, to make repairs. Plaintiff remained very
concerned that Defendant would simply open the walls and expose her to toxic
mold, something she could not risk. 
 
28. On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff sent
Defendant by email a more formal written request for reasonable accommodation
that he not begin work on her unit and wait until he hires a mold professional;
that he not conduct any mold remediation without proper containment as
recommended by a certified mold professional; that he provide her and her
roommate temporary accommodation during the remediation process; that he test
the unit to ensure it is free of mold prior to their return; and that he
waterproof the roof, so it does not continue to leak. 
 
29. Defendant did not respond to the reasonable
accommodation request. Instead, on September 28, 2023, he emailed Plaintiff
that he had made “all possible attempts” to resolve the problem, but she
“hindered his efforts and delayed.” 
 
30. On September 28, 2023, the Santa Monica
Deputy City Attorney, sent Defendant a letter reiterating Plaintiff’s request
for reasonable accommodation, informing him that the refusal to make a
reasonable accommodation to rules, policies, practices, or services, when such
accommodations may be necessary to afford a person with a disability equal
opportunity to use and enjoy any dwelling violates federal, state, and local
law, specifically, the Santa Monica Anti-Discrimination Ordinance, § 4.28.030
(g). The Santa Monica Deputy City Attorney informed Defendant that he has a
legal obligation to engage in the “interactive process” with Plaintiff to find
a reasonable accommodation to her disability, and to confirm that he
understands his obligations and would do so. Because Defendant had provided
notice to enter only by email, the Santa Monica Deputy City Attorney also
informed him in her September 28th letter that he is required to provide a
24-hour written notice of entry and that an email does not suffice, referring
him to Civil Code § 1954. 
 
31. On September 29, 2023, Defendant responded to
the Santa Monica Deputy City Attorney in an email, stating: “1836 Euclid St. is
a 90-year-old building and Unit C is not a suitable place for someone with a
rare immune disorder. This is NOT discrimination against handicapped persons,
this is the limitation this property has to accommodate.” Defendant also wrote
in his email to the City that when Plaintiff moved in, she did not disclose her
disability, and admitted that he had also asked Plaintiff whether her roommate
had a special medical or mental condition that required special handling,
treatments, or accommodation.” 
 
32. On October 24, 2023, the County of Los
Angeles, Department of Public Health, Environmental Health Division, issued an
order to Defendant to address the mold condition no later than November 14,
2023. Defendant failed to comply with the order. 
 
33. The Santa Monica Deputy City Attorney wrote
Defendant another letter on October 29, 2023, reiterating that he is required
by law to engage in a dialogue with Plaintiff to identify an accommodation that
would address her health concerns about mold in the unit. The Santa Monica
Deputy City Attorney also informed Defendant that it is unlawful to make
discriminatory statements to or about his tenants based on disability. She
further informed Defendant that Plaintiff was not legally required to disclose her
disability to him when she applied for the tenancy. She also informed Defendant
that it is illegal to state that his Property is not suitable for persons with
disabilities. 
 
34. On October 31, 2023, Defendant emailed
Plaintiff and various city officials that, due to Plaintiff’s medical
condition, he decided it would be best to address the mold infestation by
opening and going through an exterior wall, not from inside. 
 
35. On November 14, 2023, Defendant removed all
the stucco from the back of Unit C without first applying for and receiving a
City permit, right before the winter rains began. Code Enforcement Officer Reed
issued a “Stop Work Order” the same day, insisting Defendant obtain proper
permits. The plastic covering that Defendant placed over the area where the
stucco was removed is not secure and has left the building exposed to rain
throughout the winter. 
 
36. On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff informed
Defendant that on November 14, 2023, when it rained, the roof leaked again.
Plaintiff also informed Defendant by email: “The smell of mold in the unit last
night and today is about 3x as bad as it was previously. And my lungs have
never felt this bad in my entire life. This is an emergency situation. Mr.
Defendant, Lee Brooks has offered you a free consultation. He is truly an
expert in these matters, and we need an expert. Will you please schedule that
consult, and can we please get this situation fixed?” 
 
37. On November 20, 2023, Defendant emailed
Plaintiff, demanding copies of her medical records; asking intrusive questions
about her disability; accusing her of lying about her disability and the
existence of the mold. Defendant has not done any professional testing to
contradict the report from Priority Lab provided by Plaintiff on or about
September 14, 2023. 
 
38. On December 4, 2023, Defendant served
Plaintiff by email with a 24-hour “annual inspection” notice despite having
been informed by the Santa Monica Deputy City Attorney in writing on September
28, 2023 that “state law requires a written 24-hour notice of entry; an email
does not suffice….” Upon receipt, Plaintiff emailed Defendant that the City had
informed him that these types of inspections must be in writing and sent him a
link to Civil Code § 1954. In response the next day, Defendant served a written
24-hour notice to inspect on December 6th, stating a new reason: to perform a
mortgage lender inspection. 
 
39. On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff emailed
Defendant about a termite problem, attaching a photograph of the droppings.
Plaintiff wrote: “There is a termite issue in the bathroom. I discovered a pile
of termite droppings in the southwest corner of the bathroom this morning.” 
 
40. Defendant came to the unit on March 25, 2024.
He entered the unit and told Plaintiff it was just a “pile of dust.” He then
vacuumed up the termite droppings. As Defendant was leaving, Plaintiff informed
him that the pilot light on her gas heater was out and that she had no heat.
Defendant responded that she should just push the red button. Plaintiff tried
that and then followed Defendant outside to say that the heater still did not
work. Defendant walked into a storage room, ignoring her. 
 
41. On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff discovered
another place in her unit with a large amount of termite droppings, so she
emailed Defendant again and asked him if he was going to address the actual
termite problem. She also told him that her gas heating unit was still not
working and that it was cold, so she wanted it to be fixed. Defendant responded
the next day, accusing Plaintiff of making false statements and sounding a
false alarm. He also falsely accused Plaintiff of using her apartment “for
commercial purposes.” 
 
42. In her April 2, 2024 email, Plaintiff also
wrote to Defendant: “And the part that is by far the most concerning, as it is
negatively impacting my health, is the mold in the bathroom. The stench of mold
in there is always strong and terrible, as the mold has been proliferating
freely since the roof leaked in August 2023. There is also a strong stench of
mold when I open the cupboard in the SW corner of the kitchen. I'm still
waiting for you to send someone for professional remediation.” 
 
43. In addition to the issues described above,
Plaintiff does not have functioning smoke detectors as required by California
Health and Safety Code section 13113.7. Plaintiff first informed Defendant
orally that the three smoke detectors in the unit were not working in March
2023. Defendant was put on notice of the issue again when Plaintiff filed a
petition for decreased housing services with the Rent Control Board on May 25,
2023. The issue was raised again during the mediation session with the Rent Control
Board on June 28, 2023. Defendant continued to ignore the issue, and Plaintiff
continued to request functioning smoke detectors in writing on August 14, 15
and 25 of 2023. On August 30, 2023, Defendant installed new units, which
Plaintiff subsequently learned were only carbon monoxide detectors. To date,
Plaintiff still does not have functioning smoke detectors in her unit. 
 
44. As of the date of the filing of this lawsuit,
Defendant has done nothing more to address the toxic mold in the Premises.
There are still holes in Plaintiff’s bathroom wall, from which she is able to
see straight through to the alley outside. Defendant has done no mold testing
or remediation, and he has not temporarily relocated Plaintiff to ensure she
would not be exposed to toxic mold, which Plaintiff believes is endangering her
health.
 
DECREASED HOUSING SERVICES 
 
45. From the inception of her tenancy, Plaintiff
was free to use the communal outdoor space, an amenity that was included in her
rent. On May 3, 2023, Defendant took this amenity away from Plaintiff. That
day, Defendant emailed Plaintiff: “Please remove your belongings from Front
Yard, Side Yard, Back yard, and all common areas by mid-May …whatever is left
will be discarded and the person will be responsible for removal, disposal
cost, and any lost, damaged, or missing item.” Plaintiff complied but was forced
to sell her bicycle. Defendant also removed Plaintiff’s access to a walkway on
the north side of the building, outdoor lighting (creating a safety problem),
and outdoor furniture. This appeared to be in retaliation for Plaintiff’s (and
other tenants’) complaints to the City and Plaintiff’s requests for repairs as
well as a reasonable accommodation to her disability. 
 
46. In February 2024, Defendant took away several
amenities included in Plaintiff’s tenancy since she moved in. This took place
the same month that Plaintiff’s rent was decreased by the Rent Control Board.
On February 8, 2024, Defendant locked the laundry room door, removing
Plaintiff’s (and the other tenants’) access to the laundry facilities. 
 
47. On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff emailed
Defendant, requesting that he unlock the laundry room door. He responded two
days later that the laundry is not part of her unit, not a listed amenity; that
it was left behind by a previous tenant; and, that it is not safe to use
because it was leaking gas. He told the tenant residing in the bootleg unit a
different story. Defendant also informed Plaintiff that he would no longer
service her water filtration system since that was also not an amenity, just
left behind by a prior tenant. This statement was false as Defendant’s own
company installed the water filtration system and did so in other units. 
 
48. On April 28, 2024, Plaintiff emailed
Defendant that her refrigerator was “not working”, and requested that Defendant
send a repair person. McGranahan also wrote an email the same day , reminding
Defendant of his duty to provide a functioning refrigerator. Defendant
responded that he would only respond if the “City verifies that unit C Fridge
needs repair”. 
 
49. On May 3, 2024, Defendant entered the
Premises with an employee purportedly to repair the refrigerator, but also took
video of Plaintiff’s personal belongings, including in the bathroom, the
shower, the interior of the closet in the living room. 
 
50. During Plaintiff’s tenancy Defendant has
generally failed to serve written 24 hour written notices to enter the unit,
sending, instead texts and emails (such as the one on September 28th), or just
showing up at the door. He has also entered the Unit C under false pretenses
and for purposes not permitted by state law, including for “general
inspections.” 
 
51. Defendant was, at all times, fully aware that
he, acting as owner, manager and operator at the Subject Property, had failed
to maintain it to the standard of habitability as required by law. 
 
52. Plaintiff did not cause or contribute to the
substandard conditions described herein and had fulfilled her obligations as a
tenant. 
 
53. Defendant had actual and constructive
knowledge of these conditions at the Premises and the Property and failed to
cure the conditions listed herein. 
 
54. Plaintiff has repeatedly notified Defendant
and his agents, both orally and in writing of the dangerous conditions listed
above, among others, and requested that Defendant have them repaired. Despite
these requests, Defendant failed and/or refused to repair the conditions,
and/or have done so in a negligent and/or unreasonable fashion and in bad
faith. 
 
55. Defendant have exhibited wanton and malicious
disregard for Plaintiff’s health and wellbeing by failing to cure the dangerous
and uninhabitable conditions. 
 
56. As a direct and proximate result of the above
conduct and resultant conditions in the Premises, Plaintiff suffered and
continues to suffer mental and emotional pain and distress, including, but not
limited to, embarrassment, humiliation, discomfort, exacerbation and annoyance,
all to her general damage in an amount to be proven at trial. 
 
57. As a direct and proximate result of the above
acts by Defendant, Plaintiff has paid, and continues to pay, excessive rent for
the Premises.
 
58. As a direct and proximate result of the above
acts by Defendant, Plaintiff suffered loss of use of the Premises to her
general damage in an amount to be proven at trial. 
 
59. Defendant endeavored to recover possession of
the Premises in bad faith through unlawful harassment and other means,
including but not limited to the following actions: 
 
a. Refusing to perform effective repairs of the
conditions which rendered the Premises uninhabitable; 
 
b. Demanding rent while the Premises were
uninhabitable; 
 
c. Seeking to force Plaintiff to vacate the
Premises by permitting the Premises to fall into and/or remain in a condition
that was a threat to the health and safety of Plaintiff, in an effort to
recover the apartment; 
 
d. interrupting, terminating and failing to
provide housing services required by state and local law; 
 
e. substantially and directly interfering with
Plaintiff’s right to quiet enjoyment or a rental housing unit; 
 
f. interfering with Plaintiff’s right to privacy;

 
g. influencing or attempting to influence
Plaintiff to vacate the Premises through fraud, intimidation or coercion; and 
 
h. other repeated acts or omissions of such
significance as to substantially interfere with or disturb the comfort, repose,
peace or quiet of any person lawfully entitled to occupancy of such dwelling
unit and that cause or are likely to cause, or are intended to cause any person
lawfully entitled to occupancy of a dwelling unit to vacate such dwelling unit
or to surrender or waive any rights in relation to such occupancy. 
 
60. As a direct and proximate result of the
above-mentioned conduct, Plaintiff has suffered and continue to suffer damages,
all in an amount to be proven. 
 
61. As a direct and proximate result of the above
conduct, Plaintiff suffered and continues to suffer the loss of use of the
Premises, and is entitled to attorneys’ fees, and other special damages. 
 
62. Defendant’s conduct was without right or
justification and done for the purpose of depriving Plaintiff of her right to
possession of the Premises. Defendant engaged in the above-described conduct
with the knowledge that the conduct was without right or justification and
without regard for the fact that it would cause injury to Plaintiff, notwithstanding
their obligation to comply with applicable statutes providing for quiet
possession and enjoyment of the Premises.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 7-62.)
 
            Thus, the Complaint is replete with
specific examples of Defendant repeatedly (1) stating he did not believe his
apartment building was suitable for tenants with respiratory disabilities, like
Plaintiff; (2) unlawfully attempting to raise Plaintiff’s rent in violation of
local rent control ordinances; and (3) ignoring Plaintiff’s habitability
complaints, apparently in retaliation.  
 
            These allegations are sufficient to
demonstrate a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights to support Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages. 
            
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court denies Defendant’s Motion to Strike.
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file and serve an Answer to the
Complaint on or before January 13, 2025.
 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference and the Order to Show Cause Re: Failure to File Proof of
Service from January 6, 2025 to March 17, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department
207.  All parties shall comply with
California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and Further
Case Management Conferences.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724)
and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule
3.725).    
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  December 17, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court