 Case Number:  23SMCV03966    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 23, 2024, continued to December 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03966




MOTION


Motion to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Haig B. Kazandjian




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
Haig B. Kazandjian, counsel for Plaintiff Juan Farrow (“Counsel”) moves
to be relieved as counsel, citing a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship.  The motion is unopposed.
 
At the original hearing the Court indicated an intent to deny the
motion without prejudice on procedural grounds because the proof of service did
not indicate the client was served and the declaration did not adequately
convey that counsel confirmed the client’s service address within the past 30
days as current.  On counsel’s request,
the Court continued the hearing on the motion so counsel could correct these
procedural deficiencies.  Counsel
subsequently filed a declaration.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)        
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053.  The attorney
declaration (MC-052) indicates that the motions were filed instead of filing a consent
because of a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship and a breakdown in
communications.  (MC-052 at ¶ 2.)  As such, the Court finds that the motion
complies with the Rules of Profession Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)  
 
            The proof of service indicates each
of these forms were served by mail on each of the three defendants, and the
attorney declaration indicates that the client was served electronically and by
mail at the client’s last known address and email address.  (MC-052 at ¶ 2.)  The proof of service does not, however,
indicate that the client was served.
 
The Declaration further indicates Counsel confirmed the client’s
mailing address within the past 30 days, but elaborates that the address was
provided by the client upon retention. 
Since the case was filed in 2023, that provision was necessarily more
than thirty days ago, and Counsel has not otherwise indicated if or how he has
confirmed the client’s address as current within the last 30 days, or that he
has been unable to do so despite diligent efforts.  (MC-052 at ¶ 3.)  
 
After the original hearing, Counsel filed the Declaration of Jasmine
Logan, indicating she called Mr. Farrow on November 7, 2024 and confirmed that
the address they have on file for him is still current.  (Logan Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.)  The proof of service for the Logan
Declaration indicates it was served on Plaintiff by mail.
 
However, while the Logan Declaration indicates she “had previously
mailed him paperwork related to this motion” (Logan Decl. ¶ 3), Counsel has
still not provided a proof of service or other conclusive declaratory statement
demonstrating service of each of the original motion documents (forms MC-051,
MC-052, or MC-053) and notice of the continued hearing on the client.  
 
Therefore, the Court finds Counsel has still failed to comply with the
procedural requirements of demonstrating service of all motion and hearing
documents on the client.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court continues the hearing on the
motion to be relived as counsel to February 25, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department
207 to enable Counsel to correct the procedural deficiencies identified by the
Court.  
 
Further, Counsel shall file a proof of service on or before February
18, 2025 which establishes service of the notice of the continued hearing on all
parties including the client, and service of the required documents (MC-051, MC-052
& MC-053) on the client, as required by the California Rules of Court.  
 
 
 
DATED:  December 17, 2024                                    ___________________________
                                                                              Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court