 Case Number:  23SMCV02763    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02763




MOTION


Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings




MOVING PARTY


Defendant County of Los Angeles




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiff Ashley Rochestie



 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises from injuries
Plaintiff Ashley Rochestie (“Plaintiff”) allegedly sustained when she fell into
a hole in the sidewalk created by a half-filled planter. 
 
            Plaintiff filed suit against
Defendants City of Santa Monica; Los Angeles County; SML Investors, LLC; 624
Lincoln Blvd. Apartments; and Yi Pan, alleging five causes of action for (1)
Damages Based on Governmental Tort Liability and Negligence (Gov. Code, § 835);
(2) Negligence; (3) Premises Liability; (4) Private Nuisance; and (5) Public
Nuisance.  As to Defendants City of Santa
Monica (“City”) and County of Los Angeles (“County” or “Defendant”), Plaintiff
alleges only the first cause of action.
 
            On January 31, 2024, the Court
sustained City’s demurrer for failure to allege facts demonstrating or excusing
compliance with the claim presentation requirements of the Government Claims
Act (Gov. Code § 905.)  The Court did not
grant leave to amend, as Plaintiff failed to identify any facts that could be
added to the complaint to correct the identified deficiency.  (See Minute Order, Jan. 31, 2024 at pp.
4-6.)  
 
            The Court entered judgment in favor
of City on May 6, 2024, and City served a Notice of Entry of Judgment on May
16, 2024.
 
            On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff moved for
reconsideration of the Court’s January 31 order sustaining Plaintiff’s demurrer,
which the Court denied on August 28, because the Court lacked jurisdiction to
reconsider its order after judgment was entered.  Plaintiff also moved for relief from the
claims statute, which the Court denied on jurisdictional grounds as
untimely.  (See Minute Order, Aug. 28,
2024.)
 
            County now moves for judgment on the
pleadings on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to satisfy the claim
presentation requirement.  Plaintiff has
filed a declaration in opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a
general demurrer, but may be made after the time to demur has expired. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).)  “Like a
demurrer, the grounds for the motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” (Civic Partners Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
1005, 1013.)  In ruling on a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon
which judicial notice may be taken are assumed to be true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th
1308, 1313.)  
 
Government Code section 835
provides:
 
Except as
provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in
a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was
proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition
created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred,
and that either:
 
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or
 
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.
 
            County
argues that Plaintiff’s claim fails because Plaintiff did not timely submit the
claim to the County, as required by Government Code section 911.2, nor does the
Complaint allege that Plaintiff submitted a prefiling claim to the County.  Government Code section 911.2 requires:
 
(a) A
claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to
personal property or growing crops shall be presented as provided in Article 2
(commencing with Section 915) not later than six months after the accrual of
the cause of action. A claim relating to any other cause of action shall be
presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than
one year after the accrual of the cause of action.
 
(b) For
purposes of determining whether a claim was commenced within the period
provided by law, the date the claim was presented to the Department of General
Services is one of the following:
 
(1) The
date the claim is submitted with a twenty-five dollar ($25) filing fee.
 
(2) If a
fee waiver is granted, the date the claim was submitted with the affidavit
requesting the fee waiver.
 
(3) If a
fee waiver is denied, the date the claim was submitted with the affidavit
requesting the fee waiver, provided the filing fee is paid to the department
within 10 calendar days of the mailing of the notice of the denial of the fee
waiver.
 
            A
plaintiff must plead facts demonstrating or excusing compliance to withstand a
demurrer.  (State of California v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1243.)
 
            Here,
the Complaint alleges, “Plaintiff filed a Claim for Damages To Person or
Property form with the City of Santa Monica in accordance with Government
Code §911.2.”  (Complaint ¶ 12.)  Thus, although the Complaint states that
Plaintiff submitted a prefiling claim to the City of Santa Monica, Plaintiff
does not allege she submitted a claim to the County of Los Angeles.
 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff has filed an attorney declaration, which indicates, “It
is my understanding that the City of Santa Monica falls under the umbrella of
the County of Los Angeles. Should the County of Los Angeles seek
indemnification, they should request such instead of filing this present
Motion.”  (Janfaza Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
            Even
if Plaintiff’s presentation of a claim to City somehow satisfied her obligation
to submit a prefiling claim to County (which Plaintiff has not demonstrated it
does), the Court already found, in connection with City’s demurrer, that
Plaintiff did not timely submit a claim to City.  (See Minute Order, Jan. 31, 2024.)  In fact, the Court sustained City’s demurrer
on this basis without leave to amend (ibid.), denied Plaintiff’s motion
for reconsideration (Minute Order, Aug. 28, 2024), denied Plaintiff’s motion
for relief from the claims statute (Minute Order, March 11, 2024), and granted
judgment in City’s favor on those findings.
 
            Therefore,
Plaintiff has not alleged or demonstrated satisfaction of or exemption from the
prefiling claim requirement as to County.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet this burden, as the attorney
declaration filed in opposition does not address whether leave to amend should
be granted, should the Court grant the County’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court grants the
County’s motion for judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend.  
 
            The County shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.     
 
 
DATED:  December 17, 2024                        ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 