..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: [not specified]
Plaintiff's Name: Petitioner
Defendant's Name: Respondents
People-Names: Rakow, Swain, Bradbury
Company-Names: [none]
Places: California, [other places not specified]
Dates: [various dates, including 30 days after receiving information, 135, 50, and 7 days before a primary election]
Events: recall petition, report of registration, notice to the Secretary of State
Money: [none]
Intentions: to clarify the requirements for a recall petition
Facts: county elections official must provide a report of registration to the Secretary of State, Registrar must provide information on total number of registered voters
Disputes: disagreement over the number of registered voters
Acts: providing notice to the Secretary of State, preparing information for report of registration
Agreements: section 2187 of the California code
Laws: section 2187, Lemon v. Bradbury, Rakow v. Swain
Case Citations: [none]
Statutes: section 2187
Roles: county elections official, Registrar, Secretary of State
Significant Statements:
* The court does not consider factual contentions made in the motion to strike, opposition, or reply.
* A county elections official must calculate the number of total number of registered voters for a recall petition the same way as shown on his/her report of registration.
* The court does not need to separately discuss the equal protection claim in paragraph 23(a).
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The judge's tentative ruling addresses the requirements for a recall petition and the calculation of the total number of registered voters. The court does not consider the factual contentions made in the motion to strike, opposition, or reply, including the length of time it takes to register voters. The court notes that a county elections official must provide a report of registration to the Secretary of State and that the Secretary of State must compile a statewide list showing the number of voters by party preferences. The court also references Rakow v. Swain, which advises that a petition for recall should not be presented without first checking with the registrar of voters to find out the total number of registered voters. The court concludes that a county elections official must calculate the number of total number of registered voters for a recall petition the same way as shown on his/her report of registration.
