


[1] Along with the County, Petitioner named as
respondents the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, the Los Angeles County
Auditor Controller, the Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission (Commission),
and the Los Angeles County Employee Relations Commission (ERCOM).  On April 22, 2022, Petitioner dismissed the
entire action as to the Commission and ERCOM.


[2] Petitioner contends Respondent improperly referred to
the discipline related to each Deputy Doe in its brief—discipline overturned on
review. (Reply 1:7-19.) As argued by Petitioner, the discipline imposed and
then eventually overturned is not relevant to the adjudication of the defense
of waiver and exhaustion. While Petitioner requests the court order Respondent
to file redacted briefs, the Deputy Does are all referred to by pseudonym.
Thus, none can suffer embarrassment from discipline eventually overturned.
Nonetheless, to the extent Petitioner seeks such an order, they may bring a
noticed motion to allow Respondent a full and fair opportunity to respond to it.

 


[3]
Respondent notes “whether or not Doe 6 exhausted his administrative remedies is
not before this Court in this matter because this Court already ordered
interest in different earlier proceedings.” (Opposition 19, fn. 7.) Respondent therefore
does not raise any exhaustion issue as to Deputy Doe 6.  
 


[4]
As noted by Respondent, the court’s Order discussed North Oakland Medical
Clinic v. Rogers (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 824. While the decision is relevant
as a general matter, the case involved certain specific facts pertaining to the
plaintiff’s failure to request pre-judgment interest at any time during
the trial court proceedings, including in a motion for new trial.  “Rather, at virtually the last minute, plaintiffs inserted an
interest award in the order awarding costs which they presented to the court,
in clear violation of Rogers's due process right to notice and an opportunity
for hearing.” (Id. at 831.) Given the unique facts of North
Oakland Medical Clinic v. Rogers, the court does not the case dispositive on the type
of language that must be used to request pre-judgment interest at the
administrative level. Unlike North Oakland Medical Clinic v. Rogers, Respondent
has been afforded a full and fair opportunity to litigation the request made in
this proceeding for pre-judgment interest.  


[5] The court has considered Respondent’s arguments
concerning the dictionary definitions of “emolument.” (Opposition 17:12-19.)
When considered in full, Deputy Doe 1’s request in the Post Hearing Brief for an award of “full back[pay], benefits, and all other
emoluments of employment lost as the result of his improper termination” is functionally equivalent to a request to be “made
whole” for the loss of wages and employee benefits. Consistent with
administrative proceedings generally, the court notes the level of precision
for requesting pre-judgment interest at the administrative level would be less
than that at the trial court level.  For
these reasons, the court rejects the dictionary definitions cited by Respondent
as authority for a finding of waiver or failure to exhaust.  

