


[1] The court therefore does not consider any factual
contentions made in the motion to strike, opposition, or reply, including the
lengthy factual arguments found at page 6, footnote 3 and page 14, footnote 7
of Respondents’ motion to strike.


[2] All undesignated statutory references are to this
code.


[3] Section 2187 provides, in part:
(a) Each county elections official shall
provide notice to the Secretary of State that the following information is
available: 
     
(1) The total number of voters in the county. . . . 
(b) The Secretary of State, within 30
days after receiving the information specified in subdivision (a), shall
compile a statewide list showing the number of voters, by party preferences, in
the state and in each county, city, supervisorial district, Assembly district,
Senate district, and congressional district in the state. A copy of this list
shall be made available, upon request, to any elector in this state. 
(c) The county elections officials shall
prepare the information referenced in subdivision (a) and provide notice to the
Secretary of State at the following times: . . . [various specified statutory
deadlines].  
 
 


[4] Given a county election official is statutorily required
to make a report of registration to the Secretary of State under section 2187,
why would that county elections official calculate a different number of total number
of registered voters for a recall petition any differently than that shown on
his/her report of registration?


[5] Section 2187 specifies a county elections official
must provide a report of registration on somewhat of a rolling basis—135, 50
and 7 days before a primary election. (§ 2187, subd. (c)(1)-(3).) Moreover, section 2187 allows
the Secretary of State to adopt regulations “prescribing additional reporting
times, except that the total number of reporting times in any one calendar year
shall not exceed 12.” (Id. at subd. (d).)


[6] While Petitioner believes Rakow v. Swain, supra, 178 Cal.App.2d at 900 “left
open the possibility” a dispute about the number of registered voters “could be
raised,” (Opposition 12:18), the Court also advised:
Most assuredly a petition under these circumstances
cannot safely present a petition for recall without first checking with the
registrar of voters to find out what the total number of registered voters is
in an municipality immediately prior to offering his petition for review. (Id.
at 900-901.)


[7] Registrar does not provide any separate analysis of
the equal protection issues and bases its argument entirely on Lemon v.
Bradbury.  In light of the court’s
analysis above, the court also need not separately discuss the equal protection
claim in paragraph 23(a).

