  Case Number:  20STCV47465    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  86 ASSOCIATION FOR LOS ANGELES DEPUTY SHERIFFS v.
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
Case Number: 20STCV47465
Hearing Date: October 25, 2023 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
ON BIFURCATED DEFENSES TO PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 
 
 
Petitioner, the Association for Los Angeles
Deputy Sheriffs (ALADS) on behalf of Deputies Doe 1 through 29, seek a writ of
mandate ordering Respondent, the County of Los Angeles,[1]
to pay interest, including pre-judgment interest pursuant to Civil Code section
3287, subdivision (a), on backpay awards previously ordered for the Deputy Does
in various forums.  Respondent opposes
the petition.  
 
Given the number of litigants involved, the
parties stipulated the court would adjudicate certain defenses asserted by
Respondent before reaching the substantive merits of Petitioner’s claims.
 
On April 7, 2023, after written briefing and a
hearing, the court issued its Order on Bifurcated Issues (Defenses) (Order) concluding
that the first and third defenses asserted by Respondent (home rule doctrine
and binding past practice) did not result in a decision in Respondent’s favor on
the petition. At that time, the court also considered the following defense:
 
Second:
Is a Deputy Doe barred from seeking recovery of pre-judgment interest now if he
or she failed to request pre-judgment interest during the pendency of his or
her underlying matter? 
 
As to that defense, the court concluded as
follows: 
 
On
the facts before it, the court cannot discern whether the admission made by
those 14 Deputies Doe that they "did not make any request for prejudgment
interest prior to this litigation" (County's RJN, Ex. 7 2:19-23) means
they made no request that could be interpreted as sufficient to include
prejudgment interest in their damage (backpay) award. While those 14 Deputies
Doe may not have expressly prayed for prejudgment interest (as suggested by
Petitioner[‘s] admission), the specific facts of each Deputy Doe may be such
that some language they used during the proceeding is "sufficient for the
[adjudicatory body], on its own, to invoke its power to levy such prejudgment
interest as it deems just and equitable." (Segura v. McBride, supra,
5 Cal.App.4th at 1041. See also Newby
v. Vroman (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 283, 286. ["It has long been settled
that, in a contested action, prejudgment interest may be awarded even though
the complaint contains no prayer for interest."])
 
While waiver may operate as a
defense to the claims of Deputies Doe 1 through 7, 11 through 14, 16, 17 and
29, the court cannot make that decision on this record as a matter of law. The
specific circumstances of each of the disciplinary matters for Deputies Doe 1
through 7, 11 through 14, 16, 17 and 29 are required to decide whether any
Deputy Doe waived any prejudgment interest to which he or she may have been
entitled. The court cannot find the County's defense dispositive without
consideration of the facts specific to each of the 14 Deputies Doe. (Order
7.)
 
On June 16, 2023, the court set a hearing on these
bifurcated issues of waiver and exhaustion. 
The court and the parties identified Deputy Does 1, 5, 6, 18, 23, and 28
as “test cases” as to Respondent’s waiver and exhaustion defenses. Today’s
hearing is limited to the court’s determination of Respondent’s waiver and
exhaustion defenses for these six test cases. No other issues pleaded or raised
in the first amended petition or the parties’ briefing will be decided on
October 25, 2023.
 
Respondent’s evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Elizabeth Gibbons: Objections 1, 9 and 10 are overruled. Objections
2, 3, 5, 6, 12, 13, 14 and 15 are sustained. The court sustains the following
objections in part: 4 (as to the second and third sentence), 7 (as to the first
sentence only), 8 (as to all except the first sentence) and 11 (as to the
second sentence). [The court sustains the objections in large part on
foundation, secondary evidence and argument.]
 
Respondent’s three evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Z. Greg Kahwajian are overruled.
 
Petitioner’s eight evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Anni Safarloo are overruled. 

 
Petitioner’s two evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Craig Hoetger are overruled.
 
Petitioner’s two evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Jeri Weinstein are overruled.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Petitioner brings this proceeding pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure 1085. 
 
To issue an
ordinary writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, a
petitioner must demonstrate: (1) a clear, present, and ministerial duty on the
part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial right on the
part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty. (California Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health
Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus
is proper where . . . the claim is that an agency has failed to act as required
by law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
“Generally, mandamus is available to
compel a public agency's performance or to correct an agency's abuse of
discretion when the action being compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public
Health (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)  “ ‘While, of
course, it is the general rule that mandamus will not lie to control the
discretion of a court or officer, meaning by that that it will not lie to force
the exercise of discretion in a particular manner . . . [it] will lie to
correct abuses of discretion, and will lie to force a particular action by the
inferior tribunal or officer, when the law clearly establishes the petitioner's
right to such action.’ ”  (Flores v.
Dept. of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 199,
208.)  
 
An agency is presumed to have regularly
performed its official duties. (Evid. Code, § 664.) Petitioner “bears the
burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1085.” (California Correctional
Peace Officers Assn. v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133,
1154.)  
 
“ ‘On questions of law arising in mandate
proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent judgment.’ . . . . Interpretation
of a statute or regulation is a question of law subject to independent review.”
(Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Relevant Facts for the Six “Test” Deputy Does[2] 
 
Deputy Doe 1
 
In a Post Hearing Brief filed with an
administrative hearing officer on or about January 20, 2017, in Case No.
15-205, Deputy Doe 1 requested:
 
the Hearing Officer issue Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, and a Recommendation that the Commission overturn the
inappropriate disciplinary [action] imposed in this case and order the
Sheriff’s Department to reinstate Deputy [Doe 1] to full duty as a deputy
sheriff, with full back, benefits, and all other emoluments of employment
lost as the result of his improper termination. (Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18,
Exh. G, p. 2 [Case No. 15-205] [emphasis added]; Opening Brief 10:9-12;
Safarloo Decl. ¶ 4 and Exh. A [identifying Doe 1’s case number as Case No.
15-205].)  
 
Petitioner
represents Deputy Doe 1 filed objections with the Commission stating, in
pertinent part:
 
For each of the foregoing reasons,
Petitioner, Deputy [Doe 1] respectfully requests that the Commission reject its
new proposed decision and entered as its final decision an order requiring the
Sheriff’s Department to immediately [revoke the improper disciplinary penalty]
and to promptly make Deputy [Doe 1] whole for all wages, benefits, and other
emoluments of employment . . . lost during the period of [Deputy Doe 1's]
wrongful [discipline], as if the unsustained [discipline] had not been
[imposed]. (Opening Brief 10:16-20 [emphasis added].)  
 
Petitioner has not
cited a declaration or exhibit showing Deputy Doe 1’s request to be made “whole,”
and the court has not found any such declaration or exhibit in the record for
this phase of trial to support Deputy Doe 1’s claim.  
 
The court requests Petitioner’s counsel provide the evidentiary
support for their statement at the time of hearing.
 
On March 20, 2019,
the Commission suspended Deputy Doe 1 for 30 days in lieu of termination.  (Safarloo Decl. ¶ 4 and Exh. A.)  The Commission’s order did not state,
explicitly, Petitioner be paid backpay or interest on such backpay. (Ibid.)
 
Through its
attorney’s declaration, Respondent states: 
 
Deputy Doe 1 was not awarded interest on
his backpay, and it appears that Deputy Doe 1 took no further action (including
not filing a petition for writ of mandate) to request interest until ALADS
identified Deputy Doe 1 as an unnamed party in this matter. (Safarloo Decl. ¶
4.)  
 
Petitioner has not
submitted evidence to contradict Respondent’s factual summary.
 
Deputy Doe
5
 
In a Post Hearing Brief filed with a hearing
officer on or about June 1, 2017, in Case No. 15-299, Deputy Doe 5 requested,
in pertinent part: 
 
that the Hearing Officer issue a Report
and Recommendation to the Commission,
finding that the Department has failed to prove either of the two allegations
against Deputy [Doe 5], rendering the discipline of discharge improper and
unreasonable, and ordering the Sheriff's Department to reinstate Deputy [Doe 5]
to his position as a Deputy Sheriff, with full back pay, benefits, and all
other emoluments of employment from the date of his discharge to the
date of his actual reinstatement.  (Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. G
[Case No. 15-299] [emphasis added]; Opening Brief 11:11-15; Safarloo Decl. ¶ 5
and Exh. B, C.)  
 
Ultimately, in the administrative
proceeding:
 
After a hearing on the appeal, on July
11, 2017, the hearing office recommended that Deputy Doe 5’s termination be
rescinded and that Deputy Doe 5 be returned to work with full back pay and
benefits. The Department objected to the hearing officer’s recommendation. On
December 20, 2017, the [Commission] overruled the Department’s objections and
adopted the hearing officer’s recommendation. . . . It does not appear that
Deputy Doe 5 took any further action (including not filing a petition for writ
of mandate) to request interest until ALADS identified Deputy Doe 5 as an
unnamed party in this matter. (Safarloo Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B, C.)
 
Deputy Doe
6
 
In a Post Hearing Brief filed with a hearing
officer on or about August 9, 2016, in Case No. 13-126, Deputy Doe 6 requested “that the Hearing Officer . . . recommend
that the Commission overturn the [discharge of Deputy Doe 6] and order [Deputy Doe
6] reinstated . . . as deputy sheriff[], with full back pay and benefits.”
(Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. G [Case No. 13-126] [emphasis added]; Opening Brief 11:24-28;
Safarloo Decl. ¶ 6 and Exh. D-G.) It appears Deputy Doe 6 did not expressly make
a request for interest in the administrative proceedings.  
 
After a hearing on the appeal, on
September 20, 2016, the hearing officer recommended that Deputy Doe 6’s
termination be rescinded and that he be made fully whole. . . . After the
Commission adopted the hearing officer’s recommendations as its proposed
decision, the Department filed objections to the hearing officer’s report. On
May 23, 2018, the Commission granted the Department’s objections in part and
issued a new proposed decision for fifteen days of suspension. Deputy Doe 6
objected to the new proposed decision, but on September 5, 2018, the [Commission]
adopted its new proposed decision. . . . Deputy Doe 6 appealed the [Commission’s]
decision to the Superior Court via petition for writ of mandate and argued that
he was entitled to interest. . . . On July 30, 2020, Superior Court Honorable
Judge Mitchell Beckloff granted the petition for writ of mandate and ordered
the discipline reversed and ordered interest on backpay. (Safarloo Decl. ¶ 6
and Exh. D-G.)  
 
Petitioner’s
counsel attests “[t]o date, Respondents
have not paid this interest” ordered by the court’s writ of mandate.  (Gibbons Decl. ¶ 20.) Petitioner’s statement
is unrebutted by Respondent.  
 
///
Deputy Doe 18
 
In a Post Hearing Brief filed with an ERCOM
arbitrator on or about May 17, 2021, Deputy Doe 18 requested: 
 
that the Arbitrator should issue an award finding that the Department failed to
carry its burden of proving that there was just cause for the imposition of
[discipline] contested herein, . . . an ordering the Department to make [Doe
18] whole by restoring all lost pay and benefits resulting from the improperly
imposed [discipline] with interest on all such back pay. 
(Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. G [bold italics added]; Opening Brief 15:4-8;
Safarloo Decl. ¶ 7 and Exh. H, I.)
 
Deputy Doe 18 was
successful before the arbitrator:
 
On June 7, 2021, the arbitrator rescinded
the suspension and recommended that the grievant be made whole for lost income
and Deputy Doe 18’s personnel and departmental records be adjusted accordingly.
. . . It does not appear that Deputy Doe 18 took any further action to request
interest until ALADS identified Deputy Doe 18 as an unnamed party in this
matter. (Safarloo Decl. ¶ 7 and Exh. H, I.)
 
Deputy Doe
23
 
In a Post Hearing Brief filed with a hearing
officer on or about March 3, 2020, in Case No. 17-146, Deputy Doe 23 requested that the hearing officer recommend
“immediate reinstatement with full back pay, benefits, and other emoluments
of employment, with interest.” (Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. G [bold italics
added]; Opening Brief 13:23-28; Safarloo Decl. ¶ 8 and Exh. J-L.)  Deputy Doe 23 also requested back pay “with
interest” in objections filed with the Commission on or about August 17, 2020.
(Safarloo Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. K.)  
 
Ultimately:
 
[a]fter
a hearing on the appeal, on June 8, 2020, the hearing office recommended that
Doe 23’s termination be rescinded and that he be suspended for 30 days. After
objections from both the Department and Deputy Doe 23, the [Commission] reached
a final decision to impose a 30-day suspension and require Deputy Doe 23 to
attend additional training. The Department appealed the [Commission’s] decision
via a petition for writ of mandate, which was denied. . . . . Deputy Doe 23 did
not raise the interest issue on appeal until he was identified an unnamed Doe
in this matter. (Safarloo Decl. ¶ 8 and Exh. J-L.)
 
Deputy Doe 28
 
In a Post Hearing Brief filed with a hearing
officer on or about December 7, 2020, in Case No. 18-166, Deputy Doe 28 requested
the Hearing Officer recommend the
Commission order the Sheriff’s Department “to make [Deputy Doe 28] whole for
all wages and benefits lost due to the improper [discipline], with interest
thereon.”  (Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18, Exh.
G [emphasis added]; Opening Brief 14:16-18; Safarloo Decl. ¶ 9.) Respondent
admits “Deputy Doe 28 made a request for interest . . . in his reply to the
Department’s objections to the proposed decision.”  (Opposition 19:17-19.)  
 
After
a hearing on the appeal, on December 28, 2020, the hearing officer recommended
that Deputy Doe 28’s ten-day suspension be reduced to a two-day suspension, to
be held in abeyance pending completion of ‘Education Based Discipline’ courses
offered by the Department. . . . Deputy Doe 28 did not raise the interest issue
again until he was identified as an unnamed Doe in this matter.  (Safarloo Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
Waiver
 
“Under California
law, a waiver is the intentional relinquishment or abandonment of a known right
or privilege. . . . Waiver is a question of fact . . . and always is based upon intent.” (Smith
v. Selma Community Hospital (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1506.) “ ‘[I]t is
settled law in California that a purported ‘waiver’ of a statutory right is not
legally effective unless it appears that the party executing it had been fully
informed of the existence of that right, its meaning, the effect of the ‘waiver’
presented to him, and his full understanding of the explanation.’ [Citation.] ‘The
first requirement of any waiver of statutory or constitutional rights, of
course, is that it be knowingly and intelligently made.’ ” (Hittle v. Santa
Barbara County Employees Retirement Assn. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 374, 389.)
 
As discussed in the
Order, the Deputy Does have a statutory right to interest on backpay that has
been wrongfully withheld during a termination or suspension set aside by ERCOM
or the Commission after an administrative hearing. (See Order 7-8 [“right to
prejudgment interest arises from Civil Code section 3287”]; see also San Diego County Deputy Sheriffs Assn. v. San Diego
County Sheriff’s Dept. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 1084, 1086
[pursuant to section Civil Code section 3287, subdivision (a), “when an administrative
agency determines an employee's employment was wrongfully terminated, and
reinstates the employee's employment with backpay, the agency must include
interest in the award of wrongfully withheld backpay”]; Goldfarb v. Civil Service Com. (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 633, 635-637 [same].)
 
This court awarded Deputy Doe 6
pre-judgment interest through a writ of mandate.  Respondent does not address any alleged
waiver by Deputy Doe 6 of his statutory right to pre-judgment interest. (See Opposition
25:9-23.)
 
Respondent does not develop any
argument that Deputy Does 1 and 5, through their words, knowingly and intelligently waived pre-judgment interest. (Opposition
25:9-13.) Does 1 and 5 challenged the discipline imposed by the County and
requested “full back pay, benefits,
and all other emoluments of employment.” Neither deputy executed any writing
nor made any statement orally that they were waiving or foregoing pre-judgment
interest in their requests for full backpay, benefits, and all other emoluments
of employment. Nor does Respondent cite any evidence that Deputy Does 1 and 5
were “ ‘fully informed of
the existence of th[e] right [to interest], its meaning, the effect of the ‘waiver’
presented to [them], and [their] full understanding of the explanation.’ ”  (Hittle v. Santa Barbara County Employees
Retirement Assn., supra, 39 Cal.3d at 389.)
 
Does 18, 23, and 28 all expressly
requested interest and did not waive a request for interest through any written
or oral statements. Respondent develops no waiver argument to the contrary.
(Opposition 25:14-23.)
 
Respondent contends, however, Deputy
Does 1, 5, 18, 23, and 28 waived pre-judgment interest through their “conduct,”
specifically an alleged failure to exhaust administrative and/or judicial
remedies. (Opposition 25:9, 16, 18-19, 21-22.) Respondent does not otherwise identify
any other “conduct” that would establish a knowing and intelligent waiver of
the statutory right to pre-judgment interest. (The issue of exhaustion is
addressed infra.)
 
Based on the foregoing, Respondent has
not demonstrated Deputy Does 1, 5, 6, 18, 23 and 28 waived their statutory
right to pre-judgment interest pursuant to Civil Code section 3287, subdivision
(a) in connection with their awards of backpay from the Commission, ERCOM or
the Superior Court.
 
Exhaustion of
Administrative Remedies 
 
Respondent contends
a failure to exhaust administrative remedies can operate as a waiver. To that
end, Respondent asserts each Deputy Doe was required to make a request for
pre-judgment interest during the administrative proceedings to comply with
his/her obligation to exhaust administrative remedies. More specifically,
Respondent argues Deputy Does 1 and 5 failed to make a request for
pre-judgement interest in the administrative proceedings and therefore cannot
seek interest in the trial court. Respondent concedes Deputy Does 18, 23 and 28
made requests for pre-judgment interest in the administrative proceedings, but Respondent
contends those Deputy Does did not exhaust administrative remedies to challenge
administrative decisions that allegedly omitted pre-judgment interest.[3]
 
The court’s Order noted,
as a general matter, “to obtain prejudgment interest under Civil Code section
3287, subdivision (a), . . . there must be an affirmative request. The court
also observed the “specific facts of each Deputy Doe” must be considered to
determine if a deputy properly exhausted his/her administrative remedies. (See Order
6-7.)  
 
The issue is
whether the specific facts for each Deputy Doe proceeding is “sufficient for
the [adjudicatory body], on its own, to invoke its power to levy such
prejudgment interest as it deems just and equitable.” (Segura v. McBride (1992)
5 Cal.App.5th 1028, 1041. See also Order 7.) Of course, this court is bound by San Diego County Deputy Sheriffs Assn., supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at 1086 which held: “when an administrative agency determines an employee's
employment was wrongfully terminated, and reinstates the employee's employment
with backpay, the agency must include interest in the award of wrongfully
withheld backpay.”
 
The court applies
these legal principles and authorities to the specific facts of each Deputy
Doe’s case.[4]
 
              Deputy Doe 1
 
In a Post Hearing Brief filed with the
administrative hearing officer, Deputy Doe 1 requested, in relevant part, an
award of “full back[pay], benefits, and all other emoluments
of employment lost as the
result of his improper termination.” (Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. G [Case No.
15-205] [emphasis added]; Opening Brief 10:9-12; Safarloo Decl. ¶ 4.)
Petitioner also represents Deputy Doe 1 filed objections with the Commission requesting
the Commission “make Deputy [Doe 1] whole for all wages, benefits, and other
emoluments of employment ... lost during the period of [Deputy Doe 1's]
wrongful [discipline], as if the unsustained [discipline] had not been
[imposed].” (Opening Brief 10:16-20 [emphasis added].)  
 
As noted earlier, Petitioner
has not cited any evidence before the court evidencing Deputy Doe 1’s alleged request
to be made “whole.” The court has also has been unable to locate such evidence.
 
Assuming Deputy Doe
1 did make a request to be “made whole” for all “wages, benefits, and other
emoluments of employment lost” in his objections to the Commission, as alleged by
Petitioner, the court finds Deputy Doe 1 properly his/her administrative
remedies to obtain pre-judgment interest pursuant to Civil Code section 3287,
subdivision (a).  
 
As explained by our
Supreme Court, the purpose of pre-judgment interest pursuant to Civil Code section
3287, subdivision (a), in the context of a wrongful suspension or termination,
is to “make the employee whole” for the loss of “natural growth and
productivity of the withheld salary in the form of interest.” (Currie v.
Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1109, 1115 [discussing Mass
v. Board of Education (1964) 61 Cal.2d 612]. See also Cassinos v. Union Oil Co. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 1770, 1790. [“The policy
underlying authorization of an award of prejudgment interest is to compensate
the injured party—to make that party whole for the accrual of wealth which
could have been produced during the period of loss.”]) Given this policy and purpose of Civil
Code section 3287, subdivision (a), a request to be “made whole” is reasonably
interpreted to seek interest on the payment of back pay. That is, awarding
interest recognizes the loss of the use of the backpay and benefits from the
time of Respondent’s wrongful deprivation.
 
Even if Deputy Doe
1 only made a request for an award of “full back [pay], benefits, and all other emoluments of employment
lost as the result of his improper termination” in his Post Hearing Brief, the
court would reach the same conclusion—Deputy Doe 1 made a sufficient request
for pre-judgment interest under Civil Code section 3287, subdivision (a) during
the administrative proceedings. 
 
It is undisputed
the Commission has no specific rule of procedure requiring a request for
pre-judgment interest be made in a particular way in its proceedings; nor do
the parties identify any applicable rule or law on the issue. (Gibbons Decl. ¶¶
15-16, Exh. D-E; see also Kahwajian Decl.
¶¶ 4-7.) In fact, a request for “full back[pay]” necessarily includes interest.
(San Diego County Deputy Sheriffs Assn., supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at 1086 [pursuant to Civil Code section
3287(a), “when
an administrative agency determines an employee's employment was wrongfully
terminated, and reinstates the employee's employment with backpay, the agency
must include interest in the award of wrongfully withheld backpay”].)  
 
Accordingly, the court finds a request for “full back [pay], benefits, and all other emoluments of employment lost
as the result of his improper termination” is sufficient at the administrative
level to constitute a request for pre-judgment interest.[5]  
 
The court rejects
Respondent’s argument the Deputy Does must have filed objections to the Commission’s
failure to include interest in a proposed or final decision. (See Opposition
18-19.)  As noted earlier, the Commission
has no specific rule of procedure requiring a request for pre-judgment interest
be made in a particular way in its proceedings, and there is no applicable rule
or law on the issue. (Gibbons Decl. ¶¶ 15-16,
Exh. D-E; see also Kahwajian Decl. ¶¶ 4-7.) Further, there is no written
procedure requiring a request for pre-judgment interest be made at a specific
time or included in written objections to a proposed decision by the
Commission. (Ibid.)  
 
Considering the policy and purpose of Civil
Code section 3287, subdivision (a) to make a person who recovers damages
“whole” and the lack of any specific written procedure or requirement for an
employee to make a request for pre-judgment interest in any particular form
before the Commission, the court finds the request for “full back[pay], benefits, and all other
emoluments of employment lost as the result of his improper termination” in Deputy
Doe 1’s Post Hearing Brief before the hearing officer sufficiently to satisfied
the exhaustion doctrine.
 
Accordingly, the
court finds Deputy Doe 1 adequately exhausted administrative remedies as to his/her
request for pre-judgment interest.  
 
Deputy Doe 5
 
In a Post Hearing Brief filed with a hearing
officer, Deputy Doe 5 requested, in pertinent part, an award of “full back pay, benefits, and all other emoluments
of employment from the date of his discharge to the date of his
actual reinstatement.”  (Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. G [Case No. 15-299]
[bold italics added]; Opening Brief 11:11-15; Safarloo Decl. ¶ 5 and Exh.
B,  C.) The factual circumstances
concerning Deputy Doe 5’s request for pre-judgment interest are similar to
those discussed above for Deputy Doe 1.  
 
The reasons for
finding Deputy Doe 1 adequately exhausted his/her administrative remedies is
equally applicable here. Accordingly, the court finds Deputy Doe 5 adequately
exhausted his/her administrative remedies for pre-judgment interest.
 
              Deputy Does 23 and 28
 
Deputy Does 23 and
28 both requested awards of backpay “with interest” in their Post Hearing
Briefs filed with the hearing officers. (Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. G.) Deputy Doe
23 also requested back pay “with interest” in objections filed with the
Commission. (Safarloo Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. K.) Respondent also admits “Deputy Doe 28
made a request for interest . . .  in his
reply to the Department’s objections to the proposed decision.” (Opposition
19:17-19.)  
 
The express
requests for interest made by Deputy Does 23 and 28 in their Post Hearing
Briefs and objections before the Commission (or reply to objections) sufficiently
satisfied the exhaustion doctrine. Therefore, the court finds Deputy Does 23
and 28 adequately exhausted their administrative remedies for pre-judgment
interest.  
 
///
              Doe 18
 
In a Post Hearing Brief filed with an ERCOM
arbitrator, Deputy Doe 18 requested “that the Arbitrator should . . .
order[] the Department to make [Deputy Doe 18] whole by restoring all lost
pay and benefits resulting from the improperly imposed [discipline] with
interest on all such back pay.” (Gibbons Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. G [bold italics and underline added]; OB
15; Safarloo Decl. ¶ 7 and Exh. H, I.)  
 
Deputy Doe 18’s
express request for interest in his/her brief before ERCOM sufficiently exhausted
Deputy Doe 18’s administrative remedies.
 
Respondent contends
“the arbitrator did not award interest in his decision and award” and to
exhaust administrative remedies, Deputy “Doe 18 should have requested the
Arbitrator to correct the award within 30 days of June 21, 2021 decision”
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1284. (Opposition 20:26-27.) On the
particular facts here, the court is not persuaded.
 
The arbitrator made
an award rescinding the discipline against Deputy Doe 18 and specifying Deputy Doe
18 “should be made whole for lost income.” (Gibbons Decl. Exh. K.) In the
context of an order setting aside the discipline, the order for Deputy Doe 18
to be “made whole for lost income” may be reasonably interpreted by a trial
court, in an action enforcing the arbitration order, to include pre-judgment
interest on the lost income. (See Currie v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd.,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at 1115 [“make the employee whole” for the loss of
“natural growth and productivity of the withheld salary in the form of
interest”]. See also Cassinos v. Union
Oil Co., supra, 14 Cal.App.4th
at 1790. [“The policy underlying authorization of an award of prejudgment
interest is to compensate the injured party—to make that party whole for the
accrual of wealth which could have been produced during the period of loss.”])
 
The court finds the
arbitration award did not require correction to obtain an award of pre-judgment
interest; the scope of the award included it. Accordingly, Deputy Doe 18
adequately exhausted his/her administrative remedies for pre-judgment interest.
 
Exhaustion of
Judicial Remedies; and Statute of Limitations 
 
Apparently for the
first time in this proceeding, in addition to exhausting their administrative
remedies, Respondent asserts each Deputy Doe “is required to show [they] timely
exhausted their judicial remedies.” (Opposition 22:11.) According to
Respondent, “[e]xhausting judicial remedies is necessary to avoid giving
binding ‘effect to the administrative agency’s decision, because that decision
has achieved finality due to the aggrieved party’s failure to pursue the
exclusive remedy for reviewing administrative action.” (Opposition 22:11-15
[quoting Briggs v. City of Rolling Hills Estates (1995) 40 Cal.App.4hh
637, 646].)
 
Respondent believes
each Deputy Doe’s failure to pursue judicial remedies operates as a waiver of
pre-judgment interest. Subsumed within Respondent’s argument is the notion this
proceeding is barred under an unspecified statute of limitations because Deputy
Does 1, 5, 23 and 28 did not seek judicial intervention of Commission and/or
ERCOM decisions failing to award interest and cannot do so now. (See Opposition
23:7-10.) Respondent asserts “Petitioner has failed to meet its burden to show
that Deputy Does 1 and 5’s participation in this matter is within the statute
of limitations or otherwise expedient and timely.” (Opposition 23:15-16.)
 
As noted by
Petitioner, Respondent has not filed an answer to the first amended petition asserting
affirmative defenses of exhaustion of administrative remedies and the statute
of limitations. From the court’s review of the file, Respondent has not
previously raised the affirmative defenses in any of the status reports filed
with the court related to the issues for briefing. (See Reply 8-11; Reply
Gibbons Decl. ¶¶ 6-13.)  
 
Contrary to
Respondent’s suggestion otherwise (Opposition 23:15-16), the statute of
limitations is a defense upon which Respondent, not Petitioner, has the burden
of proof. (Salton Bay Marina, Inc. v. Imperial Irrigation Dist. (1985)
172 Cal.App.3d 914, 940, fn. 4. [“In civil actions, the statute of limitations
is a personal privilege and must be affirmatively asserted or it is deemed
waived.”])  
 
The court finds the
affirmative defenses of exhaustion of judicial remedies and the statute of
limitations have not, at this time, been properly raised by Respondent through
any answer or other pleading filed with the court. Thus, the defenses are not
presently at issue.
 
Writ Action is Moot
as to Deputy Doe 6
 
Respondent contends
that “Deputy Doe 6 has been awarded interest and his inclusion is this matter
is moot.” (Opposition 23:19-20.) The court agrees.  
 
On July 30, 2020, in
a separate proceeding filed by Deputy Doe 6, this court granted the petition
for writ of mandate, ordered the discipline reversed, and ordered Respondent to
pay interest on the backpay owed to Deputy Doe 6. (Safarloo Decl. ¶ 6 and Exh.
D-G.) If Petitioner and Deputy Doe 6 contend Respondent has not complied with
the writ, Deputy Doe 6 may file a motion to enforce the writ or a supplemental
petition to enforce the writ. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1097. See City of
Carmel-By-The-Sea v. Board of Supervisors (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 964, 971.)  Petitioner has not identified any reason for Deputy
Doe 6 to be included in these proceedings given that Deputy Doe 6 already has
an enforceable court order for pre-judgment interest from his superior court
proceeding.  
 
///
 
///
 
///
 
///
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Respondent has not met its burden of
proof to establish that the defenses of waiver or exhaustion of administrative
remedies bar Petitioner from seeking pre-judgment interest on behalf of Deputy Does
1, 5, 18, 23 and 28.
The action is moot as to Doe 6.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
October 25, 2023                                                                                               
________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


