

 
Petitioner, Daniel Olmos, seeks a writ of mandate pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure sections 1094.5 compelling Respondent, California State
Personnel Board, to set aside its decision finding Petitioner guilty of misconduct
and dismissing him from his position as a Correctional Sergeant with Real Party,
the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation.
 
The verified petition has attached to it a single-paged memorandum
of points and authorities.[1] The
memorandum addresses the timeliness of the petition as well as Petitioner’s right
to judicial review of the administrative decision. Petitioner does not,
however, discuss any of the facts related to the petition or Petitioner’s
underlying discipline. Petitioner also has not attached the administrative
decision or administrative record to the petition.
 
At the first scheduled trial setting conference, June 24, 2022, Petitioner
did not appear. At that time, the court file did not reflect Petitioner had
served the petition on Respondent or Real Party.
 
On August 10, 2022, Petitioner and Real Party appeared at the
continued trial setting conference.[2] The
court calendared the matter for trial on April 19, 2023 and ordered a briefing
schedule. The briefing schedule required Petitioner to file and serve his
opening brief 60 calendar days in advance of trial.
 
On March 17, 2023, Real Party filed its opposition brief. Real
Party noted it could not respond to the petition because Petitioner had failed
to file an opening brief as required by the court’s briefing schedule. Real
Party notified the court Petitioner’s opening brief should have been served and
filed by February 20, 2023.
 
Shortly thereafter, on March 20, 2023, Petitioner filed an ex
parte application to continue trial and briefing schedule. Petitioner’s counsel
explained he had health, personal and personnel issues. The court granted
Petitioner’s application on March 23, 2023. The court calendared today’s date
for trial and ordered a new briefing schedule. Under the new briefing schedule,
Petitioner had until or about August 25, 2023—nearly five additional months—to file
his opening brief.
 
On September 25, 2023, Real Party filed its opposition brief. Real
Party advised Petitioner had failed to obtain the administrative record, adhere
to the briefing schedule or prosecute this proceeding.
 
Petitioner has failed to file an opening brief or lodge the administrative
record with the court. 
 
By failing to file an opening brief and the administrative record in
support of his petition, Petitioner has waived any claims alleged in the petition.
Petitioner bears the burden of proof in these proceedings and the failure to
file an opening brief and administrative record means that Petitioner has not
met this burden. (Manriquez v. Gourley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1227,
1233 [“[T]he party challenging the administrative decision bears
the burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings
are contrary to the weight of the evidence.”]; Weinberg v. Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1107. [“Generally, ‘[i]n a section 1094.5 proceeding,
it is the responsibility of the petitioner to produce a sufficient record of
the administrative proceedings; “. . . otherwise the presumption of regularity
will prevail . . . .” ’ ”])
 
Evidence Code section 664 also creates a presumption “that
official duty has been regularly performed.” (Evid. Code, § 664.) Given the
presumption and Petitioner’s burden in mandamus, it follows that Petitioner has
not met his burden—that is, has not overcome the presumption of regularity
contained in Evidence Code section 664—where he files no opening brief
demonstrating error.
 
Moreover, California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1103 provides writ
petitions are considered law and motion matters. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1103, subd. (a)(2).) A memorandum must be filed in support of a law and
motion matter. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.112, subd. (a)(3).) A party filing
a motion “must serve and file a supporting memorandum.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.113, subd. (a).) The memorandum must set forth “a statement of facts, a
concise statement of the law, evidence and arguments relief on, and a
discussion of statutes, cases, and textbooks cited in support of the position
advanced.” (Id. at subd. (b).) The failure to file a memorandum may be
construed by the court as an admission the motion “is not meritorious and cause
for its denial.” (Id. at subd. (a).)
 
Based on the foregoing and Petitioner not having demonstrated
Respondent erred, the petition is denied. 
 
IT
IS SO ORDERED.
 
October 25, 2023                                                                  ________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon. Mitchell
Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge of the
Superior Court


