  Case Number:  19SMCV01908    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Stiffelman et al.
v. Rubin et al., Case No. 19SMCV01908
Hearing Date September
26, 2023 
Defendant Joseph
Rubin’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
Stiffleman’s
Motion to Compel further Responses to Special Interrogatories and Requests for
Production of Documents from Stuart Rubin
 
Plaintiff
Stiffelman and defendant Stuart Rubin had an agreement to develop a hotel. Stuart
Rubin hired his son Joseph Rubin to oversee the project. Plaintiff alleges
Joseph assisted his father Stuart in a conspiracy to misappropriate project
funds. The court will refer to the Rubin defendants by their first names to
distinguish the parties. 
 
Defendant Joseph
Rubin’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
Joseph moves for
judgment on the pleadings, arguing the first amended complaint includes no
specific allegations against him, and its allegations contradict Stiffelman’s sworn
testimony during a May 2021 arbitration hearing regarding Joseph’s role in the
project. 
 
Arbitration
Testimony
There is a split
in authority regarding whether it is appropriate for a court to judicially
notice the truth of sworn testimony made in a separate case. In Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, the Second
District held judgment on the pleadings is proper when allegations in the
pleading are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts, include “inconsistent
statements . . . contained in depositions.” Id. at 604-5. Later, the Second
District held deposition statements can be judicially noticed, but the truth or
falsity of those statements is not subject to judicial notice. Garcia v.
Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 22. Garcia held on demurrer or
motion for summary judgment, a court cannot conclude any part of a pleading is
“false based upon [the pleading party’s] allegedly conflicting deposition
testimony.” Id.
 
The court applies
the more recent Garcia precedent. Since it is not an order, statement of
decision or judgment, the court will judicially notice the existence of Stiffelman’s
sworn testimony in the arbitration hearing, but not the truth of the matters
contained therein. In that matter, Stiffelman testified Joseph was his father’s
assistant or “bird dog,” responsible for dealing with contractors, designers
and serving as Stuart’s “eyes and ears.” Request for judicial notice exhibit B.

 
Stiffelman argues
this contradicts allegations in the FAC that Joseph was hired to oversee the
entire project. The truth of this testimony is not judicially noticeable, so
cannot be a basis for granting judgment on the pleadings. Additionally, the
testimony does not necessarily contradict the FAC’s allegations. Stiffelman’s
testimony that Joseph’s role was to deal with contractors and designers,
serving as his father’s “eyes and ears,” may be consistent with Stiffelman’s
allegation in the FAC that Joseph helped oversee the project. Even if the court
were to accept the truth of the arbitration testimony, it is not sufficiently
contradictory of the FAC to serve as a basis for sustaining Joseph’s motion.
 
To the extent the
motion for judgment on the pleadings is based on alleged contradictions between
Stiffelman’s arbitration testimony and the allegations in the FACC, it fails.
The court will address the other arguments. 
 
Fraud and
Negligent Misrepresentation Claims (First, Second, Seventh & Eighth Causes
of Action) 
All causes of
action for fraud must be pleaded with specificity, meaning they must include
facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered. Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73. 
 
Stiffelman’s claims
for fraud in the inducement and fraud identify misrepresentations Joseph
allegedly made regarding his qualifications and the project’s progress, and
facts regarding his father’s self-dealing and the project budget he allegedly concealed.
FAC ¶¶52, 53. Joseph argues these claims are not alleged with adequate
specificity. The FAC does not allege how, when, or where Joseph is alleged to
have made the misrepresentations. As to concealment, the FAC does not allege
Joseph’s duty of disclosure to Stiffelman, nor does it specify the means by
which Joseph allegedly concealed relevant facts. The causes of action fail for
insufficient specificity. 
 
Joseph argues the
causes of action for negligent misrepresentation are similarly deficient. A
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation must be pleaded with the same
level of specificity as a claim for intentional fraud. Foster v. Sexton (2021)
61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1028. Because the FAC’s negligent misrepresentation claim
is based on the same allegations as the fraudulent inducement claim, it
likewise fails for lack of particularity. GRANTED with ten days leave to amend.

 
Conversion 
The elements of
conversion are (1) plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal
property, (2) defendant’s disposition of property in a manner inconsistent with
plaintiff’s property rights, and (3) damages. Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7
Cal.5th 1141, 1150. Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for
conversion unless the claim involves a specific, identifiable sum.
 
Joseph argues the
FAC does not clearly distinguish between acts allegedly done by Joseph and those
by Stuart. The FAC states “Rubin and Joseph misappropriated Glenroy Coachella
funds for uses unrelated to the project, including to pay for their lavish
lifestyles and exotic vacations[.]” FAC ¶75. This is a sufficient allegation of
misappropriation against both defendants to survive a motion for judgment on
the pleadings. 
 
Joseph argues the
conversion claim does not identify a specific sum. As a claim for conversion of
money, Stiffelman must allege a specific, identifiable sum allegedly converted.
GRANTED with ten days leave to amend. 
 
Negligence 
A cause of action
for negligence requires a plaintiff to allege “existence of a duty to use due
care toward an interest of another that enjoys legal protection against
unintentional invasion.” Los Angeles Mem’l. Coliseum Com. V. Insomniac, Inc.
(2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 830. Under the economic loss rule, there is
generally no liability in negligence for purely economic losses with no
accompanying personal injury or property damage. Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 920. 
 
Joseph argues
Stiffelman does not adequately allege a duty of care. The FAC sets forth the
generalized duty to use reasonable care to avoid injuring others. FAC ¶88. However,
the FAC claims only economic injury, not physical injury or property damage, due
to Joseph’s alleged negligence. The negligence claim is barred under the
economic loss rule. GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 
Unjust Enrichment 
A claim for unjust
enrichment requires a plaintiff to allege defendant received a benefit and
unjustly retained it at the expense of another. Lectrodryer v. SeoulBank (2000)
77 Cal.App.4th 723, 726. 
 
Joseph argues the
unjust enrichment claim fails because it does not allege wrongful conduct. The
FAC alleges only that Joseph unjustly enriched himself by “taking a salary from
funds raised for the Project.” FAC ¶148. This is insufficient to set forth a
claim for unjust enrichment – it is not inherently “unjust” or wrong to take
and retain a salary for work performed on a construction project, even if the
work performed was negligent or otherwise deficient. GRANTED with ten days
leave to amend. 
 
Declaratory Relief
for Equity and Contribution 
A cause of action
for equitable indemnity does not accrue or come into existence “until the
indemnitee has suffered actual loss through payment.” U.S. Cold Storage v.
Matson Navigation Co. (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 1228, 1231. 
 
Joseph argues the
cause of action for indemnity and contribution does not allege Stiffelman
suffered “actual loss through payment.” The FAC states indemnity is appropriate
because “Stiffelman risks liability to third parties in connection with Glenroy
and the Guarantees.” FAC ¶183. A “risk” of future liability without actual
payment to third parties is insufficient to support an indemnity claim. GRANTED
with ten days leave to amend. 
 
Stiffleman’s Motion
to Compel further Responses to Special Interrogatories and Requests for
Production of Documents from Stuart Rubin
On June 23, 2023
the court granted Stiffelman’s motion to compel further responses to discovery
requests, ordering defendant Stuart to supplement responses to special
interrogatory no. 20 and RFP no. 15. On June 28, 2023 Stuart served
supplemental responses. On July 11, 2023, the court ordered amendments of the
June 28 responses, with a decision regarding sanctions to be deferred. Stiffelman
alleges Stuart still failed to produce an adequate response to Special
Interrogatory No. 20 and RFP No. 15, violating the court’s June 23 and July 11
orders and requests sanctions of $5,465.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 20
The court ordered Stuart
to produce financial records for Glenroy Coachella Holdings, LLC. He has not.
On July 10, 2023 Rubin’s counsel sent Stiffelman’s counsel an email stating
“Stuart does not have any of these records anymore . . . he cannot produce
something he does not have[.]” Motion, exh. B. Stuart is not required to
produce documents he does not have, but to comply with his discovery
obligations, he must supplement his response with a sworn statement that he
performed a diligent search but was unable to locate the records requested.
 
Request for
Production of Documents No. 15 
This request asked
for production of all documents referencing “Lighthouse.” On September 7, 2023 Stuart
served a supplemental response stating he had “conducted a diligent search and
a reasonable inquiry and will produce all non-privileged responsive documents
in his possession, custody, or control on a rolling basis.” Laquer decl., exh.
F. Laquer states Rubin has not done so. Laquer decl., ¶¶11-12.
 
The failure to
timely produce all documents referencing “Lighthouse,” despite the court twice
ordering him to do so, constitutes abuse of the discovery process. Stiffelman’s
request for $5,465 in sanctions is excessive. Stuart responded adequately to
the vast majority of Stiffelman’s discovery requests, attempted to supplement
inadequate responses and has remained in communication with Stiffelman’s
counsel throughout. Considering these mitigating factors, the sanctions will be
ordered in the amount of $1,000 as a recognition of the failures to comply and
necessity of this motion. 
 
Stuart is to
produce all documents referencing “Lighthouse” within ten days. If he is unable
to locate any responsive documents, he is to provide a declaration that he was
unable to locate any responsive documents following a diligent search.
Stiffelman is awarded $1,000 in discovery sanctions payable within 30 days from
Stuart Rubin. 