

Hearing Date:             July
15, 2024
Case Name:                Cristine Yem v. Flor Mora,
et al. 
Case No.:                    23STCV15639
Motion:                       Motion
to Disqualify Counsel   
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Cristine Yem 
Responding
Party:      Defendant Flor Mora, and
Defendants and Cross-Complainants Spring River Palliative Care, Inc. and Ocean
Breeze Hospice & Palliative Care, Corp.   
 

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion to Disqualify the Law Offices of Robert E. Williams and Mr. Williams as
Counsel for Defendants Spring River Palliative Care, Inc. and Ocean Breeze
Hospice & Palliative Care, Corp. is granted.  
 

 
Background
 
This action arises from the alleged wrongful
termination of Plaintiff Cristine Yem (“Plaintiff”) as well as alleged wrongful
actions pertaining to the management of three corporate entities. On July 5,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendants Flor Mora (“Mora”), Spring
River Palliative Care, Inc. (“Spring River”), Ocean Breeze Hospice &
Palliative Care, Corp. (“Ocean Breeze”), Genesis Health Services, Inc.
(“Genesis”), and Does 1 through 100, inclusive, alleging causes of action for:
(1) Retaliation in Violation of Lab. Code § 1102.5; (2) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy; (3) Involuntary Dissolution; (4) Involuntary
Dissolution; (5) Involuntary Dissolution; (6) Appointment of a Receiver; (7)
Accounting; (8) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (9) Misappropriation and Diversion of
Corporate Funds; (10) Misappropriation of Corporate Opportunities; (11) Unjust
Enrichment/Quasi Contract; (12) Declaratory Relief; (13) Violation of Labor
Code section 2802 et seq.; (14) Constructive Trust; and (15) Unfair
Competition. 
 
This motion concerns legal
representation with respect to two of the entities: Spring River and Ocean
Breeze.
 
The Complaint alleges, in part, the
following: Plaintiff has been in the healthcare industry for over 20 years.
(Complaint, ¶ 10.) In or about 2021, Plaintiff founded Defendant Spring River
and Defendant Mora wanted to own 50 percent of such entity. (Complaint, ¶ 12.)
A “deal was worked out” and, in addition to being an owner, each was an
employee of the entity. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) In 2022, Plaintiff and Defendant
Mora decided to co-own Defendant Ocean Breeze and, in addition to being an
owner, each was an employee of the entity. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) The Complaint and
Plaintiff’s moving papers do not specify the respective percentage ownership
interests of either Plaintiff Yem or Defendant Mora.  In 2023, Plaintiff and Defendant Mora began
having disputes about each other. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant Mora was engaged in illegal conduct. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Defendant
Mora terminated Plaintiff from her positions with the entities and began diverting
funds and assets from the entities to deprive Plaintiff of the funds to which
she was entitled. (Complaint, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff and Defendant Mora are the only
two owners of Defendants Spring River and Ocean Breeze and they are each the
two directors of such entities. (Complaint, ¶ 25.) Defendant Mora has a
fiduciary duty to Plaintiff including as a minority shareholder. (Complaint, ¶
26.) Apart from other relief, Plaintiff moves for the involuntary dissolution
of Defendants Spring River and Ocean Breeze due to the internal dissention
between Plaintiff and Defendant Mora. (Complaint, ¶¶ 45-50.) 
 
After the Complaint was filed, each
of the defendants filed respective Answers. On September 13, 2023, entity Defendants
Spring River, Ocean Breeze, and Genesis filed a Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiff and North River Palliative Care Consulting LLC, alleging 10 causes of
action for, including but not limited to, damages for conversion, breach of
fiduciary duty, and “treble damages.” 
 
On October 23, 2023, a Substitution
of Attorney was filed indicating that Matthew English was no longer
representing Defendant Mora and that Robert E. Williams was the new counsel for
Defendant Mora. 
 
On February 16, 2024, Substitution of
Attorney forms were filed as to Defendants Spring River and Ocean Breeze, which
indicated that Robert E. Williams was their new counsel replacing Jeremy J.
Alberts. 
 
On March 28, 2024, after hearing oral
argument, the Court granted the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel filed by Jeremy
J. Alberts of BWA Law Group APC as to Defendant Genesis. (03/28/24 Minute
Order.) 
 
On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff Yem filed
and served the instant Motion to Disqualify the Law Offices of Robert E.
Williams and Mr. Williams as Counsel for Defendants Spring River and Ocean
Breeze. The motion is made on the grounds that Defendant Mora’s counsel cannot also
represent Defendants Spring River and Ocean Breeze when there is a dispute
between the owners of those entities. 
 
On June 20, 2024, Defendants Mora,
Spring River, and Ocean Breeze filed an opposition to the motion to disqualify,
to which Plaintiff replied on July 8, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
“The issue of disqualification
‘ultimately involves a conflict between the clients’ right to counsel of their
choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of professional
responsibility. The paramount concern, though, must be the preservation of
public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the
bar. The recognized and important right to counsel of one’s choosing must yield
to considerations of ethics that run to the very integrity of our judicial
process.’” (Forrest v. Baeza (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 65, 73.) “[A]n
attorney representing a corporation may also represent any of its officers,
directors, employees, members, shareholders, or other constituents.” (Gong
v. RFG Oil, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 209, 215.) “[W]here the same
attorney represents potentially conflicting parties, the primary interest at
stake is the attorney’s duty of loyalty.” (Id. at p. 214.) 
 
As an attorney for a corporation,
“counsel’s first duty is to [the corporation].” (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc.
v. Tracinda Corp. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1842.) “Corporate counsel
should of course, refrain from taking part in any controversies or factional
differences among shareholders as to control of the corporation, so that he or
she can advise the corporation without bias or prejudice.” (Ibid.)
“[C]orporate counsel’s direct duty is to the client corporation, not to the
shareholders individually, even though the legal advice rendered to the
corporation may affect the shareholders.” (Ibid.) “Conflicts of interest
between a corporation and its officers, directors and shareholders are
particularly problematic for corporate counsel where . . . the corporation is a
closely held one, with few shareholders.” (La Jolla Cove Motel & Hotel
Apartments, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 773, 785.) “[O]nce
a conflict has arisen between a corporation and one or more of its officers,
directors or shareholders, corporate counsel may not simultaneously
represent the corporation and the adverse officer, director, or shareholder.” (Ibid.,
emphasis added.) 
 
Accordingly, “where a shareholder has
filed an action questioning its management or the actions of individual
officers or directors, such as in a shareholder derivative or . . . [a]
dissolution action, corporate counsel cannot represent both the corporation and
the officers, directors or shareholders with which the corporation has a
conflict of interest.” (Id. at p. 785-86.) 
 
Discussion
 
            Evidence
in Support of the Motion 
 
While Plaintiff Yem and Defendant
Mora both claim ownership rights in three entities – Spring River, Ocean
Breeze, and Genesis – they appear to dispute the percentage share. No documents
that might shed light on this dispute appear to exist. Plaintiff argues that
the only two owners of Defendant Spring River are herself and Defendant Mora;
however, Defendant Mora argues that Kevin Romana owns 15% of the company. As to
Defendant Ocean Breeze, Plaintiff argues that she owns 40% of the company and
Defendant Mora owns 50% while Defendant Mora’s niece owns 10%. (Wagner Decl., ¶
2(e).) Yem’s attorney Wagner states that Defendant Mora argues otherwise, but
does not clarify what that means or offer any evidence on the point. Wagner
also declares that Yem, Mora, and a Marc Molina own Genesis, but does not
indicate what the ownership shares are. 
He states that Molina is suing Genesis and there is a dispute over the
composition of its board.
 
In 2023, Plaintiff and Defendant Mora
started having disputes and accused the other of wrongdoing and hurting the
company and, after no resolution could be reached, Plaintiff thereafter filed
this lawsuit against Defendants. (Wagner Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Eventually, Defendant
Mora hired BWA Law (“BWA”) to represent all three corporate defendants and then
she hired Mr. Williams and his firm to represent herself, individually. (Wagner
Decl., ¶ 4.) In September 2023, BWA, on behalf of Defendants Genesis, Spring
River, and Ocean Breeze filed the Cross-Complaint. (Wagner Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
Mr. Wagner also describes the claims
alleged in the Complaint; the procedural history prior to the filing of the
Cross-Complaint including the fact that the filing of the Cross-Complaint was
not discussed with Plaintiff or approved by Plaintiff; and, the allegations of
the Cross-Complaint. (Wagner Decl., ¶¶ 7-9.) Wagner states without foundation
that Defendant Mora was independently pushing for vengeance with the filing of
the Cross-Complaint. (Wagner Decl., ¶ 12; Ex. F.) Mr. Wagner then sets forth
instances of Defendant Mora reaching out to corporate counsel, BWA, to
represent her in the instant action. (Wagner Decl., ¶¶ 13-14; Exs. G-I.) In
February 2024, Defendant Mora unilaterally terminated BWA and that is when Mr.
Williams, who is Defendant Mora’s personal counsel, was substituted in as
counsel for Defendants Spring River and Ocean Breeze. (Wagner Decl., ¶ 16; Ex.
K.) 
 
In support of the reply brief, Mr.
Wagner declares that the Court permitted BWA to leave the case as it concerns
Defendant Genesis. (Wagner Reply Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff presents evidence that
she was an officer and director of Defendant Ocean Breeze. (Wagner Reply Decl.,
¶ 4; Ex. A.) 
 
In a terse and unilluminating
declaration accompanying the reply, Plaintiff Yem states that she has no
interest in Defendants Spring River or Ocean Breeze being defaulted and/or
bankrupted as she would lose her money/interest. (Yem Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff
attests to being the owner of Defendant Ocean Breeze and states that she has “always”
had an ownership interest in it. (Yem Decl., ¶ 3.) Yem does not say what that
ownership interest is.
 
 
 
Evidence in Opposition to the Motion
 
Vague and unsatisfactory as
Plaintiff’s evidence is, it is substantial compared to Defendant Mora’s
submission. In opposition to the disqualification motion, Defendant offers no legal
authority and no evidence whatsoever.  Defendant Mora submitted no declaration.  Attorney Williams’s declaration fails to
support the assertions in the opposition. He merely claims with little detail that
he has attempted to secure documentation of the corporate proceedings of
Defendant Ocean Breeze from Defendant Mora and the website of the California
Secretary of State. (Williams Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. A.) All of the documents
presented as Exhibit A are unsigned. Moreover, Exhibit B has not been
authenticated as it is not referenced in Williams’s declaration. Defendant’s opposition
to the motion is risible.
 
Appropriateness of Disqualification
 
Defendant Mora argues in the
opposition to the motion that Plaintiff is not a shareholder of Ocean Breeze
and therefore lacks standing to bring the motion on behalf of Defendant Ocean
Breeze. First, Mora has offered no evidence at all about the ownership of Ocean
Breeze. Williams’s declaration lacks foundation, is based entirely on hearsay,
and is wholly self-serving. Second, the disqualification motion is not brought
on behalf of Ocean Breeze but rather is brought by Plaintiff. 
 
Mora also appears to argue that there
is no actual conflict warranting disqualification and that the motion is
concerned with BWA’s representation of Defendants Spring River and Ocean Breeze.
The acts of BWA in representing Defendants Spring River and Ocean Breeze have
no bearing on whether the instant motion should be granted, the Court does find
that Mr. Williams and his firm are disqualified from representing Defendants
Spring River and Ocean Breeze. 
 
Plaintiff’s suit is against
Defendants Mora, Spring River, and Ocean Breeze. Moreover, Defendants Spring
River and Ocean Breeze have filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff. There is
an issue in the instant action as to the ownership and control of the two
entities. As such, Mr. Williams and his firm should “refrain from taking part
in any controversies or factional differences among shareholders as to control
of the corporation.” (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp., supra, 36
Cal.App.4th 1832, 1842.) 
 
Additionally, given that Plaintiff
has alleged that Defendant Mora diverted assets of Defendants Spring River and
Ocean Breeze and Plaintiff also seeks to involuntary dissolve Defendants Spring
River and Ocean Breeze, the Court finds that the interests of Defendant Mora on
one hand and that of Defendants Spring River and Ocean Breeze diverge. (See Gong,
supra, 166 Cal.App.4th 209, 216 [holding that where dissolution of a
corporation was sought, the interests of the shareholder and corporation diverged,
and disqualification was appropriate].) Moreover, as was the case in Gong,
supra, 166 Cal.App.4th 209, 216, there is a concern here that Defendant
Mora is using Defendants Spring River and Ocean Breeze “as a pawn in [her]
dispute” with Plaintiff. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s counsel has attested to the
Cross-Complaint being filed in the name of Defendants Ocean Breeze and Spring
River as an act of personal vengeance. (Wagner Decl., ¶ 12; Ex. F.) Accordingly,
based on a review of the pleadings, an actual conflict exists. (Gong, supra,
166 Cal.App.4th 209, 215 [a court reviews the pleadings to determine whether
the interests of an owner/shareholder and corporation diverge].) 
 
As such, the Court finds that the Law
Offices of Robert E. Williams and Mr. Robert Williams, who is counsel for
Defendant Mora, is disqualified from representing Defendants Spring River and
Ocean Breeze in this action. 
 
Conclusion
 
The motion for disqualification is granted. 

 
 