

Hearing Date:             July
15, 2024
Case Name:                Jose Meza Torres v. CBW Doors
Inc., et al. 
Case No.:                    23STCV31555
Motion:                       OSC
re: Entry of Default Judgment    
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Jose Meza
Torres   
Responding
Party:      Unopposed   
 

Tentative Ruling:      Plaintiff’s
Default Judgment Application is denied without prejudice.  
 
                                     

 
Background
 
This is an action arising from
alleged wrongful actions taken against Plaintiff Jose Meza Torres (“Plaintiff”)
pertaining to his employment with Defendant CBW Doors, Inc. (“Defendant”). On
December 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant and Does 1
through 100, inclusive, alleging 10 causes of action for, among other causes of
action, failure to accommodate, failure to pay wages, and waiting time
penalties. 
 
On April 18, 2024, default was
entered against Defendant.  
 
On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
default judgment application in which Plaintiff seeks the entry of default
judgment against Defendant. Also, on such date, Does 1 to 100 were dismissed
from this action without prejudice. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1800 sets forth the requirements for default judgments. In
pertinent part, the rule dictates that a party must use form CIV-100 and file
the following documents with the clerk: (1) except in unlawful detainer cases,
a brief summary of the case identifying the parties and the nature of
plaintiff's claim; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in support of
the judgment requested; (3)¿interest computations as necessary; (4) a
memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5)¿a declaration of nonmilitary status
for each defendant against whom judgment is sought; (6) a proposed form of
judgment; (7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or
an application for separate judgment against specified parties under Code of
Civil Procedure section 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each
judgment; (8)¿exhibits as necessary; and (9)¿a request for attorney fees if
allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1800(a)(1)-(9).) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks default judgment
against Defendant. 
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff has
failed to meet the requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1800 in order to obtain entry of default judgment against Defendant.
Plaintiff has failed to file a Request for Court Judgment form (CIV-100). Plaintiff
has also failed to substantiate the requested damages of $183,190.00 as no
exhibits are attached to the declaration of Plaintiff. In fact, no exhibits were
filed in support of the default judgment application. Additionally, Plaintiff
has not provided a signed memorandum of costs and disbursements although
Plaintiff is seeking costs. Moreover, the Court notes that there was no proof
of service filed showing that Defendant was served with the default judgment
application or Plaintiff’s notice of intent to obtain punitive damages. As
such, Plaintiff’s default judgment application is deficient.  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s default judgment application is
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 

 
 
 