  Case Number:  22AHCV00963    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PERLA MAGENO, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
PEI WEI
   ASIAN DINER, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00963
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT’S ANSWER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   28, 2024




 


)


 



 
On October 31, 2022, plaintiff Perla
Mageno (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Pei Wei Asian Diner,
LLC (“Defendant”) alleging violations of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. On August
7, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to strike Defendant’s answer. 
“[A[ corporation, unlike a natural
person, cannot represent itself before courts of record in propria persona, nor
can it represent itself through a corporate officer, director or other employee
who is not an attorney. It must be represented by licensed counsel in
proceedings before courts of record.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San
Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.) 
On September 12, 2024, the Court signed
an order granting defense counsel’s motion to be relieved, to be effective upon
the filing of the proof of service of the signed order upon Defendant, and
continued the hearing on this motion to strike to October 10, 2024, in order to
give defense counsel enough time to serve the order on Defendant and file a
proof of service. 
However, at the hearing on October 10,
2024, not only were there no appearances by Defendant or defense counsel, but there
was no proof of service on file showing service of the signed order to be
relieved on Defendant. Therefore, the hearing on this motion to strike was
continued to October 28, 2024, and the Court set an OSC re: sanctions for
defense counsel’s failure to serve Defendant with the order relieving counsel
as ordered. 
Plaintiff, at Plaintiff’s counsel’s
suggestion, was ordered to give notice of the Court’s rulings and file an ex
parte application with a revised order to relieve defense counsel including the
continued hearing date for this motion to strike. 
Plaintiff filed an ex parte application
the same day requesting revisions to the signed order with the new hearing date
of October 28, 2024. On October 14, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex
parte application and signed the revised proposed order submitted by Plaintiff’s
counsel. 
The next day, on October 15, 2024, a
notice of ruling was filed by defense counsel. This notice of ruling did not attach
the most recent proposed order or identify the upcoming hearing date on the
motion to strike. Instead, the notice of ruling included a copy of the order
signed on September 12, 2024, which was no longer accurate because it stated
that the hearing date on this motion to strike was October 10, 2024. The notice
of ruling did not explain why defense counsel did not previously serve the
order. Since defense counsel has now been relieved, and the answer is going to be
stricken, the OSC re sanctions is taken off calendar. 
Approximately six hours after
Defendant’s notice of ruling was filed, Plaintiff filed a proof of service
showing that the most recent, revised signed order was served on Defendant by
mail through its agent for service of process. Therefore, thanks to Plaintiff’s
diligence, defense counsel was finally relieved from its representation of
Defendant. 
Since Defendant did not oppose this
motion to strike by showing that it intends to retain counsel in the near
future, Plaintiff’s motion to strike is GRANTED. 
Dated
this 28th
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 