  Case Number:  20STCV33557    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for Plaintiff Suzanne Green.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On September 2, 2020, Suzanne Green (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence arising out of an automobile accident on
Alvarado Street in Los Angeles, California on December 19, 2019.
 
Defendant filed its answer on October 15, 2020. 
 
The parties alerted the Court that this matter had
settled during a status conference on July 18, 2024.
 
On June 28, 2024, Matthew Green (“Petitioner”) filed this
motion to be substituted as Plaintiff’s successor in interest. No opposition
has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause
of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an
action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none,
by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) 
After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a
pending action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor-in-interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s
successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that
includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death;
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s
estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor
in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other
person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that
the statements are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)  The affidavit or declaration must attach a
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Plaintiff died on October 9, 2023. Plaintiff’s
surviving son, Matthew Green, filed this motion to be substituted as Plaintiff’s
successor in interest.
The Declaration
of Matthew Green includes:
(1) the decedent’s name, Suzanne Green;
(2) the date and place of Plaintiff’s death,
October 9, 2023 in Whittier, California;
(3) that there is no proceeding now pending in California
for the administration of Plaintiff’s estate;
(4) that he
Plaintiff’s successor in interest; 
(5) that no
other person has a superior right to be substituted in for Plaintiff;
(6) and Petitioner
declares these statements are true under penalty of perjury. 
A copy of Plaintiff’s death certificate is
attached to this motion. (Exh. A.) 
The Court finds Petitioner has satisfied the
requirements of Code of Civil procedure section 377.32.
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Petitioner’s motion
to substitute a successor in interest.
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS Petitioner’s motion to substitute a successor in interest for Plaintiff.
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.
 