 Case Number:  22STCV32280    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant to Testify and Produce Documents at Deposition
Tentative
The Court
will hear from counsel.
Background
On
October 3, 2022, Ana Maria Vasquez ("Plaintiff") filed a complaint
against Food 4 Less of California, Inc dba Food 4 Less, The Kroger
Co., and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for negligence and
premises liability arising out of an alleged slip and fall on November 3, 2020,
at a store located on Eastern Avenue in Bell Gardens.
On
November 9, 2022, Defendant Food 4 Less of California, Inc dba Food 4 Less
(“Defendant”) filed an answer to the complaint.
On May
12, 2023, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed all claims against
The Kroger Co.
As it relates to the
matter currently before the Court and set for hearing on July 25, Plaintiff
served a Fourth Notice of Taking PMK Depositions re Policies and Procedures and
Request for Production of Documents and Other Things at Time of Depositions
(the “Fourth Deposition Notice”) on March 19, 2024.  (Reyes Decl., ¶
4 & Exh. 1.)  The Fourth Deposition Notice notices the deposition
for April 9, 2024.  (Id., Exh. 1.)
The Fourth Deposition
Notice sets forth eight topics for examination.  Despite the title of
the deposition notice, only Topic No. 1. relates to policies and
procedures.  (Id., Exh 1.)  Topic No. 2 relates to
video cameras; Topics Nos. 3-6 relate to employee witnesses; Topic No. 7
relates to “substantially similar prior slip and falls” at the “subject
LOCATION”; and Topic No. 8 relates to “substantially similar prior slip and
falls” at Defendant’s “other locations that have the same surface material as
the one at the subject LOCATION.”  (Ibid.)  The term
“LOCATION” is defined to mean “the area within the [store] where Plaintiff’s
[accident] occurred.”  (Ibid.)
Defendant served
objections to the Deposition Notice.  (Id., ¶ 5 & Exh.
3.)  Counsel communicated about the objections but were unable to
resolve the disputes, and Defendant did not produce a PMQ witness or witnesses
for deposition on the noticed date.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.) 
On April 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed this motion to compel Defendant’s deposition on the topics in
the Deposition Notice.  Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions.
On April 16, just four
days after this motion was filed, Plaintiff served a Fifth Notice of Taking PMK
Depositions re Policies and Procedures and Request for Production of Documents
and Other Things at Time of Depositions (the “Fifth Deposition Notice”).  (Gorokhovsky
Decl., ¶ 6 & Exh. A.)  The Fifth Deposition Notice notices the
deposition for May 7, 2024.  (Id., Exh. A.)
The Fifth Deposition
Notice sets forth only one topic of examination; corresponding to Topic No. 2
in the Fourth Deposition Notice, the only topic in the Fifth Deposition relates
to video cameras.  (Id., Exh A.)
Defendant produced
witnesses for deposition pursuant to the Fifth Deposition Notice on May 7 and
22.  (Id., ¶ 5.)  Defendant also contends (but does
not present supporting evidence) that its witness or witnesses testified at
deposition to Topics Nos. 1-5 in the Fourth Deposition Notice.  (Opp.
at p. 4:6-8.)
Defendant filed its
opposition, and its own request for monetary sanctions, on June 7. 
Plaintiff filed her reply
on June 14.  In her reply, Plaintiff addresses only Topics Nos. 7 and
8 in the Fourth Deposition Notice.
The hearing was initially
set for 1:30 pm on June 21.  Counsel
participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) on the morning of the
hearing.  At the conclusion of the IDC (which focused on Topics Nos.
7 and 8 in the Fourth Deposition Notice), the Court advanced and continued the
hearing and directed the parties to continue to meet and confer.
The Court has not received
any further filings from the parties.
Legal Standard
“Any
party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person, including any party to the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through
2025.280 provide the requirements for (among other things) what must be
included in a deposition notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and
how and when the notice must be served. 
“The
service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
Section
2025.230 provides: “If the deponent named is not a natural person, the
deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on
which examination is requested.  In that event, the deponent shall
designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors,
managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its
behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably
available to the deponent.” 
Section
2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at
least three days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition
notice does not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through
2025.280.
Section
2025.450, subdivision (a), provides:
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or
a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
Any such
motion to compel must show good cause for the production of documents and, when
a deponent has failed to appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.”  (Id., subd. (b).) 
When a
motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d),
defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond
to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party
or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id.,
§ 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Discussion
Defendant
contends this motion is moot.  It does appear from the papers filed
with the Court that Defendant produced a PMQ witness to testify at deposition
as to certain topics on May 7 and 22, 2024, but that does not make the entire
motion moot; at least as of the morning of June 21, there appeared to be continuing
disputes as to Topics 7 and 8 in the Fourth Deposition Notice.
The
Court will hear from counsel as to whether these disputes have been resolved through
the meet and confer process following the IDC.
Conclusion
The Court will hear from counsel.