 Case Number:  20STCV43588    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice filed by Defendants
Venco Power Sweeping, Inc and Menahem Roberto Solares.
 
Tentative
The application is granted.
Background
On November 13, 2020, Carlos Rivera
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Menahem Roberto Solares and Venco Power
weeping, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”) for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence causes of action arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on June 16, 2020. Defendants filed an answer on January 20, 2021.
 
On June
5, 2024, Defendants filed the application for Stephen C. Haynes (“Mr. Haynes”)
to appear Pro Hac Vice. Plaintiff filed an opposition on June 17; Defendants
filed a reply on June 24.
 
Legal
Standard
Any
attorney licensed to practice before the bar of any United States court or the
highest court in any state, and who has been retained to appear in a particular
cause pending a court of this State, but who is not a licensee of the
California State Bar may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by submitting
his or her written application and mailing notice to all interested parties, as
well as notice and a $50.00 application fee to the State Bar Association in San
Francisco.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
9.40 (a), (c), (e).)  An applicant may
neither reside nor work in California and may not perform regular or
substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State.  (Id. at Rule 9.40 (a).)  
 
Discussion
Mr. Haynes
is an attorney barred in the State of Texas and admitted to practice in the
federal courts of the Western and Southern Districts Court of Texas.  (Haynes Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4.) He is a resident of Texas.
(Id., ¶ 1.) As to each court admitted, he is a member in good standing
and is not currently suspended or disbarred. (Id., ¶¶ 4, 5.) 
 
Mr. Haynes
provides that he has been retained by Defendant, and provides active member of
the California State Bar who is the counsel of record in this matter. (Id.,
¶ 8.)  Mr. Haynes has not applied to
appear pro hac vice in the preceding two years. (Id., ¶ 7.) William R.
Johnson attests that a copy of the application and a check for $50.00 will be
served on the State Bar of California. (Johnson Decl., ¶ 7.) 
Proof of
service includes service on the “State of California” at the state bar’s
address on Howard St. in San Francisco. 
 
Plaintiff
argues Mr. Haynes’s declaration is insufficient, including on the ground that it
does not identify any other matters in which Mr. Haynes has appeared in
California.  Defendants filed a
supplemental declaration of Mr. Haynes stating that this matter is the only one
in which he has applied to appear Pro Hac Vice in California.
 
The
Court finds that all procedural and substantive requirements are met and GRANTS
this motion to be admitted pro hac vice.
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS this motion to be
admitted pro hac vice.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 