 Case Number:  22STCV27541    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Withdraw Admissions from Court Orders Dated
January 17, 2024 and May 15, 2024 filed by Plaintiff Roy A. Hemsley.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted, subject to Plaintiff
satisfying certain conditions set forth below.
Background
This case arises out of an
incident that occurred on August 16, 2021, in which Plaintiff Roy A. Hemsley
(“Plaintiff”), at the time a 13-year-old autistic minor and middle school
student, was allegedly left unattended and allowed to run or wander five miles
from his school campus before being discovered later that day. (Complaint, ¶¶
20-30.)
On August 24, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the Complaint in this action, asserting causes of action for
negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; negligence; negligent infliction
of emotional distress; and intentional infliction of emotional distress against
Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”), County of Los Angeles
(“County”), Inclusive Education and Community Partnership, Inc. (“IECP”), Lara
Ruby, Wendy De La O, Alvin Walker, Daryl Davis, and Does 1 through 100. On
October 21, 2022, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed all claims
against County without prejudice.
On February 8, 2023, the
Court sustained in part (with leave to amend in part) and overruled in part a
demurrer and granted (with leave to amend in part) a motion to strike.
On March 8, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”), asserting causes of action for
negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; negligence; and intentional
infliction of emotional distress against the same defendants (except for County).
On May 15, 2023, the Court
sustained (with leave to amend) a demurrer to the negligent hiring, retention,
and supervision and the intentional infliction of emotional distress causes of
action and granted (with leave to amend in part) a motion to strike. Plaintiff
did not amend further.
On July 24, 2023,
Defendants LAUSD, Walker, and Davis filed their Answer to the FAC. On the same
day, LAUSD filed a Cross-Complaint against IECP and Roes 1 through 50.
On July 26, 2023,
Defendants IECP and De La O filed their Answer to the FAC. On the same day,
IECP also filed a Cross-Complaint against LAUSD and Moes 1 through 50, and an
Answer to LAUSD’s Cross-Complaint.
On August 4, 2023, LAUSD
filed an answer to IECP’s Cross-Complaint.
As is relevant to the
matter before the Court and set for hearing on July 25, IECP served Plaintiff
with Requests for Admission (“RFAs”) on August 29, 2023.  Plaintiff did not respond, and the Court
granted IECP’s motion for an order deeming Plaintiff to have admitted the truth
of the matters specified in the RFAs on January 17, 2024.
In addition, LAUSD served
Plaintiff with its own RFAs on February 20, 2024.  Again, Plaintiff did not respond.  The Court granted LAUSD’s motion for an order
deeming Plaintiff to have admitted the truth of the matters specified in the
RFAs on May 16, 2024.
On June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to withdraw
his admissions made as a result of the January 17 and May 16 court orders. IECP
and De La O filed an opposition on July 2, 2024. LAUSD also filed an opposition
on July 2. No reply has been filed.
The motion was initially set for hearing on July 16, and
was continued on the Court’s own motion to July 25.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.300 governs requests to withdraw or amend responses to requests for
admission. Section 2033.300 provides:
“(a) A party may
withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only
on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.
(b) The court may permit
withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the
admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced
in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.
(c) The court may impose
conditions on the granting of the motion that are just, including, but not
limited to, the following:
(1) An order that the
party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue additional discovery
related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended admission.
(2) An order that the
costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party withdrawing
or amending the admission.”
The Court of Appeal discussed
section 2033.300 at length in New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 1403. The Court of Appeal stated that the state “eliminates
undeserved windfalls obtain through requests for admission and furthers the
policy favoring the resolution of lawsuits on the merits.” (Id. at p.
1418.)   
Although the court has
discretion in ruling on a motion brought under section 2033.300, that
discretion “is not unlimited” and “must be exercised in
conformity with the spirit of the law and in a manner that serves the interests
of justice.” (Id., at p. 1420.)
“Because the law strongly
favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section
2033.300 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. Accordingly,
the court’s discretion to deny a motion under the statute is limited to circumstances
where it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable,
or where it is clear that the withdrawal or amendment would substantially
prejudice the party who obtained the admission in maintaining that party's
action or defense on the merits.” 
(Id. at pp. 1420-1421.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff seeks an order withdrawing the admissions that
he was deemed to have made in this Court’s orders of January 17, 2024 and May 16,
2024. 
Plaintiff’s primary argument is that these two court orders
were made erroneously.  According to
Plaintiff: (1) he served unverified responses to the both sets of RFAs before
the hearings on the motions for the deemed-admitted orders; (2) the unverified
responses should be treated as “proposed responses” within the meaning of Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c); and (3) because Plaintiff
served “proposed responses” before the hearings, the Court should have denied
the motions for deemed-admitted orders, rather than granting the motions.
The Court perceives at least two difficulties with this argument,
one procedural and the other substantive.
First, procedurally, the Court made its orders.  Right or wrong, these are the orders of the
Court.  Plaintiff could have brought a
motion for reconsideration, but he did not do so.  A motion to withdraw admissions must be based
on the “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect of the party making the
admission, not an alleged mistaken of the Court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.300, subd. (b).)  
(It is true, of course, that the Court has the inherent
power, sua sponte, to correct a mistake in a pre-trial order.  But that is not at all the same thing as
saying that a party, at any time, may bring a motion to correct a mistaken
pre-trial order; a party may bring a motion for reconsideration, but that is
subject to various procedural requirements, including time limitations.)
Second, and substantively, Plaintiff’s argument is
inconsistent with the limited caselaw that exists.  The Court of Appeal considered this very
issue in Allen-Pacific, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1546,
1550-1551 (disapproved on other grounds in Wilcox v. Birtwhistle (1999)
21 Cal.4th 973, 983), and concluded that a trial court has no discretion to
deny a motion for a deemed-admitted order where, as here, all that the
responding party has served, prior to the hearing, is an unverified
response.  This portion of the Allen-Pacific
ruling was cited favorably in St. Mary v. Superior Court  (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 779-800 and is
also cited in a leading treatise.  (2
Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (2024)
¶ 8:1374.1a.)
Accordingly, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s argument that
the motion should be granted based on Plaintiff’s assertions of error with
regard to the January 17 and May 16 orders.
Nonetheless, Plaintiff has submitted evidence in the
record that demonstrates that Plaintiff’s admissions were “the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.300, subd. (b).)  The deemed-admitted orders by the Court were
made based on the actual but mistaken belief of Plaintiff’s counsel that unverified
responses served before the hearing would be sufficient to defeat the motions.  The Court disagrees with the legal analysis
of Plaintiff’s counsel, but the issue is not free from doubt, and Plaintiff’s
arguments regarding the term “proposed response” in the statute – although ultimately
unsuccessful – are reasonable ones in an area of law that is unsettled.  In this somewhat unusual circumstance, the
Court finds that the admissions were the result of Plaintiff’s mistake (a
mistake of law), which provides a basis for the requested relief.
Turning to the issue of prejudice, the Court finds
that Defendants would not be unfairly or substantially prejudiced from the granting
of the requested relief.  Defendants received
unverified responses from Plaintiff, which of course are not legally valid, but
as a practical matter these responses put Defendants on notice regarding Plaintiff’s
factual contentions.  Losing the benefit
of what would otherwise appear to be an undeserved windfall – and, as a result,
having to incur costs to try the case on the merits –is not in itself
substantial prejudice within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300,
subdivision (b).  
IECP argues in passing in its opposition that it
incurred fees and costs in connection with its motion for summary judgment that
would otherwise have not been incurred if Plaintiff had provided timely
verified responses to the RFAs.  (Opp. at
10.)  IECP presents no supporting
evidence, however, and so its apparent request for conditions in connection
with the granting of the relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300,
subdivision (c), is denied without prejudice. 
IECP and LAUSD are not precluded by this order from subsequently filing
a motion to seek conditions or other relief under subdivision (c).  
Finally, the Court notes that the evidence in the
record shows that the responses prepared by Plaintiff to the RFAs propounded by
both IECP and LAUSD include objections. 
This is improper.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) 
Accordingly, as a pre-condition to obtaining the relief set forth in
this ruling, the Court ORDERS that Plaintiff must serve verified and code-compliant
responses to the RFAs of IECP and LAUSD, without objections, by no later than
August 9, 2024.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to withdraw his admissions made
as a result of the January 17 and May 16 court orders. 
The withdrawal is CONDITIONED upon Plaintiff’s serving verified and code-compliant
responses to the RFAs of IECP and LAUSD, without objections, by no later than
August 9, 2024.  If Plaintiff fails to
meet this condition, then the relief set forth in this order will not apply,
and the admissions will not be withdrawn.
Moving party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 