 Case Number:  23NWCV01116    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  C Bobby Contreras, et al. vs
Vicente Arbogust, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01116
Hearing Date: July 30, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#4
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Vicente Arbogast’s Motion to Strike
is DENIED in part and GRANTED in part with 20 days leave to amend.  
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is a personal injury action arising from a car crash
that occurred on May 31, 2021.  The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs Bobby Contreras, Brittney Contreras, and
Angela Silva were traveling southbound on Bellflower Boulevard when their
vehicle was struck by a vehicle driven by Defendant Vicente Arbogast (erroneously
sued as Vicente Arbogust) who was traveling northbound on the same street.  The Complaint alleges Defendant was driving
under the influence of alcohol and suddenly swerved into oncoming traffic,
striking Plaintiffs’ vehicle.  Plaintiffs
sustained serious injuries and losses. 
Plaintiffs assert causes of action for Negligence and Negligence Per Se.

Defendant moves to strike the language in the complaint
which alleges that he drove under the influence of alcohol and he was arrested
for driving under the influence of alcohol. 
Defendant also moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages.
Legal Standard 
Upon motion, or at any time in its own discretion, a court
may grant a motion to strike any of the following material: (1) irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) all or any part of
any pleading not drawn in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule,
or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §436.) These provisions also
authorize “the striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its form or in
the procedures pursuant to which it was filed.” (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi,
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528, emphasis in original.)
Discussion 
Punitive
Damages
 
“The
act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of
“malice” under section 3294 [punitive damages] if performed under circumstances
which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892.) 
However, not every act of driving under the influence of alcohol is
sufficient to warrant punitive damages. 
“The risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is
certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable.” (Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89.  
 
Here, the Complaint
alleges in pertinent part:  
“Defendant
VICENTE ARBOGUST was under the influence of alcohol at the time of THE CRASH.
Defendant Arbogust was then arrested by authorities for driving under the
influence. Defendant Arbogust's conduct was despicable and was done with a
willful and knowing disregard of the safety of others (here, Plaintiffs).
Defendant knew or should have known that operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol could have dangerous consequences in which defendant
deliberately failed to avoid those consequences when he intentionally operated
a vehicle while being intoxicated. Defendant Arbogust acted with malice and
oppression.” (Complaint, ¶ 16.) 
The Complaint is devoid
of any facts tending to establish that Defendant drove with malice.  In Dawes, the court determined that
punitive damages were properly sought where plaintiff alleged Defendant failed
to stop at a stop sign, was zigzagging in and out of traffic, was travelling in
excess of 65 miles per hour in a 35 mile per hour zone and lied to police
following the accident.  Nothing along
these lines is alleged here.  Plaintiffs indicate
that “Defendant had two prior DUIs and currently has his driver’s license
suspended.” (Opp., p. 2.)  However, this
is not alleged in the Complaint itself.  Allegations
concerning a Defendant being under the influence are not sufficient to state a
claim for punitive damages. If it were, it would essentially mean anyone
driving under the influence would be subject to punitive damages.  The law does not compel such an outcome.  
 
Accordingly, the motion
to strike the prayer for punitive damages is GRANTED with 20 days leave to
amend.  
 
Allegations that Defendant Drove Under the
Influence of Alcohol
Defendant also moves to strike portions of the complaint
which allege Defendant drove under the influence of alcohol and was arrested
for driving under the influence of alcohol. 
Defendant does not explain why these portions of the complaint should be
stricken, and Plaintiff does not explain why they are proper.  Because Defendant carries the burden of
demonstrating improprieties in the complaint, the remaining portions of the
complaint shall remain.
Accordingly, the motion to strike language pertaining to
Defendant driving under the influence of alcohol is DENIED.  