  Case Number:  23STCV01271    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



RIVIERA
  PROPERTY GROUP, LLC 
                           
         vs.
 
SOUTHLAND
  BUILDING & REMODEL, INC. 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  23STCV01271
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 16, 2025



 
Keith Sidlo’s motion for an order substituting him in the place of
Riviera Property Group, LLC as the plaintiff in this action is GRANTED.
 
On 1/19/2023, Plaintiff Riviera Property Group, LLC (Plaintiff)
initiated this action against Southland Building & Remodel, Inc., Superior
Moulding, Inc., Roberto Castaneda, Fleetwood Aluminum Products, Inc., My Town
Building & Remodeling, Inc., Valenzuela Drywall ,Inc., Zepeda  General Building, LLC, Juan Zepeda, and
Lloyd’s of London, alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) equitable indemnity;
(3) breach of contract; (4) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing; (5) declaratory relief; and (6) bad faith.
 
On 10/31/2024, Keith Sidlo moved the Court for order substituting
him in the place of Riviera Property Group, LLC as the plaintiff in this action.
 
The motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion

 
Keith Sidlo seeks a Court for order substituting him in the place
of Riviera Property Group, LLC as the plaintiff in this action, on the grounds
that Plaintiff Riviera Property Group LLC has assigned its interest in this
action to him. 
 
Under California law, every action must be prosecuted by the real
party in interest (CCP § 367). The court may allow the substitution of a new
plaintiff where it is determined that the named plaintiff is not the proper
party to maintain the alleged claims, provided that the amendment does not
present an entirely new set of facts and the defendant is not prejudiced. (Demetriades
v. Yelp, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal. App. 4th 294.) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff submitted evidence
to show that the original Plaintiff, Riviera Property Group, LLC, has assigned
its interest in the claim to Mr. Sidlo. Moreover, the substitution of Mr. Sidlo
as the plaintiff will not prejudice the defendants. The amendment does not
present an entirely new set of facts and does not impose any additional
liability on the defendant. Mr. Sidlo is simply stepping into the shoes of the
original plaintiff and will prosecute the same claims.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Keith
Sidlo’s motion for an order substituting him in the place of Riviera Property
Group, LLC as the plaintiff in this action is granted. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
January    , 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 