 Case Number:  21STCV04325    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to continue the trial.  The trial had been set for November 4,
2024.  However, the court will be dark
that day.  Accordingly, the court, on its
own motion, continued the trial to November 25, 2024.  However, that date conflicts with a
preplanned vacation according to the defense. 
The court was clear at the CMC that motions to continue the trial are
disfavored and likely would not be granted. 
But there is an “unwritten” exception to that rule: when the court
continues the trial on its own and without consultation with the parties, the
court in all fairness must be sensitive to conflicts that the court itself
caused.  This is such a case.  The court will, therefore, GRANT the
motion.  The court will work with counsel
to re-set the trial date to a date convenient (or at least not horribly
inconvenient) to all parties and the court. 
The court is also sensitive to plaintiff’s position that the case is
already pretty old.  Although plaintiff
suggests that this be reassigned to Department 1 to find a trial court (and
there is a motion to that effect set for a later date), the court can no longer
do that.  Originally, the rule was that
if a case was transferred to this court from the PI Hub (as this one was), the
court could transfer it back for purposes of trial.  Under these circumstances, the court would be
inclined to do so were the option still available.  However, it is not.  When the Superior Court made the decision to
eliminate the PI Hub, it also made the decision to do away with dedicated trial
courts.  Accordingly, while there are
still a few such courts, there are very few of them and this court is no longer
given the option to transfer this case back to Department 1 for
reassignment.  Therefore, the parties
will just have to work with this court’s congested calendar.  That said, the court agrees that the case is
old—it was filed in February 2021.  The
court will therefore work hard to find a date as soon as practicable for the
trial.     