  Case Number:  20SMCV00216    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  I This is the hearing on judgment creditor’s application to
extend the lien.  Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 708.110, upon service of an order for a debtor’s examination,
a lien is automatically created for 1 year. 
Jona Rechnitz was served with such an order on October 5, 2023, and
Jadelle was served on October 6, 2023. 
The year is almost up.  Judgment
creditor would like the lien extended for another year.  Judgment creditor brought this application on
an ex parte basis on September 24, 2024. 
The court, on September 25, 2024, continued the hearing until today,
essentially denying ex parte relief, but shortening time on the
motion.  The court permitted judgment
debtors to file oppositions, which were done on September 30, 2024.  The gist of the opposition is that the motion
is procedurally improper.  Judgment
debtors argue that this must be brought on noticed motion.  Oddly, neither party has been able to find or
cite to a case on point, although judgment creditor points to a treatise
suggesting that generally there is no good reason why a lien ought not be
extended. 
 
Here, the court is inclined to GRANT the request.  First, although the notice of examination was
served long ago, the examinations have been continued on numerous
occasions.  The court does not know all
of the reasons for the continuances, but at least some were for the convenience
or at the request of judgment debtors. 
Further, while judgment creditors suggest possible harm if the motion is
denied, judgment debtors suggest no harm if the motion is granted.  Thus, it would seem that the balance of
hardships favors the request.
 
The court begins with the procedural point: does this need
to be brought no noticed motion? 
Generally, very few things need to be brought on noticed motion,
and generally the statute will say something explicit to that effect if it is
required.  The court does not see that
language here.  But the fact is that this
is being brought on noticed motion pursuant to an order shortening time.  The court is aware of very few motions where
time cannot be shortened—summary judgment is one, but there are not many and
generally where it is not allowed, the statute so states expressly.  Here, the court has given judgment debtor an
opportunity to file a written opposition and an opportunity to be heard.  The court believes that due process has been
satisfied and, absent some statutory language to the contrary, the court does
not believe that it is without power to decide this motion on less than 16
court days of notice.
 
The court is aware of its earlier comment that judgment
creditor seems to have not been diligent. 
In other words, there is no reason of which the court is aware or that
judgment creditor has suggested that this motion could not have been brought a
month or so ago so that there would have been regular notice.  That is a point against the motion and in
judgment debtor’s favor to be sure.  But
the court does more than just count points. 
The court also has discretion and it balances hardships when looking at procedural
issues and questions of timing.  When the
hardships are balanced, they tilt quite strongly in favor of judgment
creditor.  Were the court convinced that
nothing bad would happen between now and a noticed hearing date, the court
would likely have required regular notice. 
But the court cannot get that assurance out of judgment debtors, both of
whom have been found liable for fraud. 
Given that, the court believes that there is some heft to judgment
creditor’s fear that the lien should be extended before it expires.  The court also looks to the policy behind the
statute.  This process is designed to
allow a judgment creditor to find out where the assets are so that the creditor
can start to collect on the judgment. 
The reason, the court surmises, for the 1 year lien is to allow the
examination to go forward and for the judgment creditor to take some action.  Here, the examinations have been delayed,
which has likely made it harder to start finding and encumbering various
assets.  Indeed, Jadelle’s deposition has
still not gone forward in any meaningful sense. 
Under those circumstances, it furthers the policies driving the statutes
in question to allow the lien to be extended.
 
All things considered, the court will GRANT the
application.  The liens are extended for
one additional year for Jona Rechnitz and Jadelle to October 5, 2025, and
October 6, 2025, respectively.