  Case Number:  20STCV18986    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HUDSON STUDIOS, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV18986
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART DEFENDANT’S
  DEMURRER; GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 21, 2024



 
On May 19, 2020, Kayvan Setareh filed this action against
Defendant Los Angeles Department of Water.
On September 17, 2024, the Court granted
Kayvan Setareh’s motion to substitute the Plaintiff from himself to Hudson Studios
LLC, the owner of the subject property and the proper Plaintiff.
On October 21, 2024, Defendant filed a
demurrer to the first amended complaint (“FAC”).
On October 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
amended motion to compel further discovery responses.
DEMURRER

A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
A.        Plaintiff Does Not Plead the Necessary
Statutory Provisions (First, Second, Third Causes of Action).
Defendant
argues that there is no statutory basis for its liability for negligence, private
nuisance, and trespass.  (Demurrer at pp.
6-7.)  A public entity is not liable for an
injury arising from an act or omission of the entity, a public employee, or any
other person except as provided by statute. 
(Gov. Code, § 815.)
Plaintiff’s
opposition does not address trespass.  Plaintiff
argues that Civil Code section 3479 provides a statutory basis for nuisance actions.  (Opposition at p. 3; see Nestle v. City of
Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 933-937.) 
However, this statute is not pleaded in the FAC.  “[E]very fact essential to the existence of statutory
liability must be pleaded with particularity, including the existence of a statutory
duty.”  (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School
Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.)
The
demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action is sustained with 30 days’
leave to amend.
B.        The FAC Sufficiently Alleges a Timely
Government Claim.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not filed a timely government claim.  (Demurrer at pp. 8-10.)  Under the Government Claims Act, no person may
sue a public entity or public employee for money or damages unless a timely written
claim has been presented to and denied by the public entity.  (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1267.)  Absent
an applicable exception, failure to timely present a claim for money or damages
to a public entity bars a plaintiff from filing suit against that entity bars a
plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that entity.  (State of California v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239.)
Defendant
argues that “the FAC does not explicitly plead the Plaintiff, Hudson Studios, LLC,
has complied with Government Tort Claims Act. 
All it pleads is that Kayvan Setareh, as a member-manager of the LLC, filed
a claim against LADWP.  When read with the
pleadings in the superseded complaint, it is clear that Mr. Setareh filed his claim
as an individual and not for the LLC.”  (Demurrer
at p. 8.)  Defendant argues that Plaintiff
and Mr. Setareh are separate entities with separate and distinct liabilities and
obligations.  (Id. at p. 9.)
The
FAC alleges that “[o]n or about February 26, 2020, Kayvan Setareh (who is Plaintiff’s
member-manager) presented an amended government tort claim for damages to LADWP.  The same was rejected as a matter of law as no
response has been received from LADWP.”  (FAC
¶ 2.)  This action was timely filed on May
19, 2020.  As pleaded, it is not clear that
the amended claim is deficient.  As Plaintiff
notes, it may be that the government claim substantially complied with the statutory
requirements.  (Opposition at pp. 4-5.)  At the demurrer stage, the FAC sufficiently alleges
compliance with the Government Claims Act.
The
demurrer is overruled on this ground.
C.        The Fourth Cause of Action is Not Facially
Time-Barred.
Defendant
argues that the cause of action for inverse condemnation is barred by the three-year
statute of limitations because the damage was discovered on September 7, 2019, but
the FAC was not filed until September 17, 2024. 
(Demurrer at pp. 10-12.)
Both
parties cite Engel v. Pech (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 1227 (Engel) regarding
whether the amendment relates back to the original filing date of May 19, 2020.
“As
a general rule, subsequent amendments to a pleading will ‘relate back’ to an earlier,
timely filed pleading if they ‘(1) rest on the same general set of facts,
(2) involve the same injury, and (3) refer to the same instrumentality,
as the original [pleading].’”  (Engel,
supra, 95 Cal.App.5th at p. 1236.)  “[W]hen
it comes to adding a new plaintiff, courts have refined the general rule: A new
plaintiff’s claims relate back to claims asserted in a previously and timely filed
complaint if the new plaintiff is seeking to enforce the same right as a previously
named plaintiff (because, in that case, the amendment relies on the same general
set of facts, involves the same injury, and refers to the same instrumentality of
the defendant’s conduct).”  (Ibid.)  “[A]mendments that do no more than swap in a new
plaintiff for an existing cause of action—when the new plaintiff is the real party
in interest and the original plaintiff was not—typically relate back.”  (Id. at p. 1237.)
Defendant
argues that “Plaintiff, Hudson Studios, LLC has a completely different set of rights,
liabilities, and obligations from those of Kayvan Setareh, the former Plaintiff,”
and “Because Hudson Studios, LLC is a separate and distinct entity from Kayvan Setareh
as an individual, the relation back doctrine does not apply as to Plaintiff’s fourth
cause of action for inverse condemnation.” 
(Demurrer at p. 12.)  Not so.  Unlike the amendment from the individual plaintiff
to the LLC in Engle (where each plaintiff had separate sets of malpractice
claims as separate clients), Plaintiff Hudson and former plaintiff Kayvan Setareh
share the exact same claims and interests.
The
FAC filed on September 17, 2024 changed only the name of the Plaintiff.  The motion to amend explained, “Although title
was held by Hudson Studios, LLC, (hereinafter sometimes referred to as ‘Hudson’),
Kayvan Setareh did not equate that to ‘ownership.’”  The motion sought to “rectify this technical issue”
by substituting the proper Plaintiff who is the owner of the real property at issue
in this action.  This is exactly the type
of amendment that relates back: it “do[es] no more than swap in a new plaintiff
for an existing cause of action—when the new plaintiff is the real party in interest
and the original plaintiff was not.”  (Engel,
supra, 95 Cal.App.5th at p. 1237.)
The
demurrer is overruled on this ground.
D.        Conclusion
The
demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action is SUSTAINED with 30 days’
leave to amend.
The
demurrer is overruled in all other respects.
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 33, 34, 35, and 36 of Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Two
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
For
RFP Nos. 33, 34, and 35, Defendant objected, then responded that it was producing
“all nonprivileged, responsive documents currently in Defendant’s custody, possession,
and control.”  Defendant says in the Join
Statement that it will serve a supplemental response prior to the hearing on this
motion.
For
RFP No. 36, Defendant also says in the Joint Statement, “Prior to the hearing of
Plaintiff’s motion to compel, LADWP will produce those communications to Plaintiff’s
counsel.”
There
is no indication whether Defendant has indeed produced supplemental documents before
the hearing.  Accordingly, the motion to compel
further is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered
to produce supplemental responses within 30 days.  For any documents where Defendant claims a privilege,
Defendant must provide a compliant privilege log.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is granted in part. 
Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $2,000.00 to Plaintiff
within 30 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 