 Case Number:  23STCV12953    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AMANDA GHOST, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
REBEL WILSON,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV12953
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S SPECIAL
  MOTION TO STRIKE (ANTI-SLAPP MOTION); DENYING AS MOOT PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO TAKE LIMITED DISCOVERY
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 21, 2024



 
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiffs Amanda Ghost, Gregor Cameron,
and Vince Holden filed this action against Defendant Rebel Wilson.  On July 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended
complaint (“FAC”).
On October 21, 2024, Wilson filed a
special motion to strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 (“anti-SLAPP
motion”).
On
October 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to take limited discovery
in order to oppose the anti-SLAPP motion.
ANTI-SLAPP
MOTION
“A
cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance
of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution
or California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to
a special motion to strike unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established
that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)
“A
court’s consideration of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step process.  ‘First, the court decides whether the defendant
has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity.  The moving defendant’s
burden is to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were
taken “in furtherance of the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under
the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue,”
as defined in the statute.  [Citation.]  If the court finds such a showing has been made,
it then determines whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing
on the claim.’  [Citation.]  In the second step, the plaintiff must only bring
forward sufficient evidence to make out a viable prima facie case at trial, a burden
that ‘is not particularly high.’  [Citation.]”  (O&C Creditors Group, LLC v. Stephens &
Stephens XII, LLC (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 546, 565-566.)
A.        Plaintiffs’ Request For Judicial Notice
Is Granted in Part.
Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice of Exhibits 12, 14, 16, 21-27 is granted.  In doing so, the Court takes judicial notice of
only their existence, not the truth of their contents.
B.        The Evidentiary Objections Are Overruled.
Plaintiffs’
65 pages of Objection Nos. 1-49 are overruled.
Wilson’s
99 pages of Objection Nos. 1-121 are overruled.
C.        Plaintiffs Allege Nine Statements.
Plaintiffs’
sole cause of action for defamation is based on nine statements published in two
manners.
On
July 10, 2024, Wilson published a video on her Instagram page.  (FAC ¶¶ 35, 43.)  This video expressed or implied that (1) Plaintiffs
sexually harassed a lead actress involved in the Film; (2) Plaintiffs embezzled
funds from the Film’s financing for personal gain; and (3) Plaintiffs acted with
inappropriate behavior towards the lead actress of the Film.  (FAC ¶ 43.)
On
June 14, 2024, Wilson’s counsel sent a demand letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel demanding
a compromise of Wilson’s claims and arguing that Wilson is entitled to writing credit
on the Film and a record label.  (FAC ¶ 10.)  Plaintiffs allege that Wilson also provided the
demand letter to the media, causing its statements to be republished.  (FAC ¶¶ 11, 38-40, 44.)  The demand letter communicated that (1) Ghost
and Cameron embezzled 900,000 Australian Dollars from the Film; (2) Ghost and Cameron
have a pattern and practice of embezzlement, including on other projects; (3) Ghost
and Cameron sexually harassed a lead actress of the Film; (4) Ghost and Cameron
maintained coercive control on a lead actress of the Film and forced her to engage
in depraved sexual demands; (5) a lead actress of the Film is being held captive
by Ghost and Cameron and is being taken across state lines; (6) Cameron used physical
aggression to bully Wilson and wrongfully imprisoned her.  (FAC ¶¶ 40, 44.)
D.        Wilson Has Not Shown That the Video Was
a Protected Activity.
“[A]ny
written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public
forum in connection with an issue of public interest” and “any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest”
are protected under the anti-SLAPP statute. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subds. (e)(3), (e)(4).)
Wilson
argues that she and Plaintiffs “are public figures and persons ‘in the public eye’
by virtue of their extensive experience in the entertainment industry, which is
the focus of Wilson’s speech and alleged speech.”  (Motion at p. 5.)  “While courts have held the public’s interest
in the life and work of entertainers and other celebrities can create an issue of
public interest for purposes of section 425.16, subdivision (e) [citation], it is
the subject of the defendant’s speech or conduct that determines whether an issue
of public interest has been implicated for purposes of anti-SLAPP protection.  [Citation.] 
The defendant’s celebrity status, on its own, is not sufficient to render
anything the defendant says or does subject to anti-SLAPP protection.”  (Bernstein v. LaBeouf (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th
15, 23 (Bernstein).)
Wilson
also argues that “[t]he unfortunately endemic issue of inappropriate behavior, including
sexual harassment, on movie sets is a matter of profound and continuing public interest,”
“[e]mbezzlement from film budgets is a matter of public interest, and is frequently
the subject of civil and criminal lawsuits, and reporting in the press,” and “[t]ax
fraud is a matter of public interest.”  (Motion
at pp. 5-6.)
These
assertions of public interest due to the identity of the parties and a broad public
interest are insufficient to show that they are protected activity.  “[I]n order to satisfy the public issue/issue
of public interest requirement of section 425.16, subdivision (e)(3) and (4) of
the anti-SLAPP statute, in cases where the issue is not of interest to the public
at large, but rather to a limited, but definable portion of the public (a private
group, organization, or community), the constitutionally protected activity must,
at a minimum, occur in the context of an ongoing controversy, dispute or discussion,
such that it warrants protection by a statute that embodies the public policy of
encouraging participation in matters of public significance.”  (Du Charme v. International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 107, 119 (Du Charme).)
“[T]he
statute requires that there be some attributes of the issue which make it one of
public, rather than merely private, interest. 
A few guiding principles may be derived from decisional authorities.  First, ‘public interest’ does not equate with
mere curiosity.  Second, a matter of public
interest should be something of concern to a substantial number of people.  Thus, a matter of concern to the speaker and a
relatively small, specific audience is not a matter of public interest.  Third, there should be some degree of closeness
between the challenged statements and the asserted public interest; the assertion
of a broad and amorphous public interest is not sufficient.  Fourth, the focus of the speaker’s conduct should
be the public interest rather than a mere effort ‘to gather ammunition for another
round of [private] controversy. . . .’  Finally,
‘those charged with defamation cannot, by their own conduct, create their own defense
by making the claimant a public figure.’ 
A person cannot turn otherwise private information into a matter of public
interest simply by communicating it to a large number of people.”  (Weinberg v. Feisel (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th
1122, 1132-1133 (Weinber), citations omitted.)
The
“public interests” of “inappropriate behavior, including sexual harassment, on movie
sets,” “embezzlement from film budgets,” and “tax fraud” (Motion at pp. 5-6) are
broad and amorphous public interests that are not closely related to the challenged
statements.  In the video, Wilson spoke about
the Film, her directing debut, “the joy of the movie being selected,” and her business
partners preventing the movie from premiering. 
(FAC ¶ 35.)  She asserted that they
stopped the premiere because she “discovered bad behavior by these business partners,”
identifying Plaintiffs by name.  (FAC ¶ 35.)  Wilson states that she reported “their bad behavior
when I found out not minor things, big things, you know, inappropriate behavior
towards the lead actress of the film, embezzling funds from the film’s budget.”  (FAC ¶ 35.) 
She also asserts that Ghost “has a history of doing this kind of thing, mainly
to music artists but also to people in the film business.  So, the thing is, these people are forced to sign
NDAs or, you know, otherwise threatened or bullied to not speak out.”  (FAC ¶ 35.)
These
statements are not made in the context of an ongoing controversy, dispute, or discussion
about “inappropriate behavior, including sexual harassment, on movie sets,” “embezzlement
from film budgets,” and “tax fraud.”  They
were not made during Wilson’s participation in matters of public interest.  (See Du Charme, supra, 110 Cal.App.4th
at p. 119.)  Instead, they were made in the
context of Wilson’s private business dispute with Plaintiffs surrounding the production
and premiere of the Film.  (See, e.g., ¶¶
7-10.)  Additionally, “[t]he United States
Supreme Court also has rejected the claim that assertions of criminal conduct automatically
fall within the public interest.  [Citation.]  As we have noted, there are no charges pending
against plaintiff, and defendant has not taken action intended to result in a criminal
investigation or prosecution.  The fact that
defendant’s statements accuse plaintiff of criminal conduct make them defamatory
on their face.  [Citation.]  It does not automatically make them a matter of
public interest.”  (Weinberg, supra, 110
Cal.App.4th at p. 1135.)
Wilson
argues that the challenged statements could affect large numbers of people beyond
the direct participants because many people worked on the Film and could be affected
by its success or failure.  (Motion at p.
6.)  She argues that “[t]he number of people
who worked on the film [‘a cast of over 140 and a production crew of hundreds more’],
and coverage of it as Wilson’s directorial debut, show that the film and its success
are matters of public interest.”  (Ibid.).  Wilson relies on Tamkin v. CBS Broadcasting,
Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 133 to show that the creation of a television episode
can be an issue of public interest.  There,
the alleged acts were based on using the plaintiffs’ names in drafts of the scripts
and disseminating those scripts and casting synopses.  (Tamkin, supra, 193 Cal.App.4th at p. 143.)  The acts were in furtherance of the right to free
speech because “[t]he creation of a television show is an exercise of free speech,”
and “defendants’ acts helped to advance or assist in the creation, casting, and
broadcasting of an episode of a popular television show.”  (Ibid.)  Wilson’s video was not part of the creation of
the Film and did not advance its production.
The
Court finds that the video is not protected activity under the anti-SLAPP statute.
E.        Wilson Has Not Shown That Transmitting
the Demand Letter Was a Protected Activity.
“[A]ny
written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration
or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law” is protected under the anti-SLAPP statute.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(2).)
“Under
the plain language of section 425.16, subdivisions (e)(1) and (e)(2), as well as
the case law interpreting those provisions, all communicative acts performed by
attorneys as part of their representation of a client in a judicial proceeding or
other petitioning context are per se protected as petitioning activity by the anti-SLAPP
statute.”  (Cabral v. Martins (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 471, 479-480.)  “An attorney’s
communication with opposing counsel on behalf of a client regarding pending litigation
directly implicates the right to petition and thus is subject to a special motion
to strike.”  (GeneThera, Inc. v. Troy &
Gould Professional Corp. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 901, 908.)
In
connection with the Film, Wilson fought for writing credit, credit with the writers
of the music for the Film, and a record label with an external music group.  (FAC ¶ 7.) 
Wilson’s demand letter to Plaintiffs demanded a compromise of her claims,
writing credit, and a record label.  (FAC
¶ 10.)
Wilson
argues that “the Demand Letter relates to prelitigation communications from lawyers,
but allegedly was disseminated by Wilson to the press after the original
Complaint was filed,” and she “not only seriously considered claims against Plaintiffs,
but she ultimately brought those claims in a Cross-Complaint filed in this action.”  (Motion at p. 6.)
Wilson’s
October 1, 2024 cross-complaint generally alleges breaches of contract and fiduciary
duty (failure to provide writing credit and record deal), a single event of false
imprisonment, misrepresentations about the Film partnership, and emotional distress
from bullying and harassing Wilson for reporting misconduct.
“[A]
statement is ‘in connection with’ litigation under section 425.16, subdivision (e)(2)
if it relates to the substantive issues in the litigation and is directed to persons
having some interest in the litigation.” 
(Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1266.)  The anti-SLAPP statute is “construed broadly,
to protect the right of litigants to ‘the utmost freedom of access to the courts
without the fear of being harassed subsequently by derivative tort actions.’”  (Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation
Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1, 5.)
The
demand letter does not fit this description. 
The creation of the demand letter (directed at Plaintiffs) and the service
of it on Plaintiffs is protected activity. 
But that is not the basis for Plaintiffs’ claims.  Instead, Plaintiffs allege that Wilson (or someone
acting on her behalf and at her direction) transmitted the demand letter to the
media for republication.  (FAC ¶¶ 11, 39-40,
44.)  The republication of Wilson’s own demand
letter does not subject Wilson to a risk of subsequent tort litigation based on
the underlying contemplated litigation (the claims in her later-filed cross-complaint).  Wilson’s alleged statements republication by the
media (through transmission of the demand letter) were not directed to persons having
some interest in the litigation.  The republication
of the demand letter’s contents to the media was not made in connection with litigation.  It is no different than providing the same statements
in a different format (not a demand letter) to unrelated parties who have no interest
or involvement in the contemplated litigation.
The
Court finds that republishing the statements in the demand letter through transmission
to the media is not protected activity under the anti-SLAPP statute.
F.         Conclusion
Because
the Court finds that the statements are not protected activities subject to an anti-SLAPP
motion, the Court does not proceed to the second prong of the analysis for Plaintiffs’
likelihood of prevailing on the merits.
The
anti-SLAPP motion is DENIED.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO TAKE LIMITED
DISCOVERY
Plaintiffs
seek leave to conduct a brief, limited-scope deposition of Wilson to enable them
to fully respond to the anti-SLAPP motion.
The
Court denies the anti-SLAPP motion, so the motion for limited discovery is therefore
denied as moot.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 