 Case Number:  22NWCV00668    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  C DANE MEDLEY vs PACIFIC OFFICE AUTOMATION, INC.,
et al.
Case No.: 22NWCV00668
Hearing Date: April 30, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#2
Tentative Ruling 
I.            
Defendant Pacific Office Automation,
Inc.’s Motion to For Leave to File Cross Compliant is GRANTED.  Defendant is ORDERED to file and serve the
proposed cross-complaint within five (5) court days.
 
II.           
Defendant Pacific Office Automation Inc.’s
Motion to Continue Trial is DENIED without prejudice to renew the motion in
Dept. SE-F, the master calendar department. 
 
 
III.         
Plaintiff Dane Medley’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set Three) is GRANTED in part as
set forth below.  Sanctions
are DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
This is an employment discrimination lawsuit. 
Defendants Pacific Office Automation, Inc. (“Defendant POA”)
and Eric Pitassi (“Defendant Pitassi”) terminated Plaintiff Dane Medley’s
(“Plaintiff”) employment on April 13, 2021. 
On August 4, 2022, Plaintiff filed the instant action asserting eight
claims of action arising out of the Plaintiff’s employment, including harassment
and discrimination, wrongful termination, failure to pay wages, and defamation
claims.  
1.   
Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint 
Defendant POA moves for leave to file a cross-complaint
against Plaintiff on the grounds that Plaintiff breached the confidentiality
agreement he signed with Defendant POA by retaining documents
containing Defendant POA’s confidential and proprietary financial information.  Defendant POA asserts Plaintiff produced no
fewer than 1,520 pages of such documents in response to its document
requests.  

Legal Standard 
C.C.P. §426.30(a) provides, as follows: “Except as
otherwise provided by statute, if a party against whom a complaint has been
filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of
action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has
against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert
against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” 
C.C.P. §426.50 provides, as follows: 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to
the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”
C.C.P. §428.50 provides, as follows: 
(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or
at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint; (b) Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial; (c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may
be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.
A cross-complaint is compulsory if it is transactionally
related to the subject matter of the complaint. (C.C.P. §426.10.) “To be
considered a compulsory cross-complaint, a related cause of action must have
existed at the time of the service of [the] answer to [the] complaint.” (Crocker
National Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) The late filing
of a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint “absent some
evidence of bad faith is insufficient evidence to support denial of the motion.”
(Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 101.)
“Permission to file a permissive cross-complaint is solely within the trial
court’s discretion.” (Crocker at 864.)
Discussion 

Defendant POA contends its proposed cross-complaint is a
compulsory cross-complaint because it arises out of the same “transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences” as the causes of action
in Plaintiff’s complaint, namely Plaintiff’s separation from employment from
Defendant POA.  Defendant POA contends that
Plaintiff retained documents containing Defendant POA’s confidential and
proprietary financial information, and Plaintiff produced no fewer than 1,520
pages of such documents in response to Defendant POA’s document requests.  
In the proposed cross-complaint, properly attached to the
motion, Defendant asserts causes of action against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Dane Medley for: (1) Breach of Contract; and (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing.  
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the cross-compliant is
not compulsory because it does not arise out of the same transaction or
occurrence as the complaint.  Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s breach of contract claims in the cross-complaint are
distinct from Plaintiff’s claims for employment discrimination in the
complaint.  
The Court finds that the proposed cross-complaint is
compulsory because both the complaint and cross-complaint arise out of Plaintiff’s
separation from Defendant.  Thus, there
is a logical relationship between the respective claims.  
Plaintiff also argues that Defendant’s request for leave is
made in bad faith.  “‘Bad faith,’ is
defined as ‘[t]he opposite of “good faith,” generally implying or involving
actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a
neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not
prompted by an honest mistake ..., but by some interested or sinister motive[,]
... not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather ... the conscious doing
of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; ... it contemplates
a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.” 
(Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 94, 100)
(alterations in original) (internal citations omitted.) 
According to Plaintiff, Defenant waited a year and a half
to seek leave to file a cross-complaint and only did so in retaliation for
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to requests for production (set
three).  Defendant counters that it has
engaged in extensive meet and confer communications to limit the damage by
Plaintiff’s breach of the Confidentiality Agreement, and at most the delay can
be attributed to mistake, inadvertence, and excusable neglect.  
Given the strong policy interest in hearing claims on their
merits, the Court is not prepared to deny Defendant the opportunity to pursue
its claims based solely upon the delay in requesting leave and the timing of
the request vis-à-vis Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses.  Significantly, Plaintiff cannot demonstrate
prejudice because he acknowledges the need for additional time to obtain the
discovery he seeks.  
Accordingly, Defendant POA’s motion for leave to file
cross-complaint is GRANTED.  
 
2.   
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set Three)
Meet and Confer Requirement 
A
motion¿to compel further responses to requests for production “shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b)(2).)¿ The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the
motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)¿  
 
The Court finds that parties have met the meet and confer
requirement. 
Separate Statement 
A motion to compel further
responses requires a separate statement.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a).) Plaintiff properly filed separate statements.
Legal Standard 
CCP § 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion compelling
further answers to document requests if it finds that the response is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or an objection in the response is without
merit or too general.  The motion shall
be accompanied with a meet and confer declaration.  (CCP § 2031.310(b).)  
Discussion 
Plaintiff moves to compel further verified responses and
responsive documents, without objection, to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production, Set Three, Nos. 3, 7, 9-10, 15 – 18, 20-22, 27-28, 31-33, 35, 39,
43-45, and 48-63 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310 within ten (10)
days of the hearing of this motion. Plaintiff also requests sanctions in the
amount of $9,835.00. 
On October 17, 2023, Plaintiff served Requests for
Production of Documents (Set Three) on Defendant POA via email. (Harmoush Decl.,
¶ 1, Exhibit A.) On December 1, 2023, Defendant POA served responses and
objections to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents. (Harmoush Decl.,
¶ 2, Exhibit B.) On January 9, 2024, a stipulated Protective Order was filed.
(Harmoush Decl., ¶ 8, Exhibit G.) The instant motion was filed on January 10, 2024.  On February 8, 2024, Defendant POA served its
First Supplemental Responses. Defendant POA produced 18,907 pages of document
production in chronological order. Defendant POA also produced a privilege log.
(Riaz Decl., ¶ 8, Exhibit 11.) On March 29, 2024, Defendant POA re-served its
Second Supplemental Responses. (Riaz Decl., ¶ 11, Exhibit 14.) The parties
agree that the responses served on December 1, 2023, and March 29, 2024, would
be used going forward in this action, including for purposes of this motion.
(Riaz Decl., ¶ 12.) Defendant POA agreed to provide a supplemental privilege
log with a more detailed description of the writings withheld on a privilege
and/or privacy basis that were responsive to the requests. (Ibid.)  
In opposition, Defendant POA contends that half of the
purported deficient responses are now moot leaving only 21 document requests at
issue, namely Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set
Three, Nos. 7, 21, 28, 31-33, 39, 43, 45, 49-52, 54-57, and 59-62. Defendant
contends the final requests at issue invade the right of privacy of Defendant’s
employees, the requests for personnel records are outside the scope of the
pleadings, and Defendant will be unduly burdened due to the amount of hours
already spent on reviewing documents in this matter. 
In reply, Plaintiff contends that the motion is not moot
given that the veracity and completeness of the responses are without a
code-compliant privilege log. Plaintiff also contends there is good cause for
the personnel records as the records may also be able to show that employees
from protected classes were systematically overlooked for promotions or raises
or were terminated without cause. 
Analysis 
Requests for
Production Nos. 3, 9-10, 15-18, 20, 22, 27, 35, 44, 48, 53, 58, and 63. 
The Court first looks at whether
the supplemental responses make the motion moot as to Requests
Nos. 3, 9-10, 15-18, 20, 22, 27, 35, 44, 48, 53, 58,
and 63. 

“In
general, when a party asserts the attorney-client privilege, that party has the
burden of showing the preliminary facts necessary to support the
privilege.”  (Venture Law Group v. Superior Court (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 96, 102.)  “The party asserting the privilege need only
present facts which ‘support a prima facie claim of privilege.”  (OXY
Resources California LLC v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874,
894.)  “After this burden is met, or where there is no dispute concerning
the preliminary facts, the burden shifts to the party opposing the privilege to
show either the claimed privilege does not apply, an exception exists, or there
has been an express or implied waiver.”  (Venture Law Group, supra,
118 Cal.App.4th at p.102.)  
Defendant POA has agreed to provide, and the Court orders
Defendant POA to provide a code
compliant privilege log within 15 days.
Specifically,
Plaintiff’s privilege log must identify what documents are being withheld and
enough factual information to support a prima facie claim of privilege. (See
CCP § 2031.240(b)(1-2), [“b) If the responding party objects to the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an item or category of item, the
response shall do both of the following: (1) Identify with particularity any
document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored information falling
within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is being made.
(2) Set forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for, the
objection. If an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the particular
privilege invoked shall be stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the
information sought is protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with
Section 2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted.”]
Requests for
Production Nos. 7, 21, 28, 31-33, 39, 43, 45, 49-52, 54-57, and 59-62
On July 16, 2018, Plaintiff began working at Defendant POA.
Eric Pitassi directly supervised Plaintiff. Kristine Draper (also known as
Kristine Lamb) served as HR Director during Plaintiff’s employment. On April
13, 2021, Defendant POA discharged Plaintiff’s employment. Ron Rupright
replaced Plaintiff. (Riaz Decl., ¶ 2.) During the three-year period Plaintiff
was employed by Defendant POA, he served as the Regional Technical Manager for
Defendant’s service operations in the State of California. 
As to the outstanding Requests for Production, the Court rules as follows:
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 7: Produce any complaints
submitted to Human Resources by the service department during Plaintiff's
employment.
Plaintiff argues that good cause exists because one of Plaintiff’s
allegations centers around the fact that Human Resources failed to properly
investigate and evaluate his complaints. Thus, emails to HR by the service
department will likely contain employee complaints that were never properly
acknowledged.  The Court determines that
RFP No. 7 is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  Given the breadth of the
request, the privacy concerns at stake, and the burden of producing a response,
the Court determines that the balance of interests weighs in favor of
non-disclosure.  
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 7
is DENIED.  
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 21: Produce any documents
related to stack rankings, employee metrics, or methods for employee evaluation
used by Defendant during Plaintiff's employment.
Plaintiff argues stack rankings, employee metrics, or
methods for employee evaluation used by Defendant during Plaintiff’s employment
are necessary for Plaintiff’s case in that Plaintiff wishes to compare POA’s
employee evaluation policies to discover if the evaluation performed by Pitassi
conformed with the way he conducted evaluations of other employees.  Plaintiff fails to explain or demonstrate
good cause for requests for production of stack rankings and employee
metrics.  However, the Court determines that
documents relating to methods for employee evaluation are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  

Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No.
21 is GRANTED as to methods of employee evaluation.  
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 28: All documents relating to
the pricing, profitability metrics, or financial performance of POA service
contracts in California from 2018-2021.  
Typically, in California, requests for financial discovery
are denied unless Plaintiff shows how the discovery would act to prove an
element of their claim against Defendant. 
According to Plaintiff, Pitassi claimed that Plaintiff was woefully
underperforming as justification for terminating him. The requested documents
are highly relevant to this litigation, as they will evidence Plaintiff’s
stellar performance in the other California branches he supervised, thus
rebutting Pitassi’s spurious claims.  The
Complaint alleges Plaintiff started and turned around various branches
including San Francisco, “which was ranked fifth among all benchmarks
companywide after MEDLEY implemented the necessary changes.” (Complaint, ¶ 39.)
Discovery into this issue may provide Plaintiff with evidence of the alleged
wrongful termination claim.
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No.
28 is GRANTED.  
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 31: All documents reflecting
communications regarding the profitability or financial performance of the
service department in California from 2018-2021.
Plaintiff argues he is entitled to see if his performance
was mentioned in communications relative to the profitability or financial
performance of the service department as a whole.  The Court determines that the scope of this
request is overbroad and unduly burdensome. 

Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No.
31 is DENIED.  
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 32: All documents showing profit
and loss statements, financial reports, or profitability analyses for POA's
service department in California from 2018-2021.
Plaintiff argues he is entitled to see this financial
information in order to assess Pitassi’s allegations of underperformance.  Defendant POA does not argue otherwise. 
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No.
32 is GRANTED.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 33: All documents related to
POA's projected or estimated financial losses for new branch locations in
California from 2018-2021.
According to Plaintiff, Pitassi claimed that Plaintiff was
responsible for the significant losses suffered by the new Los Angeles branch.
The requested documents are highly relevant to this litigation, as they will
allow Plaintiff to compare the projected losses to the actual losses and assess
if the losses suffered by the Los Angeles branch during his supervision of it
were exceedingly different than those expected by POA for new branches.  Defendant does not argue otherwise.  
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No.
33 is GRANTED.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 39: All documents relating to
POA's hiring of Ron Rupright to replace Dane Medley.
Plaintiff argues that documents related to Ron Rupright’s
hiring are highly relevant to this litigation in that they depict Rupright’s
qualifications which Plaintiff claims were far inferior to his and may evidence
differential treatment and pretext.  The
Court determines that Plaintiff has shown good cause for production of records
relating to Mr. Rupright’s qualifications for the position, including his job
application and resume.  These records
may be redacted to omit private financial and identifying information, and they
are subject to the protective order already in place.  
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No.
39 is GRATED in part as set forth above. 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 43: All documents relating to
the performance of POA's service department in California after Dane Medley's
termination.
According to Plaintiff, Pitassi berated Plaintiff
continuously about the performance of the Los Angeles service department and
used Plaintiff’s alleged underperformance as a pretext to his termination.
Responsive documents to this request are relevant in that they may show that
the service department’s performance either did not change or possibly became
worse upon Plaintiff’s termination.  Defendant
argues this request is outside the scope of the pleadings. The Court
agrees.  While the qualifications of Mr.
Rupright are relevant to the litigation, the actual performance of the service
department under Mr. Rupright is not.
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 43
is DENIED.  
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 45: All documents relating to
the ages of POA employees in California from 2018-2021.
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents may show
Pitassi’s bias and ire toward older workers, and his push to weed out the older
workers and hire younger workers. 
Defendant argues, and the Court agrees, that Defendant should produce a
list with the ages of all 279 employees without identifying the employees, in
lieu of producing every writing referencing their age.
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 45
is GRANTED in part as set forth above.  
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 49: All documents relating to
any performance evaluations, reviews, feedback, or criticisms of Kristine
Draper’s performance as head of Human Resources for POA from 2018-2021.
According to Plaintiff, one of Plaintiff’s main claims in
this action is that his complaints about Eric Pitassi went unanswered by Human
Resources, the department at POA that was supposedly responsible for these
duties and of which Kristine Draper was the head. Responsive documents to this
request are relevant in that they may show that Kristine Draper failed to
perform her job duties as defined in her formal job description, thus
corroborating Plaintiff’s claims. 
Plaintiff has failed to establish that the lack of response he received
from Human Resources can be traced to Kristine Draper’s performance, as opposed
to other possible explanations.  The
Court determines that RFP No. 49 is not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.  
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 49
is DENIED.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 50: All documents relating to
any training, education, or development efforts to improve Kristine Draper’s
performance or skills as head of Human Resources for POA from 2018-2021.
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents may show that
Kristine Draper was counseled, or asked to engage in training, education, or
development to improve her performance, thus corroborating Plaintiff’s claims.  For the reasons
stated in the previous request, the Court determines that RFP No. 50 is not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 50
is DENIED.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 51: All documents reflecting any
complaints or concerns raised by POA employees regarding the performance of
Kristine Draper as head of Human Resources from 2018-2021.
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents may show
employees of POA made complaints about Kristine Draper’s lack of cooperation in
terms of investigating and evaluating employee complaints, amongst other duties
and responsibilities, thus corroborating Plaintiff’s claims.  For the reasons
stated in the previous requests, the Court determines that RFP No. 51 is not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  

Accordingly, the motion to
compel further response to No. 51 is DENIED.

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 52: Kristine Draper’s personnel
file and all documents contained therein from 2018-2021, including but not
limited to performance reviews, disciplinary records, training records, and
compensation information.
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents may show
potential problems with Kristine Draper’s job performance, thus corroborating
Plaintiff’s claims.  For the reasons
stated in the previous requests, the Court determines that RFP No. 52 is not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  
Accordingly, the motion to
compel further response to No. 52 is DENIED.  
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 54: All documents relating to
any performance evaluations, reviews, feedback, or criticisms of Eric Pitassi’s
performance as branch manager for POA from 2018-2021.
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents may show Pitassi’s
animus to toward Plaintiff and consistent discrimination against Plaintiff (and
other employees) based on their age or physical infirmities. They may also show
subpar job performance, thus corroborating Plaintiff’s claims.  The Court determines that Plaintiff has
demonstrated good cause for production of any complaints against Eric Pitassi
regarding age or disability discrimination. 

Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No.
54 is GRANTED in part as set forth above. 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 55: All documents relating to
any training, education, or development efforts to improve Eric Pitassi’s
performance or skills as branch manager for POA from 2018-2021.
Plaintiff argues that Pitassi did not have the requisite
experience to manage a large team and /or the service department. Responsive
documents to this request are relevant in that they may show that Eric Pitassi
was counseled, or asked to engage in training, education, or development to
improve his performance, thus corroborating Plaintiff’s claims.  The Court determines that RFP No. 55 is
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, but only
in response to complaints regarding age or disability discrimination.  
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 55
is GRANTED in part as set forth above.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 56: All documents reflecting any
complaints or concerns raised by POA employees regarding the performance of
Eric Pitassi as branch manager from 2018-2021.
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents may show that
employees of Defendant POA made complaints about Eric Pitassi to no avail, thus
corroborating Plaintiff’s claims.  The Court determines that Plaintiff has demonstrated good
cause for production of any complaints against Eric Pitassi regarding age or
disability discrimination.  

Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 56
is GRANTED in part as set forth above.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 57: Eric Pitassi’s personnel
file and all documents contained therein from 2018-2021, including but not
limited to performance reviews, disciplinary records, training records, and
compensation information.
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents may show
potential problems with Eric Pitassi’s job performance, thus corroborating
Plaintiff’s claims.  As in RFP No. 56, the
Court determines that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for production of
any complaints against Eric Pitassi regarding age or disability discrimination.  
Accordingly, the motion to
compel further response to No. 57 is GRANTED in part as set forth above.

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 59: All documents relating to
any performance evaluations, reviews, feedback, or criticisms of Ron Rupright’s
performance after replacing Dane Medley at POA in 2021.
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents may depict whether
Rupright was indeed more successful in this role to the point that Plaintiff’s
termination was justified.  Given the privacy interests at stake, the Court determines
that RFP No. 59 is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.

Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 59
is DENIED.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 60: All documents relating to
any training, education, or development efforts to improve Ron Rupright’s
performance or skills after he replaced Dane Medley at POA in 2021.
Plaintiff argues that the requested records may depict
whether Rupright was more qualified than Medley, or whether he required
significant additional training, education and development in order to perform
the job duties assigned to him.  Given
the privacy interests at stake, the Court determines that RFP No. 60 is not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 60
is DENIED.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 61: All documents reflecting any
complaints or concerns raised by POA employees regarding the performance of Ron
Rupright after he replaced Dane Medley in 2021.
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents may depict
whether Rupright was more qualified and performed better than Medley.  Given the privacy interests at stake, the
Court determines that RFP No. 60 is not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 61
is DENIED.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 62: Ron Rupright’s personnel
file and all documents contained therein after he replaced Dane Medley in 2021,
including but not limited to performance reviews, disciplinary records,
training records, and compensation information.
Plaintiff argues that the requested records may depict
whether Rupright was more qualified and performed better than Medley, whether
Rupright was well regarded, whether there were any complaints about his
performance.  The
Court determines that Plaintiff has shown good cause for production of records
relating to Mr. Rupright’s qualifications for the position, including his job
application and resume.  These records may
be redacted to omit private financial and identifying information, and they are
subject to the protective order already in place.  
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to No. 62
is GRANTED in part as set forth above.
Sanctions 
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $9,835.00. 
The court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further responses to interrogatories or demand for production
of documents unless the party subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h), 2033.290, subd. (d).) 
Given the mixed ruling, the
Court finds that Defendant acted with substantial justification in opposing the
motion,
Accordingly, the request for
sanctions is DENIED.  