 Case Number:  23AHCV01804    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING  DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO THE FAC and GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE IN  PART and DENYING IN PARTI.         INTRODUCTION            This  landlord-tenant action was filed by Plaintiffs Kim Carlton and Frederick  Carlton (“Plaintiffs”) against Defendants Gladys Fung and James Tam  (“Defendants”). Plaintiffs bring seven causes of action related to their rental  property. Specifically, Plaintiffs assert claims for: (1) breach of contract;  (2) nuisance under Civil Code § 3479; (3) intentional infliction of emotional  distress; (4) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment under Civil Code §  1972; (5) breach of the implied warranty of habitability under Civil Code §  1942.4; (6) constructive eviction under Civil Code § 1946.2; and (7)  negligence.Plaintiffs allege that Defendants  failed to maintain the rental property in a safe and habitable condition,  despite repeated notifications of significant issues.On June 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed  a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On July 25, 2024, Defendants responded by  filing a Demurrer with a Motion to Strike. On September 18, 2024, Plaintiffs  opposed the Demurrer and on October 16, 2024, Defendants filed a Reply. Meet and ConferPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and  confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the  responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video  conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.  Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing  the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to  meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer  or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.  (a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).Here, Defense counsel sent a meet  and confer letter via email on July 17, 2024 (Mantovani Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. A).  The following day, both Plaintiffs’ counsel and Defense counsel spoke on the  phone but were unable to resolve the issues (Mantovani Decl., ¶ 5).  Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendants have satisfied the meet and confer  requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. II.        DEMURRERA.     Legal  StandardCode Civ. Proc. §430.10(e) provides for a demurrer on the basis that a  complaint fails to state a cause of action. A demurrer admits, provisionally  for purposes of testing the pleading, all material facts properly pleaded. Tindell v. Murphy (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th  1239, 1247. A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.   B.     DiscussionDefendants demur to the second and third causes of action in Plaintiffs’  FAC—private nuisance and intentional infliction of emotional distress—arguing  that Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient facts to support these claims  and that the nuisance claim is duplicative. Defendants have not demurred to the  first, fourth, fifth, sixth, or seventh causes of action.Second Cause of Action:  Nuisance“The essence of a private nuisance is an interference with the use and  enjoyment of land.” (Friends of H Street v. City of Sacramento (1993) 20  Cal.App.4th 152, 160.) Thus, to allege a cause of action for private nuisance,  the plaintiff must allege injury specific to the use and enjoyment of his land.  (See Adams v. MHC Colony Park Limited Partnership (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th  601, 610.) Defendants argue that the facts underlying the nuisance claim are  identical to those in the negligence claim, rendering the second cause of  action duplicative of the seventh cause of action. (Demurrer, pp. 8-9)  Defendants contend that both claims rely on the same alleged conduct,  specifically they arise out of Defendants’ alleged duty and alleged failure to  remedy the claimed defects on the Property. (Demurrer p. 9)Upon review of the FAC, the Court finds that the nuisance cause of action  alleges that “Defendants negligently and intentionally caused to exist [a]  nuisance” (FAC ¶ 28). A nuisance claim is treated as a negligence claim if both  causes of action rely on the same underlying facts about a lack of due care (Melton  v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 542; El Escorial  Owners’ Association v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th  1337, 1349).Here, Plaintiffs’ claims that Defendants actions were both negligent and  intentional are 1) internally inconsistent and 2) based on the same facts and  alleged conduct as the negligence cause of action. The FAC does not provide  specific factual allegations to support the conclusory assertion that  Defendants intentionally created the nuisance. Without such factual support,  the allegation of intentionality remains insufficient to sustain nuisance as a  separate cause of action.Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as the second cause of  action, with leave to amend.Third Cause of Action:  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)A cause of action for IIED exists when there is “(1) extreme and  outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless  disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the  plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and  proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous  conduct.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-51.)   A defendant's conduct is “outrageous” when it is so extreme as to exceed all  bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.  (Id.)   With regard to the first element, IIED calls for intentional, or at least  reckless conduct—conduct intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the  realization that injury will result.  (Davidson v. City of Westminster  (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 210.)  Defendants demur to the third cause of action for failure to state  sufficient facts to constitute IIED, asserting that the FAC does not specify  any extreme emotional distress suffered by Plaintiffs, which is an essential  element for this claim (Demurrer, p. 5). Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’  allegations are conclusory and lack specific details of “enduring” medical or  psychological issues that would satisfy the standard of severe distress beyond  what a reasonable person in a civilized society should be expected to bear  (Demurrer, p. 6). They contend that the claims, at most, suggest negligence  rather than intentional or outrageous conduct that could support IIED.The FAC alleges that “the actions of the Defendants, as alleged herein,  were extreme and outrageous and done with reckless disregard of the possibility  that the Plaintiffs would suffer emotional distress” (FAC ¶ 34). Plaintiffs  further claim they suffered “extreme emotional distress” as a result of  Defendants’ reckless conduct, causing “mental, emotional, and physical  distress, pain and suffering,” for which they seek exemplary and punitive  damages (FAC ¶¶ 35-36).The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ FAC primarily relies on conclusory  statements rather than specific factual allegations to substantiate “extreme  and outrageous” conduct or reckless intent. General statements, such as  “Defendants acted with reckless disregard” (FAC ¶ 34), lack detail and fail to  demonstrate how the conduct meets the standard of “outrageous,” as defined by  California law. As Hughes v. Pair explains, extreme or outrageous  conduct must “exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized  community” (46 Cal.4th at 1050-51).Although Plaintiffs allege that they experienced physical and  psychological symptoms, including “respiratory issues, brain fog, insomnia,  congestion, labored breathing, fatigue, stress, extreme forgetfulness, and  sleep apnea” (FAC ¶ 9), the FAC does not provide sufficient factual details to  establish severe emotional distress that is “so enduring that no reasonable  person in a civilized society should be expected to bear it” (Demurrer, p.  5) Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the third cause of action,  with leave to amend. IV.       MOTION TO STRIKEA.     Legal  StandardCode Civ. Proc. §436: “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to  Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:(a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.(b) Strike out all  or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”Code Civ. Proc. §431.10:“(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or  defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it  insufficient as to that claim or defense.(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following:(1) An allegation that is not essential to  the statement of a claim or defense.(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an  otherwise sufficient claim or defense.(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the  allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’ means irrelevant matter’ as that term is  used in Section 436.”              Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and  convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice. (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294 (a).) “Malice” is conduct intended by the  defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is  carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of  others. (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only when  the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s  rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North, 135 Cal. App. 4th 1188, 1210 (2006).)  “As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly  indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more  than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The  additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College  Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court, 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725 (1994).) The statute’s  reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on  punitive damage awards.” (Id.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is  so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be  looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been  described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with  crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co., 25 Cal. App. 4th 1269,  1287 (1994).) Further, “[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of  the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately  failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan  v. Ticor Title Ins. Co., 185 Cal. App. 3d 1149, 1155 (1986); see also Angie M. v. Superior Court, 37 Cal. App. 4th 1217, 1228 (1995)  [“Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the  defendant is aware of the probably dangerous consequences of his or her conduct  and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences”].) In landlord-tenant cases, punitive  damage awards have been upheld where there is evidence of intentionally created  nuisance, wrongful eviction, and other similar circumstances. Fernandez v.  Singh (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 932; Rich v. Schwab (1998) 63  Cal.App.4th 803 (Civ. Code §1942.5 provides for an award of punitive damages); Stroiber  v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903.  B.     Discussion            Defendant  moves to strike specific portions of the FAC that reference punitive damages, asserting  that the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to meet the requirements for  punitive damages. Defendant argues that the allegations lack a clear and  convincing factual showing of malice, oppression, or fraud, as required under  California law (Motion to Strike, p. 2).Specifically, Defendant seeks to  strike the following portions from the FAC: paragraph 34, 36 (in part), 51 and  57 (in part), Prayer for relief in paragraph 3 under the fifth and sixth causes  of action. The Court notes that Defendant’s  motion to strike Paragraphs 34 and 36 of the FAC are moot and thus require no  further consideration.Paragraph 51Paragraph 51 alleges that “the  conduct of the Defendants alleged herein was carried on with a willful and  conscious disregard to the health and safety of the Plaintiffs. By reason  thereof, the Plaintiffs are entitled to punitive damages in an amount determined  at trial.” Defendants argue that the FAC lacks specific factual allegations  showing that Defendants acted with malice or conscious disregard, asserting  that a mere failure to investigate tenant complaints does not meet the  threshold for punitive damages as established in Lackner v. North (135  Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210 (2006)). While Plaintiffs oppose the motion  to strike and allege that Defendants disregarded numerous complaints of  respiratory issues, mold, and water intrusion (FAC ¶¶ 9-14), the Court agrees  that there is a lack of specific factual detail demonstrating that Defendants’  conduct was “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome” as  to be considered despicable (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co., 25  Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287 (1994)). The Court finds that, without more specific  allegations indicating knowledge or intent to harm, Paragraph 51 does not  substantiate punitive damages as defined under Civil Code section 3294.Accordingly, Paragraph 51 is  stricken. Paragraph 57Paragraph 57 alleges that “tenants  in constructive eviction cases are entitled to damages, including punitive  damages…” Defendants argue that this language improperly implies an entitlement  to punitive damages without providing sufficient factual support for malice,  oppression, or fraud.The Court finds that this statement  is a blanket assertion by Plaintiffs that tenants are entitled to punitive  damages in constructive eviction cases. Plaintiffs imply an entitlement to  punitive damages, but without specific factual allegations that meet the  “despicable conduct” standard required to establish malice or oppression,  Plaintiffs cannot sustain a claim for punitive damages.Accordingly, Paragraph 57 is stricken. Prayer for relief - paragraph 3 under fifth and sixth  causes of actionThe prayer for punitive and  exemplary damages in Paragraph 3 of the fifth and sixth causes of action  requests “punitive and exemplary damages according to proof at time of trial.”  Defendants argue that these requests are unsupported by the factual allegations  in the FAC, as the claims for punitive damages fail to meet the legal standard  for despicable conduct or malice.As discussed above, given the  Court’s findings of insufficiency in the factual basis for malice or conscious  disregard, the requests for punitive damages in the prayers for relief under  the fifth and sixth causes of action similarly fail. Accordingly, the prayers for  punitive and exemplary damages in paragraph 3 under the fifth and sixth causes  of action are stricken.             V.        CONCLUSIONThe Court SUSTAINS Defendants’  demurrer to the second and third causes of action of the FAC, with leave to  amend.         The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion  to strike paragraphs 51 and 57, as well as the prayer for relief under the  fifth and sixth causes of action. The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike  paragraph 34 and 36.Plaintiffs have 20 days to file  amended pleading.Defendants are to give notice.            Dated: November 5, 2024                                                                                                                                                                              JARED D MOSES        JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                                                 