  Case Number:  22AHCV01269    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO SEAL I.        INTRODUCTION
This action arises from claims of (1) sexual assault,
(2) negligence, and (3) negligent failure to educate, train, or warn, brought
by Plaintiffs JANE M.A.T. DOE and JANE M.I.G. DOE (“Plaintiffs”) against
Defendants DEFENDANT DOE 1, DEFENDANT DOE 2, and DOES 3 through 100, inclusive.
Plaintiffs initiated this action on December 29, 2022, alleging harm stemming
from sexual abuse they endured as minors.
On October 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to
seal Exhibits 1 and 2 attached to the Declaration of Thomas B. Murtland in
support of their Motion for Protective Order. Defendant DOE 1 (“Defendant”)
filed an opposition to the motion to seal on October 23, 2024, arguing against
the necessity and scope of the requested sealing order. Plaintiffs subsequently
filed a reply to Defendant’s opposition on October 29, 2024, reaffirming their
need for the sealing order to protect sensitive information related to the
underlying allegations.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to
public review.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c).)  “The court may
order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that
establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of
public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the
record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will
be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding
interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178,
1217-1218 (NBC).)  
“A
record must not be filed under seal without a court order.  The court must
not permit a record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or
stipulation of the parties.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(a).) 
“A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing the record.  The motion or application
must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts
sufficient to justify the sealing.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).) 
“If necessary to prevent disclosure, any motion or application, any opposition,
and any supporting documents must be filed in a public redacted version and
lodged in a complete, unredacted version conditionally under seal.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(5).)   
III.     ANALYSIS
          Plaintiffs request the Court seal Exhibits 1 and 2 attached
to the Declaration of Thomas B. Murtland, arguing that these exhibits contain
sensitive information that identifies Plaintiffs as victims of childhood sexual
assault. Citing Rule 2.550 of the California Rules of Court, Plaintiffs contend
that sealing is necessary to protect their privacy and prevent further harm and
public exposure. (Motion, pg.3) They assert that an overriding
interest—the privacy rights of Plaintiffs—justifies restricting public access.
Specifically, Plaintiffs argue that without sealing, their identities would be
disclosed, prejudicing their privacy rights.
Plaintiffs
contend that the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored to redact only the
identifying information, without sealing the entire record. (Motion, pg. 4)
They also argue that no less restrictive alternative exists, as the redactions
are limited to the specific information necessary to protect their identities.
(Id.)
In
Opposition, Defendant Doe 1 argues Plaintiff’s motion for protective order
lacks clear scope and is impractical. (Opposition, pg. 2) Defendant also argues
Plaintiffs have inconsistently expanded the scope of the protective order,
seeking to label various information as confidential which could hinder the
Defendant’s investigation. (Opposition pg. 3-4) Defendant further contends that
Plaintiffs' claims of harassment are unsubstantiated, and that Plaintiffs have
also disclosed Defendant’s true names. (Opposition pg. 5-6) Defendant argues
the motion should be denied because it would unfairly restrict their right to
investigate while permitting Plaintiffs broad discretion over what information
is deemed confidential.
In
their Reply, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s past approach to gathering
information was excessive, asserting that Defendant did not need to disclose
Plaintiffs' names to the broader alumni network to obtain relevant details
(Reply, pg. 3). Plaintiffs clarify that their own outreach emails to
individuals omitted any identifying information about themselves. They
reiterate the necessity of a protective order to protect Plaintiffs privacy
rights and prevent further exposure.
The
Court agrees with Plaintiffs and finds that sealing the documents is necessary
to protect them from further exposure. Pursuant to Rules 2.550 and 2.551, the
Court determines that there is an overriding interest in safeguarding
Plaintiffs' identities in this sexual assault case. The interest in protecting
individuals involved in sensitive matters justifies sealing the records, as
Plaintiffs could be prejudiced if their identities were disclosed. This case
involves highly sensitive allegations of sexual assault and inappropriate
treatment of minors. The Court further finds that the request to seal Exhibits
1 and 2 to Thomas B. Murtland’s Declaration and the Motion for Protective Order
is narrowly tailored.
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Seal
Exhibits 1 and 2 to Thomas B. Murtland’s Declaration.
Plaintiff
is to give notice. 
    
Dated: November 5, 2024                                                            
                                                                                    JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     