 Case Number:  23AHCV01728    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT XUESONG GUAN’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWERI.        INTRODUCTION

          This is a breach of contract case involving the allegedly
unapproved rental of an apartment. Plaintiff Deeson Pan alleges that Defendant
Xuesong Guan rented out 1420 S. Del Mar Ave, Unit #6, San Gabriel, California
91776 to a tenant without his permission. Pan allegedly owns the unit. The
complaint alleges five causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)
Constructive Fraud, (3) Negligent Misrepresentation of Facts, (4) Unfair
Business Practices and (5) Unfair Competition.  
Before
the Court is Defendant Guan’s unopposed motion for leave to amend and file a first
amended answer, filed on April 3, 2024. Guan seeks to add additional affirmative
defenses.      II.      II. LEGAL
STANDARD
Civ.
Proc. Code Section 473, subd. (a), allows courts to permit amendment of
pleadings in furtherance of justice and on any terms as may be proper. (CCP §
473(a).)
          Judicial policy strongly favors amendment. The general rule
is liberal construction of pleadings and liberal allowance of amendments. (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d
920, 939.)
          “Motions for leave to amend are directed to the sound
discretion of the judge: The court may, in furtherance of justice and on any terms
as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.... However, the court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the
pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in
which denial of leave to amend can be justified. Leave to amend should be
denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the
plaintiff's claim is clear, but under substantive law, no liability exists and
no amendment would change the result.” (Howard v. County of San Diego
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428, internal citations omitted.)
          Courts will ordinarily not consider the validity of a
proposed pleading; the preferred practice is to “permit the amendment and allow
the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on
the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.) But a court does not
abuse its discretion in denying leave to amend where the proposed pleading
fails to state a cause of action and further amendment would be “futile.” (Foxborough v. Van Atta (1994) 26
Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231.)          
          Courts have discretion to deny leave to amend where delay
in seeking amendment has prejudiced the other party. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)
          California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b), requires
that a motion for leave to amend include a copy of the proposed amended
pleading and a declaration stating why the amendment is necessary and proper,
when the facts giving rise to the amended declaration were discovered, and the
reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (CRC 3.1324(b).)
 III.     DISCUSSION  
A. The Procedural Requirements Are Met
 Guan urges “Defendant will suffer significant
prejudice to her case if she is not permitted to amend her answer.” (Motion p.
4: 14-15.) The motion is supported by the declaration of her attorney, James
Andion. Andion declares that Ms. Guan had mistakenly filed an answer prior to
retaining him as counsel, due to a misunderstanding about the court process and
advice from others. (Andion Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) He declares that due to mistake, amendment
is necessary. (Andion Decl. ¶ 5.) He was retained at the end of February 2024
and reviewed the case then. (Andion Decl. ¶ 3.) This declaration satisfies the
requirements of Rule 3.1324(b) as it explains when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered and why leave to amend was not sought
sooner.  
Guan
also attaches a copy of her proposed amended answer.
B. The Motion is Not Untimely
Timeliness
is only a basis for denial where leave to amend would be prejudicial. While
there is no time limit on motions for leave to amend, leave to amend may be
denied where allowing amendment would be prejudicial to the opposing party. 
As
this motion is unopposed and no party asserts that allowing amendment would be
prejudicial, the motion for leave to amend is not untimely.  
          The Court grants the motion for leave to file a first
amended answer. 
IV. ORDER
Guan’s
motion for leave to amend is granted. 
Guan
is ordered to file and serve separately the proposed 1st Amended Answer on Plaintiff
Deeson Pan within 30 days’ notice of this order. 
Defendant
Xuesong Guan to give notice of this order.
          
Dated: May 28, 2024                                    _______________________________
                                                                                   JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT