 Case Number:  21STCV07597    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
14, 2023                            TRIAL
DATE:  February 18, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Dawn Marie Fisher v. Adam F. Goldberg Productions, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV07597
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc., Sony Pictures Studios Inc., Sony Pictures
Television Inc., and Lot, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Dawn
Marie Fisher
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On February 26, 2021, Plaintiff, Dawn Marie Fisher, initiated
this action against Defendants, Adam F. Goldberg Productions, Inc.[1],
Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc (“SP Entertainment”), and Does 1-25, for
injuries and damages arising from a trip and fall on the property of SP Entertainment.
 Plaintiff later amended the Complaint to
name Sony Pictures Television, Inc. (“SP Television”) as Doe 1, Lot, Inc. as
Doe 2, and Sony Pictures Studios, Inc. (“SP Studios”) as Doe 3.  Plaintiff alleges that, on October 31, 2018, she
was walking to work on the property of SP Entertainment when she tripped and
fell on a protruding bolt on the walkway. Plaintiff asserts a single cause of
action for premises liability against all Defendants.
 
            On May 31,
2023, SP Entertainment, SP Television, SP Studios,[2]
and Lot, Inc. (hereafter, “Defendants” or “Sony Entities and Lot, Inc.”) filed
this motion for summary judgment.  
 
On September 6, 2023, the Court heard argument from counsel
and requested further briefing. 
Defendants submitted a supplemental opening brief, a second supplemental
statement of undisputed material facts, and the declaration of Criag
Scwartz.  Plaintiff submitted a
supplemental opposition and Defendants replied. 
 
            
 
II.           LEGAL
STANDARD FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
                “[T]he initial
burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there
are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).)  If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is
over, and the motion must be denied.  (See
Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)  Even if the
moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the
motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)  It is insufficient for the defendant to merely
point out the absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)  The defendant “must also produce evidence that the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” 
(Ibid.)¿ The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits,
declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters
of which judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” 
(Ibid.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
The
court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of
that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)
 “On a summary judgment motion, the court
must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. 
If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”  (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment
based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. 
Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
IV.       EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff submits one (1) objection to the Declaration
of Derek Lemon.  The objection is
OVERRULED.  (Sweetwater Union High
School Dist. V. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931.) 
 
            Defendants
object to portions of Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts (“PUMF”) but the objection to PUMF 9 is the only objection clearly
stated.  The objection is SUSTAINED.
 
V.        DISCUSSION
 
A. 
Undisputed Facts
 
 The Incident
 
The alleged injury occurred on the Sony Pictures studio
complex, in Culver City, California (the “Studio Complex”).  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”)[3]
4.)  Plaintiff was employed by SP
Entertainment as a first aid nurse in the Medical Services department where she
administered flu shots.  (UMF 18, 31.)  The Medical Services department is located in
the Robert Young Building on Fish Alley, which is one of the many buildings at
the Studio Complex.  (UMF 19.)  On October 31, 2018, Plaintiff was walking back
to the Robert Young Building after getting a cup of coffee in the cafeteria
when she tripped and fell on a protruding bolt next to the entrance of the
Robert Young Building on Fish Alley and was injured.  (UMF 17, 21, 24, 25.)  The fall occurred right in front of the Robert
Young Building.  (UMF 26, 27.)  The bolts were protruding because the SPS Maintenance
Team received a work request on October 29, 2018 to temporarily remove a bicycle
rack so that a location shoot could be filmed for a television show in Fish
Alley.  (UMF 21.)  The SPS Maintenance Team dispatched Phillip
Prewitt and Tim Gehrig, who were SP Entertainment employees, to remove the
bicycle racks.  (UMF 22; Supplemental
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (SSUMF) 6, 7, 9-12.)  SP Entertainment billed SP Television for the
work performed by Prewitt and Gehrig.  (2nd
SSUMF 2.)[4]

 
The Defendants 
 
Lot, Inc. is the legal owner of the real property on which
the Studio Complex is situated. (UMF 5.) Lot, Inc. leases the real property to
SP Studios. SP Studios owns the studios, buildings, grounds, and equipment at
the Studio Complex.[5] (UMF
7.) SP Studios and SP Television are subsidiaries of SP Entertainment. (UMF 8,
9.)  SP Entertainment
and its employees manage, operate, and provide services to SP Studios, SP
Television, and Lot, Inc.  (UMF
11.)  All of the employees who work at
the Studio Complex are employees of SP Entertainment. (UMF 12.) SP
Entertainment carries workers compensation insurance for its employees. (UMF
13.) SP Entertainment’s Construction – Facilities and Backlot Operations
department is responsible for all permitted construction, tenant improvements,
repairs and maintenance at the Studio Complex, and its SPS Maintenance Team
performs any facilities maintenance and repair at the Studio Complex, including
removal of the subject bicycle rack. 
(UMF 14.)
 
B.  Contentions
 
Defendant SP Entertainment moves for summary judgment based
upon worker’s compensation exclusivity. 
This issue turns upon the application of the “goings and comings” rule,
the premises line exception and the “field of risk” rule.  The remaining defendants advance two separate
arguments for summary judgment: (1) the Privette doctrine and (2) Plaintiff’s
inability to establish each of the essential elements for a premises liability
claim.  The Court addresses each argument
in turn: 
 
1.  SP
Entertainment’s Argument re: Workers Compensation Exclusivity 
 
Based on the undisputed facts, Plaintiff was an employee of SP
Entertainment.  There is no evidence
showing SP Studios, SP Television, and Lot, Inc. were Plaintiff’s employers.  Accordingly, the Court frames the issues as
follows: (1) whether Plaintiff’s injury occurred within the course and scope of
her employment with SP Entertainment, and relatedly, whether the going and
coming rule or the premises line exception to that rule or the “field of risk”
rule apply.  
 
Labor Code section 3600 mandates compensation for injuries
to employees against their employers that arise out of and in the course of the
employment.  (Lab. Code, § 3600.)  The relevant conditions of the worker’s
compensation statute are as follows: (1) the employer and employee are subject
to the terms of the worker’s compensation law, (2) the worker is injured while
performing services incident to the employment and is acting within the course
of his or her employment, and (3) the injury is proximately caused by the
employment. (Lab. Code., § 3600(a).) Where the conditions of compensation set
forth in Section 3600 occur, the right to recover compensation is, except as
specifically provided, the sole and exclusive remedy of the employee against
the employer.  (Lab. Code, § 3602, subd.
(a).)
 
Here, it is undisputed SP Entertainment hired Plaintiff as a
nurse. (UMF 18, 31.)  It is further
undisputed SP Entertainment carries workers compensation insurance for its
employees.  (UMF 13.)  There is no dispute where the incident
occurred: in front of the entrance of the Robert Young Building where Plaintiff
worked.  (UMF 17, 21, 24, 25.)  
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the
workers’ compensation exclusivity rule because Plaintiff was an employee of SP
Entertainment and working in the course and scope of her employment at the time
of the incident.   
 
A.  The Goings and
Comings Rule
 
Plaintiff argues the goings and comings rule applies because
she was not working at the time of the incident.  Generally, injuries sustained by employees
when going to or returning from their regular place of work do not “arise out
of and in course of employment.”  (Pacific Indem. Co. v. Industrial Acc.
Comm. (1946) 28 Cal.2d. 329 (Pacific
Indem. Co.).)  This is commonly
referred to as the “going and coming” rule. 
“The ‘going and coming’ rule is sometimes ascribed to the theory that
the employment relationship is ‘suspended’ from the time the employee leaves
[the workplace] until he returns, or that in commuting he is not rendering
service to his employer.”  (Hartline v.
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (2005)
132 Cal.App.4th 458, 465-66 [cleaned up].)  
 
Here, Plaintiff submits evidence that she had not started
work when the injury occurred.   In her
declaration, Plaintiff states she arrived at the Studio Complex before her
shift was to begin and was walking toward the Robert Young building when she
tripped and fell.  (Declaration of Dawn
Marie Fisher, ¶ 9.)   As such, Plaintiff
submits evidence to show she was not working in the course and scope of her
employment at the time of the incident.  
 
Defendants contend Plaintiff testified to having started
working at the time of the incident. 
They point to Plaintiff’s deposition in her workers compensation
proceedings wherein Plaintiff testified she “believe[d] it was about 7:00 a.m.
[when the fall occurred] and I had already – I was working – scheduled to work
at 8:00.  I went and got a cup of coffee
in the cafeteria.  As I was walking back
to my job site, which was the ... medical department ... something just made me
stop.  My right foot like hit something
and I kind of stopped and I started to fall forward.”  (Plaintiff’s Deposition, p. 179:12-19,
Declaration of Stephen Thomas Davenport, Jr., Ex. D.)  
 
Contrary to Defendants’ contention, the foregoing testimony
does not conclusively establish Plaintiff was working at the time the incident
occurred.  Rather, the testimony tends to
support the opposite conclusion -- Plaintiff was scheduled to start work at
8:00 a.m.  At the very least, when ruling
on a summary judgment motion, all reasonable inferences are drawn in favor of
the opposing party.  (Weiss, supra,
9 Cal.5th at p. 864.)
 
B.  The Premises
Line Exception 
 
            To avoid application of the goings and comings rule, Defendants
invoke an exception to the rule – the premises line exception.  The premises line exception applies to injuries
sustained by an employee while going to or from her place of work on premises owned and controlled by her
employer.  Such injuries are generally
deemed to have arisen out of and in the course of employment; commonly referred
to as the “premises line” exception to the general rule.  (Pacific Indem. Co., 28 Cal.2d. at p.
336; Greydanus v. Industrial Acc. Commission (1965) 63 Cal.2d 490;
Peterson v. Moran (1952) 111 Cal.App.2d 766, 769 [“it is a well-established
rule that the protective scope of the Workmen’s Compensation Act applies not
only while a servant is actively at work on the employer’s premises, but also
while he is properly traversing the premises in going to or coming from work
so long as his act involves no unreasonable delay”].)(Emphasis
added.)  “Prior to entry[,] the going and coming rule ordinarily precludes
recovery [of workers' compensation benefits]; after entry, injury is generally
presumed compensable as arising in the course of employment.” (Jones v. Regents of University of California (Cal. Ct. App., Oct. 31, 2023, No. G061787) 2023 WL 8229170, at *3.)
“The employer's premises
include his parking lot as well as plant or office, and once the employee has
reached the premises, employment is not interrupted by crossing public property
while travelling from one part of the premises to another.”  (Schultz v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (Schultz) (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1126,
1135.) (Citations omitted.)  “[W]here an
employee is required to access the employer's property by a specific means, an injury
occurring during the course of entry into the property, even if on a public
highway, is considered to have occurred in the course of employment under the
premises line rule.  The liability of an
employer for injuries sustained by his employees on the employment premises is
exceedingly broad. Extending his liability to the total premises is somewhat
arbitrary but as a practical measure is well established.” (Id. at p.
1136.) 
Defendant SP
Entertainment cites Schultz in support of its argument that the premises
line exception applies.  Defendants are
right to do so.  The factual complication
– that SP Entertainment does not own the property on which the sprawling Sony
campus sits – is resolved favorably for SP Entertainment by Schultz.  
Schultz was employed by
JT3, a contractor located at Edwards Airforce Base.  Schultz was injured in a traffic accident
when he drove onto the base enroute to his assigned building, which was seven
miles inside the base.  Schultz crashed
at mile one.  Schultz applied for
worker’s compensation.  JT3 opposed the
application and argued, in essence, that the accident occurred before Schultz
started work and seven miles from the building where he was employed on the
base.  At the worker’s compensation
hearing, it was noted that JT3 employed some 200 workers on the base and had
multiple locations “spread all over the base.” (Schultz, supra, 232
Cal.App.4th at p. 1131.)  The Worker’s
Compensation Appeals Board denied Schultz’s benefits under the goings and
comings rule.  
            The Court of Appeal reversed favoring application of the premises
line exception. The Appellate Court noted several important facts.  “Edwards is a secure location, and JT3
controlled Schultz's access to the base, which he could only enter with a
security pass issued by JT3 and approved by the Air Force. Because JT3
controlled Schultz's access to Edwards, and Schultz worked throughout the base
on assignments, Schultz was on the premises of his employer once he entered
Edwards, and his injury therefore occurred during the course of that employment
for purposes of the workers' compensation law.” (Id. at p. 1136.)  The Court of Appeal emphasized that Schultz’s access
to Edwards was controlled by JT3.  “It
was the security pass issued by JT3 as part of Schultz’s employment that
provided means for Schultz’s entry to Edwards.” (Id. at p. 1138.)  Schultz was required to traverse a secure area
of Edwards to reach his building “and his employment necessarily contemplated
that he use the roads on Edwards, as no other means of reaching his main work
location are suggested by the record.” (Ibid.) 
The evidence presented herein is striking similar, albeit not
identical to Schultz.  Defendants offer
the Declaration of Josh Farrar, SP Entertainment’s Executive Director of
Security and Plaintiff’s ID badge to establish that Plaintiff can only enter
the Studio Complex by passing through a security gate where Plaintiff was
required to furnish an SP Entertainment-issued ID badge.  (Farrar Decl., ¶¶ 2-6; SSUMF 1-4.)  The ID badge states that it “must be carried
at all times while on SPE premises.”  (Farrar
Decl., Ex. A.)  This shows that SP
Entertainment controlled the premises, as well as the access to and movement on
the Complex.  And like Edwards Air Force
Base, the Sony Complex is sprawling. 
(Farar Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.)  Like
SP Entertainment, JT3 did not own the land but it controlled access to it and required
movement across it for employment.  Plaintiff
worked at a fixed location on the Studio Complex (the Robert Young Building) and
tripped and fell while traversing the property.  Plaintiff does not address Schultz or
otherwise confront this argument.  
 
Defendants establish the premises line exception applies.  Because Plaintiff was on SP Entertainment’s
premises for purposes of employment at the time of the injury, the exclusivity
rule applies.  SP Entertainment is
entitled to summary judgment.  Having so
concluded, the Court does not address whether the field of risk rule applies.
 
C.  The Privette Doctrine
 
The remaining Defendants collectively argue relief (in the
form of vicarious liability) is barred by application of the Privette doctrine.
 After sifting through the arguments, the
analysis is straight forward.  The
doctrine does not apply because Plaintiff was not injured during the bicycle
rack removal job.  “There is a strong presumption under California law that a
hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the contractor all
responsibility for workplace safety. (Citations omitted) This means that a
hirer is typically not liable for injuries sustained by an independent
contractor or its workers while on the job.” (Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 37-38 (emphasis
added); see also Miller v. Roseville Lodge No. 1293 (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
825, 834 [“the Privette presumption arises once the defendant
establishes the requisite factual foundation—namely, that it hired an
independent contractor to perform certain work, and the independent
contractor's worker was injured in the course of that work”
(emphasis added)].) 


Plaintiff is more akin to a third party injured because
of the negligence of the independent contractor.  As the Court stated in Sandoval v. Qualcomm Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 269 [cleaned up], “Where an injury befalls
a hapless third party, the paramount concerns have been about ensuring victim
compensation. Lest the victim be limited to suing an insolvent contractor,
courts have extended various theories of direct and vicarious liability so the
injured third party can recover from the hirer. As between an unrelated third
party and a hirer, courts have preferred to let the loss lie with the party for
whose benefit the contracted work was undertaken.” [6]


            Moreover, Defendants,
who bear the burden of proof on this issue, fail to present evidence to
establish that SP Entertainment was engaged as an independent contractor.  The only evidence presented is that SP
Television was billed for SP Entertainment’s work.  But the nature of the relationship is
undefined.  Indeed, Defendants have failed to meet their burden to establish an
independent contractor relationship existed.   
            The Privette Doctrine does
not apply. 
3.  Premises
Liability
 
The elements for a premises
liability claim are: (1) defendant owned or controlled the subject property;
(2) defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of the property; (3)
plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (CACI No. 1000.) 
¿
 
Turning to the second
element, a defendant may be negligent in the use or maintenance of the property
if (1) a condition on the property created an unreasonable risk of harm; (2)
the defendant knew or, through the exercise of reasonable care, should have
known about it; and (3) the defendant failed to repair the condition, protect
against harm from the condition, or give adequate warning of the
condition.  (CACI No. 1003.)
 
A.  Defendants Lot, Inc. and SP Studios
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff
cannot establish the second and fourth elements because the Defendants did not
act negligently.[7]  Lot, Inc. concedes ownership but argues that
because it was an “out of possession” owner, it had no part in the removal of
the bicycle racks.  Hence, it did not act
negligently.  SP Studios concedes it is a
lessee but argues similarly that it is an “out of possession” lessee who had no
role in the removal of the bicycle racks.  Assuming this argument prevails, both
Defendants argue they cannot be vicariously liable because of the Privette
doctrine.  
 
Plaintiff does not
challenge the Defendants’ “out of possession” argument.  The “out of possession” argument dovetails
with Defendants’ argument they lacked actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous
condition.  Defendants submitted evidence
they were out of possession owners/lesees at the time of Plaintiff’s injury.  Plaintiff does not challenge Defendants’
evidence or law.  Plaintiff did not
present any evidence challenging Defendants’ contention they were “out of
possession.”  Nor did Plaintiff present
any evidence that these Defendants had actual or constructive knowledge of the
repairs.  Plaintiff did not respond at
all to the authorities cited by Defendants. 

 
Instead, Plaintiff pivots
and challenges Defendants’ second argument – vicarious liability.  Plaintiff argues Defendants are vicariously
liable (which would satisfy the second and fourth elements) because they had a nondelegable
duty to maintain the property in a safe condition.   Defendants
do not confront Plaintiff’s argument head-on. 
Indeed, they do not address Plaintiff’s case law at all.  Rather, Defendants argue Plaintiff cannot rely
upon vicarious liability to establish the second and fourth elements because Privette
stands in the way, effectively blocking application of vicarious liability.  But, as discussed above, Privette does
not apply.   
 
The non-delegable duty doctrine
is another example of an exception to the common law rule that the hirer of an
independent contractor was not liable to third parties for injuries caused by
the contractor’s negligence.  But “[u]nder this doctrine, a
landlord cannot escape liability for failure to maintain property in a safe
condition by delegating such duty to an independent contractor.  Simply stated, ‘[t]he duty which a possessor
of land owes to others to put and maintain it in reasonably safe condition is
nondelegable.  If an independent
contractor, no matter how carefully selected, is employed to perform it, the
possessor is answerable for harm caused by
the negligent failure of his contractor to put or maintain the buildings and structures
in reasonably safe condition[.]’” (Srithong v. Total Investment Co.
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 721, 725-727.)  The
Srithong Court went on to explain, “the nondelegable duty rule is a form
of vicarious liability because it is not based on the personal fault of the
landowner who hired the independent contractor.  Rather, the party charged with a nondelegable
duty is held liable for the negligence of his
agent, whether his agent
was an employee or an independent contractor.  Regardless of “how carefully” the landowner
selected the independent contractor, the landowner is answerable for harm caused by the negligent failure of
his contractor.”  (Id. [cleaned up].)  “Thus, the nondelegable duty rule advances
the same purposes as other forms of vicarious liability.” (Id.)
 
To invoke the doctrine, however, a plaintiff must
demonstrate that the owner or possessor hired an independent contractor to do
the work on the property.  Where an owner or possessor hires
an independent contractor to do work, the owner or possessor will be held
vicariously liable and answerable for harm caused by the contractor's negligent
failure to perform its work in a reasonably safe manner, irrespective of whether the contractor's negligence lies in
incompetence, carelessness, inattention or delay. (Brown v. George
Pepperdine Foundation (1943) 23 Cal.2d 256, 260; Srithong, supra, at
p. 726; see Pappas v. Carson (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 261, 268-269.) 

            Defendants
successfully demonstrate that at least one of the essential elements is missing – hiring.  Neither Lot, Inc. nor SP Studios hired SP
Entertainment to perform the work.  Plaintiff
fails to rebut Defendants’ evidence on this point.  
 
Plaintiff failed to respond
to Defendant’s “out of possession” argument and failed to invoke the nondelegable
duty rule to establish vicarious liability. 
As such, Defendants demonstrate successfully that Plaintiff cannot
establish every element of her premises liability claim.  Plaintiff’s fails to rebut this evidence and
argument.  Summary judgment is granted
for Defendants Lot, Inc. and SP Studios.
 
B.   Defendant SP Television
 
SP Television argues
summarily that Plaintiff cannot establish the first element of the premises
liability test because it did not own, lease, occupy or control the property.  Upon close examination, SP Television states
that it did not “own or lease” the real property.  (Defendants’ Supp. Brief at p. 10.).  No doubt choosing its words carefully, SP Television
admits by omission that it occupied or controlled the property where the work
was performed.  And as Plaintiff notes,
the evidence presented suggests, if not establishes, that SP Television hired
SP Entertainment to perform the work, if not verbally, then financially.  Indeed, SP Television paid for the work, raising
triable issues of material fact regarding both occupancy and control of the
property.  With respect to SP Television,
Plaintiff successfully advances the non-delegable duty doctrine and
demonstrates that it can establish each element of its claim for premises
liability.  SP Television fails to meet its initial burden.  Summary judgment is denied.    
 
VI.       CONCLUSION
 
The Motions for Summary Judgment as to Defendants SP
Entertainment, Lot, Inc. and SP Studios are Granted.
 
The Motion for Summary Judgment as to Defendant SP
Television is Denied.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated:   December 14,
2023                                       




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 
 
 


