  Case Number:  22SMCV02950    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Thanou v. Mahgerefteh
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02950
MOTION:                  Motion
for Sanctions
HEARING DATE:   1/16/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
If a party fails to obey a court
order compelling it to provide a discovery response, “the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction . . . In lieu of or in addition to
this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction . . ..” (CCP §§
2030.290(c), 2030.300(e), 2031.300(c), 2031.320(c).) Misuse of the discovery
process, which includes disobeying a court order to provide discovery, is
conduct subject to sanctions. (CCP § 2023.010(g).) Possible sanctions are:
 
(a) [A] monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process,
or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct….
 
(b) [A]n issue
sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in
the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.
 
(c) [A]n evidence
sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.
 
(d) [A] terminating
sanction by one of the following orders:
 
(1) An order
striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process.
 
(2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed.
 
(3) An order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party.
 
(4) An order
rendering a judgment by default against that party.
 
(e) [A] contempt
sanction by an order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a
contempt of court.
 
(CCP § 2023.030 [emphasis added].)
 
The party seeking to impose
sanctions need only show the failure to obey earlier discovery orders. (Puritan
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 877, 884 [interpreting
former statute dealing with “refusal” to comply].) However, numerous cases hold
that severe sanctions (i.e., terminating or evidentiary sanctions) for failure
to comply with a court order are allowed only where the failure was willful.
(See R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 486, 495; Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525,
1545; Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) The
burden of proof then shifts to the party seeking to avoid sanctions to
establish a satisfactory excuse for his or her conduct. (Corns v. Miller
(1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 201; Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1227.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant
Kourosh Mahgerefteh moves to sanction plaintiff Markella Thanou for her failure
to attend her noticed and court-ordered deposition. Defendant requests
terminating sanctions and monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,063.00 against
Plaintiff and her counsel of record.
 
Failure
to Obey Court Order
 
On
November 22, 2023, Plaintiff was ordered to attend a deposition no later than
December 1, 2023, at Veritext – Los Angeles, CA 707 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite
3500, Los Angeles, CA 90017, at a reasonable and mutually agreeable time. That
same date, defense counsel telephonically met and conferred with Plaintiff’s
counsel and agreed to set Plaintiff’s deposition for Friday, December 1, 2023.
(Bowen Decl., ¶ 12.) Counsel served a notice of deposition upon Plaintiff’s
counsel, setting Plaintiff’s deposition for December 1, 2023. (Id. ¶ 13.) On November
30, 2023, less than 24 hours before the deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel called
defense counsel and informed him that Plaintiff would not be appearing for her
Court ordered deposition. (Id., ¶ 14.) On December 1, 2023, neither plaintiff
nor her counsel appeared for the scheduled deposition. (Id., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff
did not offer any alternative availability dates for the deposition. (Id., ¶
17.) Plaintiff does not dispute that she failed to appear at her noticed
deposition. With this record, Defendant demonstrates that, despite notice and a
court order, Plaintiff refused to appear at her deposition. Plaintiff has the burden
to show a satisfactory excuse for her refusal to appear. 
 
            Plaintiff
opposes, contending she would have agreed to attend an in-person deposition at
the hospital. Plaintiff admits that counsel agreed to have the deposition on
December 1, 2023, at the Veritext Reporting Office. (Opia-Enwemuche Decl., ¶
3.) Counsel confirms that on November 30, 2023, he informed defense counsel of Plaintiff's
“medical condition” and suggested that counsel consider taking the deposition
at the hospital on December 1. (Id.) Counsel made this suggestion in an effort
to obey the court order, believing that this would effectively meet Defendant's
objectives. (Id., ¶ 4.) Counsel states that Plaintiff “remains available” to be
deposed virtually or at the hospital. (Id., ¶¶5-7.) Plaintiff also provides for
a doctor’s note, purportedly written by Pauline Yi, MD, who states that
Plaintiff has “a complicated medical history that is undergoing evaluation. At
this time, it i[s] recommended that she stay at home close to the medical
equipment that she needs daily and for emergencies. Please provide patient
video accommodation for her deposition.” (Id., ¶ 4, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff’s counsel
also provides the meet and confer efforts underlying the October deposition,
but not any correspondence regarding the relevant December 1, 2023, deposition
date. (Id., Ex. 2.)
 
            The Court must note that Plaintiff’s
counsel does not proffer any substantial corroborating evidence regarding
Plaintiff’s medical conditions, or her hospital stay on December 1, 2023. In
fact, Plaintiff’s counsel does not even state whether Plaintiff was at the
hospital on December 1, 2023. Plaintiff’s counsel only passively refers to
Plaintiff’s “medical condition.” (Id., ¶ 3.) Thus, it is unclear whether
Plaintiff is still in the hospital, or was ever in the hospital. 
 
            Notably, under the present
procedural posture, Plaintiff had the burden to move for relief from
Defendant’s properly noticed depositions. While counsel may have raised these
issues in their meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff’s counsel neither opposed
the motion to compel deposition, nor affirmatively brought a motion for a
protective order to permit a virtual deposition. If Plaintiff was sufficiently
ill, then the Court would not have burdened Plaintiff with an in-person
deposition, especially considering her advanced age. The Court would have
accommodated any such request. However, Plaintiff did not make such a request until
the opposition to this motion. Accordingly, the Court will impose sanctions. 
 
Appropriate
Sanctions 
 
While
Plaintiff’s record presents mitigating factors against Plaintiff individually,
the Court is still inclined to impose monetary sanctions against counsel only.
The Court notes that Plaintiff failed to oppose the motion to compel her
deposition underlying the Court order. Plaintiff also failed to move for a
protective order regarding the in-person deposition. Thus, Plaintiff’s counsel
should be subject to sanctions, since his inaction caused needless litigation
and delay. 
 
The
Court is otherwise inclined not to grant further sanctions at the stage. Defendant
only properly noticed two forms of sanctions, monetary sanctions and
terminating sanctions. Defendant did not provide the required separate
statement for issue or evidentiary sanctions. (See CRC Rule 3.1345(a)(7).)
Instead, Defendant buries their request in the middle of page 5 of their brief,
suggesting that the Court should bar Plaintiff’s testimony at trial. (Mot. at
5:17-18.) However, the Court will consider such a sanction in the future
if Plaintiff continues to avoid her deposition. 
 
As to terminating sanctions, Plaintiff
failed to obey the court order for her deposition. However, given Plaintiff’s
ill health, advanced age, and potential present need for a virtual deposition,
the Court is not willing to consider the violation willful. Accordingly,
monetary sanctions in the total amount of $1,063.00 are imposed against
Plaintiff’s counsel of record, Kingsley Opia-Enwemuche of Twin Oak Attorneys. 
 
In the interest of resolving this discovery
dispute, the Court has statutory and inherent powers to modify the terms of the
subpoena. (CCP §§ 1987.1, 2025.420.) As such, the Court orders that Plaintiff’s
deposition be taken remotely, via Zoom or similar system, within 10 days.
Counsel are to meet and confer on a mutually agreeable date and time.