 Case Number:  23VECV02860    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  W MICHELE ANN
MEDINA, AN INDIVIDUAL v. BIRD RIDES, INC.
 
DEFENDANT BIRD RIDES, INC,’S MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY CASE PENDING COMPLETION OF ARBITRATION
 
Date of Hearing:        October
24, 2023                              Trial
Date:       None
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV02860
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Bird Rides, Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Michele Ann Medina  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff Michele Ann
Medina filed a complaint against Defendants Bird Rides, Inc. and Segway, Inc.
for negligence. Plaintiff alleges while using a scooter rented from Defendants,
the subject scooter malfunctioned causing Plaintiff to be ejected off and fall
to the ground. 
 
On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
Segway, Inc. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Bird Rides, Inc.’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and Stay Case Pending Completion of Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Bird Rides, Inc. moves this
court for an order compelling Plaintiff Medina to arbitrate her claims against
Bird asserted in this lawsuit, pursuant to the arbitration provision of the
“Bird Rental Agreement, Waiver of Liability and Release” (the “Rental Agreement”)
Plaintiff and Bird entered into on July 22, 2022.
 
The court briefly notes Plaintiff’s
opposition was untimely filed. Papers opposing a motion must be filed and
served at least nine court days before the hearing. (CCP 1005(b).) Plaintiff
filed their opposition on October 19th – three court days before the hearing.
The court admonishes Plaintiff and expects Plaintiff to comply with all service
and filing requirements imposed by the Code of Civil Procedure and Local Rules
going forward. Nevertheless, the court elects to exercise its discretion to
consider the untimely opposition. (CRC 3.1300(d).) 
 
“[W]hen a petition to compel
arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether
the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether
it is enforceable. Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory
prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of
proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence. If the party opposing
the petition raises a defense to enforcement… that party bears the burden of
producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact
necessary to the defense.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp.
(1996) 14 Cal. 4th 394, 413.)
 
Defendant Bird has met their initial
burden of showing that an arbitration agreement exists with Plaintiff. Defendant
presents a copy of the arbitration agreement Plaintiff accepted and agreed to
on July 22, 2022, when she first signed up as a Bird user. (Frascella Decl.
¶19, Exh. C.) As part of the arbitration agreement, Plaintiff agreed to the
following: [A]ll claims arising out of or relating to use and rental of a
Vehicle, this Agreement, and the parties’ relationship with each other shall be
finally settled by binding arbitration… The arbitration shall be administered
by JAMS, or alternatively a mutually agreed upon arbitrator or arbitration
service, under the applicable rules for JAMS or the mutually agreed upon
arbitration service, excluding any rules or procedures governing or permitting
class actions.” (Frascella Decl., Exh. A.) Furthermore, Plaintiff’s claim she
was injured while riding the Bird Scooter arises directly out of and relate to
the Bird Rental Agreement itself.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff first argues
the motion must be denied because the exhibits attached are unauthenticated and
the declarant, Mr. Frascella, lacks the personal knowledge of the things he
attests to in the declaration. The court disagrees. Mr. Frascella has properly
authenticated each exhibit and moreover, Mr. Frascella has properly laid the
foundation providing his personal knowledge to authenticate the documents. 
 
Next, Plaintiff refers to a Hurt
affidavit being insufficient to prove Plaintiff’s intent to be bound by the
provisions of Bird’s arbitration clause. There is no Hurt affidavit provided by
Bird. Nonetheless, the court finds in light of the evidence presented by
Frascella’s declaration, Bird has met its burden of establishing that it gave
Plaintiff reasonably conspicuous notice of the existence of the Arbitration
Agreement. (See eyer v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2d Cir. 2017) 868
F.3d 66, 75 holding the design of the screen and language used in the interface
provided reasonable notice of its Terms of Service as a matter of California
law.) 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff makes the argument
the FAA does not apply. The court disagrees. As noted by Defendant, the Bird
Rental Agreement is “a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce,”
as users like Plaintiff must use the Bird App on their smartphones to attest to
the Bird Rental Agreement and rent a Bird scooter.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The action is stayed pending arbitration.