  Case Number:  21STCV06467    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Hearing Date: 8/6/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV06467 ODET GANDIPIMYAN
vs CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN, INC.
Moving Party: Defendant California Pizza
Kitchen
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED. 
 
Background
Plaintiff initiated
this action against Defendant CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN, INC.
("Defendant") concerning an alleged slip and fall incident that
occurred on March 17, 2019 ("Incident") at a California Pizza Kitchen
restaurant located at 12265 Ventura Blvd., Studio City, CA 91604
("Premises"). Plaintiff alleges that while she was a patron at the
Premises, she slipped on an oily substance, resulting in injuries. On February
18, 2021, Plaintiff filed a lawsuit, asserting two causes of action: (1)
Premises Liability, and (2) Negligence. Defendant has now moved for summary
judgment, contending that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that Defendant had
notice of the dangerous condition. Plaintiff did not file an opposition
Legal Standard¿ 
In reviewing a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis:
“(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the
moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿¿ 
“[T]he initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If
the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even
if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still
defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.)¿ 
To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only
“that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It
is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The
defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿¿ 
“Once the defendant …
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿¿ 
The court must
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only
when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor
may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
Discussion
Negligence and Premises
Liability 
The elements of a cause
of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty,
breach, causation, and damages.  (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  Therefore, to prevail on a claim for
premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled the
subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of the
property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (See Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)  
A plaintiff must prove
(1) “[a] condition on the property created an unreasonable risk of harm”; (2)
that defendant “knew or, through the exercise of reasonable care, should have
known about it,” and (3) that defendant “failed to repair the condition,
protect against harm from the condition, or give adequate warning of the
condition.”  (CACI No. 1003)
Notice
A
property owner is not the insurer of the safety of its guests.¿(Ortega,
supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1205.)  The owner’s actual or constructive
knowledge of the dangerous condition is key to establishing liability.¿(Hall
v. Rockcliff Realtors (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1134, 1139-40.) The jury
instruction on ”Constructive Notice Regarding Dangerous Conditions on Property”
states: “In determining whether [a defendant] should have known of the
condition that created the risk of harm, [the jury] must decide whether, under
all the circumstances, the condition was of such a nature and existed long
enough that [the defendant] had sufficient time to discover it and, using
reasonable care: (1) repair the condition; or (2) protect against harm from the
condition; or adequately warn of the condition. A defendant must make
reasonable inspections of the property to discover unsafe conditions. If
an inspection was not made within a reasonable time before the accident, this
may show that the condition existed long enough so that [store] using
reasonable care would have discovered it.” (CACI No. 1011.) It is
generally a question of fact for the jury as to whether, under all the
circumstances, a defective condition existed long enough such that a reasonable
person, exercising reasonable care, would have discovered it. (Hale v.
Safeway Stores, Inc. (1954) 129 Cal.App.2d 124, 128-129 (Hale).)  
 
In
Girvetz v. Boys’ Market (1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 827, 829 (Girvetz),
the Court of Appeal stated:
 
“The defendant market owner was not an insurer of the safety of
his patrons, but owed them the duty to exercise reasonable care in keeping the
premises safe for his invitees. To impose liability for injuries suffered by an
invitee due to the defective condition of the premises, the owner or occupier
must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or
have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to discover the condition,
which if known to him, he should realize as involving an unreasonable risk to
invitees on his premises. His negligence in such cases is founded upon his
failure to exercise ordinary care in remedying the defect after he has
discovered it.  Whether, under all the circumstances, the defective
condition had existed long enough so that a reasonable man exercising
reasonable care would have discovered it, is ordinarily a question of fact to
be decided by the jury. The fact alone that a dangerous condition existed at
the time the accident occurred will not warrant an inference that the defendant
was negligent. There must be some evidence, direct or circumstantial, to
support the conclusion that the condition had existed long enough for the
proprietor, in the exercise of reasonable care, to have discovered and remedied
it.”
  
And
“[w]here the only evidence is that the foreign object has been on the floor of
the market for a minute and a half, it must be held that it is insufficient to
support an inference that the defendant proprietor failed to exercise the care
required of him.” (Id. at p. 831.)
 
On
the other hand, where the evidence fails to show how long the dangerous
condition existed prior to the injury, “evidence of the owner’s failure to
inspect the premises within a reasonable period of time is sufficient to allow
an inference that the condition was on the floor long enough to give the owner
the opportunity to discover and remedy it. [Citation.]” (Ortega, supra,
26 Cal.4th at p. 1203 [employees usually walked the aisle where plaintiff
slipped every 15 to 30 minutes]; Sapp v. W.T. Grant Co. (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 89, 91-92 (Sapp) [whether 15-to-25-minute interval between
inspections was commensurate with the exercise of reasonable care was a
question properly left to the trier of fact].)
 
Analysis
Jaclyn Gold, a waiter
present during the incident, submitted a declaration stating she observed
Plaintiff on the floor following the alleged fall but noted no water or other
substances nearby that could have caused the fall. She also photographed the
floor immediately after the incident, which displayed no signs of water
spillage. Additionally, Gold states that she is assigned to the area where the
alleged fall occurred and she routinely checks the floor for spills or other
hazards approximately 20 times every 10 minutes. She observed no spillage
around the time of Plaintiff's alleged fall. (Gold Decl. ¶¶ 4-8, Ex. B and C.) 
Gold’s deposition
testimony supports her declaration. She confirmed that she inspected and
surveyed the surrounding area while Plaintiff was still on the floor and
observed no spillage or liquids. (Gold Depo. 68:9-20.) The court finds that the
defendant has met its initial burden of demonstrating that it did not have
actual or constructive notice of the alleged dangerous condition or spillage.
Plaintiff did not file
an opposition and therefore failed to raise a triable issue of fact. Thus,
summary judgment is granted as to both of Plaintiff’s causes of action for
premises liability and negligence against Defendant California Pizza Kitchen.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 