 Case Number:  22STCV03165    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 8/6/24
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV03165 CRISTOPHER
VINCENT VERRETTE vs MYERS & SONS HI-WAY
Moving Party: Defendants Myers & Sons Hi-Way Safety, Hi-Way Safety
Rentals, Alejandro Lopez
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS DENIED
 
Legal Standard
Although continuances
of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on
its own merits. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may grant a continuance only on
an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.¿(CRC
Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining
whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2)
whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the
length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6)
whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿(See
generally CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿Additional
factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any
other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.¿(CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)
Discussion
On January 26, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case, and from May to July 2022, Defendants filed
their answers. At the time in which the present motion was filed, the trial was
set for August 2, 2024, but it has since been continued to October 31, 2024.
Defendant moves the court to continue the trial on the basis that there are
recent and significant changes. Defendant requests that the trial be no sooner
than 150 days after the current trial date to allow Defendants to have
Plaintiff examined by the defense neurologist. 
The Court does not find
good cause to continue the trial. On March 10, 2022, Plaintiff was examined by
Dr. Ezekiel Fink, Defendant's neurologist, regarding Plaintiff's neurological
complaints, including headaches. Dr. Fink found that there would be no permanent
impairment as a result of the head trauma, no future medical care is needed,
and no work modification is required.
On May 22, 2024,
Plaintiff was examined by his neurologist, Dr. Andrew Blumenfeld, who diagnosed
him with post-traumatic headache and recommended extensive future treatment and
a life plan based on this new evaluation. Defendant argues that there is a significant
unanticipated change in the status of the case (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c)(7)), and Defendant would be prejudiced if not given leave to perform
an additional IME on Plaintiff.
The Court disagrees
with the contention that this is a significant unanticipated change. It is not
surprising that opposing party's experts may come to different recommendations.
Plaintiff is not alleging new injuries for which Defendant requests an IME on
these newly alleged injuries. Plaintiff's expert's diagnosis still pertains to
headaches. The Court also does not find that Defendant will be prejudiced as an
IME has already been conducted by Dr. Fink and Defendant will have an
opportunity to depose Plaintiff's neurologist regarding the recommendations and
alternative means to address the problem that give rise to the motion.
The primary basis for
Defendant’s request for a continuance is that an opposing neurologist reached a
different conclusion. If this were sufficient to continue a trial, trials would
be unnecessarily prolonged as experts from opposing parties frequently disagree.
Moreover, other factors
under CRC Rule 3.1332 do not weigh in favor of continuing the trial, as this
case has already been continued three times: on May 2, 2023, October 19, 2023,
and July 11, 2023. The parties have had approximately two years to conduct
discovery and be ready for trial.
Based on the foregoing
analysis, the Court does not find good cause to continue the trial. The motion to
continue is hereby DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 
 
 
 
 
 