 Case Number:  24STCV15204    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  1 24STCV15204           JANE
ROE A.T. vs PALMDALE SCHOOL DISTRICT 
Defendant’s Unopposed Motion to Transfer Case to the
North District of the Los Angeles Superior Court
TENTATIVE RULING: 
The motion is GRANTED and 24STCV15204 is ordered reassigned to the
Michael D. Antonovich Antelope Valley Courthouse in the North District of the
Los Angeles Superior Court.  Clerk to
give notice.
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff Jane Roe A.T. (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Palmdale School District (“Defendant”)
arising out of alleged sexual abuse perpetrated against Plaintiff during her
time as a student. The complaint asserts causes of action for: (1) negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention of unfit employee; (2) failure to report
suspected child abuse; (3) negligent supervision of a minor; and (4)
negligence.  
On June 18, 2024, this action was assigned to the Honorable
Randolph M. Hammock sitting in Department 49 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.  
Standard

 
The
Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern the assignment of cases
between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc. § 402.) LASC Local Rule
2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil cases from one judicial
district to another via a noticed motion on three enumerated grounds: (1) when
the case was filed in an improper district; (2) for the convenience of
witnesses; or (3) to promote the ends of justice.
(LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) A transfer under the Local Rules is discretionary.

 
The
Parties Agree that a Transfer is Proper and a Transfer is Warranted 
 
Defendant
seeks to transfer this action to the Michael D. Antonovich Antelope Valley
Courthouse in the North District. The case is currently assigned to Department 49 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse,
which sits in the Central District of the Los Angeles Superior Court.
(LASC Local Rules, rule 2.2(b).)
 
“Every
unlimited civil tort action for bodily injury, wrongful death, or damage to
personal property (hereinafter referred to as a “Personal Injury Action”) must
be filed in the judicial district where the incident arose.” (LASC Local Rules,
rule 2.3(a)(1)(A).) “A Personal Injury Action is an unlimited civil case
described on the Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum and Statement of Location
(LACIV 109) as Motor Vehicle-Personal Injury/Property Damage/Wrongful Death;
Personal Injury/Property Damage/Wrongful Death-Uninsured Motorist; Product
Liability . . . Intentional Bodily Injury/Property Damage/Wrongful Death; or
Other Personal Injury/Property Damage/Wrongful Death.” (LASC Local Rules, rule
2.3(a)(1)(A).) “An action for intentional infliction of emotional distress,
defamation, civil rights/discrimination, or malpractice . . . is not included
in this definition.” (LASC Local Rules, rule 2.3(a)(1)(A).) “Every class action
must be filed in the Central District.” (LASC Local Rules, rule 2.3(a)(1)(A).) 
 
Here,
the Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum and Statement of Location filed by
Plaintiff indicates that this action is a personal injury action (See Civil
Case Cover Sheet Addendum and Statement of Location at p. 1) and is a class
action (See Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum and Statement of Location at p. 1)
and was therefore properly filed in the Central District. However, on the Civil
Case Cover Sheet, Plaintiff checked a box stating that this action is not a
class action. (See Civil Case Cover Sheet at p. 1.) Plaintiff’s counsel
certified that this action was properly filed in the Central District. (See
Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum and Statement of Location at p. 5.) 
 
Defendant’s
counsel, Louis R. Dumont (“Dumont”), declares that Plaintiff erroneously
completed the Civil Case Cover Sheet and Addendum and Statement of Location, so
this action was improperly assigned under Local Rule 2.3(a)(1). (Dumont Decl. ¶
3.) The actions giving rise to the complaint took place at a school located in
Palmdale, CA. (Dumont Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Plaintiff is only seeking personal injury
damages in this action. (Dumont Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff erroneously identified
this matter as a class action on the Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum and
Statement of Location. (Dumont Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendant requests that this action
be transferred to the Michael Antonovich Antelope Valley Courthouse for
reassignment to a civil department in the North District as Defendant is
located within the jurisdiction of this Court. (Dumont Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
In
her notice of non-opposition, Plaintiff indicates that she does not oppose the
motion and “stipulates that the filing court locator on the Los Angeles
Superior Court website yields a result for Michael Antonovich Antelope Valley
Courthouse in the North District as the appropriate filing location for
Plaintiff’s lawsuit arising in the city of Palmdale with the zip code of
93550.” (Plaintiff’s Notice of Non-Opposition ¶ 4.) According to Plaintiff,
“[d]ue to an inadvertent clerical error at the time of filing on June 18, 2024,
Plaintiff improperly specified [the] Central District as the appropriate filing
location, which resulted in the assignment of this action to Department 49 of
the Stanley Mosk Courthouse.” (Plaintiff’s Notice of Non-Opposition ¶ 5.) 
 
Both
parties agree that the proper filing location for this action is the Michael D.
Antonovich Antelope Valley Courthouse, which is in the North District. Pursuant
to the filing rules enumerated in LASC Local Rules 2.3(a)(1)(A) and the filing
locator available on the court’s website, Plaintiff’s unlimited civil action
should have been filed in the Michael D. Antonovich Antelope Valley Courthouse
in the North District. Accordingly, Defendant is seeking a transfer to a proper
district under the Local Rules. Additionally, the Court agrees with the parties
that this action was filed in the wrong district.