 Case Number:  22STCV27750    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  1 22STCV27750           FERNEY
PINTO SANTANDER vs JP MORGAN CHASE BANK
Non-Party Jonathan De La Cerda’s Motion to Transfer and
Coordinate Pursuant to CCP §§ 403 and 404.1
TENTATIVE RULING: 
Motion for Transfer and Coordination is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  Moving party to give notice.
Background of 22CV008384 De La
Cerda v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
 
According to the declaration of counsel for non-party
Jonanthan De La Cerda (“De La Cerda”), Marita M. Lauinger (“Lauinger”), De La
Cerda filed a lawsuit in the Alameda County Superior Court on March 14, 2022,
alleging a single claim for penalties against Defendant JP Morgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (“Defendant”) under PAGA. (Lauinger Decl. ¶ 2.) The claim is based on
Defendant’s failure to reimburse its California employees for business-related
expenses they have incurred while working from home, including during the
COVID-19 pandemic, in violation of Labor Code § 2802. (Lauinger Decl. ¶ 2.)
Case No. 22CV008384 is pending before the Honorable Jenna Whitman in the
Alameda Court’s Department 25, and such case is designated as non-complex.
(Lauinger Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
On
August 24, 2023, the Alameda Superior Court granted Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration of De La Cerda’s individual PAGA claim and stayed his
representative claim pending the outcome of arbitration. (Lauinger Decl. ¶ 4.) On
June 4, 2024, after arbitration, the Honorable Ronald S. Prager (Ret.) issued a
final award in favor of De La Cerda. (Lauinger Decl. ¶ 4.) On June 20, 2024,
the Alameda Superior Court lifted the stay on the representative PAGA claim,
and De La Cerda and Defendant are currently exchanging discovery. (Lauinger
Decl. ¶ 4.) No trial date has been set. (Lauinger Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Background of 22STCV27750 Santander
v. JP Morgan Chase Bank
 
On August 25, 2022, Plaintiff Ferney Pinto Santander
(“Santander”), on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated
(“Plaintiff”) filed a representative action complaint against Defendant JP
Morgan Chase Bank National Association (“Defendant”) alleging a cause of action
for civil penalties pursuant to PAGA (Lab. Code §§ 2698, et seq.)

 
Santander’s
complaint is brought on behalf of himself and aggrieved employees. Santander
alleges that Defendant failed “to provide their aggrieved employees with all wages,
meal periods in compliance with the applicable wage order and/or the California
Labor Code, by failing to pay sick pay, vacation and COVID-19 supplemental
wages at the regular rate, by failing to reimburse business expenses, and by
failing to comply with the applicable wage order and/or the Labor Code in
regards to the payment of wages.” (Complaint ¶ 1.)
 
Santander
also alleges that, among other wrongs, Defendant failed to pay overtime wages,
failed to provide compliant meal break premiums at the regular rate, and failed
to reimburse Plaintiff and other aggrieved employees for business related
expenses. (Complaint ¶¶ 3-4.) Santander alleges that Labor Code section 2802
requires employers to pay for all necessary expenditures and losses incurred by
the employee in the performance of his or her job. (Complaint ¶ 65.) 
 
Santander
alleges that Defendant: (1) failed to pay overtime wages; (2) failed to pay all
wages and minimum wages; (3) failed to provide compliant meal periods; (4)
failed to provide compliant wage statements; (5) failed to provide sick pay at
the regular rate; (6) failed to provide vacation pay at the regular rate; (7)
failed to provide COVID-19 supplemental paid sick leave at the regular rate;
(8) failed to timely pay all wages during employment; (9) failed to timely pay
final wage upon termination; and (10) failed to reimburse business expenses.
(Complaint ¶¶ 28-47.) As to the failure to reimburse business expenses,
Santander alleges that aggrieved employees were responsible for purchasing
their own office supplies, and management would contact Santander and aggrieved
employees on their personal cellphones. (Complaint ¶ 46.) Defendant, however,
failed to reimburse Santander and aggrieved employees for using their personal
phones and office supplies to carry out their work-related duties. (Complaint ¶
47.) Santander’s claims against Defendant are on behalf of himself and all
aggrieved employees who worked for Defendant in California at any time
beginning June 7, 2021, through the resolution of this action, and who are
classified by Defendant as non-exempt from the wage and hour provisions of the
California Labor Code. (Complaint ¶ 53.) 
 
On
February 23, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration and dismiss
judicial proceedings. Defendant sought an order compelling Santander to
arbitrate his individual claims and dismissing the non-individual claims under
PAGA. 
 
On
April 3, 2023, pursuant to a stipulation between the parties, the Honorable
Daniel P. Ramirez sitting in Department 71 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse
issued an order staying the case in its entirety. (04/03/23 Minute Order.) 
 
On
April 13, 2023, this action was reassigned to the Honorable Daniel M. Crowley
sitting in Department 71 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse effective April 17, 2023.  
 
On
August 31, 2023, Defendant filed a notice of withdrawal of the motion to compel
arbitration. 
 
On
May 30, 2024, at a status conference, counsel informed the Court that the case
had settled in mediation. (05/30/24 Minute Order.) 
 
On
August 2, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of related case involving
22STCV27750,  22CV008384 Jonathan De
La Cerda v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the “De La Cerda Action”), which is
pending in the Alameda Superior Court, 24STCV08963 Zvard Santourian v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which is pending in the Los Angeles Superior
Court, and 24STCV17341 Maria Lopez v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which
is pending in the Los Angeles Superior Court. 
 
On
August 28, 2024, Santander filed a motion for approval of PAGA settlement,
which is set for hearing on November 27, 2024. 
 
On
September 10, 2024, the Honorable David S. Cunningham III sitting in Department
11 of Stanley Mosk Courthouse issued an order finding that 22STCV27750,
24STCV08963, 22CV008384, and 24STCV17341 were not related within the meaning of
California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a). (09/10/24 Minute Order.) 
 
Motion 
 
On August 20, 2024, non-party Jonathan De La Cerda
(“De La Cerda”) filed the instant motion for transfer and coordination pursuant
to CCP §§ 403 and 404.01. De La Cerda seeks an order transferring the De La
Cerda Action to this Court and coordinating such case with 22STCV27750 (the
“Santander Action”). 
 
De La Cerda contends that consolidation is
appropriate because the Santander Action and De La Cerda actions are not
complex and share common questions of law and fact related to Labor Code §
2802. De La Cerda further asserts that the actions meet the requirements of CCP
§ 404.1 and that the requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.500(c) are
met. 
 
Oppositions
 
Defendant
JP Morgan Chase filed an opposition to the motion on September 30, 2024. JP
Morgan Chase contends that: (1) coordination would not promote the ends of
justice at this stage of the proceedings; (2) the factors listed in CCP § 404.1
do not support coordination with the De La Cerda Action; and (3) alternatively,
the Court should defer determination of the motion pending the adjudication of
Santander’s motion for approval of PAGA settlement. 
 
On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiff Santander also filed an opposition to the motion
for transfer and coordination on the grounds that the factors articulated in
CCP § 404.1 have not been met. 
 
Reply
 
On
October 3, 2024, De La Cerda filed a reply brief arguing that he has met the
factors listed in CCP § 404.1. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial
notice. (Evid. Code §§ 452, 453.) 
 
Motion to Transfer and Coordinate
 
Standard

 
Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule
3.3(h) provides: “[a] civil case which is not complex as defined by Standard
3.10 of the Standards of Judicial Administration may be transferred to the
court from a superior court in another county, if it involves a common question
of fact or law within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 403. The
coordination motion shall be made in compliance with the procedures established
by California Rules of Court, rule 3.500. Coordination motions seeking to
transfer a case or cases to the Central District shall be filed and heard in
Department 1. Coordination motions seeking to transfer a case or cases to a
district other than the Central District shall be heard by the Supervising
Judge in that district.” 
 
Coordination motions are governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 403, which states, in relevant part:
 
A judge may, on motion, transfer an action or actions from
another court to that judge's court for coordination with an action involving a
common question of fact or law within the meaning of Section 404. The motion
shall be supported by a declaration stating facts showing that the actions meet
the standards specified in Section 404.1, are not complex as defined by the
Judicial Council and that the moving party has made a good faith effort to
obtain agreement to the transfer from all parties to each action. Notice of the
motion shall be served on all parties to each action and on each court in which
an action is pending. Any party to that action may file papers opposing the
motion within the time permitted by rule of the Judicial Council. The court to
which a case is transferred may order the cases consolidated for trial pursuant
to Section 1048 without any further motion or hearing.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 403.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.500(c) requires that the motion “must be supported by a declaration stating
facts showing that:  (1) The actions are
not complex; (2) The moving party has made a good-faith
effort to obtain agreement to the transfer and consolidation from all parties
to the actions; and (3) The moving party has notified all parties of their
obligation to disclose to the court any information they may have concerning
any other motions requesting transfer of any case that would be affected by the
granting of the motion before the court.” 

 
To grant the motion, California Rules
of Court, rule 3.500(d) requires the Court to “specify the reasons supporting a
finding that the transfer will promote the ends of justice, with reference to
the following standards:
 
(1)
The actions are not complex;
(2) Whether the common question of fact or law is
predominating and significant to the litigation;
(3)
The convenience of the parties, witnesses, and counsel;
(4)
The relative development of the actions and the work product of counsel;
(5)
The efficient utilization of judicial facilities and staff resources;
(6)
The calendar of the courts;
(7) The disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent
rulings, orders, or judgments; and
(8) The likelihood of settlement of the actions without
further litigation should coordination be denied.”
 
(See also Code Civ. Proc. §
404.1.)  
 
The
Crux of the De La Cerda Action
 
De La Cerda alleges that his complaint
is brought on behalf of all current and former aggrieved employees of
Defendant. (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A at ¶ 1.) Aggrieved employees are defined as
“[a]ll exempt and non-exempt employees of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in
California who incurred reasonable and necessary business expenses as a result
of their performance of duties for [Defendant] during the applicable statute of
limitations, including without limitation employees who incurred such expenses
while working from home during the COVID-19 pandemic.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A
at ¶ 2.) De La Cerda alleges that, since March 2020, Plaintiff and other
aggrieved employees have been required to bear the cost of working from home
without being fully reimbursed by Defendant, and that Defendant has a uniform
expense reimbursement policy that applies to all employees throughout
California. (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A at ¶ 11.) De La Cerda alleges that
Defendant violated Labor Code § 2802, which is actionable under PAGA. (Defendant’s
RJN, Ex. A at ¶ 1.) De La Cerda alleges a single cause of action for civil
penalties under PAGA. 
 
De
La Cerda’s Standing to Bring the Instant Motion
 
Initially, the Court will address the
respective contentions regarding whether Turrieta v. Lyft, Inc. (2024)
16 Cal.5th 664 allows De La Cerda to object or otherwise disturb the settlement
entered into between Santander and Defendant. 
 
The Court finds that Defendant’s
citation to Turrieta, supra, 16 Cal.5th 664 does not warrant
denial of the instant motion. The Turrieta court held that a PAGA
plaintiff cannot “intervene in the ongoing PAGA action of another plaintiff
asserting overlapping claims” because requiring a court “to consider objections
to a proposed settlement in that overlapping action . . . would be inconsistent
with the scheme the Legislature enacted.” (Turrieta v. Lyft, Inc., supra,
16 Cal.5th 664, 676-77.) There is no dispute that De La Cerda takes issue with
the proposed settlement agreement in the Santander Action. (Mot. at p. 4:1-8.)
Specifically, De La Cerda contends that the proposed settlement “purports to
release [Defendant] Chase from liability for violations of Labor Code § 2802
that were first alleged, and have been vigorously litigated, in De La Cerda.”
(Mot. at p. 4:3-6.) 
 
However, the issue in the instant
motion is not concerned with the validity of any objections to the proposed
PAGA settlement in 22STCV27750. Rather, the instant motion requests that 22CV008384
be transferred to this Court and coordinated with 22STCV27750. Thus, because De
La Cerda contends that the actions overlap, he may seek “consolidation or
coordination . . . in order to facilitate . . . adjudication of the same [PAGA]
claims in a single proceeding.” (Turrieta v. Lyft, Inc., supra,
16 Cal.5th 664, 706.) Thus, the Court will assess the motion on its merits. 
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
The motion is supported by the declaration of De La
Cerda’s counsel, Marita M. Lauinger, which states the cases are not complex,
(Lauinger Decl. ¶¶ 3, 10), De La Cerda attempted to obtain an agreement for the
transfer, (Id. ¶ 6), and De La Cerda notified the parties of their obligation
to disclose information concerning any other motions to transfer that would be
affected by granting the instant motion. (Id. ¶ 11.) The declaration addresses
the requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.500(c). 
 
The Actions Are Not Complex
 
The Court finds the actions are not
complex, which the parties do not contest. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(d)(1); Mot.
at 5:9-6:8.) Both cases involve the allegation that Defendant violated Labor
Code § 2802 by failing to reimburse for business expenses. 
 
This factor supports a finding of
transfer and coordination.   
 
Predominating
and Significant Common Questions of Law and Fact
 
The two actions do not involve
predominating and significant common questions of law and fact. (Cal. R. Ct.,
rule 3.500(d)(2).) While both actions do involve allegations of the failure to
reimburse for necessary business expenditures, the Santander Action makes the
additional allegation of Defendant contacting Santander and other aggrieved
employees on their personal cellphones, which is not raised in the De La Cerda
Action. While De La Cerda’s counsel declares that she believes that De La Cerda
was a non-exempt employee (Lauinger Reply Decl. ¶ 7), the complaint in the De
La Cerda Action does not articulate De La Cerda’s employment classification as
either exempt or non-exempt and fails to set forth the specific relevant time
period in which De La Cerda is seeking relief. (Defendant’s RJN at Ex. A.) Moreover,
the De La Cerda Action does not allege claims such as the failure to pay wages,
failure to provide timely wages, or the other numerous claims raised in the
Santander Action. The failure to pay necessary business expenditures is not a
predominant or significant question of fact or law in the Santander Action.  
 
This factor weighs against
coordination and transfer. 
 
Convenience
of Parties, Witnesses, and Counsel
 
Ms. Lauinger declares that De La Cerda
worked for Defendant in San Diego County and currently resides in Riverside
County. (Lauinger Decl. ¶ 7.) Many of the witnesses in this case are located in
Southern California and four of the six witnesses who testified in De La
Cerda’s arbitration reside in Southern California. (Lauinger Decl. ¶ 8.) None
reside in Northern California. (Lauinger Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
According to Defendant’s counsel,
Alexander L. Grodan (“Grodan”), De La Cerda’s counsel works in and is located
in Carlsbad, CA. (Grodan Decl. ¶ 16.) 
 
The Court finds that given that neither
Defendant nor Santander have presented any dispositive evidence regarding
convenience of parties, witnesses, and counsel, this factor weighs in favor of
coordination. De La Cerda resides in Riverside County and his counsel is
located in San Diego County, which the Court finds is closer to the Los Angeles
Superior Court than the Alameda County Superior Court. Additionally, most of
the relevant witnesses who testified at the arbitration reside in Southern
California. 
 
Development
of Actions, Work Product, Use of Judicial Facilities and Staff Resources, and
Apparent Court Calendars
 
The two cases arise, in part, out of
the failure to Defendant to reimburse employees for necessary business
expenditures. Efficient utilization of judicial facilities and staff resources
is not promoted by having both cases in a single superior court. The Santander
Action has settled and is awaiting final approval by the Court, whereas the
representative PAGA claims in De La Cerda are in its early stages.  While De La Cerda’s counsel states that De La
Cerda estimates he may have to take 5 to 10 depositions of Defendant’s
witnesses to establish his Labor Code § 2802 claims, the Court fails to see how
duplication of discovery is even an issue as argued by De La Cerda. (Mot. at
8:10.) Here, there is no current risk of duplication of discovery given that
the Santander Action is awaiting final approval of the settlement. 
 
Additionally, the Court notes De La
Cerda argues coordination will conserve judicial resources. (Mot. at 8:3.) The
Court fails to see how judicial resources would be conserved given that the
Santander Action is awaiting final approval of its PAGA settlement. Allowing
coordination would not conserve judicial resources as the claims alleged in the
Santander Action would be re-litigated via a coordination order. 
 
The relative development of the
actions and the work product of counsel, (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(d)(4)), and the
efficient utilization of judicial facilities and staff resources, (Cal. R. Ct.,
rule 3.300(d)(5)), do not weigh in favor of coordination.
 
The Court notes that both the Los
Angeles Superior Court and the Alameda Superior Court both have substantial
court calendars. The apparent court calendars, (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(d)(6)),
weigh in favor of transfer and consolidation. 
 
Inconsistent
and Duplicative Rulings 
 
The Court also considers “[t]he
disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments.”
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(d)(7).) Given that both cases involve claims related
to the violations of Labor Code § 2802 arising from the failure to reimburse
for business expenses, there will be an opportunity for inconsistent or
duplicative rulings if the two cases remain pending in separate superior courts.
If the settlement agreement is not approved in the Santander Action, it is
feasible that conflicting findings in each case may be made as to the
violations of Labor Code § 2802. The Court finds the disadvantages of
duplicative and inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments by having the two
cases proceed separately weigh in favor of transfer and consolidation. 
 
Likelihood
of Settlement
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.500(d)(8) requires the Court to consider “[t]he likelihood of settlement of
the actions without further litigation should coordination be denied.” The
Santander Action has settled and is awaiting final approval, and the De La Cerda
Action is in its early stages of discovery. Coordination which would add “more
parties and attorneys might inhibit settlement.” (Shaw v. Superior Court of
Contra Costa County (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 245, 253.) Thus,
coordination—which would add De La Cerda as a party as well as his counsel—may
inhibit the settlement reached in the Santander Action. This factor weighs
against coordination.  
 
On balance, the Court finds the
relevant factors demonstrate the ends of justice will not be promoted by transfer
and consolidation of the two actions in Los Angeles County. De La Cerda has not
made a showing of all the factor set forth in CCP § 404.1. 
 
 