 Case Number:  23SMCV01268    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Hannley, et al. v.
Mann et al., Case No. 23SMCV01268
Hearing Date
November 2, 2023 
Defendant Cabo’s
Demurrer/Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint 
Plaintiffs allege defendants harassed and intimidated
them, attempting to convince plaintiff Edalat to drop pending lawsuits. Plaintiff
Saachi alleges elder abuse (first cause of action) and intentional infliction
of emotional distress (seventh cause of action); defendant Cabo demurs and
moves to strike the damages request.
 
Statute of
Limitations 
Plaintiff Saachi’s
claims against Cabo are based on allegations that defendants Blaine and Blaine
Labs sent Saatchi a package with a return address of “Peter KOONI Edalat.” FAC
¶135-139. Peter Edalat is Saatchi’s deceased son, and “Kooni” is a homophobic
slur in Farsi. Id. ¶137. The package allegedly contained a printout from a
defamatory website “pauledalatisgay.com.” 
 
Per the FAC, Saatchi
received the package February 12, 2021. Elder abuse and IIED are subject to a
two-year statute of limitations. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §335.1; Benun v.
Superior Court (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 113, 121. The action was filed March
23, 2023, so Cabo argues the claims are time-barred.
 
Under the
discovery rule, a statute of limitations does not begin to run until plaintiff
is aware of their injury and its negligent or otherwise tortious cause. Vaca
v. Wachovia Mortgage Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 737, 743. When a defendant
actively conceals their identity, the statute of limitations is tolled. Id. at
933.
 
The FAC alleges
defendants concealed their identities when sending the package, and Saatchi was
unable to discover its sender until her son plaintiff Paul Edalat informed her
in March 2023. FAC ¶¶140-141. The FAC alleges Saatchi’s children linked
defendants to the package in 2021, but concealed this information from
plaintiff Saatchi. Id. This is sufficient, for pleading purposes, to establish
delayed discovery. OVERRULED. 
 
Elder Abuse and
IIED 
A plaintiff can
plead liability based on civil conspiracy by alleging a common design or plan
to commit a specific tort and an overt act in furtherance of the tort. E.g.,
Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th
503, 510-511. To plead alter ego liability, plaintiff must allege “(1) such
unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the
corporation and the individual no longer exist and (2) if the acts are treated
as those of the corporation alone, an inequitable result will follow.” Las
Palmas Assoc. v. Las Palmas Center Assoc. (1992) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1249.

 
Cabo argues Saatchi
has not adequately alleged facts showing his liability for sending the package.
Saachi does not allege Cabo sent the package but that he conspired with other
defendants to create the website whose contents were inside the package. FAC ¶141A.
The tort that forms the basis of the elder abuse claim is not creating the
website but sending the package. The FAC does not allege Cabo knew the package was
sent or assisted in its sending. Per Applied Equipment, a cause of
action based on conspiracy must allege defendant aided the tort for which
liability is alleged. The FAC fails to adequately allege Cabo’s liability based
on conspiracy.
 
Regarding alter
ego, the FAC alleges Cabo “allowed his name and that of Oltecate to be used by
[defendant Alternative Health Corp.] to create the false impression that AH
continued to have operations and business[.]” FAC ¶16. The FAC alleges Cabo is liable
as an alter ego of AH and its subsidiary Blaine Labs. FAC ¶¶15-16. These paragraphs
allege that treating AH, Blaine Labs and Cabo as separate inequitably sanctions
fraud, fulfilling the second prong of alter ego liability. However, the FAC does
not allege a unity of interest and ownership between Cabo and AH or Blaine Labs.
SUSTAINED with ten days leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike 
Since the demurrer
to all causes of action against Cabo was sustained, the motion to strike the
request for damages and fees is MOOT.