  Case Number:  23AHCP00445    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
7, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         KELSEY CHAPMAN, an
individual, v. COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, a municipal corporation;.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCP0045
 
 
 
PETITION
FOR RELIEF FROM GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 954.4

 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner Kelsey Chapman 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      County
of Los Angeles 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed October 18, 2023 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Petitioner seeks relief from the
claim presentation requirement of Government Code section 945.4.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Petitioner’s claim she
was injured by a hazardous and negligently maintained roadway while riding on
her moped in a reasonable manner. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Petitioner’s
petition for an order for relief from the requirements of Government Code
section 945.4 is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Petitioner seeks relief from Government Code section 945.4.
 
            “The procedural requirements for claim presentation are prerequisites to
litigation against a local public entity or employee thereof based not only on
tort liability, but on any claim for ‘money or damages.’ ” (Gong v. City of
Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 374.)
 
Petition
 
Petitioner provides that on May
4, 2022, Petitioner was driving her moped in a reasonable and foreseeable
manner when she encountered the uneven and hazardous Subject Roadway, at the
intersection of Lake Avenue and New York Drive which caused Petitioner to lose
control of her moped, fall, and slide with her moped before colliding with a
parked vehicle.  (Petition at pp. 2: 6-9,
4:12-14, Ex. G.)  As a result, Petitioner
sustained serious injuries.  (Id.
at ¶ 2.)
 
On April 17,
2023, Petitioner made a written application to Respondent for permission to
file a late claim in accordance with the provisions of Government Code Section
911.4.  (Petitioner ¶ 5, Ex. A.) 
 
First Submission of Claim
On August 31,
2022, Petitioner’s attorney filed a claim for damages with the County of Los
Angeles (“County”) via FedEx.  (Petition
at p. 3:1-2, Ex. C.).  On September 8,
2022, Carl Warren & Company deemed Petitioner’s claim for damages
insufficient. (Id. at p. 3:4-5, Ex. D.)
 
Second
Submission
On September
22, 2023, Petitioner refiled her claim for damages with the County of Los
Angeles via FedEx.  (Id. at p.
3:6-7, Ex. E.)   On September 23, 2022,
Carl Warren & Company rejected the claim for damages maintaining that
Petitioner’s claim for damages was insufficient, but then also stated that if
Petitioner were to file a lawsuit, it reserved the right to defend the lawsuit
on the basis that Petitioner failed to comply with the requirements for
presenting a timely claim.  (Petition at
p. 3:8-12, Ex. F.).  
 
Third
Submission 
On October 25,
2022, Petitioner’s counsel refiled her claim for damages a third time via
FedEx. (Petition at p. 3:13-14, Ex. G.) 
On October 27, 2022, Carl Warren & Company again deemed Petitioner’s
third claim for damages insufficient.  (Id.
at p. 3:15-16, Ex. H.)
 
Thus, Petitioner
amended her claim for damages twice in an attempt to cure Respondent County’s
alleged deficiencies.  (Petition at p.
3:18-19.)  However, the County maintained
the following reasons for insufficiency: “The claim is vague as to the
circumstances of the alleged occurrence or transaction giving rise to damage or
injury; The claim is vague as to the place of the alleged occurrence or
transaction giving rise to damage or injury; the claim does not specify the
injury or damage.”  (Id. at p.
3:19-23, Exs. D, F, and H.)
 
Petitioner’s
claim for damages provided Petitioner was traveling through the intersection of
Lake Avenue and New York Drive when the warped, uneven, and broken pavement
caused her motor scooter to overturn. (Petition at p. 4:12-13, Ex. G.)  Petitioner further stated in her claim that
her damages “include physical, mental, and emotional damages”.  (Id. at p. 4:17-18.)
 
Petitioner’s
application to file a late claim was filed within one year after the accrual of
the cause of action (The cause of action accrued on May 4, 2022, and Petitioner
made her application to file a late claim on April 17, 2023).  (Petition at p. 4:23-26.)
 
Government Code section 946.6 subdivision (c)(1) provides that “[t]he court shall
relieve the petitioner from the requirements of Section 945.4 if
the court finds that the application to the board under Section 911.4 was made within a reasonable time not to
exceed that specified in subdivision (b) of Section
911.4 and was denied or deemed denied pursuant to Section 911.6 and . . . [t]he failure to present the
claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect unless
the public entity establishes that it would be prejudiced in the defense of the
claim if the court relieves the petitioner from the requirements of Section 945.4.”
 
Opposition
 
On February 29, 2024, Respondent
County filed their Opposition, asserting that the Petition should be denied
because Petitioner failed to demonstrate reasonable diligence in her failure to
submit a sufficient claim within six months of the incident.  (Opposition at. p. 2:17-18.)  County further argued that Petitioner’s
failure to file a sufficient claim within six months of the accrual of the
cause of action was not the result of excusable neglect, mistake, inadvertence,
or surprise.  (Id. at p.
3:19-22.)  County reasoned that
“inexcusable neglect occurs when the claimant’s failure to present a timely
claim results from the claimant’s lack of diligence. Petitioner must show that
her failure to present a timely claim resulted despite her reasonable diligence
. . .”  (Id. at pp. 4:27-28
-5:1-2.)  
 
Deficiencies
In addressing the specific deficiencies of
Petitioner’s three submitted claims, the County argues that the (1) August 31,
2022 claim was insufficient because it was “too vague as to location of the
alleged dangerous condition and does not specify the injury. (See Petition
Exhibits C and D.)”  (Opposition at p.
6:9-10.) (2) The September
22, 2022 claim does attempt to state the injuries but fails to specify the
location of the dangerous condition. (See Petition Exhibit E) It merely states
there is a "dangerous condition on Lake Avenue." (Id.) In addition the County cannot
confirm this claim was ever submitted.  (Id. at p.
6:11-15.)  Finally, (3) the third claim
on October 25, 2022 claim “still
fails to identify the precise location of the dangerous condition.  It merely states it is at the intersection of
"Lake Avenue and New York Drive." (See Petition Exhibit "G”.)  It does not describe where on the
intersection the dangerous condition is located. It also fails to disclose the
street of travel and direction of travel where the accident occurred.  This makes it impossible for the County to
investigate the exact location of the alleged dangerous condition.”  (Id. at p. 6:17-23.)
 
Prejudice
Lastly, the County argues it would be prejudiced
by the granting of the Petition because Petitioner’s denied claim resulted in
the County not engaging in an early investigation and not identifying potential
witnesses, inspecting the incident location, or considering early settlement of
Petitioner’s claim.  (Opposition at
p.7:15-18.)  Thus, the County argues it
will be prejudiced against defending itself. (Id. at p.7:11.)
 
 
 
 
 
Reply
On March 11, 2024, Petitioner filed her Reply Brief,
arguing that (1) Petitioner did allege the location of the incident and injury
with specificity in her original claims; and (2) County will not be prejudiced
by not having conducted an earlier investigation.  
Firstly, Petitioner
addresses County’s contention that Petitioner did not specify the street on
which she was travelling.   On
Petitioner’s original claim form submitted on August 31, 2022, the claims reads
under box number 7 of “Respondent’s Claim for Damages” that the damage or
injury occurred “on Lake Avenue in Alta Dena, California and New York
Drive, in Alta Dena, California. 
Petitioner’s claim also states that a dangerous road condition existed
on Lake Avenue. (See Exhibit “C” of Petitioner’s Petition).”  (Reply at p. 2:16-25.)  Additionally, Petitioner states provides that
her October 25, 2022 claim form stated “Ms. Chapman was traveling through the
intersection of Lake Avenue and New York Drive when the warped, uneven, and
broken pavement caused her motor scooter to overturn.” (See Exhibit “G” of
Petitioner’s Petition).  (Id. at.
pp. 2:27-28 – 3:1-2.)
Secondly, Petitioner addresses County’s
argument that it will be prejudiced. 
Petitioner reasons that Respondent was given the opportunity to
investigate the claims beginning from the first date a claim was filed.  (Reply at p. 3:10-12.). Moreover, County may
still engage in discovery and investigate the location.  (Id. at 3:16-17.)  Lastly, if any repairs took place at the
location of the incident, Respondent County will be in possession of such
records, as they own the roadway of the incident.  (Id. at 3:17-21.)
The Court finds that Petitioner has demonstrated
diligence in the timeliness of her first and original claim filed on August 31,
2022. Thus, Petitioner need not demonstrate excusable neglect because
Petitioner did not neglect to attend to the time-sensitive nature of her claim
for damages.  The Court also finds that
by providing the cross streets of the accident, (Lake Avenue and New York
Drive), Petitioner stated the location of the incident with sufficient
particularity such that County would have had the opportunity to appropriately
and timely investigate the location, had it chosen to.  Moreover, the Court agrees that County still
has the opportunity to investigate the dangerous conditions and that if the
dangerous conditions have since been remediated, the County will either already
possess such records or be able to easily ascertain such records.  Thus, Petitioner has demonstrated diligence
in her efforts to bring a timely claim. 
Petitioner has met the requirements of section 946.6,
subdivision (c)(1).
 
 
 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Petitioner’s
petition for an order for relief from the requirements of Government Code
section 945.4 is GRANTED.
 
 
                        Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
            
Dated:   May 7, 2024                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
