 Case Number:  23STCV15499    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DYLAN SCOTT
  PERRY, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY D.B.A. TWENTIETH
  CENTURY STUDIOS,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV15449
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO STRIKE
Dept. 48
TIME: 8:30 AM
DATE: 12/07/2023



 
BACKGROUND
On July
3, 2023, Dylan Scott Perry (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against The Walt Disney
Company (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant used the animated
television series “American Dad!” to send him coded death threats. (Complaint,
2:14-16.) On November 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed their Motion to Strike[1]
(“Motion”). No opposition nor reply brief was filed. 
DISCUSSION
Meet
and Confer – 
“Before
filing a motion to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an
agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the
motion to strike.” (CCP § 435.5(a).) Plaintiff makes no showing that the
requirements of CCP § 435.5(a) have been met. However, per CCP § 435.5(a)(4),
“A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to strike.” Therefore, the
Court will turn its attention to the merits of the Motion.   
Legal
Standard – 
The
court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (CCP § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)
A motion to strike any pleading must be filed
“within the time allowed to respond to a pleading”—e.g., 30 days after service
of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or
stipulation. [CCP § 435(b)(1)]. This does not affect the court's power to
strike sua sponte. Courts are specifically authorized to strike a pleading upon
a motion or at any time in the court's discretion. (CCP § 436)
Analysis
– 
The
Motion will be denied on both procedural and substantive grounds. Procedurally,
Plaintiff frames their Motion as a “Pre-Objection to Opponents Demurrer with
Parts of Record Visibly Stricken”. First, Defendant’s Demurrer was filed prior
to this Motion, and second, the Court is unaware of any permissible preemptive
motions. Moreover, the Motion falls outside the timing constraints articulated
in CRC 3.1322(b) and CCP § 435(b)(1). Substantively, the Motion fails to identify
what filing is the target of the Motion. Additionally, the Motion fails to
specify a passage, page, or paragraph the movant is intending to strike as
demanded by CRC 3.1322(a). Finally, the Motion is unintelligible and fails to
articulate a cognizable ground on which any of Defendant’s filings should be
struck. Therefore, the Motion is denied. 

CONCLUSION
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all
parties in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the
Court are required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management
Conference) is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of December, 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 


