  Case Number:  23LBCV02241    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, Michael Bornn filed this
action against Defendants, Community Loan Servicing, LLC and Nationstar
Mortgage, LLC (erroneously sued and served as Community Loan Services Right
Path Servicing) on 11/22/23.  The original
complaint included a cause of action for constructive fraud and related
claims.  The complaint arises out of
Defendants’ servicing of Plaintiff’s loan and attempts at foreclosure on the
loan.
 
On 6/27/24, the Court sustained a
demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.  The details of that ruling will be discussed
below.  On 10/16/24, Plaintiff filed his
Second Amended Complaint.  Defendants
demur to the SAC at this time.
2.     Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Request for Judicial Notice

Defendants seek judicial notice of the subject Deed of Trust,
Plaintiff’s FAC, and the Court’s ruling on Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s
FAC.  The RJN is granted.
 

Initial Note

Defendants, in reply, point out procedural defects in the opposition
papers.  The Court has read and
considered the opposition papers despite the procedural defects, as refusing to
do so would be unduly harsh.
 

Claims to Which Demurrer Previously Sustained Without Leave to
     Amend

On 6/27/24, the Court sustained a demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of
action for Violation of Civil Code §2924.17 without leave to amend.  Plaintiff, however, included the same cause
of action in his SAC.  Because leave to
amend was denied, continuing to assert the cause of action is improper.  The demurrer to this cause of action is again
sustained without leave to amend.
 

New Causes of Action and New Defendants

Plaintiff added causes of action for title fraud, abuse of process,
Civil Code §2923.74, 12 CFR §1026.41, and negligent misrepresentation to his
Second Amended Complaint.  These causes
of action were not pled in his FAC. 
Plaintiff also added new defendants, Cathy Robinson and Alan Blunt, to
his SAC; these individuals were not named in the FAC.
 
Defendants correctly note that Plaintiff was not permitted to add these
causes of action to his amended complaint without filing a noticed motion for
leave to amend.  See Zakk v. Diesel
(2019) 33 Cal.App.4th 431, 456. 
Plaintiff cites nothing to the contrary in opposition to the demurrer,
arguing only that he was unaware of this prohibition.  
 
The demurrer to the newly-added causes of action is sustained without
leave to amend.  Robinson’s demurrer to
all claims asserted against her is sustained without leave to amend.  The Court notes that Blunt did not demur to
the SAC, and therefore the Court is not making any ruling that applies to
Blunt, but advises Plaintiff that the same analysis would apply equally to
Blunt if he were to challenge the pleading.
 
The Court will not consider Defendants’ additional arguments re: the
above causes of action and defendants because doing so is not necessary to a
resolution of the merits of the demurrer. 

 

Sixth Cause of Action, Breach of Contract

The Court is considering
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for breach of contract first.  At its core, this action is one for breach of
contract.  Defendants make two arguments
in support of their demurrer to the SAC. 
First, they contend the SAC fails to plead any facts at all showing
Rushmore or Nationstar breached a contractual obligation to Plaintiff.  Second, they contend the SAC fails to plead
facts showing Community breached a contractual obligation to Plaintiff.
 
The Court will consider the second
contention first.  The SAC, while not
entirely artful, clearly alleges that Plaintiff and Community entered into a
loan modification agreement in September of 2020 (¶15), and was breached when
Community raised the payment, in October of 2020, from $1105.11 to
$1144.42.  Defendants argue the foregoing
does not constitute a breach because the parties’ contract specifically
indicated that the exact amount of the payment could change if taxes, insurance
premiums, and/or assessment amounts change. 
Plaintiff, however, expressly pleads, at ¶28 of his SAC, that there were
no such changes that justified the increase in payment.  Notably, the increase in payment occurred
only one month after the parties entered into the modification agreement.  At the pleading stage, these allegations must
be taken as true.  The demurrer to the cause
of action for breach of contract is therefore overruled.
 
Defendants’ second argument is that
Plaintiff does not plead any facts showing Rushmore or Nationstar breached the
subject contract.  Plaintiff pleads, at
¶2, that Rushmore commenced servicing Plaintiff’s loan in March of early April
of 2024.  Plaintiff also pleads, at ¶2,
that Nationstar purchased Community in June of 2022.  
 
A successor corporation generally
assumes the liabilities of its predecessor if: (1) there is an express or
implied agreement to assume the liabilities, (2) the transaction amounts to a
consolidation or merger, (3) the successor is a mere continuation of the
predecessor, or (4) the transfer of assets is for the fraudulent purpose of
escaping liability for the predecessor's debts. 
Hernandez v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. of San Francisco (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 187.  
 
Again, while not entirely artful,
Plaintiff pleads that Rushmore and Nationstar fall into the above categories
and therefore adopted all obligations under the loan.  Factual issues in this regard are not
appropriate for determination on demurrer. 

 

Second Cause of Action,
     Promissory Estoppel

Plaintiff’s second cause of action
is for promissory estoppel.  Defendants
demur to the cause of action on two grounds. 
First, they contend the complaint fails to allege any promise with
sufficient specificity for them to respond. 
Second, they contend any promise was simply the parties’ written
contract, and therefore the cause of action is duplicative.  
 
The Court finds the second argument
is dispositive and the demurrer to this cause of action must be sustained
without leave to amend.  A breach of a
written contract generally does not give rise to a claim for promissory
estoppel. Promissory estoppel is typically invoked when there is no enforceable
contract due to the lack of consideration, and it serves as an equitable remedy
to enforce a promise that has induced reliance to the promisee's detriment.
 
Promissory estoppel is distinct
from a contract claim in that it substitutes the promisee's justifiable and
detrimental reliance on the promise for the consideration required in a
contract.  Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. v.
CMC Fabricators, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 230. The elements of promissory
estoppel include a clear and unambiguous promise, reasonable and foreseeable
reliance by the promisee, and injury resulting from the reliance.  Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 411.  
 
Courts have held that promissory
estoppel claims are fundamentally different from contract claims. For instance,
a promissory estoppel claim is considered superfluous when there is an
enforceable contract with adequate consideration.  Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. v. CMC Fabricators,
Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 230 (2012). Additionally, promissory estoppel does
not apply if the promisee gave actual consideration, making it inconsistent
with a breach of contract claim based on the same facts.  Newport Harbor Ventures, LLC v. Morris
Cerullo World Evangelism (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1207.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff pled only
promises grounded in the parties’ written contract, such that a claim for
promissory estoppel is not legally appropriate. 
The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  
 

Fourth Cause of Action,
     Fraudulentl Misrepresentation
Prior Ruling

Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
is for fraudulent misrepresentation.  In
connection with Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action in the FAC,
the Court ruled as follows:
The elements of fraud are: (1)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2)
knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; (4)
justifiable reliance; and (5) damages. 
(See Civil Code §1709.)  Fraud
actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading.  Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal. 3d 197, 216.
 
Since allegations of fraud involve
a serious attack on character, fairness to the defendant demands that he should
receive the fullest possible details of the charge in order to prepare his
defense.  Accordingly the rule is
everywhere followed that fraud must be specifically pleaded, such that: (a)
General pleading of the legal conclusion of “fraud” is insufficient; the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged; and (b) Every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner (i.e., factually and
specifically), and the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material
respect.  Id.   
 
Defendants, in their demurrer,
correctly note that Plaintiff failed to plead the claim for misrepresentation
with the requisite specificity. 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the demurrer, argues the modification itself
was the misrepresentation because Defendants then never honored the
modification.  As noted above, Plaintiff
purported to attach the modification as an exhibit to his complaint, but there
are no exhibits to the complaint.  To the
extent Plaintiff is alleging the modification itself is the fraud, Plaintiff
must attach a copy to his amended complaint.
 
Plaintiff next argues Defendants
have been “too many misrepresentations to recount.”  Plaintiff must plead those misrepresentations
with the requisite specificity, detailed above, if he wishes to state a claim
based on those misrepresentations.  
 
The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend.
 
ii.          SAC
Plaintiff’s fraud allegations
against Defendants are found at ¶26 of his SAC. 
Defendants contend these allegations are insufficient because (a) there
are no allegations at all against Rushmore, (b) the allegations concerning Alan
Blunt’s statements are inadmissible due to the litigation privilege, and (c)
the statements, in any event, are insufficient to plead fraud against a
corporate entity.
 
The first argument is rejected for
the reasons discussed above in connection with the breach of contract cause of
action.  Defendants have cited no
authority concerning their liability for their co-defendants’ acts in light of
the defendants’ relationship to one another, and therefore have not met their
burden to show one of them should be dismissed if it did not personally engage
in the conduct pled in the operative pleading.
 
Defendants’ second argument is that
any statements made by Blunt were made during litigation and therefore are
subject to the litigation privilege.  Plaintiff,
however, is providing a statement Blunt made in litigation as evidence that
Defendants, working together, raised his payment twice without telling him,
which served the purpose of ensuring he didn’t make the required payments,
would fall behind, and would ultimately either (a) owe a greatly inflated
balance, and/or (b) find himself in foreclosure.  The Court finds the pleading is not a model
of clarity, and possibly is intended to be for fraudulent concealment rather
than intentional misrepresentation.  The
crux of the pleading, however, is that Defendants entered into a modification,
then changed the amount of the payment, but did not provide him documentation
about the changed amount, such that he would quickly fall into arrears.  They would not respond to communications, and
once he realized what was happening, he was so far in arrears that it could not
be fixed.  Defendants then raised his
payment again, but again did not provide him notice, causing the situation to
snowball.
 
Plaintiff will, of course, be
required to prove all of this at trial. 
At the pleading stage, however, the Court finds the above is sufficient
to allege fraud.  The demurrer is overruled.  
 

Seventh Cause of
     Action, BPC §17200

Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action
is for violation of BPC §17200, et seq.  The
cause of action rises and falls with the fraud cause of action, and the
demurrer is overruled.

Tenth Cause of Action,
     Elder Abuse

Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action
for elder abuse also rises and falls with his fraud cause of action.  The demurrer is therefore overruled.
 

Conclusion

Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend in part as set forth fully above.  The demurrer is otherwise overruled.  Defendants are ordered to file an answer to
the SAC, with the subject causes of action deemed stricken, within ten
days.    Defendants are ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   