  Case Number:  22STCV26502    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE
Hearing Date: 5/29/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV26502 JI'MAYAI DOUGLAS vs
JEREMY SAMUEL GRAU
Moving Party: Defendant Jeremy Samuel Grau
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE IS DENIED.
 
Legal Standard
 
A defendant may move, “on or before the last day of his or her
time to plead,” to quash the service of summons by alleging a lack of personal
jurisdiction, or to dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient forum.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10, subd. (a).) A motion to quash must be granted if the
court finds that either (1) there is no basis for exercising personal
jurisdiction over the defendant or (2) service on the defendant was improper. (Ziller
Elecs. Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1229.)
 
“If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable
diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served, as specified in
Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a
copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place
of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a competent member of
the household or a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of
business, or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the
contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the
complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at
the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20, subd. (b).)
 
 “The return of a [registered] process server … establishes a
presumption, affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in
the return.” (Evid. Code § 647.) “The filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper.” (Floveyor
International, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 795.)
 
Discussion
 
On August 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present motor accident
case. On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of service for the Summons and
Complaint, indicating that Defendant Jeremy Samuel Grau was served through
substituted service. Defendant now moves the court to quash the service,
asserting that he lives alone and disputes that substituted service was ever
effected.
The proof of service
indicates that Plaintiff attempted personal service on Defendant Jeremy Samuel
Grau at his residence at 616 South Burnside Avenue, Apt. 303, Los Angeles, CA
90036, on April 4, 2024, April 5, 2024, and April 6, 2024. After unsuccessful
attempts at personal service, on April 8, 2024, at 9:32 AM, Plaintiff
successfully executed substituted service on a person at the same address. The
individual served refused to provide his full name and is referred to as John
Doe, a 30-year-old Caucasian male, approximately 170 lbs, 6’2", with brown
hair and brown eyes, The following day, April 9, 2024, the process server
mailed a copy of the documents to Defendant at his residence. Plaintiff’s proof
of service meets the statutory requirements for substituted service, thereby
establishing a rebuttable presumption that the service was properly executed.
Defendant filed a declaration stating that he
lives at the address listed on the proof of service, 616 South Burnside Avenue,
Apt. 303, Los Angeles, CA 90036. The declaration asserts that Defendant resides
alone and did not receive a copy of the summons and complaint by mail. However,
Defendant's declaration does not rule out the possibility that a competent
member of the household or a person apparently in charge of the residence, such
as a family member, was present at the address on April 8, 2024, to accept
substituted service. While Defendant claims not to have received the summons
and complaint by mail, he does not assert that he was never informed of the
service or that no one handed him a copy of the summons and complaint that was
left at the residence. Moreover, Defendant does not state that he does not know
anyone matching the description of the individual served, nor does he deny that
such a person was present at his residence at the time of service.
Additionally, Defendant has not provided any evidence beyond his own
declaration to challenge the validity of Plaintiff’s service. Due to the
absence of crucial details in Defendant’s declaration and his failure to
provide additional evidence to counter the process server’s declaration, the
Court finds that Defendant has failed to overcome Plaintiff’s rebuttable
presumption. Thus, the present motion is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.