Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22PSCV01959
Plaintiff's Name: Masen Medina
Defendant's Name: Hacienda La Puente Unified School District and Luis Franco
People-Named: Masen Medina, Wendy Olivas
Company-Named: Hacienda La Puente Unified School District
Places: Elementary school, Classroom, Door
Dates: November 22, 2022, March 20, 2023, August 31, 2023, October 18, 2023
Events: Plaintiff's alleged injuries, School District's motion for judgment on the pleadings (MJOP)
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: The School District's intention to dismiss the case, Plaintiff's intention to amend the complaint
Facts: Plaintiff was injured in school, teacher mistakenly thought Plaintiff was trying to leave, teacher grabbed Plaintiff and pulled him, Plaintiff sustained bodily injuries
Disputes: Whether the School District's motion for judgment on the pleadings should be granted
Acts: Plaintiff filed a complaint, School District filed an MJOP, parties are working towards a settlement agreement
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California laws, specifically Code of Civil Procedure and Civil Code
Case Citations: Dobbins v. Hardister, Sofias v. Bank of America, Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co., Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp., Mechanical Contractors Assn. v. Greater Bay Area Assn., Edwards v. Centex Real Estate Corp., Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co., Evans v. California Trailer Court, Inc., Schabarum v. California Legislature, Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist., Virginia G. v. ABC Unified School Dist., Brennon B. v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, Civil Code
Roles:
  - Judge: Granting the School District's motion for judgment on the pleadings
  - Plaintiff: Filing a complaint, seeking to amend the complaint
  - School District: Filing an MJOP, seeking to dismiss the case
Significant Statements:
  - "The court will hear from Plaintiff as to whether leave to amend should be granted."
  - "The court grants the motion because each COA is conclusory pled."
  - "The plaintiff must meet a heightened pleading standard and requires a complaint to allege specific factual allegations to establish the elements of each and every claim in the complaint."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has granted the Hacienda La Puente Unified School District's motion for judgment on the pleadings (MJOP), dismissing the plaintiff's case. The plaintiff, Masen Medina, alleged that the school district and its employee, Luis Franco, were negligent and committed acts of assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and other violations. However, the judge found that the plaintiff's complaint was conclusory and failed to plead specific factual allegations to support each claim. The judge also cited California laws and previous court decisions to support its ruling. The judge has given the plaintiff the opportunity to amend the complaint, but the school district's motion for judgment on the pleadings has been granted.