 Case Number:  22PSCV00948    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
GENERAL
MOTORS LLC’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
(2)  
GENERAL
MOTORS LLC’S MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES FROM PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED
COMPLAINT is GRANTED.
 
Background
 
This is a
lemon law case. 
 
On August 30,
2022, Plaintiff DAVID ZAMORATEGUI filed suit against Defendant General Motors
LLC (“Defendant” or “GM”). 
 
On January
11, 2023, Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting the
following causes of action (COA): 
 
1.     Violation Of Song-Beverly Act - Breach
Of Express Warranty
2.     Violation Of Song-Beverly Act - Breach
Of Implied Warranty
3.     Violation Of The Song-Beverly Act
Section 1793.2
4.     Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment (CLRA)
 
On February
14, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer (and motion to strike (MTS)) to the FAC,
which the court sustained with leave to amend.
 
On July 27,
2023, Plaintiff filed its second amended complaint (SAC).  
 
On August 28,
2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer with an MTS. 
 
On October 5,
2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition. 
Discussion
 
Defendant
again demurs to the SAC on identical grounds as before: the 4th COA
for violation of the CLRA based upon three grounds: (i) the COA is barred by
the statute of limitations (SOL); (ii) fails to state facts relevant to the
elements of the claim; and (iii) fails to allege a transactional relationship
giving rise to a duty to disclose.
 
Previously,
the court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend because the allegations
were at best conclusory,[1]
notably as to the requirement that Plaintiff plead that GM had knowledge about
the alleged defects in Plaintiff’s Silverado at the time of purchase.
Additionally, distinguishing the facts from Plaintiff’s heavily reliance upon Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, the court noted
that unlike Dhital, here, Plaintiff does
not predicate Defendant’s knowledge of a supposed defect based upon the same
engine. As stated in the July 10, 2023 ruling, “Plaintiff is
imputing knowledge based upon a defect in a different engine. In fact, a
large portion of the FAC is dedicated to GM’s 6L50 (“6L”) transmission.
However, the mere fact that the 8L transmissions succeeded the 6L transmission
(FAC ¶36) does not bear significance for a fraud cause of action wherein a
plaintiff is to plead that a defendant made a specific misrepresentation
as to a specific material fact (i.e., specific misrepresentation as to
8L engine).” Thus, the court granted leave to amend for Plaintiff to plead
sufficient facts that “GM concealed material information regarding the 8L transmission.”
(July 10, 2023 Tentative Ruling.)
 
However, despite leave to amend, Plaintiff has
filed a largely similar amended complaint, notably one that continues to interchange
between the transmissions.

 
Turning to
the 4th COA in the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that “GENERAL MOTORS LLC intentionally
concealed the design defect found in the 8L90 and 8L45 transmissions
because of the common architecture of the transmission that causes “harsh
shifts” in lower gears, which can feel like jerking, lurching, and/or
hesitations.” (SAC ¶129, underline and emphasis original.) But the 8L45 transmission
is not at issue because “The Subject Vehicle was manufactured by GENERAL
MOTORS LLC and was equipped with a defective Hydra-Matic 8L90
transmission” (SAC ¶4, emphasis added.) Effectively, references to a
different transmission are irrelevant in determining whether GM
concealed the safety issues with the 8L40 transmission. With that, it is
unclear whether the  “pre-production
testing, early consumer complaints about the Transmission Defect made directly
to Defendant and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled from
Defendant’s network of dealers, testing conducted by Defendant in response to
these complaints, as well as warranty repair and part replacements data
received by Defendant from Defendant’s network of dealers, amongst other
sources of internal information” (SAC ¶133) was about the 8L90 or 8L45
transmission. 
 
Simply put,
though Plaintiff in opposition maintains it has pled sufficient facts (Opp. p.
13, citing generally to the entire 4th COA), Plaintiff has not pled what
safety issue concerns in which source, answers of which would be
sufficient to allege that GM knew the 8L90 transmission could cause death or
physical injury but chose to remain silent. 
 
All in
all, Plaintiff’s complaint attempts to impute fraudulent concealment based upon
the mere fact that the vehicle experienced problems; but the mere fact that the
vehicle had a transmission defect does not equate to GM’s knowledge of a defect
and concealment of it from the public. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend, and the motion to strike
punitive damages is granted (as there is no fraud COA).  


