 Case Number:  21PSCV00734    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION FOR ORDER DISQUALIFYING COUNSEL RONALD T. VERA,
ESQ., AND THE LAW FIRM OF THE VERA LAW GROUP FROM REPRESENTING PLAINTIFF HECTOR
KISTEMANN IN THIS ACTION is DENIED. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from purported employment harassment. Plaintiff HECTOR KISTEMANN alleges
the following: Plaintiff was employed as the Director of Parks and Recreation
for the City of San Dimas (“City of San Dimas” or “City”). During the time of
employment, Plaintiff received “only positive reviews.” On October 14, 2020,
Plaintiff, without notice, was placed on administrative leave due to alleged
misconduct. Plaintiff had no choice but to involuntarily submit his
resignation, effective February 9, 2021.
 
On September
3, 2021, Plaintiff filed suit against the City of San Dimas and Does 1 through
10 for: 
1.     
Constructive
Discharge, 
2.     
Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress, and 
3.     
Invasion
of Privacy 
On October 7,
2021 Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint re-alleging the same causes of
action. Plaintiff’s prayer for relief is for damages, including attorney’s fees
and cost. 
 
On December
2, 2021, the City filed a Demurrer, which was sustained with leave to amend. 
On March 3,
2022, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC) for: 
 
1.     Constructive discharge 
2.     Invasion of Privacy 
 
On April 1,
2022, the City filed its answer. 
 
On June 20,
2022, the City filed a substitution of attorney, replacing Declues, Burkett
& Thompson, APC with Wesierski & Zurek LLP. 
 
On August 22,
2023, the City filed multiple motions in limine. 
 
On August 25,
2023, the City filed the instant motion. 
 
On September
13, 2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition. 
 
On October
11, 2023, the City filed its Reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128(a)(5) authorizes the
Court to control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial
officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial
proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(5).)  This authority necessarily includes
disqualifying an attorney.  (Metro-Goldwyn Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda
Corp. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1837–1838.)  The issue of
disqualification ultimately involves a conflict between the clients’ right to
counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of
professional responsibility.  (Id.)   
 
However, the paramount concern must be the preservation
of public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity
of the bar and the recognized and important right to counsel of one’s choosing
must yield to considerations of ethics that run to the very integrity of our
judicial process.  (Id.)  Whether an attorney should be
disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial
court.  (Henriksen v. Great Am. Sav. & Loan (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 109, 113.)  In exercising that discretion, the trial court is
required to make a reasoned judgment which complies with the legal principles
and policies applicable to the issue at hand.  (Id.)   
 
Discussion
 
The City
moves for an order disqualifying Ronald T. Vera, Esq. and the law firm of The
Vera Law Group from representing Plaintiff because of a conflict of interest. More
specifically, a familial conflict exists because Plaintiff’s attorney Ronald
(Ron) Vera’s niece, Genevieve Amaro (“Amaro”), has worked at the city for about
eleven years. (Motion pp. 3-4.)[1]
Not only is there a familial relationship between Plaintiff’s Counsel and a
City employee, but Plaintiff was Amaro’s direct supervisor. (Motion p. 4:6-9.)
The potential conflict was discovered during the August 14, 2023 deposition of
the City’s City Manager. On the record, Attorney Vera stated that he would feel
best to withdraw as counsel of record “to avoid any potential conflicts of
interests” and that he “hoped no one would ever discovery his family member
worked for the City of San Dimas.” (Motion p. 4, citing Counts Decl., ¶9, Ex.
A.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff maintains that the City has offered “no evidence” that
Amaro has information that she received from her employer. (Opp. pp. 2-3.)
 
Here, the court agrees with Plaintiff in that the mere
hypothetical possibility that Amaro could divulge information is
insufficient to create a conflict of interest, notably when there is no
evidence that Amaro has any (immaterial or material) information. 
 
The City
(without an analysis) cites to Oaks Management Corporation v. Superior Court
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 453 (Oaks), but the case is not instructive because
it does not potential conflicts of interest based upon a familial relationship,
and even assuming it is instructive, the case undermines the City’s argument.
In Oaks, the issue on appeal was whether
the trial court erred by disqualifying a law firm from representing the
plaintiffs at trial, based on lender-borrower relationships between two of the
firm's attorneys and a defendant that ended several years before this
litigation commenced. The defendant argued the attorneys received his
confidential financial information in conjunction with making loans, and the
plaintiffs could use it against him here, e.g., in making settlement demands.
The appellate court determined that the trial court erred because even if the
plaintiff’s attorneys did receive the defendant's financial information in
making loans, the plaintiff did not meet his burden of showing the information
could give the plaintiffs an unfair advantage or affect the outcome of this
litigation. (Id. at p. 457.) In determining so, the court
reasoned that there was no direct conflict because none of the plaintiff’s
attorneys sat on the board of directors of the defendant’s business and that
the borrower-lender relationships with the private investors amounted to an arms-length
relation such that there was no fiduciary relationship between the borrower
(defendant) and the lender (the investors, one of whom was on the board of the
plaintiff’s law firm). And when no attorney-client relationship exists “[m]ere
exposure to the confidences of an adversary does not, standing alone, warrant
disqualification.” (Id, quoting In re Complex Asbestos Litigation
(1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 572, 589, emphasis added.) 
 
Here, similarly, Amaro’s “mere exposure,” if any, to the
confidences of the adversary (i.e., the City) standing alone does not warrant disqualification. The City has set
forth no evidence that Amaro was privy to confidential discussions
regarding Plaintiff’s termination or information regarding Plaintiff’s
employment (e.g., his performance). Rather, the City bases its position based upon possibilities
and hypotheticals. (See e.g.,
Motion p. 6:11-13 [Amaro “could have, and likely was privy to
conversations or documents may be shared with Attorney Vera, which could
be used advantageously against Defendant in the course of litigation.”],
italics added; see also Reply p. 3:18-20 [“Any information Ms. Amaro could
have, and likely was privy to, including conversations or documents, may
be shared with Attorney Vera, which could be used advantageously
against Defendant in the course of litigation.”], italics added.) Even assuming that Amaro is privy to
information regarding the litigation, her superiors have extolled her work
ethic and abilities and she enjoys her job, suggesting she has no incentive, reason,
nor desire to jeopardize her job. (Id. at ¶6.)
 
Additionally,
there are no illuminating facts as to the relationship
between Plaintiff and Amaro. For example, did they work closely together?
If so, how often? If so, for how long? In fact, based upon Counsel Vera’s
declaration, Amaro may have only worked under Plaintiff for a short period of
time because Amaro, who now works in the Public Works Department, previously
worked in the Parks and Recreation Department, beginning as a student intern
while she was in college, perhaps suggesting that Amaro’s tenure at the Parks
Department was short-lived. (Vera Decl., ¶6.)[2]

 
Thus, in sum, the only evidence given is that Plaintiff and the niece
worked together; nothing more, nothing less. Under the circumstances,
disqualification would serve no legitimate purpose and would unfairly deprive
Plaintiff of trial counsel of his choice, an attorney who is skilled in the
relevant area of the law.[3] To the extent authority
exists to support a holding otherwise, it was the City’s burden, not
Plaintiff’s burden, to produce it. (Reply pp 3-4 [“Plaintiff's
Opposition provides no supporting legal authority for his position.”].) 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, as there is no suggestion that Plaintiff has
acquired an unfair advantage that undermines the integrity of the judicial
process, the court DENIES the motion. 


