  Case Number:  22TRCV01329    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. B JUNE VANTRIMPONT,    Plaintiff, Case No.:  22TRCV01329 vs.  [Tentative] RULING  BLUE CROSS OF CALIFORNIA DBA ANTHEM BLUE CROSS,    Defendant.       Hearing Date:                         July 17, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff June VantrimpontResponding Party:                  Defendant Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross(1)  Motion to Compel PMK Deposition and Production of Documents(2)  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Discovery and Production, Set Two             The Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULINGThe motion to compel production of PMK is MOOT as to Nos. 4, 5, and 7.  As to Topic 6, the motion is GRANTED as to plaintiff’s proposal to narrow the scope.  The motion is GRANTED as to No. 1 to the extent the parties reached an agreement to a narrower scope.  Defendant is ordered to produce a PMK within twenty days. The motion to compel further responses to request for production of documents, set two is ruled on as follows:  GRANTED as to Nos. 15-16, 19 as narrowed by plaintiff.  Defendant is ordered to produce further documents within twenty days.  DENIED AS MOOT as to Nos. 27, 28, 30, 32, 32, 33, 34.DENIED as to Nos. 17-21, 22-25, 26, 31, 32, 33, 35.BACKGROUND            On November 23, 2022, plaintiff June Vantrimpont filed a complaint against Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross for breach of contract and violations of Bus. & Prof. Code 17200.            On March 16, 2023, plaintiff filed a FAC for breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and violations of Bus. & Prof. Code §17200.            On June 14, 2024, the Court sustained defendant’s demurrer with leave to amend.            On July 13, 2023, plaintiff filed a SAC.LEGAL AUTHORITY            Compel depositionCCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.” CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:(1)       The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(2)       The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”CCP §2025.230 states:  “If the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”Compel further 45-Day Rule:  This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP §1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further response to the CCP §2031.010 demand.  CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). Meet-and-Confer Requirement:  The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”).  CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).Separate Statement:  Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  Request for Production of DocumentsOn receipt of a response to an inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:  (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  CCP §2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP §2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with [a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.  This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party.  This statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.”  CCP §2031.230. A motion to compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g., how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial).  The fact that there is no alternative source for the information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’ rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and belief, if necessary.  However, in such cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources of the information) must also be alleged.”  Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation omitted).  “Most declarations are made by the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id. at 8:1495.9.DISCUSSIONCompel PMKPlaintiff requests that the Court compel defendant to produce a person(s) most knowledgeable for a deposition on designated topics Nos. 4-7 and to produce all documents response to Request for Production No. 1 in plaintiff’s Notice of PMK Deposition dated November 20, 2023.On November 20, 2023, plaintiff served a notice of taking deposition of defendant’s PMK.  Plaintiff explains that Topics 4 and 5 seek information on Anthem’s investigation into plaintiff’s request for benefits and, specifically, what policies and procedures were followed and whether they were sufficient to allow for a “full, fair, and thorough investigation” into plaintiff’s request for TPVR.  Topics 6 and 7 and Request for Production No. 1 seek information and documents on Anthem’s medical policy for transcatheter heart valve procedures.The parties met and conferred and participated in IDCs.Plaintiff argues that the documents are relevant to her allegations that Anthem failed to conduct a full, fair, and thorough investigation into her request for a transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement (“TPVR”) because of its established policies and practices, “which are designed to deny medically necessary treatment to its members” as well as plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.In opposition, defendant argues that the motion was unnecessary.  Defendant asserts that defendant’s PMK’s depositions are scheduled for July 12 and July 23, 2024 as to Topics 4 and 5.  As to Nos. 6 and 7, defendant contends that its PMK witness was scheduled for deposition on May 21, 2024 but that the deposition was taken off calendar and defendant has offered plaintiff alternative deposition dates.  As to the request for production, No. 1, defendant argues that the motion should be denied as it is duplicative of Nos. 15 and 16 in plaintiff’s request for production of documents, set two, and for the reasons set forth in its opposition to that motion.  Further, defendant asserts that the motion is moot as to No. 1 because the parties reached an agreement as to a narrower scope.In reply, plaintiff contends that subsequent to the June 14 IDC, the parties were able to reach an agreement on Topics 4, 5, and 7, but that Topic 6 remains in dispute.  Plaintiff asserts that Topic 6 (which tracks the language of RFP No. 15) seeks highly probative information that will show Anthem knew its medical policy for TPVR was outdated when it denied plaintiff’s request for TPVR in February 2022 and her appeal in March 2022.  Plaintiff explains that it had proposed a compromise on the scope of No. 6.The Court rules as follows:  The motion is MOOT as to Nos. 4, 5, and 7.  As to Topic 6, the motion is GRANTED as to plaintiff’s proposal to narrow the scope.  Further, as to request for production, No. 1, the parties also reached an agreement as to a narrower scope, which the Court finds to be reasonable.  Compel further documents            Plaintiff requests that the Court compel defendant to provide a further verified response and production to plaintiff’s second set of demands for production, Nos. 15-35 and to order defendant to remove the preliminary statement and general objections and to remove all specific objections.            On November 1, 2023, plaintiff propounded Request for Production, Set Two, Nos. 15-35.  On December 19, 2023, defendant served objections and responses.Plaintiff contends that Anthem only asserted objections to Nos. 17-21, 23-27, 33, and 35, and that its responses to Nos. 28-32 are incomplete, inadequate, and evasive.  Plaintiff argues as to why she has good cause as to responsive documents.            In opposition, defendant argues that its objections have merit.  In general, defendant contends that the RFPs at issue are not reasonably particularized and seeks documents not relevant to the issues in this case; they seek documents that would violate HIPAA and/or the privacy rights of Anthem’s members and its employees; are overly broad and seek to impose on Anthem the undue burden to identify, collect, review, redact, and produce a broad range of documents.The Court rules as follows:Nos. 15-16, 19:  Anthem’s Medical Policy SURG.00121 entitled Transcatheter Heart Valve Procedures.  Since the IDC, defendant served supplemental responses to Nos. 15 and 16. Defendant still objects to producing “all emails, texts and letters” regarding SURG.00121.  Defendant asserts that SURG.00121 addresses several different valve procedures, not just TPVR and as such it is facially overly broad.  Defendant notes that plaintiff had suggested a compromise, which it finds to be acceptable, to narrow the scope to:  TPVR and to emails, texts, and letters from the researcher and physician reviewer assigned to SURG.00121.  The Court finds that the compromise is reasonable.  GRANTED to the extent narrowed by plaintiff.Nos. 17-21:  Anthem’s communications with June’s cardiologist, Dr. Aboulhosn.  Defendant served supplemental responses to Nos. 20 and 21.  As noted by defendant, plaintiff seeks appeals, documents, and communications related to Anthem members other than herself who are not parties to this case.  DENIED.Nos. 22-25, 33:  Anthem’s employees and agents involved in the utilization review process and/or in making decisions, such as denials, on Anthem’s behalf.  Defendant argues that such documents are not relevant and implicate the privacy interests of Anthem’s employees who are not parties to this case and that plaintiff has not established that Anthem’s medical reviewers’ compensation is tied to the outcome of the medical reviews they perform.  DENIED. No. 26:  Complaints and appeals by Anthem’s subscribers who claimed they were denied TPVR coverage by Anthem due to lack of medical necessity.  DENIED.No. 35:  Authorizations of TPVR that involved a valve in valve replacement.  DENIED.Nos. 27, 34:  Anthem’s contentions related to damages and affirmative defenses.  Defendant served supplemental responses.  DENIED as MOOT.No. 28:  Anthem’s recordings with June or anyone acting on her behalf.  Defendant served supplemental responses.  DENIED as MOOT. No. 30:  Anthem’s policies, procedures, guidelines and documents relating to utilization review.  Defendant served supplemental responses to No. 30.  Defendant also explains that this RFP is duplicative of Nos. 5-10 in set one, and that the parties had ultimately narrowed those requests.  DENIED as MOOT.Nos. 31-32:  Anthem’s communications with California State regulators, including the DMHC and Department of Insurance regarding June.  Defendant served supplemental responses.  DENIED as MOOT.             Plaintiff requests $1,000 in sanctions against defendant and defense counsel.  The Court finds that defendant acted with substantial justification.  The request is DENIED. ORDERThe motion to compel production of PMK is MOOT as to Nos. 4, 5, and 7.  As to Topic 6, the motion is GRANTED as to plaintiff’s proposal to narrow the scope.  The motion is GRANTED as to No. 1 to the extent the parties reached an agreement to a narrower scope.  Defendant is ordered to produce a PMK within twenty days. The motion to compel further responses to request for production of documents, set two is ruled on as follows:  GRANTED as to Nos. 15-16, 19 as narrowed by plaintiff.  Defendant is ordered to produce further documents within twenty days.  DENIED AS MOOT as to Nos. 27, 28, 30, 32, 32, 33, 34.DENIED as to Nos. 17-21, 22-25, 26, 31, 32, 33, 35.             Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.