 Case Number:  22STCV03696    Hearing Date:   December 26, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND  
On January 31, 2022, Plaintiff Jacob Syed Ali
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Antonio James Olea (“Olea”),
Benjamin Rodriguera (“Rodriguera”), and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and
general negligence. 
On May 13, 2022, Olea and Rodriguera (“Defendants”)
filed an answer.  On January 30, 2024,
Defendants filed a first amended answer. 
On November 7, 2024, Defendants filed and
electronically served a motion for summary judgment.  The motion was set for hearing on May 7,
2025. 
On November 12, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to continue
the trial and related dates.  The motion
was set for hearing on December 26, 2024. 
No opposition has been filed. 
Trial is currently scheduled for March 28, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
          Defendants
ask the Court to continue the trial and related dates. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050
provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
C.   Summary judgment scheduling 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a) provides: 
“(1) A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any
time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or
proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier
time after the general appearance that the court, with or without notice and
upon good cause shown, may direct. 
“(2) Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall
be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time
appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day
period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within
the State of California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the State
of California but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of address
is outside the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile
transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for
overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by
two court days. 
“(3) The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days
before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. The
filing of the motion shall not extend the time within which a party must
otherwise file a responsive pleading.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (a).) 
To
satisfy the statutory notice requirement, a summary judgment motion “must be
served at least 105 days before trial (longer if served by mail)
[citation].  Motions served
electronically must be served at least 107 days before trial.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 10:71, pp. 10-32 to
10-33.)  “The 30-day ‘cut-off’ under
[Code of Civil Procedure section 437c] is measured from the trial date in
effect when the summary judgment motion is made.”  (Id., ¶ 10:74, p. 10-33.)   “[A] continuance of the trial date ‘reopens’
the time for such motions.”  (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendants
ask the Court to continue the trial until after the May 7, 2025 hearing on their
pending motion for summary judgment. 
Defendants
timely filed and electronically served the summary judgment motion on Plaintiff
on November 7, 2024.  Due to the Court’s
impacted calendar, the first available date for a hearing on the summary
judgment motion was after the March 28, 2024 trial date. 
“A
trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the
time limits of section 437c. [Citation.] Local rules and practices may not be
applied so as to prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion. [Citation.].”  (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.)  When a
party files his motion for summary judgment within the time limits set by Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, he has a right to have its motion heard before
the start of trial.  (See Cole v.
Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.) 
The
Court has considered the factors listed in California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c), and Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b), finds
that Uber has established good cause to continue the trial and related dates.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion to continue the trial and
related dates filed by Defendants Antonio James Olea and Benjamin Rodriguera.  The Court continues the trial to June 12,
2025, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The Final
Status Conference is May 29, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring
Street Courthouse.  Discovery and related
dates will be based on the new trial date. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.