  Case Number:  19GDCV01085    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 23,
2024                          TRIAL DATE: No
date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         NICHOLAS GLAROS v.
STATE OF CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, ET AL.  
 
CASE NO.:                 19GDCV01085
 
 
 
MOTION


 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant The People of the State
of California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Unopposed  
 
SERVICE:                             Filed April 3, 2024 
 
OPPOSITION:                      None filed as of May 21, 2024
 
REPLY:                                 None filed as of May 21, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant the People of the
State of California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation
(“Defendant”) moves for an order to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One and for sanctions against Plaintiff in the sum
of $2,400. Defendant also moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to respond to
Defendant’s Request for Production, Set One, and for monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff in the sum of $3,700.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This action arises from an alleged breach of
contract pertaining to the sale of a property with Caltrans. On August 26,
2019, Plaintiff Nicholas Glaros (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) and California
Housing Finance Agency (CalHFA) alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Tortious Breach of Contract; (3) Intentional IWPEA; and (4)
Negligence. 
 
            On November 6, 2019, Plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint against Defendants State of California Department of
Transportation and California Housing Finance Agency. 
 
            After demurrers were filed without
leave to amend as to certain causes of action and subsequent amendments to the
pleadings, Plaintiff filed the operative Fourth Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendant State of California Department of Transportation alleging a
sole cause of action for: (1) Breach of Contracts Arising Through the Breach of
an Obligation Arising from Contract. 
 
            On May 28, 2021, after hearing oral
argument, the Court sustained the demurrer of Defendant California Department
of Transportation without leave to amend. (05/28/21 Minute Order.) 
 
            On January 4, 2022, Judgment was
entered in favor of Defendant The People of the State of California, acting by
and through the Department of Transportation (“Defendant”), which was
erroneously sued as the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans). Pursuant
to the Judgment, this action was dismissed in its entirety with prejudice as to
Defendant and Plaintiff shall take nothing. (01/04/22 Judgment.) The Court
deemed Defendant as the prevailing party. (01/04/22 Judgment.) 
 
            On January 20, 2022, after hearing
oral argument, the Court denied Plaintiff’s respective motions to set
aside/vacate judgment and for leave to restart discovery. (01/20/22 Minute
Order.)
 
            On March 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
Notice of Appeal indicating that he was appealing the Court’s January 20, 2022
order.  
 
            On April 6, 2022, after hearing oral
argument, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for attorneys’ fees in the
amount of $73,385.00. (04/06/22 Minute Order.) 
 
            On July 25, 2023, remittitur was
issued indicating that the Second Appellate District affirmed the Court’s
January 20, 2022 order. 
 
            On October 30, 2023, after hearing,
the Court granted Defendant’s motion for attorneys’ fees and awarded Defendant
attorneys’ fees in the amount of $38,500.00. (10/30/23 Minute Order.) 
 
            On November 9, 2023, an Abstract of
Judgment was issued indicating that Defendant is the Judgment Creditor and
Plaintiff is the Judgment Debtor, and that the total amount of judgment was
entered or last renewed is $38,500.00. 
 
            On April 3, 2024, Defendant filed an
served the instant unopposed Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Sanctions in the Amount of $2,400 (the
“Special Interrogatories Motion”), as well as an unopposed Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Responses to Requests for Production, Set One, and Request for
Sanctions in the Amount of $3,700 (the “RPD Motion”) (collectively, the
“Motions”). The Motions are made on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to
respond to post-judgment discovery. 
 
            As of May 21, 2024, the Motions are
unopposed. Any opposition to the Motions was required to have been filed and
served at least nine court days prior to the hearing pursuant to CCP § 1005(b).

 
            The Court will address both Motions
in this one ruling. 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            The Court
GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One (the “Special Interrogatories
Motion”). 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to
Requests for Production, Set One (the “RPD Motion”).  
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to
provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses to Defendant’s
Requests for Production, Set One and Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set
One, without objections, within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
The Court GRANTS IN PART
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions. The Court AWARDS Defendant
reasonable monetary sanctions in the total amount of $900.00, payable to
Defendant by Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. This amount
represents total monetary sanctions as to both the Special Interrogatories
Motion and the RPD Motion. 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A judgment creditor “may propound written interrogatories to the judgment
debtor . . . requesting information to aid in enforcement of the money
judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.020, subd. (a).) “Interrogatories served
pursuant to this section may be enforced, to the extent practicable, in the
same manner as interrogatories in a civil action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.020,
subd. (c).) 
 
“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the
interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them
on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court
has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding
party the court has extended the time for response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd.
(a).)  If the party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, “[t]he party to whom the interrogatories
are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)
“The party propounding interrogatories may move for an order compelling
response to the interrogatories.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  
 
“The judgment creditor may demand that any judgment debtor produce and
permit the party making the demand, or someone acting on that party’s behalf,
to inspect and to copy a document that is in the possession, custody, or
control of the party on whom the demand is made . . . if the demand requests
information to aid in enforcement of the money judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.030, subd. (a).) “Inspection demands served pursuant to this section may be
enforced to the extent practicable, in the same manner as inspection demands in
a civil action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.030, subd. (c).)  
 
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by inspecting, copying, testing, or
sampling documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically
stored information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (a).) Where a party fails to
timely respond to demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(a).) Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.” 
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery
process is “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.” Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery
process includes “[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery.” A court has discretion
to “impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct” under Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2023.030(a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary
sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)
 
 
THE
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES MOTION
 
            Overview
 
            Defendant moves
to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Set One of Defendant’s Special
Interrogatories, and for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of
$2,400.00.  
 
            Application
 
            On January 25, 2024, Defendant
propounded, via mail, post-judgment written discovery on Plaintiff, which
included set one of its special interrogatories and requests for production.
(DiPietro Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) No responses were received by the deadline of
February 29, 2024. (Id., ¶ 3.) Mr. DiPietro
states that he spent a minimum of one (1) hour drafting the motion and he
estimates spending another two (2) hours drafting a reply and one (1) hour
appearing at the hearing on the motion. (Id., ¶ 5.) Counsel sets
forth his qualifications and indicates that he has been practicing law since
2012. (Id., ¶ 6.) Mr. DiPietro indicates that because he is internal
counsel for Defendant, he does not bill the State. (Id., ¶ 7.) Mr. DiPietro
states that the reasonable value of his services is approximately $600.00 per hour,
and he has reached such conclusion by consulting with other similarly situated
attorneys and has had his understanding affirmed by his counterparts who have
decades of legal experience. (Id., ¶ 7.) Barring any adjustments, Mr.
DiPietro requests $2,400.00 in attorneys’ fees based on four (4) hours of work
on the instant motion. (Id., ¶ 8.) 
 
            Defendant has propounded discovery on
Plaintiff and Plaintiff has failed to respond. The Court therefore finds that
Plaintiff should be compelled to respond to Defendant’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One. The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to provide verified,
complete, and code-compliant responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set
One, without objections, within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
            As for monetary sanctions, given
that the Special Interrogatories Motion is brief and not complex in nature, the
Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions. The Court AWARDS
Defendant reasonable monetary sanctions in the amount of $600.00 pursuant to
the Special Interrogatories Motion. Such an amount represents one (1) hour of
work on the Special Interrogatories Motion.  
 
THE RPD MOTION
 
            Overview
 
            Defendant
moves to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Set One of Defendant’s Requests for
Production, and for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $3,700.00.  
 
            Application
 
            On January
25, 2024, Defendant propounded, via mail, post-judgment written discovery on
Plaintiff, which included set one of its special interrogatories and requests
for production. (DiPietro Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) No responses were received by
the deadline of February 29, 2024. (Id., ¶ 3.) Mr. DiPietro
states that he spent a minimum of one and a half (1.5) hours drafting the
motion and he estimates spending another two (2) hours drafting a reply and one
(1) hour appearing at the hearing on the motion. (Id., ¶ 5.) Counsel sets forth his qualifications and indicates that he
has been practicing law since 2012. (Id., ¶ 6.) Mr. DiPietro indicates
that because he is internal counsel for Defendant, he does not bill the State.
(Id., ¶ 7.) Mr. DiPietro states that the reasonable value of his
services is approximately $600.00 per hour, and he has reached such conclusion
by consulting with other similarly situated attorneys and has had his
understanding affirmed by his counterparts who have decades of legal
experience. (Id., ¶ 7.) Barring any adjustments, Mr. DiPietro requests $2,700.00
in attorneys’ fees for the RPD Motion based on four and a half (4.5) hours of
work on such motion. (Id., ¶ 8.) 
 
            Defendant
has propounded discovery on Plaintiff and Plaintiff has failed to respond. The
Court therefore finds that Plaintiff should be compelled to respond to Defendant’s
Requests for Production, Set One. The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to provide
verified, complete, and code-compliant responses to Defendant’s Requests for
Production, Set One, without objections, within 30 days of the date of this
order.
 
            As for
monetary sanctions, given that the RPD Motion is brief and not complex in
nature, the Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.
The Court AWARDS Defendant reasonable monetary sanctions in the amount of $300.00
pursuant to the RPD Motion. Such an amount represents one-half (0.5) hours of
work on the RPD Motion.       
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The Court GRANTS the Special Interrogatories Motion and
the RPD Motion.  
 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant
responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production, Set One and Defendant’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, within 30 days of the
date of this order.
 
The Court GRANTS IN PART
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions. The Court AWARDS Defendant
reasonable monetary sanctions in the total amount of $900.00, payable to
Defendant by Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. This amount
represents total monetary sanctions as to both the Special Interrogatories
Motion and the RPD Motion. 
 
            Moving
party to provide notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   May 23, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
