  Case Number:  19STCV22166    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 





REAGAN
  YEWATA and AMERICAN MYANMAR BUDDHIST FEDERATION, INC., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
NEZA WTA MA, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV22166
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
THE MOTION OF PLAINTIFFS REAGAN YEWATA
  AND AMERICAN MYANMAR BUDDHIST FEDERATION, INC.FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
 
Date: June 11, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Regan Yewata and American Myanmar Buddhist Federation, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
Neza WTA MA and Mya Hnin Yi
 
            The Court has considered the moving and
opposition papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On December 1, 2021, Plaintiffs Regan Yewata
(“Yewata”) and American Myanmar Buddhist Federation, Inc. (“AMBF”)
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants Neza WTA MA (“MA”); Mya Hnin Yi (“Yi”); All Persons Unknown,
Claiming Any Legal or Equitable Right, Title, Estate, Lien, or Interest in the
Property described in the Complaint Adverse to Plaintiffs’ Title thereto; and
DOES 1 through 50 (collectively “Defendants”), inclusive. The FAC asserts the
following causes of action: (1) Fraud; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3)
Constructive Fraud; (4) Constructive Trust; and (5) Quiet Title. 
 
            On February 24, 2020, Defendants MA
and Yi (“Cross-Complainants”) filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs,
alleging causes of action for: (1) Partition and (2) Fraud. 
            
            On May 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant Motion for Terminating Sanctions. On May 24, 2024, this Court
advanced the noticed hearing date for the instant motion from July 15, 2024 to
June 11, 2024. On June 4, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed an opposition. No
reply has been filed.     
 
DISCUSSION
            Code of Civil Procedure Section
2023.030, states in pertinent part: “To the extent authorized by the chapter
governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of this title,
the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after
opportunity for hearing, may impose…[monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating]
sanctions against anyone engaging in the misuse of the discovery process….”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subds. (a)-(d).) “Misuses of the discovery
process include, but are not limited to…(d) Failing to respond or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery…(g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) 
 
“Nevertheless,
absent unusual circumstances, such as repeated and egregious discovery abuses,
two facts are generally prerequisite to the imposition of a nonmonetary
sanction. There must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful.” (Lee v. Lee (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1553, 1559.) “Even
where nonmonetary sanctions are called for, they ‘”…’ should be appropriate to
the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.’ [Citations] ‘”…[¶]
The sanctions the court may impose are such as are suitable and necessary to
enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he
seeks, but the court may not impose sanctions which are designed not to
accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose punishment.’”’ [Citations.]”
(Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) 
 
“A
trial court has broad discretion when imposing a discovery sanction.” (Lee,
supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at 1559.) “In exercising this discretion [for
nonmonetary sanctions], a variety of factors may be relevant, including, 1) the
time which has elapsed since [the discovery requests] were served, 2) whether
the party served was previously given a voluntary extension of time, 3) the
number of [the discovery requests] propounded, 4) whether the unanswered
questions sought information which was difficult to obtain, 5) whether the
answers supplied were evasive and incomplete, 6) the number of questions which
remained unanswered, 7) whether the questions which remained unanswered are
material to a particular claim or defense, 8) whether the answering party has
acted in good faith, and with reasonable diligence, 9) the existence of prior
orders compelling discovery and the answering party’s response thereto, 10)
whether the party was unable to comply with the previous order of the court,
11) whether an order allowing more time to answer would enable the answering
party to supply the necessary information, and 12) whether a sanction short of
dismissal or default would be appropriate to the dereliction.” (Deyo v.
Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 796-97.) 
 


 
Motion for Sanctions 
            Plaintiffs move for an order
imposing terminating sanctions and/or evidence, issue and monetary sanctions
against Cross-Complainants. The instant motion (the “Motion”) is made on the
grounds that Cross-Complainants have engaged multiple discovery abuses: (1) in
anticipation of and during the deposition of Cross-Complainant Yi and (2) by
failing to make any efforts to have Cross-Complainant Ma appear at deposition.
Specifically, Plaintiffs seek terminating sanctions striking Cross-Complainant
Ma’s Answer to the FAC and Cross-Complaint. Alternatively, Plaintiffs seek
evidence and issue sanctions (1) barring any testimony of Cross-Complainants in
the lawsuit including in the form of declarations; and (2) ordering
Cross-Complainant Yi to appear for cross-examination at trial. Finally,
Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,594.30 for the
cancellation of the April 11, 2024 deposition and drafting of the instant
motion. 
 
            Cross-Complainants Failed to
Comply with the April 5, 2024 Order
            On April 5, 2024, this Court ordered
the deposition of Cross-Complainants to take place on April 11, 2024 at 10:00
a.m. (Pacific Daylight Time), in Thailand. (Fu Decl., ¶6, Ex. D.) Following the
Court’s order, Plaintiffs served a Notice of Ruling for the April 11, 2024 deposition
date on Cross-Complainants. (Id.) Three days before the noticed
deposition, Cross-Complainants counsel told Plaintiffs’ counsel that
Cross-Complainants could not attend the April 11, 2024 deposition. (Id.,
¶7, Ex. E; Casas Decl., ¶13, Ex. G.) In fact, Cross-Complainants did not appear
for the April 11, 2024 date as ordered. (Fu Decl., ¶12.) As such,
Cross-Complainants failed to comply with the April 5, 2024 Court order. 
 
Cross-Complainants
contend that they were unavailable due limited-duration visas that required
them to return to Burma/Myanmar before the mandatory curfew time and that they attempted
to reschedule the deposition for April 10, 2024 with a Burmese Interpreter. Cross-complainants
assert that Plaintiff refused to reschedule the deposition for the earlier date
on the grounds that a court-certified Burmese Interpreter was not available on
April 10, 2024 and Aung Aung Taik, although available for that date, was not a
certified court interpreter. 
 
Although
Cross-Complainants assert that because non-certified court interpreters may for
good cause shown be appointed by a judge for use in a court proceeding under
Government Code Section 68561, subdivision (c) that they can be appointed for
good cause pertaining to depositions, they provide no statutory or case law to
support this assertion and this Court issued no such order.. Nonetheless, Cross-Complainants
have shown that their failure to appear for the April 11, 2024 date was not
willful but due to travel restrictions imposed by their country, Burma.
Moreover, Cross-Complainant Yi was finally deposed on April 17, 2024 and has
responded to all written discovery requests. Cross-Complainant Ma has also
provided responses to all written discovery requests. Similarly, Plaintiffs
have not sought to compel Cross-Complainant Ma to appear for the taking of his
deposition after the April 11, 2024 date pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2025.450. Additionally, the prior March 27, 2024 order merely ordered
the parties to meet and confer within a week from that date on a location with
internet service to conduct the deposition, which the parties did. (Fu Decl.,
¶¶4-5, Exs. B-C.) Thus, nonmonetary sanctions are not warranted at this time. 
 
            Monetary Sanctions
            “The court may impose a monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or
any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The
court may also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that
another has engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney
who advised that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by
any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Here, Plaintiffs seek monetary
sanctions in the amount of $4,594.30 for the cancellation of the April 11, 2024
deposition and drafting of the instant motion. As discussed above,
Cross-Complainants’ conduct in not appearing for the court-ordered deposition
was not willful but due to the travel limitations imposed by their country,
Burma. Furthermore, Cross-Complainants attempted to meet and confer with
Plaintiffs on rescheduling the deposition for an earlier date, on which they
would be available to appear and be deposed. Moreover, Cross-Complainant Yi was
subsequently deposed three days later. Lastly, Cross-Complainants have provided
written responses to all of Plaintiffs’ discovery requests and Plaintiffs’ have
not filed a reply brief showing otherwise. Based on the foregoing
circumstances, imposition of monetary sanctions would be unjust at this time. 
 
            Therefore, the motion for
terminating sanctions or in the alternative, evidence, issue, and monetary
sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 11th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



