 Case Number:  24NNCV02890    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  X MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINTPlaintiff requests leave to file a
first amended complaint.  The operative complaint
alleges Plaintiff obtained an assignment of the rights to purchase a property
located at 11072 Penrose Street, Sun Valley, California 91352 around August
2023.  (Compl., ¶ 14.)  Defendant Beverly Stickler confirmed to
Plaintiff that the sellers held title and had the ability to transfer title and
the title company cleared all the issues as to ownership.  (Compl., ¶ 17.)  However, the bank labeled the transaction as
fraud.  (Compl., ¶ 23.)  The complaint alleges that due to the fraud
and misrepresentation of Defendants, “Plaintiff suffered damage
of the loss of down payment, loan payments that had to be made during and after
the closing of escrow until the loan was paid in full, attorney’s fees in
trying to clear title, plus the loss of the bargain.”  (Compl., 28.)Tentative RulingPursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 472, Plaintiff’s motion is granted with the amended
complaint attached to Thomulka’s Declaration to be filed and served within 10
days, or by January 13, 2025.The Court will leave
the March 4, 2025, hearing on calendar to the extent that Defendants Opus and
Stickler seeks to challenge the amended complaint.  Defendants Opus and Stickler may file an
amended demurer in this regard.  If there
is no legal challenge to the amended pleading, the hearing should be taken
off-calendar by the reserving party.Legal Authority and
AnalysisA motion for leave
to amend must comply with the requirements set forth in California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1324, including a declaration specifying the effect of the
amendment, why it is necessary and proper, the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations and when they were discovered, and the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.  (Cal.
Rules of Ct., rule 3.1324.)  Dilatory
delays and prejudice to the opposing parties is a valid ground for denial.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)Plaintiff Rosie and
Blue Investments, LLC seeks to amend the complaint to address issues raised by
Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike, which is set for hearing on March 4,
2025.  The proposed First Amended
Complaint (FAC) includes changes such as dropping Opus Escrow and Beverly
Stickler from the Negligence cause of action and adding new allegations,
including a claim for Negligent Misrepresentation against Opus Escrow and its
officer.  Plaintiff argues that the
motion is timely and necessary to address deficiencies in the original
Complaint, the amendments are in the interest of justice and will not prejudice
the Defendants, and the procedural requirements of Rule 3.1324 have been
satisfied.The opposition first
argues that Plaintiff failed to comply with Rule 3.1324(a) and (b).
Specifically, the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Russell J. Thomulka, does
not adequately explain the necessity of the amendments, when the facts were
discovered, or why the request was delayed.  Additionally, the motion references a
declaration by Gary Kurtz, which was not included.  Defendants also argue that the amendments
would cause legal prejudice by radically altering the issues and introducing
new claims, such as negligent misrepresentation, which were not part of the
original Complaint.  This would require
additional discovery and preparation, increasing litigation costs.  Third, Defendants contend that the proposed
amendments fail to state valid causes of action, particularly the claim for
negligent misrepresentation, which they argue is legally insufficient and
cannot be cured by further amendment.In reply, Plaintiff
reiterates that the amendments are necessary to address issues raised in the
Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike.  Plaintiff disputes the Defendants’ claims of
prejudice, arguing that the amendments do not fundamentally alter the nature of
the case and that any additional discovery required is minimal and does not
outweigh the interest of justice.While the Thomulka Declaration
lacks sufficient detail to satisfy Rule 3.1324(b)(3)-(4), i.e., regarding when
the new facts were discovered or why the request for amendment was not made
earlier, if a defendant files a demurrer or motion to strike, a plaintiff has a
right to amend the complaint without leave of court up to the date for filing
an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 472.)  Plaintiff’s motion is, therefore, granted with
the amended complaint attached to Thomulka’s Declaration to be filed and served
within 10 days, or by January 13, 2025.Plaintiff is to give
notice.