  Case Number:  23SMCV01468    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here on demurrer as to GMR and an OSC re:
Dismissal (Settlement) as to defendant NPB. 
The court assumes that the latter is in process, but will inquire.  
 
As to the demurrer, the court is puzzled.  The case arises from an event that took place
at a concert in Las Vegas, Nevada.  There
was a crowd surge and a number of people were injured in the surge.  Thomas is one of them and has sued various
entities.  One of those entities, GMR,
demurs.  GMR asserts that it was a
healthcare provider and therefore is protected by California’s MICRA law.  Further, GMR asserts that plaintiff never
sought medical care from GMR, so there can be no professional negligence and
the demurrer should be sustained. 
Similarly, GMR notes that its contract was with the promoter, not
plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff asserts that GMR is not a healthcare provider and
that the causes of action are legitimate. 
According to plaintiff, GMR is the real entity that had been sued as
CrowdRx, and it had contracted to provide on-site medical services and
planning.  According to plaintiff, GMR
did not provide adequate medical planning, but GMR was never itself supposed to
provide medical services; it was supposed to contract with doctors to do
that.  As such, plaintiff contends, GMR
is not engaged in the practice of medicine and is not within MICRA.  And while it is true that the FAC does not
say anything about GMR, plaintiff says that is because until recently, GMR was
a DOE defendant.  But the FAC does talk
of CrowdRx, which is essentially the same thing according to plaintiff.  Plaintiff also contends that plaintiff is a
third party beneficiary under the contract between GMR and the promoter.
 
The court’s question is why California law applies at
all?  The injury occurred in Nevada;
GMR’s services were (or were supposed to be) rendered in Nevada; the concert
took place in Nevada; the contract was to be performed in Nevada.  GMR is not a California corporation to the
extent the court can tell.  As such, the
court does not understand why California law would apply here.
 
The court will discuss the matter with counsel, but it would
seem that supplemental papers will need to be filed based on Nevada law, not
California law, unless the parties stipulate that the laws are the same.  If that is the case, the court will discuss a
briefing schedule. 