 Case Number:  22STLC08431    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  26  Henderson, et al. v. Eden Iris Gardens LLC, et al.MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION(CCP § 1008)TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs Erica Henderson and
Jeffrey Henderson’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On December 19, 2022, Plaintiffs Erica Henderson (“Plaintiff
Erica”) and Jeffrey Henderson (“Plaintiff Jeffrey”) (collectively
“Plaintiffs”), in propria persona, filed an action against Defendants Rockvale
Apartments LP (“Defendant Rockvale LP”), Rockvale Apartments GP, LLC (“Defendant
Rockvale GP”), Rockvale Apartments Limited, LLC (“Defendant Rockvale Limited”),
FPI Management[1], Inc. (“Defendant FPI”), and Eden Housing, Inc. (erroneously
sued as Eden Iris Gardens, LLC (“Defendant Eden”) for: (1) breach of implied
warranty of habitability, (2) negligence, (3) nuisance, (4) personal injury,
(5) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (6) breach of contract.
 
Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Reclassify on
October 11, 2023. Following full briefing and oral argument, the Court denied
the Motion to Reclassify. Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for
Reconsideration on February 8, 2024. The Motion is opposed by all Defendants. 
 
Discussion
 
The Motion
is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a),
which states in relevant part:
 
When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or
to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(a).) The Court lacks the jurisdiction to reconsider a prior ruling, on motion
of a party, where the motion does not comply with the requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 1008. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (e); Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1106.) Additionally, there is a
diligence requirement: “Courts have construed section 1008 to require a party
filing an application for reconsideration or a renewed application to show
diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not having presented the new or
different information earlier.” (Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling,
Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 839.)
 
Plaintiffs contend the Motion is
supported by new and/or different facts regarding the damages in this case. The
new and/or different fact, however, is the same one asserted in the Motion to
Reclassify: that Plaintiffs’ damages exceed the jurisdictional limit of this
Court. (Motion, p. 3:19-21.) Plaintiffs also confusingly claim another new fact
is that this case was incorrectly classified. This is also not a new fact as
this case has been classified as a limited jurisdiction case since it was
filed; and whether it is correctly classified is not a fact but Plaintiffs’
opinion which they previously asserted. Finally, any additional evidence
regarding the alleged gas leak mentioned in Plaintiff Erica Henderson’s
supporting declaration is also not new or different information because it
could have been presented in the Motion to Reclassify. Plaintiffs have not demonstrated
diligence in presenting these facts, which are from 2020 to 2023, to the Court.

 
Conclusion
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs
Erica Henderson and Jeffrey Henderson’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice.
 
 