  Case Number:  22TRCV03492    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
EMILY
  PEREZ, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV03492




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 20,
24
 
Moving Parties:                      Cross-complainant Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific Co.
Responding
Party:                  Cross-defendant CST Industries, Inc.
Motion
for Order Granting Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Cross-complainant Kiewit is ordered to file
its FACC within five days.
BACKGROUND
            On January 28, 2022, plaintiffs
Emily Perez and Joe Perez filed a wrongful death and survival action complaint
against City of Los Angeles, CST Industries, Inc., CST Covers Industries, Inc.,
Kiewit Construction, Inc. for (1) dangerous condition of public property, (2)
strict products liability, and (3) negligence. 
Plaintiffs allege that decedent Jose Perez was an employee of Murray
Company, which was contracted with the City. 
Decedent was brought in to assist the City with an acid wash procedure
and construction involving the primary sedimentation tanks at Hyperion.  On March 8, 2021, while manually adjusting or
lifting with a co-worker a weakened and corroded aluminum tank cover, using the
tank cover’s folding hinged flap handles, the handle on his co-worker’s end
broke, or the co-worker lost control of his end, causing the tank cover to drop
into the tank.  When the co-worker’s end
dropped, decedent’s folding hinged flap handle trapped decedent’s hand and
decedent was thrown 20-plus feet into the tank.
On April 13, 2022, plaintiffs filed
an amendment designating Kiewit Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific
Co. as Doe 11.
On April 20, 2022, CST Industries,
Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Kiewit.
On April 21, 2022, CST Industries
filed a FACC.
On May 9, 2022, plaintiffs filed a
FAC.
On June 8, 2022, Kiewit filed a
cross-complaint against CST Industries.
On September 2, 2022, the case was
transferred from the PI Hub to Dept. M.
On October 18, 2022, the court
overruled CST’s demurrer.
On April 11, 2023, CST Industries,
Inc. filed a cross-complaint against CST Covers Industries, Inc. for indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief.
On January 11, 2024, the court
granted Kiewit Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific Co.’s motion for
determination of good faith settlement. 
The court also granted City of Los Angeles’ motion for determination of
good faith settlement.
Trial is set for August 5, 2024.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 “This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion
to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial.  In
most cases, the factors for timeliness are: 
(1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Kiewit Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific Co. requests an order
granting leave to amend its cross-complaint to add a claim for express
indemnity against cross-cross-defendant CST Industries, Inc. 
            Defendant
Kiewit contends that plaintiffs’ claim centers on alleged defects in the design
of the “folding hinge flap handles” on the aluminum tanks covers designed and
manufactured by Conservatek.  Kiewit
explains that it installed the tank covers between 2005 and 2007 pursuant to a
contract with the City of Los Angeles that owns the Hyperion Water Reclamation
Plant property.  Kiewit asserts that the
contract with the City required Kiewit to purchase the particular Conservatek
aluminum tank covers that Kiewit ultimately installed.  Kiewit contends that it did not design,
select, or manufacture the tank covers. 
It also asserts that on September 9, 2005 it entered into a “Material
Contract” with Conservatek, and that “[t]hrough the discovery process, it has
come to [Kiewit’s] attention” that the contract “contains explicit language
stating that Conservatek shall indemnify buyers from all claims arising out of
bodily injury or death.”  Kiewit tendered
defense and indemnity to CST Industries as the legal successor to
Conservatek.  On January 30, 2024, Kiewit
renewed its tender.  See Mary Fersch
decl.  
            Kiewit
argues that it has acted in good faith and is justified in seeking an amendment
at this time.  Kiewit contends that its
cross-complaint for indemnity may be brought now or upon defendant incurring
damages associated with a settlement or jury verdict at trial.  Kiewit entered into a settlement agreement
with plaintiffs for $2.5 million in January 2024.  Kiewit asserts that “[i]t makes sense to
bring the action in this case because Plaintiffs are continuing their action
against Cross-Defendant,” Kiewit already has a pending cross-complaint against
CST for equitable indemnity, and it will be more expeditious to try both
actions in the same case.  Kiewit further
argues that no party will be prejudiced.
            In
opposition, cross-defendant CST Industries, Inc. contends that the motion
should be denied because of Kiewit’s undue delay and that the claim for express
indemnity should have been brought against CST in June 2022 when Kiewit filed
its cross-complaint.  CST argues that the
amendment will prejudice it and impose additional costs and necessitate
additional discovery and that it could have defended this case differently had
it accepted tender and defense from Kiewit in June 2022.  Lastly, CST contends that the motion is
premature because the successor liability issue has not yet been resolved and
that it may not have any contractual obligations under that contract.
            In
reply, Kiewit argues that the motion is not untimely because circumstances
changed after the parties attended mediation and CST refused to contribute
funds to the settlement and, following the issuance of a mediator’s proposal on
November 11, 2023, Kiewit immediately notified CST upon discovering the
contract and tendered defense and indemnity to CST, and Kiewit has incurred
$2.5 million in damages.  Kiewit argues
that the amendment would not prejudice CST because it arises out of the same
set of facts as the complaint and cross-complaint.
The court finds that cross-complainant
Kiewit complied with CRC Rule 3.1324.  “Leave
to amend is in general required to be liberally granted.”  Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal. App. 4th
402, 412 (citation omitted).  Further,
the court finds that Kiewit did not unduly delay in filing the motion and that
cross-defendant CST will not be prejudiced.
The Court appreciates that the
issue of a contractual indemnity provision is new and raises issues that may
involve additional discovery regarding that basis for imposing liability.  By the same token, the underlying personal
injury claim of Plaintiff that gives rise to the claim of contractual indemnity
has been the subject of this litigation throughout, and the damages claimed
were the subject of discovery.  Of
course, the issue of the damages that Kiewit may claim by contractual indemnity
are now quantified by its settlement.
In short, while there are some new
issues, it is in the interest of justice to have the disputes that arose from
the unfortunate event fully resolved in one case rather than foster yet another
suit where contractual indemnity must be addressed.
The motion is thus GRANTED.
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.
            Cross-complainant Kiewit is ordered
to file its FACC within five days.
Moving party is ordered to give
notice of the ruling.