 Case Number:  22TRCV00912    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 February 14, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      22TRCV00912
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                            Daniel Sydney
Andrews v. Smart & Final LLC, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, Smart & Final Stores, LLC
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:         Plaintiff, Daniel Sydney Andrews
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        June
3, 2024
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Protective Order 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion for Protective Order
is DENIED, and monetary sanctions are
denied without prejudice to the Court re-considering sanctions if the PMQ and
COR designee depositions (if not the named employee percipient witness
depositions) have not been taken in person before the end of the month.  The Court thus continues the hearing on the cross-requests
for monetary sanctions to February 29, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On
October 10, 2022, Plaintiff, Daniel Sydney Andrews (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Smart & Final LLC, Smart & Final Stores,
LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleged causes of action for: (1)
Premises Liability; and (2) General Negligence. 
 
Defendant
contends that it is seeking a protective order because Plaintiff seeks to
depose employees and Defendant’s PMK, but that none of the information sought
necessitates the deponents being in person. As such, Defendant moves this Court
for an order allowing Defendant’s employees and PMK to appear for their
deposition remotely. 
 
B. Procedural 
 
On January 17, 2024, Defendant
filed a Motion for Protective order. On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On February 13, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief and objection
to the opposition filed by Plaintiff.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard
 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject
to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any
party to the action.¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)¿A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying.¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
The motion to
compel deposition “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).) “The motion shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) 
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Preliminarily, the Court understands that Plaintiff’s opposition
brief is untimely. Even though tardy, the Court will consider the opposition
brief with a caveat to plaintiff’s counsel that a repeat offense of a tardy
brief will result in the Court refusing to consider such late papers in the future.  
 
Here, Defendant does not dispute the obligation to produce
individuals, designees, and documents for deposition. However, Defendant argues
that none of the information sought by Plaintiff necessitates the deponents
being in person. Defendant argues that requiring the deposition to occur in
person as opposed to remotely is intended to disrupt defendant’s business
requiring the employees to be scheduled at times when they normally would not
work and have to pay both the employees and counsel for the travel time to
reach the location of the deposition. 
 
The Code of Civil Procedure permits and in fact requires in-person
depositions absent agreement of the parties or a court order to the contrary.
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.250 [authorizing in-person depositions], 2026.010
[describing the procedure for depositions outside of California]; Rule of
Court, Rule 3.1010, subd. (a)(3).) Here, there is no request for an employee to
travel great distances in order for their deposition to be held. In fact, the
noticed depositions are to take place at a location that is 5 miles away from
the store where these employees work. This indicates to the Court that the
burden on Defendant is minimal since the deposition would be near Defendant’s
store.   The burden identified by
Defendant is that its business will be disrupted because the employees are
scheduled at times when they normally do not work and Defendant would be
required to pay both the employee and counsel for travel time to reach the
location of the deposition. Such a burden is attendant to most if not all depositions
of entity parties, i.e., the PMQ or custodian of records or percipient witness being
deposed would not be working at the business during the time she or he is being
deposed.  The Court does not find that
Defendant has carried its burden in showing how in-person depositions would be unusually
or unreasonably burdensome for Defendant. There are legitimate reasons for a noticing
party to require an in-person deponent, including the generally accepted view
that in-person depositions enable the questioning lawyer to assess a witness’
demeanor, credibility, facial reactions, and responses to being presented with
unexpected documents or questions.  As
such, this motion is DENIED. 
 
Both Defendant
and Plaintiff have requested sanctions in connection to this motion. However,
the Court finds monetary sanctions should not be awarded here to either side at
this time, but without
prejudice to the Court re-considering sanctions if the PMQ and COR designee depositions
(if not the named employee percipient witness depositions) have not been taken in
person before the end of the month.  The
Court thus continues the hearing on the cross-requests for monetary sanctions
to February 29, 2024 at 10:00 a.m.  With respect
to the issue of accommodating business interruptions of the Smart & Final business
at the subject location, counsel should endeavor to schedule depositions on different
days to lessen the business impact of this litigation on the store, but if the parties
cannot agree upon a schedule then the Court will set a Court-ordered schedule at
the continued hearing on February 29.