

Hearing Date:             April
18, 2024
Case Name:                Drummond
v. General Motors, LLC
Case No.:                    21STCV36514
Matter:                        Motion for Summary
Adjudication  
Moving Party:             Plaintiffs
Robert Drummond and Robert Drummond, MD, PHD, P.C.

Responding Party:      Defendant General Motors

 

Tentative Ruling:      The motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the
eleventh, fifteenth, eighteenth, nineteenth, twentieth, twenty-second, and
twenty-third affirmative defenses.  The
motion is moot as to the twenty-first and twenty-fifth affirmative defenses,
and is denied as to the remaining affirmative defenses. 
 

 
            
             On October 4, 2021, Plaintiffs Robert Drummond
and Robert Drummond, MD, PHD, P.C. filed the operative Complaint against
Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant GM) and Symes Cadillac, Inc. for (1) breach
of express warranty under Song-Beverly Act, (2) breach of implied warranty
under Song-Beverly Act, and (3) negligent repair.
 
            Plaintiffs
now move for summary adjudication of the twenty-five defenses in Defendant GM’s
Answer to the Complaint. Defendant opposes the motion.  
 
            The motion
for summary adjudication is granted in part, denied in part, and moot in part. 
 
            GM’s
objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-14, 26, 29 and Nos.
15-25, 27-28, 30 are overruled.
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue
of material fact exists if the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact
to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,
467; Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
 
I.              
GM’s Request for Denial or Continuance of
the Motion for Summary Adjudication: 
 
In addition to opposing the motion for summary
adjudication on the merits, GM requests relief pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), on the grounds that facts that are
essential to its opposition may exist but cannot be presented.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h),
“mandates a continuance of a summary judgment hearing upon a good faith showing
by affidavit that additional time is needed to obtain facts essential to
justify opposition to the motion.” (Cooksey v. Alexakis (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 246, 253–254; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h) [“[i]f it appears
from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may
exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the
motion, [or] order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or
discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just”].)
 
“Continuance of a
summary judgment hearing is not mandatory, however, ... when the submitted
affidavit fails to make the necessary showing under [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 437c, subdivision (h).” (Cooksey, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at p.
254.) The necessary showing is: “(1) the facts to be obtained are essential to
opposing the motion; (2) there is reason to believe such facts may exist; and
(3) the reasons why additional time is needed to obtain these facts.” (Wachs
v. Curry (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 616, 623 abrogated on other grounds by Marathon
Entertainment, Inc. v. Blasi (2008) 42 Cal.4th 974, 987, fn. 6.)
In connection with the third requirement, “[t]here must be a justifiable reason
why the essential facts cannot be presented. An inappropriate delay in seeking
to obtain the facts may not be a valid reason why the facts cannot then be
presented.” (Cooksey, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at p. 257.) Thus, a
majority of courts have held “that lack of diligence may be a ground for
denying a request for a continuance of a summary judgment motion hearing.” (Ibid.)
 
On February 13,
2023, GM noticed the deposition of Plaintiff Robert Drummond to take place on
April 4, 2023. (Major Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. F.) Plaintiff objected, indicating that
he would not be appearing at the unilaterally set deposition date. (Major
Decl., ¶ 18, Ex. G.) Reply evidence indicates that when GM's counsel requested alternative
dates, Plaintiffs provided five alternative dates on May 17, 2023. (Goethals
Reply Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs did not hear back from Defendant regarding the
deposition until March 2024. 
 
On August 1, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed this motion for summary adjudication of GM’s affirmative
defenses. At the time, trial was set for October 4, 2023 – less than
seventy-five days away. In order to allow adequate time to hear the motion for
summary adjudication, the trial date was continued to July 15, 2024. The new
hearing date for the motion for summary adjudication was then set for April 18,
2024. 
 
On March 21, 2024,
less than a month away from the new motion for summary adjudication hearing
date, GM contacted Plaintiffs to meet and confer regarding a date for the
deposition of Plaintiff Robert Drummond. (Major Decl., ¶ 19.) This was the
first time Plaintiffs had heard from GM’s counsel regarding deposition since
the original deposition noticed date. 
 
On October 3,
2023, GM served its demand for expert witness information and writings on
Plaintiffs. (Major Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. H.) 
 
On March 21, 2024,
GM also served a request to inspect Plaintiff’s Vehicle by GM’s Expert to occur
on April 29, 2024. (Major Decl., ¶ 21, Ex. I.) 
 
GM argues that Plaintiffs
have not produced essential evidence through formal discovery in advance of
GM’s Opposition deadline, including the testimony of Plaintiffs and the Subject
Vehicle for inspection. (Major Decl., ¶ 23.) 
 
However, the evidence
shows no diligence by GM to obtain this discovery in preparation for this
motion for summary adjudication – despite having ample time to do so. This
action has been pending since October 4, 2021. Moreover, GM was aware of this
motion for summary adjudication as early as August 2023 but waited nearly seven
months to actively pursue the relevant discovery that it now claims is
essential to opposing this motion – when it was, as a practical matter, too
late to obtain the discovery to incorporate in GM’s opposition. GM has had
ample time to take any necessary discovery and has failed to do so. 
 
The request for a continuance
or denial pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) is
denied.
 
II.           
Motion for Summary Adjudication:
 
“A party may move
for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action,
one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, .... A motion
for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a
cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 


In their role as
Plaintiffs moving for summary adjudication of GM’s affirmative defenses, Plaintiffs
must show that there is no merit to the affirmative defenses. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (f); Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1999)
76 Cal.App.4th 970, 977-978.) If Plaintiffs meet their burden of production,
the burden shifts to GM to show the existence of a triable issue of fact with
respect to that affirmative defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
 
GM cannot rely on
“mere allegations or denials,” but must “set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Nonetheless, “[a]ll
doubts as to whether there are any triable issues of fact are to be resolved in
favor of the party opposing summary judgment. [Citation.]” (Ingham v. Luxor
Cab Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1049.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs mainly
rely on the fact that they propounded Requests for Admissions (RFA), along with
corresponding Form Interrogatory (FROG) No. 15.1, to determine what facts,
persons, or documents GM has to support any of its affirmative defenses.
Plaintiffs also propounded Request for Production of Documents (RFP) No. 24
which requested “Any-and-all DOCUMENTS which support the affirmative defenses
as set forth in YOUR Answer to Plaintiffs' Complaint” and various special
interrogatories that ask for facts and documents related to some of GM's
defenses such as unreasonable or unauthorized use or aftermarket parts.
 
Plaintiffs argue
that, in response to this specific discovery, Defendant GM failed to identify a
single fact, witness, or document to support any of its Affirmative Defenses,
including specifically its first through twenty-fifth Affirmative Defenses. 
 
On this basis,
Plaintiffs argue that they have “negate[d] an essential element of the defense
or establish[ed] the defendant does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain
evidence needed to support the defense.” (See's Candy Shops, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900.) 
 
First Affirmative Defense for
Failure to State a Claim:
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that GM’s first affirmative defense fails because “[GM] has made no
challenge to the pleadings in over two years of litigation” and because GM’s
response to FROG 15.1 “states GM has no facts and points to documents GM did
not produce.” (PSS 2-3.) 
 
            Summary
adjudication of this issue is not proper. As noted above, summary adjudication
is proper only as to affirmative defenses.
 
            “An
affirmative defense is new matter that defendants are required to plead and
prove.” (Marich v. MGM/UA Telecommunications, Inc. (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 415, 424.) In contrast, the failure to state a claim “ ‘is not a
proper affirmative defense, but rather asserts a defect in [the plaintiff's]
prima facie case.’ [Citations.] ... The defense of failure to state a claim is,
in essence, an argument that the plaintiff has not met its burden of alleging
the elements of its claims.” (LL B Sheet 1, LLC v. Loskutoff (2019) 362
F.Supp. 3d 804, 818.)
            
            Moreover,
the defense of failure to state a cause of action can be raised at any time,
including for the first time on appeal. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.80, subd. (a); Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 7, fn. 2; Falahati
v. Kondo (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 823, 831, fn. 18.)
 
            Therefore,
the motion for summary adjudication of this defense is
procedurally improper and must be denied. 

 
Twenty-Fourth
Affirmative Defense for Failure to State Cause of Action for Civil Penalties:
 
            GM’s
Twenty-Fourth Affirmative Defense states that the Complaint fails to state
sufficient facts to warrant the imposition of civil penalties if replacement or
repurchase of the subject vehicle was not appropriate under the circumstances
then known or if GM offered to repurchase the subject vehicle.
 
            In
moving for summary adjudication, Plaintiffs argue that GM’s responses to FROG
15.1 offers no facts to support this defense. (PSS 143.) However, like the
First Affirmative Defense, this defense challenges the adequacy of Plaintiffs’
Complaint. 
 
For the same
reasons as the First Affirmative Defense, the motion for summary adjudication
of this defense is procedurally improper and must be denied. 


Twelfth Affirmative Defense
for Lack of Causation:
 
GM’s Twelfth
Affirmative Defense reads “GM is informed and believes, and therefore alleges,
that any breach of warranty […] by GM, if any, were neither the cause in fact
nor the proximate cause of Plaintiffs’ damages. Rather, any alleged breach was
only secondary, inconsequential, indirect and in no way contributed to or
caused Plaintiffs’ alleged damages.”
 
An affirmative
defense is required where the defendant must raise “new matter” outside of the
complaint in order to meet the allegations of the complaint, the new matter
must be set forth in an affirmative defense. (Jetty v. Craco (1954) 123
Cal.App.2d 876, 880 [new matter is defense which is not disclosed by the
pleadings].) “[W]here matters are not responsive to essential allegations of
the complaint, they must be raised in the answer as ‘new matter,’ “ which is
“something relied on by a defendant which is not put in issue by the
plaintiff.” (Walsh v. West Valley Mission Community College Dist. (1998)
66 Cal.App.4th 1532, 1546.) Thus, the distinction between a denial and an
affirmative defense is that “[a]ny facts which tend to disprove some one of
[the] allegations [of the complaint] may be given in evidence under the denial;
any fact which does not thus directly tend to disprove some one or more of
[the] allegations cannot be given in evidence under the denial.... All facts
which do not thus directly tend to disprove some one or more of these
averments, but tend to establish a defense independently of them, cannot be
offered under the denial; they are new matter and must be specifically pleaded.’
“ (FPI Development v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 383, fn. 4.)


            This
defense, like the failure to state a claim, merely challenges Plaintiffs’
ability to prove an essential element of Plaintiffs’ claim and, thus, is not an
affirmative defense. 
 
The motion for
summary adjudication of this defense is therefore procedurally improper and
denied.
 
Second Affirmative Defense for
Failure to Allow a Cure:
 
            GM’s
Answer alleges that Plaintiff’s claims “are barred because Plaintiffs failed to
allow GM an opportunity to cure GM's breach.” 
 
            Strangely,
in moving for summary adjudication of this defense, Plaintiffs take the
position that “[t]here is no requirement that Plaintiffs allow Defendant to
cure other than taking the vehicle to the dealership for repair.” (PSS 7.) 
 
            However,
it is well-established that a defendant manufacturer must have been given a
reasonable number of opportunities to repair the Subject Vehicle. (Robertson
v. Fleetwood Travel Trailers of California, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
785, 798–799.) Inherent to this requirement is that Plaintiffs must allow a
repair attempt by GM to occur; it is not enough that the vehicle be brought for
a repair but then prevented from performing it. 
 
            Moreover,
in opposition, GM submits evidence that Plaintiff declined repairs. On August
20, 2020, Plaintiffs presented the Subject Vehicle for repair due to a noise in
the suspension; the repair technician advised Plaintiffs to “replace brace” but
“customer declined at this time.” (Castruita Decl., Ex. 8.) Likewise, on
October 26, 2020, “customer states noise coming from suspension customer
requests no repairs to be performed.” (Castruita Decl., Ex. 9). At a subsequent
visit on November 27, 2020, Plaintiffs elected to tow their vehicle rather than
have it repaired. (Castruita Decl., Ex. 10 [“12/1/2020 – 4:25pm client called
back and will tow vehicle”]).
 
            Based
on this opposition evidence, there is a triable issue of material facts in
dispute. The motion for summary adjudication is denied. 
 
Third Affirmative Defense for
Mitigation:
 
            GM’s
Third Affirmative Defense for Mitigation states, that Plaintiffs’ alleged
damages, if any, are the result, in whole or in part, of Plaintiffs’ failure to
exercise care to reduce or mitigate damages.
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that the only offset allowed under the Song-Beverly Act (SBA) is the statutory
mileage offset. (PSS 10 [citing Williams v. FCA US LLC (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 44, 61[1] and Jiagbogu
v. Mercedes-Benz USA (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1235, 1243-1244].) As such, they
argue, GM’s affirmative defense for mitigation does not apply as a matter of
law and must be dismissed.
 
            Plaintiffs’
interpretation of the law is too narrow. In Jiagbogu, the court rejected
a defendant manufacturer's arguments that common law and statutory principles
of rescission and equitable offset limit the remedies under the Act. (Jiagbogu,
at p. 1242, 13 Cal.Rptr.3d 679.) The court held that the defendant manufacturer
“could be entitled to an equitable offset,” but “only if the offset does not
conflict with provisions of the Act.” (Jiagbogu, at p. 1242.) In the
facts specific to Jiagbogu, the Court found that an offset for continued
use of a vehicle after requesting replacement or restitution would conflict
with the provisions of the Act. (See Jiagbogu, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 1243–1244.) In reaching this conclusion, the court noted that section
1793.2, subdivision (d)(2) expressly provides for an offset for use of the
vehicle prior to the buyer first delivering the vehicle for repair, and
otherwise “comprehensively addresses” the relief to which a buyer is entitled,
including replacement and restitution, specified taxes, fees, and costs, and
other incidental damages. (Jiagbogu, at p. 1243.) “This omission of
other offsets from a set of provisions that thoroughly cover other relevant
costs indicates legislative intent to exclude such offsets.” (Id. at pp.
1243–1244.) 
 
            Based
on this analysis, Plaintiffs’ conclusion that only mileage offset is permitted
is overly broad and ignores the specific analysis that must be undertaken to
determine whether certain defenses or mitigations may be applicable. 
 
            Because
Plaintiffs offer no evidence on their motion for summary adjudication of this
affirmative defense – only an undeveloped legal argument (PSS 9-10) – the motion
for summary adjudication on this ground is denied. 
            
Ninth Affirmative Defense for
Misuse of Product and Thirteenth Affirmative Defense for Unauthorized Use:
 
            GM’s
Ninth Affirmative Defense for Misuse of Product states any issues or injuries
were “directly and proximately caused and contributed to by the misuse of and
the unreasonable and improper use of GM’s product.” 
 
            “Product
misuse, an affirmative defense, is a superseding cause of injury that absolves
a tortfeasor of his or her own wrongful conduct only when the misuse was “ ‘so
highly extraordinary as to be unforeseeable.’ ”” (Chavez v. Glock, Inc.
(2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 1283, 1308 [quoting Perez v. VAS S.p.A. (2010)
188 Cal.App.4th 658, 685]; see also Soule v. General Motors Corp. (1994)
8 Cal.4th 548, 573, fn. 9 [complete defense of superseding cause appropriate
when “an independent event intervenes in the chain of causation, producing harm
of a kind and degree so far beyond the risk the original tortfeasor should have
foreseen that the law deems it unfair to hold him responsible”]; see generally
CACI No. 1245 [“Affirmative Defense—Product Misuse or Modification”].) 
 
GM’s Thirteenth
Affirmative Defense for Unauthorized Use of the Product, provides “all damages,
if any, allegedly sustained or suffered by Plaintiffs, were proximately caused
and contributed to by Plaintiffs’ use of the subject vehicle for a purpose to
which the subject vehicle was not intended to be used.”
 
Under
Song-Beverly, a breach of the warranty of merchantability occurs when a good
becomes unfit for the ordinary purpose for which it is used. (Civ. Code, §
1791.1, subd. (a). “[A]n exception occurs when the defect or nonconformity is
caused by the buyer's unauthorized or unreasonable use under Civil Code section
1794.3.” (Jones v. Credit Auto Center, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th Supp.
1, 10.)  Moreover, the New Vehicle
Limited Warranty applicable here expressly excludes coverage for damage to or
misuse of the vehicle. (DAF [Major Decl., Ex. J]).
 
In opposition, GM
submits evidence Plaintiffs modified the Subject Vehicle. (DSS 32 [Major Decl.,
Exs. C, D, E; Castruita Decl., Ex. 13]; DSS 70.)  Thus, triable issues of fact exist as to
whether Plaintiffs failed to exercise reasonable care with their vehicle,
including when they modified the Subject Vehicle, and whether such a failure
caused or increased their damages. 
 
            Thus,
the motion for summary adjudication on this ground is denied.
 
Fifth Affirmative Defense for
Statute of Limitations:
 
            In
support of the motion for summary adjudication, Plaintiffs submit evidence the Subject
Vehicle was purchased on July 12, 2017. (PSS 16.) Plaintiffs filed the instant
action on October 4, 2021. (PSS 17.) Plaintiff argues that a claim cannot be
made until its authorized repair facilities have been given at least two
opportunities to repair the vehicle, which did not occur until June 10, 2020.
(PSS 18, 10.) Pursuant to California Commercial Code section 2725, parties have
four years to bring a claim under the SBA. (PSS 15.) Thus, the claim was
timely.
 
            This
evidence does not shift Plaintiff’s initial burden. As the opposition notes, a
cause of action accrues when the plaintiff discovers or should have discovered
the breach of warranty. (Comm. Code, § 2725(2); Yi v. BMW of North America,
LLC (C.D. Cal., May 24, 2018, No. 2:17-CV-06467-SVW) 2018 WL 3359016, at *4
[“a plaintiff's claim accrues when he discovers or should have discovered the
breach.”].) Thus, in contrast to the argument in the moving papers, the statute
of limitations does not begin to run specifically following a specific number
of repair attempts. 
 
            Here,
the Complaint alleges that “[t]he vehicle was delivered to Plaintiffs with
serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed other serious
defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to
suspension, body and engine issues.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) Thus, the breach of
warranty allegedly occurred on July 12, 2017 – although Plaintiffs overcome a statute
of limitations issue through delayed discovery. 
 
Plaintiffs had
four years to bring a claim under Song-Beverly. (Motion p. 14:4-5). Yet, they
did not file suit until October 2021, more than four years after they purchased
the Subject Vehicle.
 
            The
motion for summary adjudication of this affirmative defense is denied. 
 
Sixth Affirmative Defense for
Laches:
 
            In
moving for summary adjudication of this affirmative defense, Plaintiffs –
relying in part on their statute of limitations accrual argument – contend that
there can be no showing of unreasonable delay because this action was filed
“just over a year after any possible claim could have occurred” based on the second
repair on the Subject Vehicle occurring on June 10, 2020. 
 
            As
discussed above, this legal argument is incorrect. Moreover, the separate
statement evidence does not shift Plaintiffs’ initial burden of negating an
essential element of GM’s affirmative defense for laches. (PSS 20-23.) 
 
            The
motion for summary adjudication to this affirmative defense is denied.
 
Seventh Affirmative Defense for
Failure of Performance and Tenth Affirmative Defense for Alteration of Product:
 
            GM’s
Seventh Affirmative Defense expressly states, “GM is informed and believes, and
therefore alleges, that any failure to perform the obligations as described in
the Unverified Complaint resulted from Plaintiffs’ failure to perform as
required by the contract and warranty. Performance by Plaintiffs of their
obligations is a condition precedent to the performance of GM’s obligations.”
 
GM’s Tenth
Affirmative Defense for Alteration of Product states “[a]ny damage to the
subject vehicle was caused or created by changes or alterations to the vehicle,
after GM manufactured and sold the vehicle, by persons other than GM or any of
its agents, servants, or employees, barring Plaintiffs’ recovery in this
action.”
 
In support of its
motion for summary adjudication, Plaintiffs submit evidence that they took the Vehicle
to a GM authorized repair facility for repair eight times. (PSS 25.) The Vehicle
was never repaired to conform to warranty. (PSS 26.)
 
Plaintiff acknowledges
that an “offsite GM employee noted that engine calibrations were different than
stock and with that fact alone, voided the warranty.” (PSS 37, 60, 77, 96,
113.) However, Plaintiff argues that this is insufficient to show that any
modifications Plaintiffs made damaged or otherwise affected the parts of the
vehicle that were defective. (PSS 39, 62, 79, 98, 115.)
 
In opposition, GM
contends that Plaintiffs’ modifications to the Subject Vehicle caused
unwarrantable damage to the Subject Vehicle. (DSS 26, 35-49 [Jensen Decl. ¶¶ 4,
5]). GM also contends that, alternatively, Plaintiffs failed to permit GM to
repair the Subject Vehicle.
 
There is triable
issue of material fact in dispute as to these affirmative defenses. The motion
for summary adjudication is denied. 
 
Fourth Affirmative Defense
for Contributory Negligence, Unclean Hands, Assumption of Risk, Fourteenth
Affirmative Defense for Estoppel, Sixteenth Affirmative Defense for Comparative
Negligence, and Seventeenth Affirmative Defense for Assumption of Risk:
 
            GM’s
fourth affirmative defense for Contributory Negligence, Unclean Hands,
Assumption of Risk provides that Plaintiffs’ claims are barred in whole or part
by Plaintiffs’ negligence, unclean hands, fault, assumption of risk or
otherwise from any and all legal or equitable relief against GM.
 
            GM’s
fourteenth affirmative defense for estoppel states Plaintiffs are estopped from
obtaining the relief sought by virtue of Plaintiffs' acts and conduct in
connection with the matters in the Complaint.
 
            The
sixteenth affirmative defense for comparative negligence claims Plaintiffs'
damages were the direct and proximate result of the conduct of Plaintiffs or
Plaintiffs' agent, employees, and invitees, in that they negligently,
carelessly, recklessly, knowingly, and willfully operated, maintained,
serviced, directed, and otherwise controlled all operations and maintenance of
Plaintiffs' vehicle.
 
            Finally,
the seventeenth affirmative defense for assumption of risk alleges that the
risks and dangers of Plaintiffs' conduct were known to Plaintiffs, but
Plaintiffs conducted themselves in such a manner as to expose themselves, and
remain exposed, to such risks and dangers, and by doing so, assumed all the
risks attendant to that conduct.
 
            In
seeking summary adjudication of these defenses, Plaintiff argues that GM's
responses to FROG 15.1 offers no facts to support these defenses and the only
permissible offset available under the SBA is an offset for mileage. 
 
            As
discussed above, there are triable issue of material facts in dispute arising
from Plaintiff’s modification of the Subject Vehicle. Further, Plaintiff’s
legal argument as to limitations on available affirmative defenses is not
well-taken. 
 
            The
motion for summary adjudication of these defenses is denied. 
 
Eighth Affirmative Defense
for Apportionment:
 
            GM’s
eighth affirmative defendant for apportionment states that all injuries and
damages were proximately caused and contributed to by the superseding,
intervening acts, or omissions of persons other than GM.
 
Plaintiffs contend
that this defense fails a matter of law because the “only offset that Defendant
is allowed is the statutory mileage offset.” (Mot., 15:10-11 [citing PSS 30
[citing Williams v. FCA US LLC and Jiagbogu v. Mercedes-Benz USA]].)

 
            For
the reason discussed above with respect to the third affirmative defense for
mitigation, this undeveloped legal argument fails as a matter of law. The
motion for summary adjudication is denied. 
 
Eleventh Affirmative Defense
for Disclaimer and Fifteenth Affirmative Defense for Waiver:
 
            GM’s
eleventh affirmative defense for disclaimer provides that, before and at the
time of the alleged acts, omissions, and conduct of GM, GM expressly disclaimed,
negated, and excluded all warranties of the type alleged by Plaintiffs of any
type, express or implied.
 
            GM’s
fifteenth affirmative defense for waiver states that Plaintiffs have waived
Plaintiffs' rights to obtain the relief sought.
 
Plaintiff submits
evidence that GM's responses to FROG 15.1 offers no facts to support any claim
that GM could or did disclaim any warranty Plaintiffs have alleged whether
implied or express. (PSS 51.) GM cannot point to any facts that support that
Plaintiffs ever waived any warranty related to the subject vehicle (PSS 52.)
 
            Defendant
GM contends that Plaintiffs waived their rights to coverage under the warranty
when they modified the Subject Vehicle and otherwise abused and misused the
vehicle. (Major Decl., Exs. C, D, E; Jensen Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5.)
 
            Defendant
GM provides no legal authority that the evidence submitted in opposition may
support either disclaimer or waiver. Thus, the Court grants summary
adjudication of the eleventh and fifteenth affirmative defenses. 
 
Eighteenth Affirmative
Defense for Qualified Third-party Dispute Resolution Process, and Nineteenth
Affirmative Defense for Good Faith Belief in Legality of Actions:
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant GM's responses to FROG 15.1 offers no facts to support
theses defenses. (Mot., 18:7-14; 18:17-22.)
 
            In
opposition, GM also provides legal argument that these defenses may be viable
defenses to Plaintiffs’ claims. (Opp., 20:23-7.) For example, GM argues that
Plaintiff must demonstrate GM willfully failed to repurchase or replace their
vehicle. “Willful” means that GM knew of its legal obligations and
intentionally declined to follow them. (CACI 3244.) GM argues that its actions
cannot be “willful” if it had a “reasonabl[e] and in good faith belie[f] in the
legality of its actions.” 
 
            However,
GM need not rely on an affirmative defense to present evidence at the time of
trial that its actions were not willful since the willfulness is an element
that must be proven to support Plaintiffs’ claim. (Opp., 21:15 [“Plaintiffs can
only recover civil penalties under Civil Code § 1794(c) if they are able to
prove . . ..”].) Therefore, GM’s opposition, which relies solely on argument is
not well taken. 
 
            Thus,
the Court grants summary adjudication of the eighteenth and nineteenth
affirmative defenses. 
            
Twenty-First Affirmative Defense
pursuant to Civil Code section 1791.1., subdivision (c):
 
            In
moving for summary adjudication of this defense, Plaintiffs concedes that they
cannot sue under the implied warranty because their first repair was more than
a year after the purchase of the Vehicle. (PSS 135.) Plaintiffs represent that
they will dismiss this cause of action. (PSS 136.)
 
            In
response, Defendant GM agrees to dismiss the twenty-first affirmative defense.
Summary adjudication of this issue is moot. 
 
Twenty-Third
Affirmative Defense for Failure to Provide Notice:
 
            GM’s
twenty-third affirmative defense provides Plaintiffs failed to provide notice
pursuant to Civil Code section 1794(e)(3); therefore, Plaintiffs are barred
from asserting the presumptions in Civil Code section 1793.22 and from
recovering civil penalties pursuant to Civil Code section 1794(e).
 
In moving for
summary adjudication of the Twenty-Third Affirmative Defense for Failure to
Provide Notice, Plaintiffs contend that they are not suing under Civil Code section 1794(e). (PSS 141.) Instead,
Plaintiffs contend that Defendant's violation of its obligations under the SBA
were willful under 1793.2 and 1794(c). (PSS 142 [Castruita Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. 14 [Compl.
¶¶ 33, 35]].) Thus, this defense does not apply.
 
            The
Opposition does not address whether notice is required under this statute where
Plaintiffs are not seeking relief under Civil Code section 1794(e). No material
evidence is submitted in opposition either.
 
            The
Court grants summary adjudication of the twenty-third affirmative defense. 
 
Twentieth Affirmative Defense
for Offset for Use:
 
            In
its twentieth affirmative defense, GM asserts that it intends to avail itself
of the reduction authorized by Civil Code section 1793.2(d)(2)(c) if GM is
found to violate the civil code.
 
In moving for
summary adjudication, Plaintiffs argue that GM's responses to FROG 15.1 offers
no facts to support this defense. (PSS 133.) 
 
            Providing
no evidence in opposition, GM contends that discovery is ongoing. (Opp.,
22:9-20.) GM has failed to raise a triable issue of material fact in dispute. 
            
            The
Court grants summary adjudication of the twentieth affirmative defense.
 
Twenty-Second Affirmative
Defense for Consent:
 
GM’s twenty-second
affirmative defense for consent states that the repair process to Plaintiffs’ Vehicle
was appropriate and proper and is believed to have been done with Plaintiffs'
consent.
 
In moving for
summary adjudication, Plaintiffs argue that GM's responses to FROG 15.1 offers
no facts to support this defense. (PSS 137.) Plaintiffs claim that GM also
cannot identify any “admissible evidence to demonstrate that Plaintiffs ever
gave consent to have the issues he had in the vehicle or for GM to refuse to
repair them under warranty.” (Mot., 19:8-9 [citing PSS 138].) 
 
The opposition
does not specifically address this affirmative defense (Opp., 14:24-16:5), and
submits no evidence in opposition (DSS 137-139).
 
 The Court grants summary adjudication of the
twenty-second affirmative defense.
 
Twenty-Fifth Affirmative
Defense for Reservation of Rights:
 
            In its twenty-fifth affirmative defense, GM
asserts that it presently has insufficient knowledge or information to form a
belief as to whether it may have additional, as yet unstated, affirmative
defense available and, therefore, reserves the right to assert affirmative
defenses if discovery indicates that they would be appropriate.
 
            GM’s
opposition indicates that in order to prevent waiver of any unalleged affirmative
defenses, it reserved the right to raise a defense that later becomes available
based on additional facts and evidence obtained during the course of
litigation. 
 
However, GM also
agrees, in the alternative, to withdraw this affirmative defense. GM has
presented no evidence to support any “as of yet” unalleged affirmative defenses.
Therefore, the Court will consider this affirmative defense dismissed. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the
eleventh, fifteenth, eighteenth, nineteenth, twentieth, twenty-second, and
twenty-third affirmative defenses, is moot as to the twenty-first and
twenty-fifth affirmative defenses, and is denied as to the remaining
affirmative defenses.  


