 Case Number:  21STCV30196    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ERICKA
  MONTUFAR, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
IN-N-OUT
  BURGERS; and DOES 1-25,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV30196
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT IN-N-OUT
  BURGERS’ MOTION FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINNTIFF ERICKA MONTUFAR FOR
  SPOLIATION OF EVIDENCE


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
December 6, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On August 16, 2021, Plaintiff Ericka Montufar (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendant In-N-Out Burgers (“Defendant”), and DOES 1
through 25, inclusive, for (1) strict liability; (2) negligence; (3) breach of
the implied warranty of merchantability; (4) breach of the implied warranty of
fitness for its intended purpose; (5) negligent misrepresentation; and (6)
breach of express warranty. Plaintiff alleges that on August 18, 2019, she
consumed a hamburger from In-N-Out Burgers that contained metal pieces and/or
similar objects, which caused Plaintiff to break a tooth.
On
October 27, 2023, Defendant filed this instant motion for sanctions against
Plaintiff for spoliation of evidence. On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On November 29, 2023, Defendant filed a reply. 
II.         
PARTIES’ REQUESTS
 
Defendant requests that the Court
impose terminating, evidentiary, and issue sanctions against Plaintiff.
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion.
 
III.       
LEGAL STANDARD
Sanctions
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
2023.030, the court may impose monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidentiary
sanctions, terminating sanctions, or contempt sanctions against anyone engaging
in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.030, subd. (a)-(e).)

A violation of a discovery order
is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions. (Collison &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.) Terminating
sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's
orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796 (Deyo).)
          A terminating sanction is a
"drastic measure which should be employed with caution." (Deyo,
84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A decision to order terminating sanctions
should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a
history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.) While the court has discretion to impose
terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the
dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery." (Deyo,
supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "[A] court is empowered to apply the
ultimate sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to
comply with his discovery obligations." (Ibid.) Discovery sanctions are
not to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair
disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting from the lack of
information. (See Midwife v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64
[superseded on other grounds as stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229
Cal.App.3d 967, 971].)
Spoliation
 
Spoliation includes “the failure
to preserve property for another’s use as evidence in pending or reasonably
foreseeable litigation.” (Reeves v. MV Transportation, Inc. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 666, 681.)
“Spoliation is the intentional destruction or
suppression of evidence.” (R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 497.) “Destroying evidence in response to a
discovery request after litigation has commenced would surely be a misuse of
discovery within the meaning of section 2023, as would such destruction in
anticipation of a discovery request.” (Cedars-Sinai Medical Center v.
Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 12.)
IV.        
DISCUSSION
The issue here revolves around a missing metal
piece that Plaintiff alleges was in her In-N-Out hamburger.  Defendant asserts that Plaintiff confirmed
under oath at her deposition that she had possession of the metal piece at her
home as of April 6, 2023. Defendant further asserts that Plaintiff was
instructed at the deposition that she needed to retain the metal piece so
Defendant could inspect it. Moreover, Defendant contends that in response to
five requests by Defendant’s counsel over four and one-half months to schedule
a mutually-agreeable date and time to inspect the metal piece, Plaintiff ultimately
indicated that she lost it sometime after her deposition. 
Defendant seeks an order imposing (1)
terminating sanctions against Plaintiff dismissing the entirety of her
complaint, (2) issue sanctions establishing that: (a) the metal piece Plaintiff
alleges she bit into was not a dangerous or defective condition; (b) the hamburger
Plaintiff alleges she purchased from In-N-Out and consumed was not defective as
to its design, manufacture, or warnings; (c) the hamburger Plaintiff alleges
she purchased from In-N-Out and consumed was not in a dangerous or defective
condition that made it unsafe to eat; (d) the hamburger Plaintiff alleges she
purchased from In-N-Out and consumed did not contain the metal piece at issue
at the time of Plaintiff’s purchase; (e) In-N-Out was not negligent in its
preparation of the hamburger Plaintiff alleges she purchased from In-N-Out and
consumed; (f) In-N-Out was not the proximate cause of Plaintiff’s alleged
injuries; (g) the hamburger Plaintiff alleges she purchased from In-N-Out and
consumed was of merchantable quality; (h) the jury (if any) will hear CACI Jury
Instruction 203 regarding Plaintiff’s spoliation of the metal piece and failure
to produce it in support of her claims; and (i) the jury (if any) will hear
CACI Jury Instruction 204 regarding Plaintiff’s spoliation of the metal piece,
and (3) evidentiary sanctions precluding Plaintiff from entering any of the
following into evidence: (a) any photographs regarding the metal piece; (b) any
testimony regarding the metal piece; (c) any expert witness opinion regarding
the metal piece; and (d) any other type of evidence regarding the metal piece
into evidence. Defendant argues that it has been deprived of any chance to
examine, assess, or test the metal piece in this action due to Plaintiff’s
spoliation of the metal piece and is being severely prejudiced in its ability
to set forth its defense in this matter. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant
failed to serve a formal request for preservation of the metal piece.
Furthermore, Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to serve a formal demand
for inspection of the metal piece. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant at no
time requested by way of written discovery or items to be produced at
Plaintiff’s deposition, the production of this metal piece. Moreover, Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant requested photographs of the metal piece in written
discovery, which she complied with in full. Additionally, Plaintiff contends
that countless cases proceed without issue and absent the physical/improper
item. As such, Plaintiff argues that there is no prejudice to Defendant. Last,
Plaintiff asserts that her unintentional misplacement of this small metal piece
is not grounds for the extreme sanctions demanded by Defendant. 
In reply, Defendant argues that it was not
required to serve a formal discovery request before filing this instant motion.
Defendant further argues that it appears Plaintiff’s disposal of the metal
piece occurred at some point after her deposition, after she knew that a discovery
request would be forthcoming to inspect the metal piece. Moreover, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s counsel should have informed her to secure the metal
piece upon the first request. In addition, Defendant contends that any discovery
request for the metal piece would have been futile because Plaintiff disposed
of it. Defendant also contends that Plaintiff cannot avoid her obligations to
preserve relevant evidence just because she disposed of the metal piece prior
to In-N-Out serving a formal discovery request. Furthermore, Defendant asserts
that the only prejudice that needs to be shown is that its’ inability to
inspect the metal piece will impact its ability to defend itself. Finally,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff does not dispute that In-N-Out is entitled to
the issue sanctions requested. 
Plaintiff generally has the
better argument in relation to the drastic sanctions Defendant requests.  Defendant
has not shown that Plaintiff’s disposal of the metal piece was intentional,
albeit it was not necessarily required to do so. But, without evidence of
intent, the Court is skeptical that drastic non-monetary sanctions would be
appropriate.  Simply, without a showing that
Plaintiff’s misplacement of the metal piece was an egregious act, terminating
or even evidentiary sanctions would be a particularly drastic sanction.  Further, Defendant may not be prejudiced in
putting on its case, provided that it has photographs of the metal piece at
issue.  The Court is specifically not
making a finding regarding either intent or prejudice.   
The Court is not now making such findings because
the issue of what remedy is appropriate in a case of possible intentional spoliation
is best resolved by the trial court.
 The Court of Appeal has stated: “A party moving for discovery sanctions
based on the intentional destruction of evidence could argue that the mere fact
that the evidence no longer exists supports an inference of intentional
spoliation. Rather than decide the facts with respect to the intentional
destruction of evidence and impose a nonmonetary sanction on a pretrial motion
in circumstances not contemplated by the discovery statutes, we believe that in
most cases of purported spoliation the facts should be decided and any
appropriate inference should be made by the trier of fact after a full hearing
at trial.”  (New Albertson's, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 168
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1431.)
          Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is
denied without prejudice to raise the issue with the trial court as an in
limine motion and in relation to requested jury instructions.
V.          
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion for sanctions against
Plaintiff for spoliation of evidence is DENIED without prejudice. 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
Dated
this 6th day of December 2023
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee
  S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 