 Case Number:  21STCV23986    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



LUCIO VASQUEZ and SONIA CARCAMO, 
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
RICHARD
  BIRNHOLZ, DIANE BIRNHOLZ, and DOES 1 to 50,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV23986
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ RICHARD BIRNHOLZ AND DIANE BIRNHOLZ’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
  RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO, REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE,
  AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
Wednesday,
  December 6, 2023



 
          On October 7,
2021, Plaintiff Lucio Vasquez and Sonia Carcamo (“Plaintiffs”) filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendant Richard Birnholz,
Diane Birnholz (“Defendants”), and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, for alleging
causes of action (1) negligence and (2) premises liability. On July 6, 2023,
Defendants served Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and Request for Admissions,
Set One, on Plaintiff Lucio Vasquez.
          Defendants’
filed two (2) motions to compel further responses to these discovery requests
on September 25, 2023. This ruling addresses both motions. On November 14,
2023, this Court held an informal discovery conference, where the issues were
not resolved. The parties were directed to meet and confer by November 29, 2023
and Defendants were ordered to file a status report by December 1, 2023. 
          On November
29, 2023, Defendants’ filed a status report regarding the motions to compel
further responses, which indicates that Defendants’ continue to believe that
Plaintiff Vasquez further responses served on November 21, 2023 are not
complete or straightforward. 
 
          Legal
Standard — Compel Further Responses
Under Code of Civil Procedure sections
2030.300, subdivision (a), and Section 2033.290, parties may move for a further
response to interrogatories or requests for admissions where an answer to the
requests are evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or
too general.  
Notice of the motions must be given
within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding
party waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must
also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(b).)    
 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further discovery
contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a
statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses. (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3)). 
 
Analysis
Timeliness
The Court finds that the motions are
timely made. The motions were filed within 45 days of the last supplemental response
and the Court is not jurisdictionally prohibited from considering the instant
motions. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2033.290, subd. (c).) The
Court also finds that moving Defendants have satisfied their obligation to meet
and confer. 
Ruling on Plaintiff’s Objections
Tthe objections made by Plaintiff
Vasquez in his responses are sustained because they are supported by reasoned
argument or authority.  Ultimately, the
issues here come down to whether or not Defendant is required to admit that he
is either an “employee” or independent contractor.”  But, as both parties recognize, these terms can
have specific legal meanings with specific legal consequences.  Thus, the requests are vague and ambiguous as
to whether they mean the legal definitions of these terms, and then, if in fact
they do, the requests call for a legal conclusion.
With regard to Plaintiffs’ arguments
regarding their effort to narrow issues through discovery, this ruling does not
prevent them from doing that.  They can
still seek discovery that will lead to a determination of the legal
conclusion.  So, for instance, they could
ask Defendant to admit that he he had a distinct gutter cleaning business, Plaintiffs
could ask further questions related to the legal definitions of employee or independent
contractor.  But Defendant is not
required to admit to the legal conclusion.
While the Court finds Plaintiff’s objections
and explanations reasonable in this instance, Plaintiff has not fully complied
with Form Interrogatory 17.1.  Plaintiff
is ordered to serve code compliant response to Form Interrogtory 17.1(c) and
17.1(d).  The present responses are not
code compliant.  
Rulings on Individual Requests
Form Interrogatory Set Two



Form Interrogatory


Grant/Deny


Reason




17.1 Is
  your response to each request for admission served with these interrogatories
  an unqualified admission? If not, for each response that is not an
  unqualified admission: (a) state the number of the request; 
(b) state all facts upon which you base your response; 
(c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of
  all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and 
(d) identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that
  support your response and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of
  the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or thing.


DENY IN PART; GRANT IN PART


Plaintiff has provided further responses that are generally
  complete and as straightforward as the information available permits, except
  as to 17.1(c) and (d), which are not complete. 



 
 
 
Request for Admissions, Set One



Requests Nos. 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
  22, 23, and 24


DENY


Plaintiff has provided further responses that adequately
  respond with a statement of denial to the request in accordance with Code of
  Civil Procedure section 2032.220, subd. (b)(2). Plaintiff answered that the
  propounding party retained control over the work and exercised that control
  in a way that affirmatively contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries. 



 
Monetary Sanctions
Where the court grants a motion to
compel further responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (e), 2033.290,
subd. (e).)  
The motions to compel further were partially
successfully opposed and arguably rendered moot as Plaintiff Vasquez provided
further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two and Request for Admissions,
Set One.  As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff
Vazquez acted with substantial justification and accordingly, in its discretion,
does not award sanctions. 
CONCLUSION
Defendants Richard Birnholz and Diane
Birnholz’s motions to compel further responses to (1) Form Interrogatories, Set
Two and (2) Requests for Admissions, Set One, are DENIED in part and GRANTED in
part.  Plaintiff is ordered to provide
further responses to Form Interrogatory 17.1, parts (c) and (d) within 20 days
of this ruling.
Defendants Richard Birnholz and Diane
Birnholz’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 6th day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 