  Case Number:  18STCV00258    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MERCED MALDONADO, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
BARRETT
  WISSMAN, an individual, NINA KOKOB, an individual; DOES 1 through 20,
  inclusive; 
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
) 
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 18STCV00258
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
MOTION
  TO QUASH SERVICE – PUBLICATION IN LA TIMES
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
December
  6, 2023



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
On October
10, 2018, Merced Maldonado (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Barrett
Wissman (“Barrett”), Nina Kokob (“Kokob”), and DOES 1 through 20,
(collectively, “Defendants”) for injuries arising from assault, battery, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and negligence. The incident giving rise to
these causes of action occurred at 121 South Rossmore Avenue, Los Angeles, CA
90028. 
On March 30,
2020, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint amendment correcting Nina Kokob’s name to
Nina Wissman, also known as Nina Kotova. 
On August 29,
2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Application for Publication as to both
Defendants. 
On September
6, 2023, Judge Thomas Griego signed the Order for publication as it relates to
Defendant Nina Wisman. On the same day, Judge Mark E. Windham signed the Order
for publication relating to Defendant Barrett Wissman. 
On September
18, 2023, September 25, 2023, October 02, 2023, and October 09, 2023, a copy of
the summons was published in the Los Angeles Times. 
On October
16, 2023, Defendants, specially appearing, filed this motion to quash service
of summons. Plaintiff filed an opposition.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD & DISCUSSION
A.   Quash Service
of Summons
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure § 418.10(a)(1), “[a] defendant, on or before the last
day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may
for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion to quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over them.”  
C.C.P. § 415.50(a) states that a “summons may be served by
publication if upon affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in
which the action is pending that the party to be served cannot with reasonable
diligence.” “A number of honest attempts to learn the defendant's whereabouts
through inquiry and investigation generally are sufficient.”  Having considered the circumstances, judicial
officers of this court approved service by publication in the Los Angeles
Times.
The
requirements for service by publication are set forth in C.C.P. § 415.50(b),
which states:
“The Court shall order the summons to be published 
in a named
newspaper, published in this state, that is most 
likely to
give actual notice to the party to be served. 
If the 
party to be
served resides or is located out of this state, 
the court may
also order the summons to be published in 
a named
newspaper outside this state that is most likely 
to give
actual notice to that party.”  
Plaintiff
satisfied Code of Civil Procedure 415.50 (a) -- on August 29, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s Application for Publication, ordering that publication be made in the
Los Angeles Times. (Farbod Youtobian Declaration ¶12; Exhibit J.) On
September 6, 2023, the Order for Publication relating to both Defendants were
signed. (Farbod Youtobian Declaration ¶¶13,14; Exhibit K & Exhibit L.) Publication
as ordered was made.  ( Farbod
Youtobian’s Declaration ¶15; Exhibit M.) 
Specially
appearing Defendants move to quash service by publication on the grounds that service
by publication was improper.  Defendants
argue that they were not properly served because the Los Angeles Times
publication did not give actual notice to Defendants and is not likely to give
notice to someone living in Rome, Italy. 
(Raymond G. Robinson’s Declaration ¶4.) However, C.C.P. § 415.50(b) does
not require actual notice.  In fact, in Rios
v. Singh (2021) 65 Cal. App. 5th 871, 880, the court recognized
that service by publication “rarely results in actual notice,” but the court
upheld service made by that means.  The
facts in Rios are similar to this case because the plaintiff’s
reasonable diligence in Rios resulted in multiple failed service
attempts but defendant still knew about the lawsuit. (Rios, 65
Cal.App.5th at 882). Further, the Los Angeles Times is a newspaper published
in this state (as required by § 415.50(b)) that is, in fact, most likely to
give notice to someone living in Rome, Italy, especially since The Times has an
online version.  It is worth noting that §
415.50(b) does not require publication in an out of state newspaper,
specifically stating that a court “may,” as opposed to “shall” order a summons
to be published in a newspaper out of state.
Defendants
further argue that service somehow did not meet the requirements of  C.C.P. § 413.10 (c), which provides for
service of a summons outside the United States “as provided in this chapter or
as directed by the court in which the action is pending, or, if the court
before or after service ¿nds that the service is reasonably calculated to give
actual notice, as prescribed by the law of the place where the person is served
or as directed by the foreign authority in response to a letter rogatory.  served or as directed by the foreign
authority in response to a letter rogatory. These rules are subject to the
provisions of the Convention on the "Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents” in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service
Convention.”  Defendants again argue that
the Court must therefore be concerned about actual service.  But, they seem to ignore that the statute
prescribes service “as directed by the court where the action is pending” and
then uses the word “or” as to other means of service.  In any event, as noted above, the Court finds
that the Los Angeles Times is a newspaper published in California that is most
likely to provide actual notice to someone in Rome, Italy.
Finally, Defendants
indicate that the court lacks jurisdiction to “dictate service in any manner in
violation of the various treaties between the United Sates and other countries,
treaties such as the Hague Convention.” Defendants fail to state how service as
previously ordered violates the Hague Convention.         
III.     CONCLUSION
The motion to
quash is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
       Dated this 6th
day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian  
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 