 Case Number:  24STLC06979    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Weds., December 4, 2024                               JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Shah
v. Confirmed, LLC                                COMP.
FILED:        09-25-24
CASE NUMBER:     24STLC06979                                    
           

NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  TRIAL DATE:          03-25-25
                                                                                                            

 
PROCEEDINGS:     DEMURRER  TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
Confirmed, LLC  
RESP. PARTY:         None
 
DEMURRER 
(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Confirmed, LLC’s Demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s Answer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint to be served and electronically filed within ten (10) days of this
Court’s Ruling.
 
___________________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address
(CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          None
filed as of November 26, 2024              [  ] Late           [X]
None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of November 26, 2024              [  ]
Late           [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On September 25, 2024, Plaintiff Vivek
Shah (“Plaintiff”), proceeding pro se, filed a Complaint against Defendant
Confirmed, LLC (“Defendant”) alleging a violation of California’s Pay
Transparency Law, California Labor Code Section 432.3. (Compl., p. 1.) 
 
On October 25, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint (“Demurrer”). No Opposition was
filed.
 
II.                
Legal
Standard
 
“As a general matter, in a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
A general demurrer may be
brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under
section 430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) 
Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015)
244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
III.             
Discussion

 
A.    Meet and Confer
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days
before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(3).) 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a). (Williams Decl.) According to the declaration, Defendant’s
counsel called Plaintiff, who is proceeding in this matter in pro se, and the
parties discussed Defendant’s intention to file a demurrer on the basis of
mootness. (Williams Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff indicated he would oppose the
demurrer. (Williams Decl., ¶ 4.) On October 23, 2024, Defendant’s counsel emailed
Plaintiff setting forth the legal authority of the demurrer; later that day,
Plaintiff responded indicating he would oppose the demurrer. (Williams Decl., ¶
5, Exh. A.) The parties were unable to reach a resolution. (Williams Decl., ¶
5.)
 
Thus,
the Court finds the meet and confer requirement satisfied.
 
B.     Demurrer
 
Plaintiff’s Allegations in the
Complaint
 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges
the following: At all relevant times, Plaintiff was unemployed and seeking
employment. (Compl., ¶ 7.) In or around September 2024, Plaintiff was browsing
through job postings on the Internet to apply for a job when Plaintiff came
across several of Defendant’s job postings. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Defendant’s job
postings appealed to Plaintiff; however, Plaintiff realized that “those job
postings that he was reading through did not have a salary or hourly wage range
provided.” (Compl., ¶ 8, Exh. A.) Since the pay scale was not included,
Plaintiff was deterred from applying for the job. (Compl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff
states that he intended to apply for the job and accept employment by
Defendant, if offered, “provided that the pay met his expectations and was
consistent with industry standards for the position.” (Compl., ¶ 9.) 
 
Plaintiff contends he continues “to
suffer from harm because of Defendant’s existing non-compliance of the law.
[Plaintiff] still intends to apply for a job with Defendant and still desires
and continues to seek employment.” (Compl., ¶ 9.)
 
Plaintiff requests relief of: (1) An
order declaring Defendant’s conduct violates the law; (2) an order of judgment
in favor of Plaintiff; (3) an order enjoining Defendant’s conduct; (4) a
private and public injunction; (5) nominal damages; and (6) reasonable attorney
fees and costs. (Compl., Prayer.)
 
Moving Party Position
 
Defendant demurs to the Complaint on
the basis the Complaint is moot because “Defendant has corrected the allegedly
improper postings, as permitted under the Labor Code, and therefore the Court
cannot provide the parties with effectual relief.” (Demurrer, p. 3.) Indeed,
Defendant states that Defendant “removed its non-compliant posting even before
being alerted of the problem with the posting, and all other job postings from
[Defendant] are compliant with Labor Code Section 432.3.” (Demurrer, p. 7; Poirier
Decl., ¶¶ 4-6, Exhs. A, B, C.) Accordingly, Defendant contends Plaintiff’s
Complaint “does not allege any ongoing, intentional misconduct by [Defendant],
and because he does not allege any economic or other injury that would warrant
relief by the Court, Plaintiff’s Complaint is rendered moot.” (Demurrer, p. 7.)

 
                        Analysis
 
California Labor Code section 432.3
states, in pertinent part:
 
“(c) (1) An employer, upon
reasonable request, shall provide the pay scale for a position to an applicant
applying for employment.
(2) An employer, upon request,
shall provide an employee the pay scale for the position in which the employee
is currently employed.
(3) An employer with 15 or
more employees shall include the pay scale for a position in any job posting.
… 
(d) (1) A person who claims
to be aggrieved by a violation of this section may file a written complaint
with the Labor Commissioner within one year after the date the person learned
of the violation. The complaint shall state the name and address of the
employer and shall provide a detailed account of the alleged violation, as may
be required by the Labor Commissioner.
(2) A person who claims to be
aggrieved by a violation of this section may also bring a civil action for
injunctive relief and any other relief that the court deems appropriate.
(3) The Labor Commissioner shall
promptly investigate complaints alleging violation of this section.
(4) Upon finding that an employer
has violated this section, the Labor Commissioner may order the employer to pay
a civil penalty of no less than one hundred dollars ($100) and no more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) per violation. The Labor Commissioner shall
determine the amount of the penalty based on the totality of the circumstances,
including, but not limited to, whether the employer has previously violated
this section. For a first violation of subdivision (c), no penalty shall be
assessed upon demonstration by the employer that all job postings for open
positions have been updated to include the pay scale as required by this
section.
(5) If an employer fails to keep
records in violation of this section, there shall be a rebuttable presumption
in favor of the employee’s claim.”
 
            (Cal.
Labor Code, § 432.3, emphasis added.)
 
            Here, the
Complaint alleges that Defendant is an employer with 15 or more employees who
failed to include the pay scale for a position in one of its job postings –
namely, an Account Manager position at Confirmed360. (Compl., ¶¶ 8, 10, Exh. A.)
Thus, the Complaint pleads a violation of California Labor Code section 432.3. 
 
            Defendant
alleges and presents evidence that this was Defendant’s first violation of
Labor Code section 432.3, Defendant remedied the infraction, and Defendant’s
other job postings are code-compliant, which thus negates Plaintiff’s claims
for relief and renders the Complaint moot. (Poirier Decl., ¶¶ 4-6, Exhs. A, B,
C.) The Court disagrees. Plaintiff pled a violation of Labor Code section 432.3.
Plaintiff also pled ongoing harm in that “he still intends to apply for a job
with defendant and still desires and continue[s] to seek employment” as well as
various requests for relief, including injunctive relief. (Compl., p. 3;
Prayer.) The penalty outlined in California Labor Code section 432, subdivision
(c) is separate and apart from other forms of relief requested by Plaintiff,
and Defendant fails to show Plaintiff is completely without some right
to relief, especially as the allegedly wrongful conduct may be repeated. (Center
for Local Gov’t Accountability v. City of Los Angeles (2016) 247 Cal. App.
4th 1146, 1157 [“The voluntary cessation of allegedly wrongful conduct destroys
the justiciability of a controversy and renders an action moot unless there
is a reasonable expectation the allegedly wrongful conduct will be repeated”],
emphasis added.) Moreover, Defendant’s arguments regarding the facts or
evidence are misplaced at this stage in the proceedings. (E-Fab, Inc., supra,
153 Cal.App.4th at p. 1315.) 
 
            Finally,
Defendant raises various challenges to Plaintiff’s requests for relief and
argues they are not supported by the allegations of the Complaint. However, a
demurrer is not the proper vehicle to strike specific damages or relief sought.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (d).)
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant
Confirmed, LLC’s Demurrer to Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s Answer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint to be served and electronically filed within ten (10) days of this
Court’s Ruling.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 