  Case Number:  23VECV05150    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT










 




ANGEL PAUL, an
  individual
Plaintiff,
vs.
 
CALABASAS CCRC, LLC, and DOES 1 through
  100, inclusive,
 
Defendants.
 
 
CALABASAS
  CCRC, LLC, 
 
Cross-Complainant, 
 
vs. 
 
ENSELE ENTERPRISE
  COUNSELING, INC. and ROES 1 through 50, Inclusive, 
 
Cross-Defendant 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV05150
 
ORDER GRANTING IN PART AND DENYING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
  TO QUASH DEFENDANT’S DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS
  TO ENCINO PLAZA SURGERY CENTER 
 
 
ORDER
  DENYING PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 



 
I.              
INTRODUCTION
This case stems
from an alleged incident that took place on or about October 6, 2023, at the
property located at 5030 Parkway Calabasas, Calabasas, CA, 91302 (hereinafter
“Property”) which Defendant Calabasas CCRC, LLC (“Defendant”) owns. Plaintiff
Angel Paul (“Plaintiff”) alleges “he tripped and fell on defective” stairs
within the Property, which lacked proper handrails, resulting in significant
bodily injuries. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 6, 17). 
Subsequently,
Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint against Ensele Incorporated[1]
(hereinafter “Cross-Defendant”), alleging that Defendant should not be held
liable for the harm due to the incident. Defendant claims that an indemnity
clause in the Agreement dated on or around April 1, 2023, between Defendant and
Cross-Defendant releases Defendant from any liability in this matter. (See
Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 11-14).
In this instant action, Plaintiff seeks
to quash the subpoena Defendant served upon Encino Plaza Surgery Center for
Plaintiff’s medical records from October 06, 2013, to the present. Additionally,
Plaintiff is seeking for the court to issue a protective order.  
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On November
17, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint, alleging (1) Premises Liability
Negligence, and (2) General
Negligence. 
On January
10, 2024, Defendant filed their Answer. 
On January 16,
2024, Defendant filed their Cross-Complaint, alleging (1) Implied Indemnity,
(2) Express Indemnity, (3) Contribution, and (4) Declaratory Relief. 
On October 1,
2024, Plaintiff filed this instant Motion to Quash the subpoena duces tecum Defendant
issued to Encino Plaza Surgery
Center on or around September 20, 2024. Plaintiff also seeks monetary
sanctions.
On October
14, 2024, Defendant filed an Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash. 
On October
16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Reply to Defendant’s Opposition to the Motion to
Quash. 
On October
21, 2024, Defendant filed a Request for Dismissal as to the Cross-Complaint. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
“Any consumer whose personal records
are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil action in
which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for
production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena
duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall be given to the
witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production. The
failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate the
motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the
deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for
improper release of records.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1985.3(g).)[2]

Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a),
provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information,¿or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”
IV.         
ANALYSIS
Defendant’s
subpoena to Encino Plaza Surgery Center requests Plaintiff’s medical records
from October 6, 2013, to present. In the Motion to Quash, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s
subpoena violates Plaintiff’s constitutional right to privacy because medical
records are highly sensitive in nature and that plaintiff’s filing of a lawsuit
does not mean they’ve “completely waived their right to privacy by bringing
suit…”; only information directly related to the subject matter of the lawsuit
with a compelling reason for its necessity should be allowed. (See id.
at pp 11-12). Plaintiff contends that the scope of the subpoena is excessively
broad as to both time and scope because it seeks medical records for the
preceding 10 years and “does not reasonably identify through narrowly tailored
categories the documents it seeks…” (See Motion to Quash pp 13-14). 
In its Opposition,
Defendant’s counsel suggested Plaintiff’s counsel contact Plaintiff to
determine whether Plaintiff received any other treatment at this facility
unrelated to the incident. (See Opposition page 3) Defendant argues that
if Plaintiff did not receive any other care from this facility, then the
subpoena does not violate Plaintiff’s privacy rights. (See id. at
page 4). If Plaintiff did receive such care, Defendant’s counsel proposed that
they consider a “first look” agreement. (See id. at page 3). As
for the scope of the request, Defendant states limiting the scope of the
subpoena to certain body parts isn’t practical because facilities are not
“going to cull through the records and produce only the records regarding
specific body parts…” (See Opposition page 3). Plaintiff’s counsel
appears to agree on this point. (See Declaration of Roxana Eli dated
October 1, 2024, Ex. B.)  does not
dispute that the facility will not separate records by body part. Exhibit
B of
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash includes email correspondence between Plaintiff’s
and Defendant’s counsel, in which Plaintiff’s counsel agrees to this.
In the Reply
to the Opposition, Plaintiff maintains that whether Plaintiff received
treatment from this facility for reasons unrelated to the incident is “entirely
irrelevant” and emphasizes that “Plaintiff’s medical records contain private,
constitutionally protected information” (See Reply to Opposition page 4).
Additionally, Plaintiff argues that “…Defendant is inexplicably refusing to
agree to the…” “first look” agreement and that previous parties have entered
such agreement, which Defendant’s counsel failed to comply with. (See id.
at pp. 4-5)
 As a threshold matter, while the Court agrees
with Plaintiff’s contention that medical records contain confidentially
protected information, given the lawsuit arises primarily out of Plaintiff’s
alleged physical injuries, the Court finds Defendant has met its burden
regarding the discoverability of Plaintiff’s medical records articulated in Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 841-42. Rather than a “first look”
agreement as debated by the parties in their papers, the Court concludes that a
standard Protective Order will appropriately protect Plaintiff’s privacy
interests given how the Court intends to tailor the scope of the subpoena as to
time and subject matter below. The Court also believes its approach will
reduce, if not eliminate, future disputes between counsel regarding this issue.
As to the
scope of the subpoena, based on the facts before it, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that the subpoena is overbroad as to time. As a result, the Court
will limit the time period of documents subject to production to five years
preceding the date of the incident to the present: October 6, 2018, to present.

The Court
also agrees the subpoena is overbroad as to subject matter. However, since the
Plaintiff’s injuries are bilateral and include his back, the Court concludes all
orthopedic treatment is discoverable regardless of body part. After all,
whether an alleged injury to one part of Plaintiff’s body led Plaintiff to
compensate for it in a way that caused pain to another part is a typical path
of inquiry. 
The Court
therefore GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash. 
V.            
SANCTIONS
Plaintiff, in
its Motion to Quash is also seeking monetary sanctions against Defendant and
its attorney of record in the amount of $5,000. (See Eli Decl., ¶ 21). 
Code of Civ.
Proc. § 128.5(a) provides: “[a] trial court may order a party, the party's
attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith,
that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” Pursuant to
Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 128.5 (b)(1) and (2) “‘[a]ctions or tactics’ include,
but are not limited to, the making or opposing of motions or the filing and
service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading,”
and “‘[f]rivolous’ means totally and completely without merit or for the sole
purpose of harassing an opposing party.”
The Court
denies Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions as the Court does not find
that Defendant’s subpoena is a frivolous action intended to cause delays and/or
cause undue burden on Plaintiff. 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions.
VI.         
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Plaintiff’s Motions to
Quash.
The Court orders
Defendant to serve a revised subpoena on Encino Plaza Surgery Center that seeks
the same types of documents the subpoena at issue seeks but limited to
orthopedic treatment of Plaintiff from October 6, 2018, to present. The parties
are ordered to submit a Proposed Stipulated Protective Order to the Court for
its approval on or before November 1, 2024. 
          Finally,
the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions. 
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      October 25, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 
 
 
 


