 Case Number:  23CMCV00863    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  A 
23CMCV00863
 Raenna Clark v. Commerce on Demand, LLC., et al.

Thursday,
 November 30, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
PLAINTIFF’S
 MOTION TO TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 396a(e) AND REFERRING
THE MATTER FOR REASSIGNMENT 
 
       This
action arises from the death of Alexzander Clark, who was allegedly shot and
killed while delivering products for Defendants. Plaintiff alleges a claim for
wrongful death in her individual capacity as well as successor-in-interest to
the Estate of Alexzander Clark. 
       Plaintiff
moves to transfer this case to any other district in Los Angeles County in the
interest of preserving the Court’s appearance of impartiality. Plaintiff contends
that defense counsel has a mentoring relationship with the Honorable Michael
Shultz, and that Defendant, Rashaan M. Everett’s, mother, the Honorable Laura Walton,
is a judicial officer also presiding in the South Central District. No opposition
has been filed. 
       Plaintiff
relies on Civil Procedure, section 396a subd. (e), which permits transfer of an
action to a different superior court if the action is not pending in the proper
court or “for other cause.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 396a subd.(e).) That section is applicable to unlawful
detainer cases and cases subject to Civil
Code, section 1812.10 (actions on contract or installment accounts; Civil
Code section 2984.4 (actions on contract or purchase order); and subdivision
(b) of Section 395
of the Code of Civil Procedure (actions arising from an offer or provision of
goods, services, loans, or extensions of credit.) As this is an action for
wrongful death, section 396a does not apply. Therefore, the motion is DENIED. 
       Plaintiff’s
contention that the Court has a “mentoring” relationship with defense counsel
that creates an appearance of partiality is unfounded and inaccurate.  This Court, however, does have a long-standing
professional relationship with the Honorable Laura Walton.  Accordingly, the Court recuses itself in
furtherance of the interests of justice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 170.1 subd. (a) (6).)  This
matter has been referred for reassignment to the Supervising Judge of the South
Central District, Department D, who reassigned this matter to the Honorable Fumiko
Wasserman, South Central District, Department B. Judge Wasserman can independently
determine whether her recusal is appropriate under the circumstances pursuant
to section 170.1 subd. (a) (6). 