 Case Number:  23STCV02001    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 11/25/24¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV02001 BRYSON PHINALI
ARRINGTON vs SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GAS COMPANY et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant L.A. Harvard Property
LLC 
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient¿¿ 
Ruling: GRANT 
 
On January 22, 2024, Defendant L.A. Harvard
Property LLC served Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set
One, and Requests for Production, Set One, on Plaintiff, who is now appearing
in pro per. On July 24, 2024, Defendant served Form Interrogatories, Set Two,
Requests for Production, Set Two, and Requests for Admissions, Set One on
Plaintiff. Plaintiff did not serve any responses to any of Defendant’s
discovery requests or respond to Defendant’s meet-and-confer efforts. Defendant
now moves the Court to compel initial responses. No opposition was filed.
 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff did not serve
the discovery responses at issue prior to the statutory deadline. Further, no
opposition was filed, and no other filing indicates that responses were served
prior to the hearing. Thus, the motions are granted. Plaintiff is ordered to
provide complete and verified responses to Defendant L.A. Harvard Property
LLC’s Form Interrogatories, Set One and Set Two, Requests for Production, Set
One and Set Two, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, within
20 days of today. Further, the contents of Defendant’s Requests for Admissions,
Set One, are deemed admitted.
 
Defendant requests $1,685.00 in sanctions for
each motion. Sanctions are mandatory, and the Court finds Plaintiff did not act
with substantial justification. However, due to the straightforwardness of the
issue, the Court reduces sanctions to $3,500 for all six motions. Plaintiff is
ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant L.A. Harvard Property LLC within 20 days
of today. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 
 
 