 Case Number:  23STCV14243    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 11/25/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV14243 WILLIAM HARMON
vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY ET AL.
Moving Party: Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
On July 25, 2024, Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority served Plaintiff with Special Interrogatories (Set
Two). As of the filing of the present motion, Plaintiff has not served the
requested discovery responses. Defendant now moves the Court to compel
Plaintiff to provide initial responses to the interrogatories.
 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff failed to
serve discovery responses within the statutory deadline. Additionally,
Plaintiff has not filed any opposition to the motion or any other document
indicating that responses were served prior to the hearing. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel is
GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide complete and verified responses to
Defendants’ Special Interrogatories (Set Two), without objections, within 20
days of the date of this order. 
 
Defendants also request $1250 in sanctions for
the motion. The Court finds this amount reasonable. Sanctions are mandatory
under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.290(c) and 2031.300(c) where no
substantial justification is shown, and the Court finds that Plaintiff acted
without substantial justification. Sanctions in the amount of $1250 are imposed
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff's counsel, jointly and severally, payable to
Defendant within 20 days of the date of this order.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 