 Case Number:  22STCV34344    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  52 Defendant Gallery Department LLC’s
Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena and Request for Production of Documents
Defendant
Gallery Department LLC moves to quash plaintiff Jennifer Ann Pelletier deposition
subpoena to Pierre Towns.  
Notice to
Consumer
            Defendant argues the court should
quash the subpoena because plaintiff did not provide notice to consumer to its
employees and former employees under Code of Civil Procedure section
1985.6.  Subdivision (b) of that section
provides, “Prior to the date called for in the subpoena duces tecum of the
production of employment records, the subpoenaing party shall serve or cause to
be served on the employee whose records are being sought” notice of the
subpoena and of the employee’s right to object.
            This procedure does not apply
because the subpoena is not for “employment records.”  Section 1985.6, subdivision (a)(3) provides,
“ ‘Employment records’ means the original or any copy of books, documents,
other writings, or electronically stored information pertaining to the
employment of any employee maintained by the current or former employer of the
employee, or by any labor organization that has represented or currently
represents the employee.”  
The subpoena is
to Pierre Towns.  Defendant acknowledges
Towns was “an external HR consultant that [defendant] hired to investigate
plaintiff’s complaints about [Ross Jay] Curtis.”  (Memo, p. 4.) 
Towns is not “the current or former employer of the employee” or a
“labor organization.”  Any documents he
possesses are not “employment records” maintained by a custodian of records subject
to this procedure.  (See Foothill
Federal Credit Union v. Superior Court (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 632, 641
[analogous statute applies to subpoenas seeking “information from any of a
number of specified sources”].)
Privilege
Defendant
contends “employment personnel files” and “internal investigation records” are
“immune from discovery.”  (Memo, pp.
6-7.)  Defendant fails to show any of the
documents sought by this subpoena constitute employees’ personnel files.  But even if defendant had done so, personnel
files and internal investigation records are not privileged or otherwise “immune”
from discovery.    
Defendant
argues, “It is black-letter law that employment personnel files are generally ‘exempt
from the requirement of public disclosure.’ ” 
(Memo, p. 6.)  Defendant cites
authority on public disclosure under the Public Records Act (Associated
Chino Teachers v. Chino Valley Unified School Dist. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th
530, 539 [“personnel records” exempt from disclosure under PRA]) and on the
government’s “official information” privilege (City of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 778, 785).  Neither of those rules applies here.  Defendant is not a government entity.
Defendant also
cites authority (Memo, p. 7) applying the official information privilege and concerning
records required to be kept confidential by statutes that do not apply
here.  (Board of Registered Nursing v.
Superior Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1038-1044.)  Next, defendant cites authority on the common
interest privilege—which is a substantive defense to defamation, not a rule of
evidence or discovery.  (McGrory v.
Applied Signal Technology, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1538-1540.)  Finally, defendant relies on authority discussing
the application of attorney-client privilege and attorney work product to
prelitigation investigations.  (Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1223.)  Again, that is irrelevant to defendant’s
objection based on individuals’ privacy rights.
At most, this
authority supports the first element of defendant’s privacy objection discussed
below.
Privacy
Defendant does not substantiate its objection based on its current and
former employees’ privacy rights.  “The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams
v. Superior Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting party
shows all three elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure
against the right to privacy.  (Ibid.)  The court must also
consider “the availability of alternatives and protective measures.”  (Id.
at p. 556.) 
Defendant shows no more than the first element.  People have a right to privacy in their
personnel files and other employment records.  (Board of Trustees v.
Superior Court¿(1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 528-530.)  But these are not employment records, per
se.  They are communications between
defendant’s employees and defendant’s external HR consultant, notes the
consultant took based on interviews with his employees, emails the HR
consultant sent, and other similar documents. 

Defendant does not show any of its employees or former employees have
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the requested
documents.  These documents concern
investigating plaintiff’s complaints about former employee Ross Jay Curtis.  It is not reasonable to expect that the
investigation would be kept confidential from the person whose complaint
initiated it.  Moreover, all documents
were shared with an external HR consultant. 
The documents do not include, for example, information about employees’
pay, job performance, disabilities or serious health conditions, or any other
sensitive information. 
Finally, defendant does not show a serious threatened intrusion.  As discussed above, the subpoena does not
seek any sensitive information or actual personnel files.  Whatever documents Towns possesses were
communicated by or derived from information shared by defendant or its
employees.  
Assuming defendant established all three elements, plaintiff’s need for
disclosure outweighs the minimal privacy rights involved.  The adequacy of defendant’s investigation into
plaintiff’s internal complaints is directly relevant to plaintiff’s claims and
defendant’s defenses.  Moreover, the
stipulated protective order entered on February 5, 2024, adequately mitigates
any privacy concerns.    
Sanctions
            In her opposition, plaintiff seeks
$4,500 in sanctions against defendant and its counsel.  Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) provides, “[T]he court may in its discretion award the amount
of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 

            Defendant made this motion without
substantial justification.  The motion
relies largely on clearly inapplicable authority about subpoenas to employers
or labor organizations and on purported privileges that apply only in limited
circumstances absent here.  At best,
defendant made weak arguments in support of its privacy objections.  The court finds monetary sanctions are
warranted under these circumstances.
Disposition
            Defendant Gallery Department LLC’s
motion to quash deposition is denied.  Defendant
and its counsel, Sarah M. Matz, are ordered to pay plaintiff Jennifer Ann Pelletier $4,500 in
sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant and
its counsel are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.  