 Case Number:  23SMCV04446    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Ronny Graham v. Lee Samson, et
al.  



Case No.:


23SMCV04446


Complaint Filed:


9-20-23           




Hearing Date:


9-10-24 


Discovery C/O:


8-25-25




Calendar No.:


10


Discovery Motion C/O:


9-8-25




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


9-22-25



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION—DEFENDANT
WINDSOR HAYSAC HOLDINGS, LLC
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiff Ronny Graham
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendant Windsor
Haysac Holdings, LLC
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiff
Ronny Graham’s Motion to Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to Defendant Windsor
Haysac Holdings, LLC’s 2nd, 4th, 12th, 15th, and 16th Affirmative
Defenses, and DENIED as to Defendant Windsor Haysac Holdings, LLC’s 13th,
and 20th Affirmative Defenses. Defendant withdrew their 2nd,
4th, 12rh, 15th and 16th affirmative defenses
via stipulation. (Schroeder Decl., ¶ 17.) Plaintiff withdrew their motion for
summary adjudication as to the 20th affirmative defense within their
reply. (See Reply, p. 1:9–12.) Plaintiff did not meet their burden to show that
there are no triable issues of material fact as to the 20th
affirmative defense of offset. 
 
            Plaintiff
Ronny Graham’s Motion to Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED as to Defendant Windsor
Haysac Holdings, LLC’s 23rd Affirmative Defenses for Binding
Arbitration Agreement until ________ pursuant to CCP § 437c(h) Defendant submits
an affidavit along with their Opposition explaining and describing specific
facts and evidence needed to be obtained which are essential to opposing the
motion. (Schroeder Decl., ¶¶ 18, 19.) Defendant declares there is reason to
believe these facts exist. (Id.., ¶ 20.) Defendant declares the reason
they need additional time is due to pending subpoena responses ((Id.., ¶
21.)
 
REASONING
Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1)
permits a Plaintiff to move for summary adjudication as to “one or more
affirmative defenses” that have “no merit” as to any cause of action, and the
court shall grant the motion “only if it completely disposes” of the defense. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
In motion for summary adjudication
of a defense “[t]he plaintiff bears the initial burden to show there is no
triable issue of material fact as to the defense and that he or she is entitled
to judgment on the defense as a matter of law. In so doing, the plaintiff must
negate an essential element of the defense, or establish the defendant does not
possess and cannot reasonably obtain evidence needed to support the defense.” (See's
Candy Shops, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 899–900.) “The
responding party's incomplete answers can be used to satisfy the moving
party's burden on summary judgment to show there is no evidence of a
triable issue of material fact” (See Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial (The Rutter Group 2010) § 8:1050.10.)
 
Once the plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or
cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The defendant or
cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(1).)
 
“(h) If it appears from the
affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition
may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny
the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or
discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The application to
continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte
motion at any time on or before the date the opposition response to the motion
is due.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).)
 
            The party
opposing summary judgment need only submit a good-faith affidavit explaining
that “(l) the facts to be obtained are essential to opposing the motion, (2)
there is reason to believe such facts may exist, and (3) the reasons why
additional time is needed to obtain these facts.” (Chavez v. 24 Hour Fitness
USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 632, 643). “The party seeking the
continuance must justify the need, by detailing both the particular essential
facts that may exist and the specific reasons why they cannot then be
presented.” (Ibid.) Upon such a showing, a continuance is “virtually
mandated.” (Bahl v. Bank of America (2001) 89 Cal. App. 4th 389, 395;
see also Denton v. City and Cty. o San Francisco (2017) 16 Cal. App. 5th
779, 791 [describing § 437c(h) as a “mandatory basis” for continuance].)
 
 
I.               
2nd, 4th, 12th,
15th, 16th and 20th Affirmative Defenses
 
On 3-27-23, Defendant Windsor
Haysac Holdings, LLC (“Windsor”) withdrew their 2nd, 4th,
12th, 15th and 16th Affirmative Defenses via
an email from Windsor’s counsel to Plaintiff Ronny Graham’s (“Graham”) counsel.
(See Schroeder Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. B.) Thus, the Court finds that Graham’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication as to the 2nd, 4th, 12th,
15th and 16th Affirmative Defenses is GRANTED. 
 
In the Graham Reply, Graham
conceded that there are facts supplied by Windsor which “could potentially
support” the affirmative defense and thus Graham “is not maintaining the
request that the Court [sic] rule on this Affirmative Defense.” (Reply, p. 1:9–12.)
Thus, Graham’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the 20th
Affirmative Defense is DENIED. 
 
II.            
13th Affirmative Defense for Offset -
DENIED
 
Defendant has a right to assert the
affirmative defense that they are “entitled to an offset in “the proportionate
amount attributable to the employer's negligence up to the amount of the ...
benefits paid.” (Engle v. Endlich (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1166.)
 
“A medical malpractice defendant
may introduce evidence of any amount payable as a benefit to the plaintiff as a
result of the personal injury pursuant to the United States Social Security
Act, any state or federal income disability or worker's compensation act, any
health, sickness or income-disability insurance, accident insurance that
provides health benefits or income-disability coverage, and any contract or
agreement of any group, organization, partnership, or corporation to provide,
pay for, or reimburse the cost of medical, hospital, dental, or other health
care services.” (Cuevas v. Contra Costa County (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th
163, 172.)
 
In the Reply, Graham argues that
the 13th affirmative defense for Offset should be summarily
adjudicated because this matter involves a sexual assault that Windsor “allowed
to occur while [Graham] was a resident in [Windsor’s] skilled nursing facility
(“SNF”),” and not caused by Windsor’s “rendering of professional services, but
by the failure to protect’ Graham from harm. (Reply, p. 2:11–17.) Graham argues
that because of this distinction MICRA does not apply, since MICRA only applies
“in an action for personal injury against a health care provider based upon
professional negligence” (Ibid.; Civ. Code, § 3333.2, sub. (a).) 
 
Graham does not provide any
authority for this interpretation of the MICRA statute.   In
fact, there is authority to negate this argument. “Neither our case law nor the
language of MICRA suggests that the possibility of professional discipline or
criminal liability necessarily places a health care provider's actions outside
“the scope of services for which [he or she] is licensed” or “within any
restriction imposed by the licensing agency or licensed hospital.” (Lopez v.
Ledesma (2022) 12 Cal.5th 848, 865.) MICRA has applied to an action
“against a psychiatrist who compelled his patient to submit to sexual
intercourse,” since the conduct arose out of the “course of the psychiatric
treatment he was licensed to provide.” (Ibid., citing Waters v.
Bourhis (1985) 40 Cal.3d 424, 436.)  “MICRA defines professional negligence as “a
negligent act or omission to act by a health care provider in the rendering of
professional services.” (Gutierrez v. Tostado (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 786,
790. [finding that MICRA applies where the breach of a duty arises out of
professional negligence, as opposed to arising out general negligence which
does not trigger MICRA].)
 
The allegations of the complaint
appear to be based on a breach of a professional duty by the defendants. Graham
does not allege or argue that Windsor had a general obligation to the public to
keep Graham safe from the alleged sexual assault, but only that a duty was
breached in reference to Windsor’s professional duties as an SNF. (See Compl.,
¶¶ 8, 34.) Additionally, the general allegations show that the claim against Windsor
arises out of their omission to act during the rendering of their services,
thus placing this squarely within the MICRA professional negligence definition.

 
Additionally, Graham argues the offset
doctrine is not applicable to the instant matter, as Windsor is just conflating
“it with the principle of comparative negligence,” another affirmative defense
that Windsor stipulated to withdrawing. However, the affirmative defense of
offset is applicable to MICRA lawsuits through the allowable introduction of
evidence “of any amount payable as a benefit to the plaintiff as a result of
the personal injury.” (Cuevas, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p.
172.) 
 
Graham does not provide any other
evidence or facts to negate any elements of the offset affirmative defense.
Thus, Graham does not meet their burden to show there is no triable issue of
material fact as to the 13th affirmative defense. Graham’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication as to the 13th affirmative defense is
DENIED. 
 
 
III.          
23rd Affirmative Defense for Binding
Arbitration Agreement - CONTINUED
 
Graham shows that on 10-26-23 when Windsor
filed the Answer to the Complaint Windsor asserted the affirmative defense that
Graham may have executed an arbitration agreement which “may have been in full
force and effect at the time of all treatment rendered by Defendants.” (SSUF, ¶
44; 12-26-23 Plaintiff’s Evidence In Support of MSA (“Evidence”), Ex. 2.).
Graham shows that Windsor provided only objections to the discovery requests
concerning the facts in support of the alleged arbitration agreement based on the
Motion to Stay filing. (See SSUF, ¶¶ 45–48; Evidence, Ex. 3, 4, 5, 6.) Graham
argues that Defendant has provided only objections to discovery, and not
provided any evidence of the arbitration agreement during discovery, and thus
under Union Bank, the non-moving party’s discovery responses’ are
insufficient to demonstrate there was a triable issue concerning the
correctness of their claims. (Motion, pp. 8–9; see Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 580–581 [Moving party may rely on
non-moving factually devoid discovery responses to shift burden of proof as to
whether there are triable issues of fact].)
 
However, the situation here is
factually different from the Union Bank scenario. In Union Bank the non-moving
party’s response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 was that they “believed” evidence
existed to support the denials or objections to the discovery requests, whereas
here, Windsor’s response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 was an objection to
answering as there was a motion to stay filed. (Union Bank, supra,
31 Cal.App.4th at p. 580; SSUF, ¶ 48, Evidence, Ex. 6.) The Motion to Stay
was denied on 4-18-24, and Windsor declares that “extensive meet and confer
conferences and discussions regarding the discovery disputes” were held,
followed by Windsor “substantively amend[ing] its responses to Plaintiff’s Form
and Special Interrogatories, Set One, along with Plaintiff’s Request for
Admissions and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, which prompted
further meet and confer discussions and correspondence between the parties.”
(Schroeder Decl., ¶¶ 12–16.) Windsor declares on 8-26-24, Windsor subpoenaed
Graham’s medical records from Kaiser Permanente, which “are believed to contain
an applicable arbitration agreement that governs this matter.” (Schroeder
Decl., ¶¶ 18.)
 
Windsor supplied an affirmative
defense stating the possibility of an arbitration agreement and provided amended
discovery responses stating the same. (Schroeder Decl., ¶¶ 4, 20; Ex. C.) Additionally,
Windsor has provided a declaration stating that the alleged arbitration
agreement governs this matter, and they are awaiting the response from their Kaiser
subpoena to retrieve the alleged arbitration agreement. (Schroeder Decl., ¶¶
20–22, Ex. C, D.) Thus, Windsor has met their burden under CCP § 437(c)(h) to
obtain a continuance in order to receive the alleged essential discovery
requests from Kaiser which possibly contains the arbitration agreement at
issue. 