 Case Number:  23STCV08414    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendants
SSA Terminals, LLC, SSA Terminals (Pier A), Pacific Maritime Services, LLC, and
Frank Hall’s Motion to Strike the Complaint is DENIED.
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
Defendants SSA Terminals, LLC,
SSA Terminals (Pier A), Pacific Maritime Services, LLC, and Frank Hall
(Defendants) move to strike the complaint of Plaintiff Plentiude
Transportation, Inc. (Plaintiff) on the grounds that it was filed without the
notice of related case required of California Rules of Court (CRC) Rule 3.300,
and that it was further filed in violation of the order entered on March 1,
2023, in the related case LASC Case No. 22STCV37306, directing that no further
pleadings be filed prior to adjudication of Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration. 
Defendants note that this case
rests upon an identical factual foundation as Case No. 22STCV37306, filed by
Plaintiff against the same parties: namely, Plaintiff’s allegations that
Defendants falsely accused Plaintiff’s employee of stealing from Defendants’
terminal, and thereafter blocked Plaintiff’s access from the same.
CRC Rule 3.300 states: “Whenever a party in a civil action
knows or learns that the action or proceeding is related to another action or
proceeding pending, dismissed, or disposed of by judgment in any state or
federal court in California, the party must serve and file a Notice of Related
Case.” (CRC Rule 3.300, subd. (b).) The determination of relatedness is made by
“the judge who has the earlier filed case.” (CRC Rule 3.300, subd. (h)(1)(A).)
Defendants also cite LASC Local Court Rule 3.3, subd. (d), which states: “A
party must not dismiss and then refile a case for the purpose of obtaining a
different judge.”
 
The underlying procedural facts are these. Plaintiff first
filed the complaint against Defendants alleging similar claims on November 28,
2022, in LASC Case No. 22STCV37036. Defendants filed a motion to compel
arbitration and a motion to disqualify counsel on December 30, 2022, and on
March 1, 2023, in granting Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue hearing
on Defendants’ motions, the court ordered “no further pleadings allowed prior
to 4/17/2023 and no further briefing on the motion to compel arbitration.” But
on April 3, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed the action without prejudice. Plaintiff
filed the present action with new counsel on April 14, 2023, alleging the same
claims, plus claims under the Bain Act and Unfair Competition Law.
 
Plaintiff did not file a notice of related case when it
filed its new complaint, and in doing so violated CRC Rule 3.300. Instead,
Plaintiff filed a “notice of prior dismissed case and opposition to relating
the dismissed case with this case” on May 25, 2023. Plaintiff filed no notice
in the original, dismissed case, and Defendants’ motion to deem the matters
related was granted on July 24, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff in opposition contends that Defendants failed to
meet and confer prior to filing the present motion to strike, and further
argues that the motion is moot, as the cases have been deemed related.
(Opposition at pp. 11–13.) Plaintiff further argues that the new action was not
filed in violation of this court’s March 1, 2023 order against new pleadings,
as the reason for filing the new action was the discovery of Plaintiff’s
conflicted counsel, identified in Defendants’ prior motion to disqualify. (Opposition
at pp. 14–15.)
 
Whether or not to grant a motion to strike is a matter of
discretion for the trial court. (See Doe v. United States Youth Soccer
Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1123, fn. 2.) Although
Defendants are correct that Plaintiff did not file a notice of related case,
the granting of a motion to strike would accomplish little when the matters at
issue have already been deemed related. Moreover, it is unlikely that Plaintiff
dismissed the prior action and filed the present one with the hope of obtaining
a new judge or evading the court’s March 1, 2023 order. Given the same factual
allegations of both cases and Defendants’ obvious knowledge of same, the
relation of the matters was a foregone conclusion. The most plausible
explanation for the tactics is that advanced by Plaintiff: that they sought to
file a new pleading with new attorneys who possessed no conflicts, however
clumsily. Plaintiffs could have hoped for little else from such maneuvers
except delay in the prosecution of their own claims. Accordingly, striking the
pleading here is not warranted.
 
The motion is DENIED.