  Case Number:  19STCV24054    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Cedric L. Price’s Motion for Appointment of Receiver is
DENIED. 
 
I.                  
RECEIVER
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
Cedric Price (Price) seeks an appointment of a receiver, Danielle Brinkman, to
manage two properites that are the subject of this litigation, located on 5096
Llano Drive in Woodland Hills and 1836 Crenshaw Boulevard in Los Angles. Price
relies on the following provisions of Code of Civil Procedure § 564 to support
his request for an appointment:
(1)  
In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent
purchase of property
. . .
 
(9)
In all other cases where necessary to preserve the property or rights of any
party.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 564, subd.
(b)(1), (3), (9).).
“Because the
appointment of a receiver transfers property . . . out of the hands of its
owners and into the hands of a receiver, the appointment of a receiver is a
very drastic, harsh, and costly remedy that is to be exercised sparingly and
with caution. Due to the extraordinary nature of this remedy and the special
costs it imposes, courts are strongly discouraged—although not strictly
prohibited—from appointing a receiver unless the more intrusive oversight of a
receiver is a necessity because other, less intrusive remedies are either
inadequate or unavailable.
(Medipro
Medical Staffing LLC v. Certified Nursing Registry, Inc. (2021) 60
Cal.App.5th 622, 628, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.) 
 
Price
submits the following justification for a receiver. The Llano property was
purchased in May 2019, ostensibly in Price’s name, but actually through
forgeries perpetrated by Defendant Jarrell Davis (Davis). (Motion at p. 1.)
Shortly after the May purchase, Davis transferred the property from Price to a
trust he controlled, V2 Properties Trust. (Motion at p. 1.) In January 2023,
Davis was charged with 59 counts of forgery and is still in custody. (Mulkerin
Decl. ¶ 3.) Price seeks an appointment of a receiver to manage the Llano property
to collect rents and potentially sell the property, with the proceeds to be
held in escrow or interpleaded pending the resolution of this litigation.
(Motion at p. 1.) 
 
Defendants
Coldwell Banker and Shayan Ghalari offer a conditional opposition to the
motion, seeking conditions that any receiver appointed not be permitted to hire
an attorney, that the receiver be solely paid by Price, and that Coldwell
Banker and Ghalari be permitted to raise Plaintiff’s failure to mitigate
damages by delaying the bringing of this receivership motion. (Opposition at
pp. 2–3.) Precision Dental has filed a response, indicating that it neither
opposes nor supports the appointment of the receiver, and arguing that the
expense of any such appointment must be borne by Price alone. (Response at pp.
3–4.)
 
Price has
made no showing of entitlement to receiver. Price presents no evidence that the
property at issue is subject to waste or deterioration. Price does not know
whether the property currently has any tenants, or if it is currently
generating income, but merely asserts that it is “potentially” wasting. (Motion
at p. 1.) Nor does Plaintiff articulate the harm that is to be suffered from
the waste of the property at issue, save the claim that avoiding waste “would
partially offset the damages claimed by Plaintiff in this action.” (Motion at
pp. 3–4.) Plaintiff’s request for the drastic, harsh, and expensive relief of a
receiver is ill-supported and founded on speculation.
 
The
motion is therefore DENIED.