 Case Number:  23STCV14890    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Stewart Lucas Murrey’s Motion to Authorize Third Party Discovery to Identify
Defendants is DENIED. 
 
I.                  
MOTION TO PERMIT DISCOVERY
“In any action predicated on
anonymous speech, regardless of legal theory, the plaintiff should not be able
to discover the speaker's identity without first making a prima facie showing
that the speech in question is actionable.” (Glassdoor, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 623, 634–635.) “[I]f the defendant has not
received notice of the attempt to lift the shield of anonymity, the plaintiff
must make reasonable efforts to provide such notice.” (Glassdoor, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 623, 634.)
Plaintiff Stewart Lucas Murrey (Plaintiff) seeks an order authorizing
him to conduct “limited third-party discovery to identify defendants in this
action.” (Motion at p. 1.) Plaintiff’s case arises from myriad statements made
in Facebook groups entitled “Are We Dating the Same Guy,” in which several
defendants made statements to the effect that Plaintiff was involved in the
murder of his ex-wife, that he was a vexatious and frequent litigant against
women, and that he engaged in unpleasant and unwelcome conduct toward women he
was interested in dating.
The
present motion is defective in a number of ways. First, Plaintiff does not
present this court with the “limited discovery” he seeks leave to undertake. In
Glassdoor, the court was presented with a subpoena directing the
relevant website to produce a copy of an offending review and to produce
information identifying its author. (Glassdoor,
Inc., supra, 9 Cal.App.5th
at p. 627 .) Plaintiff here has neither served nor presented the court with the
subpoena or other discovery — presumably to be leveled against Facebook
— that he seeks leave to undertake here. 
Indeed, it is unclear which persons Plaintiff seeks to
identify. The Complaint lists ten individual defendants in the caption, as well
as 50 potential Doe defendants. His Complaint also contends that Facebook
itself, and potentially its “administrators/moderators,” are defendants as
well. (Complaint ¶ 33.) Plaintiff further confuses matters in his declaration
by identifying scores of other women whom he claims participated in the
wrongful conduct at issue. (Murrey Decl. ¶¶ 49–51, 52, 55, 57), as well as
a large number of Facebook moderators whom he claims “operate behind the scenes
and with no responsibility to the law.” (Murrey Decl. ¶ 59.) Plaintiff does not
indicate the individuals for whom discovery is sought, and the potential scope
is incredibly broad. 
What’s more, Plaintiff has not shown that discovery is
necessary to identify several of the individuals at issue. Plaintiff himself
claims to have met or texted with several of the Defendants at issue, and he
identifies one named defendant (Michal Ofek) as a licensed attorney, whose
contact information is published on the California State Bar’s website. (Murrey
Decl. ¶¶ 14, 22, 42.) 
Finally, Plaintiff has not attempted to notify Defendants
of his attempts to secure their information, and thus provide an opportunity
for their objections, if any, to be heard. A plaintiff seeking discovery of an
anonymous defendant’s identity must make “reasonable efforts” to provide notice
of the discovery sought to the defendant. (Glassdoor, supra, 9
Cal.App.5th at p. 634.) Here, no such notice has been attempted, or
indeed could have been on the facts presented here, since Defendant does not
identify the discovery sought or who is to be the subject of his inquiries.
The motion is therefore DENIED.