 Case Number:  23STCV17927    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  73 10/22/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
PEREZ v. AUTO-CHLOR SYSTEM OF
WASHINGTON, INC. (23STCV17927)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Alan Romero (Romero
Law, APC)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Craig Horowitz (Horowitz
& Clayton)
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed on 06/24/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the first and second
causes of action is DENIED.
Defendant's motion for summary adjudication as to the third, fourth,
fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action is GRANTED.
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
July 31, 2023, Plaintiff Adrian Perez filed this action against Defendant Auto-Chlor
System of Washington, Inc. Plaintiff asserts the following causes of action:
1.    
Retaliation
(Labor Code Section 1102.5)
2.    
Wrongful
Discharge in violation of Public Policy
3.    
Failure
to Provide Meal and Rest Periods
4.    
Failure
to Provide Accurate Wage Statements
5.    
Waiting
Time Penalty
6.    
Failure
to Indemnify Employee
7.    
Violation
of the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004
8.    
Failure
to Provide Employment Records Upon Demand
 
On
August 30, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed his eighth cause of action for Failure to
Provide Employment Records Upon Demand.
 
The
Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiff was hired by Defendants around June
2021 as a route technician/driver. Defendants required their drivers to install
a tracking application on their personal phones but did not reimburse their
employees. Defendants
also did not provide proper meal and rest breaks to their employees. Plaintiff reported that he was unable
to take meal and rest breaks. Plaintiff’s supervisors instructed Plaintiff to change
his time records to show that he was taking meal breaks. Around June 2022, Plaintiff was
wrongfully discharged.
 

On June 24, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
for summary judgment or alternatively, summary adjudication, arguing:
·      
Defendant moves for summary judgment or
adjudication of the following issues:
·      
Issue No. 1: Plaintiffs first and second
causes of action for retaliation and wrongful termination in violation of
public policy fail as a matter of law because Auto-Chlor had good cause to
terminate Plaintiff's employment.
o  
In deposition, Plaintiff admits that he
was terminated for failing to comply with Defendant Auto-Chlor System of
Washington, Inc.'s safe driving policy ("Mobile Device Distracted Driving
Policy"), after multiple written warnings. (Perez Tr. 15:1-5.2)
·      
Issue No. 2: In the alternative, Plaintiff
s first and second causes of action for retaliation and wrongful termination in
violation of public policy fail as a matter of law because there is no
substantial evidence sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact as to a nexus
between alleged protected activity and Plaintiffs termination.
·      
Issue No. 3: Plaintiffs individual wage
and hour claims are barred as a matter of law due to his failure to timely opt
out of the certified class action in which the same claims are asserted.
·      
Issue No. 4: Plaintiff's PAGA cause of
action is barred as a matter of law because the PAGA claim is subsumed in the
class action in which Plaintiff is a certified class member.
·      
Issue No. 5: In the alternative,
Plaintiff's PAGA cause of action is barred as a matter of law because Defendant
could be double penalized with Labor Code penalties for the same conduct as in
the certified Class Action.
·      
Issue No. 6: In the alternative,
Plaintiff's PAGA cause of action fails as a matter of law because Plaintiff has
no evidence of Labor Code violations under PAGA within the PAGA period as to
the alleged representative class of aggrieved employees.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues:
·      
 Plaintiff’s
1102.5 Retaliation Claim must be tried
o  
Perez’s Complaints About Meal Breaks Were
a Contributing Factor in his Termination
o  
Auto-Chlor has failed to establish by
clear and convincing evidence it would have terminated Plaintiff for a
legitimate, independent reason
§  Auto-Chlor has failed to produce sufficient evidence that Mr. Perez did
not have TRUCE installed on his phone.
§  Plaintiff has produced evidence that he did in fact have TRUCE installed
on his phone (SS 39, 64-71) Moreover, a reasonable jury could find that Okum
willfully ignored the fact that Mr. Perez had TRUCE installed on his phone.
·      
Plaintiff’s Claim for Wrongful Discharge
in Violation of Public Policy must be tried
o  
As discussed above, the termination was
substantially motivated by unlawful retaliation. (SS 43-75)
·      
Plaintiff’s PAGA Claims Are Not Barred
Because PAGA Claims are Fundamentally Distinct
o  
Auto-Chlor’s reliance on Villacres v.
ABM Industries Inc. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 562, 579 is misplaced because
there is no res judicata issue in the present case. There has been no final
decision on the merits in the Sanchez action and thus res judicata does not
apply.
 
Defendant filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff’s causes of action.
·      
Plaintiff did not opt out of the
Sanchez class action asserting the same causes of action. (Plaintiff's Opp.
Sep. Stmt. Facts Nos. 26-31, 8:28-9:23.) Accordingly, this Court should grant
summary adjudication as to Perez's failure to provide meal and rest periods,
failure to provide accurate wage statements, waiting time penalty, and failure
to indemnify employee causes of action. 
·      
With respect to the PAGA cause of action,
although nominally stating that he "disputes" Defendant's material
facts on the PAGA issues, Plaintiff in fact presents no evidence whatsoever.
·      
Plaintiff has no evidence of a nexus or
causal connection between his alleged wage and hour complaints at some
unspecified time and his termination
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
A party may
move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc.
Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. 
In determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.”  (Id.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause
of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also,
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 
 
“The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The defendant may also
present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following
extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.  But…
the defendant must indeed present evidence."  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in
original].)   “In other words, all that the defendant need do is to
show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of
action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot prove element¿X.”  (Id.,
at 853.) The court in Aguilar distilled summary judgment to “a
single proposition:  If a party moving for summary judgment in any action
. . . would prevail at trial without submission of any issue of material fact
to a trier of fact for determination, then he should prevail on summary
judgment.  In such a case . . . the ‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and
“avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’ by nonsuit or directed verdict or
similar device.  (Id. at 855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s
showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a
judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies
a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the opposition
demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385
[citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative value
that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts
“construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe the opponent's
affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the
motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.) 
“The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The
court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.     Timeliness of
Reply
 
As an initial
matter, the Court notes that Defendant failed to timely file its reply.
 
Reply papers are required to be filed and served
at least five court days prior to the hearing under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). 
 
Here, the
hearing in this matter is set for October 22, 2024. Defendant’s reply was due
by October 15, 2024. However, Defendant did not file and serve its reply until October
17, 2024. 
 
Nevertheless, a court may properly
consider papers that are not timely filed pursuant to CCP section 1005(b)
unless “substantial rights” are affected.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1300(d); Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)  The appearance of a party at the
hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to the motion on the merits is a
waiver of any procedural defects or irregularities in a motion.  (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697.)
 
The Court
elects to exercise its discretion to consider the untimely opposition. (CRC
3.1300(d).) 
 
C.     Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections to Defendant’s evidence as
follows:
 
Okum Declaration
·       Nos. 1-5: Overruled.
 
The Court rules on Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s evidence as
follows:
 
Perez Declaration
·      
Nos. 1-3: Overruled.
 
D.     First and Second
Causes of Action: Retaliation and Wrongful Termination
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication as to the first and second causes of action for retaliation and
wrongful termination. Defendant argues that both causes of action fail because:
(1) Plaintiff was terminated for good cause and (2) Plaintiff cannot establish
a nexus between the alleged protected activity and his termination. 
 
Section
1102.5(c) states, “An employer…shall not retaliate against an employee for
refusing to participate in an activity that would result in a violation of
state or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local,
state, or federal rule or regulation.” (Cal. Lab. Code § 1102.5(c).) Where a
plaintiff alleges violation of 1102.5(c), she must establish that an actual
violation of law would result from an activity to prove retaliation under §
1102.5(c). (Ibid.) An employee’s reasonable but incorrect suspicion of
illegality is not sufficient; the activity must actually result in the
violation of a statute, rule, or regulation. (Nejadian v. County of Los
Angeles, 40 Cal. App. 5th 703, 719 (2019).) The employee must identify the
specific activity in which the employee refused to participate, and what specific
statute, rule, or regulation would have been violated. (Id.)
 
Once an
employee makes a prima facie case under section 1102.5, the employer must do
more than show it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse
employment action. It must, per section 1102.6, “demonstrate, by clear and
convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for
legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected
activity.” (Vatalaro v. Cnty. of Sacramento (2022) 79 Cal. App. 5th 367,
383.) And, as the Lawson court explained, the employee need not “show
that the employer's nonretaliatory reason was pretextual.” (Ibid.)


“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge
in violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2)
the employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was
substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge
caused the plaintiff harm.  It is well
established that a termination premised on an employee’s refusal to violate
either a statute or an administrative regulation may support a claim for wrongful
termination in violation of public policy.” 
(Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234, cleaned up.)
 
The Complaint alleges that that
Defendant
did not provide proper meal and rest breaks to their employees. Plaintiff
reported that he was unable to take meal and rest breaks to his supervisors,
but Plaintiff’s supervisors instructed him to change his time records to show
that he was taking meal breaks. Plaintiff alleges he was
wrongfully terminated in retaliation for complaining
about not being able to take meal breaks and having to falsify his time
records.
 
Defendant argues that even if
Plaintiff had not complained about the alleged unlawful conduct, Plaintiff
would have been terminated nevertheless for good cause. Defendant asserts that
it implemented and enforced its written Mobile Device Distracted Driving Policy
(“Distracted Driving Policy”). (Okum Decl. ¶ 3, Distracted Driving Policy. Exh.
2.) Under the Distracted Driving
Policy, if employees like Plaintiff took their personal phones into the field
with them on their service calls, they were required to download software
(“TRUCE”) onto the phone which blocked incoming and outgoing calls while
drivers were driving. (Okum Decl. ¶ 3; Distracted Driving Policy, Exh. 2 at
1-2; Perez Depo., 18:2-7.) The Distracted Driving Policy provides in relevant
part: 
 
“Disciplinary
measures within a rolling 12 months 
First
occurrence          Written Corrective
Action 
Second
occurrence     Termination.” 
 
(Okum Decl. ¶ 3; Distracted
Driving Policy, Exh. 2 at 2.) Defendant asserts that Plaintiff did not comply
with the Distracted Driving Policy because the TRUCE application was not
installed and working on Plaintiff’s phone. (Okum Decl. ¶ 5.) Branch Manager Benjamin
Okum issued Plaintiff two written warnings, on May 13, 2022 and June 2, 2022,
for noncompliance with the policy. (Okum Decl.
¶¶ 6-7; Exh. 3.) Despite these warnings, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff still
failed to download the TRUCE app to comply with the policy. (Okum Decl. ¶ 7.) On
June 10, 2022 Okum met with Plaintiff and told him he was being terminated
because of his failure to comply with the Distracted Driver Policy. (Perez Depo.,
11:22-12:1; Okum Decl. ¶ 7.) In support, Defendant cites to Okum’s declaration
and Plaintiff’s deposition testimony. Plaintiff concedes that he was issued
warnings for failure to comply with the policy and that Okum told him the
reason for his termination was the failure to comply with the policy. (Perez Depo.,
15:15-17:25; 28:21-29:4; 11:22-12:1.)
The Court finds that Defendant has carried its burden in establishing that it
had good cause to terminate Plaintiff. Therefore, the burden shifts to
Plaintiff.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues he
has established a prima facie case of retaliation. Plaintiff states that when
he complained to supervisor Fonseca about missing meal periods and being
instructed to change time records, Fonseca simply told Mr. Perez that “it is
what it is.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 5.) Supervisor Valdez told Plaintiff to simply “get
the stops done” and ignored Plaintiff’s complaints. (Perez Decl. ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff also states he complained to Okum on a weekly basis about having to
miss meal periods and falsify time sheets, Okum told Plaintiff that he simply
could not put down that he did not take a meal break. (Perez Dep., 37:25-38:4.)
Plaintiff further states that after complaining about meal breaks and having to
falsify time records, Fonseca and Valdez began to retaliate against Plaintiff
by demanding that he spend less time at stops and get more stops done on his
route. (Perez Depo., 61:2-24; Perez Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff states that even
though he explained to Valdez that repairs take time, and reiterated to Valdez
that he wanted to keep his route, Valdez took away Plaintiff’s route and
reassigned Plaintiff to a smaller, less profitable route. (Perez Depo 61:2-24)
As a result, Plaintiff’s pay was substantially reduced, his hours were cut, and
the time Plaintiff had spent cultivating relationships with his customers was
rendered moot, as Plaintiff was forced to re-start the long process of building
relationships with new customers in an unfamiliar territory. (Perez Depo
62:16-25.)
 
Plaintiff also argues that
Defendant has not established by clear and convincing evidence that it would
have terminated Plaintiff for a legitimate, independent reason. Section 1102.6
requires whistleblower plaintiffs to show that retaliation was a ‘contributing
factor’ in their termination, demotion, or other adverse action. This means
plaintiffs may satisfy their burden of proving unlawful retaliation even when
other, legitimate factors also contributed to the adverse action.” (Lawson
v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 713-714.) Plaintiff
disputes Defendant’s assertion that Plaintiff did not have TRUCE downloaded on
his phone. He states that a week after the Distracted Driving Policy was
implemented, he provided Defendant with his personal cell number and downloaded
the TRUCE app from a text message link sent to him. (Perez Decl. ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff asserts that initially TRUCE was functioning properly, but a few
weeks later TRUCE started malfunctioning. (Perez Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff states
that prior to May 13, 2022, he informed Okum that he was having issues with the
TRUCE app. (Perez Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff contends that in response, Okum told
Plaintiff to delete the version of TRUCE on his phone, Okum sent a new link to
Plaintiff’s phone and Okum personally installed and configured the settings of
TRUCE on Plaintiff’s phone. (Perez Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff states that Okum
informed Plaintiff that TRUCE should work properly going forward. (Perez Decl. ¶
9.) Plaintiff cites to Okum’s deposition testimony in which he states that
Plaintiff had showed Okum a notification on Plaintiff’s phone showing that
Plaintiff had downloaded the TRUCE app. (Okum Depo 84:4-22.) However, Okum states
he did not verify that it was working on his phone. (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds that Defendant has
not established by clear and convincing evidence that Plaintiff did not have
TRUCE downloaded on his phone. According to Plaintiff, he complained to
supervisors about missing meal periods and falsifying documents, supervisor Valdez
then removed Plaintiff from his route, and Plaintiff did have TRUCE installed
on his phone, thus, a reasonable jury could conclude that Plaintiff’s
complaints were a contributing factor to his termination.
 
Therefore, summary adjudication as to the first and second causes of
action in the Complaint is DENIED. 
 
E.     Third,
Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action: Failure to Provide Meal and Rest
Periods, Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements, Waiting Time Penalty and
Failure to Indemnify Employee
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication as to the third, fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs individual wage and hour claims
are barred as a matter of law due to his failure to timely opt out of the
certified class action in which the same claims are asserted. 
 
Defendant
contends that Christian Sanchez and Frankie Escobar brought a class action
lawsuit against Defendant Auto-Chlor in Los Angeles Superior Court alleging causes of action for unpaid overtime, unpaid meal period
premiums, unpaid rest period premiums, unpaid minimum wages, waiting time
penalties, non compliant wage statements, unreimbursed business expenses, and
violation of California Business & Professions Code §§ 17200 et seq.
(Clayton Decl. ¶ 3.) The Court, the Honorable Yvette Palazuelos presiding,
certified a class and subclasses on July 23, 2023. (Clayton Decl. ¶ 3.) On
August 9, 2023, the third party administrator CPT Group, Inc. mailed the Notice
of Certified Class Action Lawsuit to Plaintiff Adrian Perez. (Clayton Decl. ¶
3; Notice of Class Action, Exh. 4.) The
Notice of Certified Class Action Lawsuit informed Plaintiff that he had until
August 9, 2023 to optout of the class and if he did not do so he would “[b]e
bound by any decision by the Court whether adverse or favorable.” (Clayton
Decl. ¶ 3; Notice of Class Action, Exh. 4.) Defendant asserts that Plaintiff received
the Notice but did not opt out of the class, citing to Plaintiff’s deposition
testimony in support. (Perez Depo., 97:9-18.) Defendant further asserts that Plaintiff’s counsel stated in
writing on December 19, 2023 that Plaintiff would seek relief from the judge
handling the class action, but Plaintiff never did so. (Clayton Decl. ¶ 3, Exh.
5.)
 
“After the
members of the class have been properly notified of the action, they are
required to decide whether to remain members of the class represented by
plaintiffs' counsel and become bound by a favorable or unfavorable judgment in
the action, whether to intervene in the action through counsel of their own
choosing, or whether to ‘opt out’ of the action and pursue their own
independent remedies, such as negotiation with defendants, initiation of their
own action, or intervention in some other action.” (Home Sav. & Loan
Assn. v. Superior Court (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 1006, 1010; accord, Weil &
Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, supra, ¶
14:133, p. 14–80 (rev.# 1, 2010).) “The critical reason for notification of
members of the class on whose behalf a class action has been brought is that
notification makes possible a binding adjudication and an enforceable judgment
with respect to the rights of the members of the class. Absent such
notification no member of the class need be bound by the result of the
litigation.” (Home Sav. & Loan Assn., supra, at p. 1011.)
 
Here,
Defendant has sufficiently established that Plaintiff did not opt out of the
other pending class action alleging the same causes of action against
Defendant. Plaintiff stated in his deposition testimony that he received the Notice
of the class action but did not opt out. (Perez Depo., 97:9-18.) Plaintiff’s opposition fails to address Defendant’s argument, and
his separate statement does not dispute these facts. Thus, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s individual wage and hour claims are barred due to his failure to
timely opt out of the certified class action in which the same claims are
asserted.
 
As such, summary adjudication as to the third, fourth, fifth and sixth causes
of action in the Complaint are GRANTED. 
 
F.      Seventh Cause
of Action: PAGA Cause of Action
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication as to the seventh cause of action on several grounds. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s PAGA cause of action is barred
as a matter of law because: (1) the PAGA claim is subsumed in the class action
in which Plaintiff is a certified class member, (2) Defendant could be double
penalized with Labor Code penalties for the same conduct as in the certified
Class Action and (3) Plaintiff has
no evidence of Labor Code violations under PAGA within the PAGA period as to
the alleged representative class of aggrieved employees.
 
As discussed
above, Defendant sufficiently established that Plaintiff failed to timely opt
out of the other pending class action. (Perez Depo., 97:9-18.) Thus, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s PAGA claim is subsumed in
the class action in which Plaintiff is a certified class member. Defendant
further asserts that Plaintiff has no evidence of Defendant violating any class
of alleged aggrieved employees’ rights under Labor Code §§ 2699. (Clayton Decl.
¶ 9, Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Document Request, at 10-12, 16, 17,
19, Exh. 6.) The Court finds that Defendant has carried its burden. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff states he disputes Defendant’s material facts on the PAGA
issue in his separate statement. However, Plaintiff fails to present any
evidence in support. Therefore, Plaintiff fails to establish the existence of a
triable issue of material fact. 
 
Accordingly, summary adjudication as to the seventh cause of action in
the Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first and second causes of action is DENIED.
Defendant's motion for summary
adjudication as to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action
is GRANTED.