 Case Number:  24CMCV01086    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KIMI KELLY,
                    Plaintiff, 
          vs.
 
SAADITE
   GREEN, et al.,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 24CMCV01086
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER SUSTAINING DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 19, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 07/16/2024
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
1.    
Background
Plaintiff Kimi Kelly (“Plaintiff”) identifies this
action on the caption page of her verified complaint as a “Verified Complaint
for Quiet Title.” She also lists three causes of action, for Breach of Real
Estate Contract Agreement, Foreclosure Scheme and Breach of Fiduciary
Agreement.  Below the enumerated causes
of action, Plaintiff inserted “§519 & §523 P.C. Mortgage Fraud.”  Within the body of the complaint, Plaintiff
asserts only one cause of action, for Quiet Title.  In her prayer for relief, Plaintiff prays for
an order quieting title to the subject property, a judicial declaration that
she is the full legal and beneficial owner of the Property, and an award of
attorney’s fees if allowed by law, costs of suit, and any other relief as the
court deems just and proper.
Plaintiff alleges in the complaint that defendants
Saadite Green and Mia Archie Green (collectively, “Defendants”) obtained title
in their name to the property located at 910 West Palmer St., Compton, CA 90220
(the “Property”) as an accommodation to Plaintiff and agreed to deed the
Property to Plaintiff at a later date when Plaintiff would be eligible to hold
title in her own name. Plaintiff seeks a judicial declaration that Plaintiff is
the full legal and beneficial owner of the Property.  She alleges that Defendants have never lived
at the Property since it was purchased on December 31, 2008.  She also alleges that she paid the down
payment, all closing costs, commissions and fees for the Property, and that she
has paid all expenses related to the Property since December 31, 2008,
including all mortgage payments, taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance, and
repair costs for the Property.  Plaintiff
further alleges that she and her family have resided on the Property from 2009
to present.
2.    
Demurrer
Defendants demur to the complaint on the grounds that
it fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action and that it is
uncertain. Defendants contend Plaintiff failed to meet the pleading
requirements set forth in Code of Civil Procedure § 761.020.  Defendants also contend that Plaintiff
inconsistently alleges that she is a co-owner of the Property and that
Defendants are the owners of record of the Property, and it is unclear whether
Plaintiff has a basis to quiet title in her name. Defendants also contend that
Plaintiff fails to adequately plead the existence of a contract, including its
essential terms. Defendants further argue that the complaint is uncertain because,
in certain parts of the complaint, Plaintiff uses nonspecific placeholder terms
rather than specific information, and it is unclear which causes of action Plaintiff
is asserting.  As of December 18, 2024,
no opposition has been filed.
 
3.    
Demurrer
Standards
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747
(Hahn).)¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)¿In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters.¿Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”¿(SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.)¿The ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well
as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.¿(Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see
also Shields v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133
[stating, “[o]n demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations
contained therein are assumed to be true.”]) “The court does not, however,
assume the truth of contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. [Citation.]”
(Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) 
4.     Discussion
Code of Civil Procedure § 761.020 sets forth the
pleading requirements to state a cause of action for quiet title and provides
as follows:
 
 
The complaint shall be verified and
shall include all of the following:
 
(a)  A description of the property that is
the subject of the action. In the case of tangible personal property, the
description shall include its usual location. In the case of real property, the
description shall include both its legal description and its street address or
common designation, if any.
 
(b)  The title of the plaintiff as to which a
determination under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title. If the
title is based upon adverse possession, the complaint shall allege the specific
facts constituting the adverse possession.
 
(c)  
The
adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination is
sought.
 
(d)  The date as of which the determination
is sought. If the determination is sought as of a date other than the date the
complaint is filed, the complaint shall include a statement of the reasons why
a determination as of that date is sought.
 
(e)  A prayer for the determination of the
title of the plaintiff against the adverse
                 claims.
An element of a cause of action for quiet
title is the adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination
is sought.  (Orcilla v. Big Sur, Inc. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 982.)  
The complaint fails to comply with § 761.020,
subdiv. (a) because it fails to allege the legal description of the real
property that is the subject of the action. 
It fails to comply with subdivision (b) because it fails to allege because
it fails to allege the title of plaintiff as to which a determination is sought
and the basis of the title.  It fails to
comply with subdivision (c) because Plaintiff has not adequately pled facts
that, if true, would establish that she holds title to the Property or
otherwise has a right to ownership of the Property, or, at a minimum, the
factual allegations are vague and uncertain to the point of being incomprehensible
to a reasonable person.  As Defendants
note, although Plaintiff makes the conclusory assertion that she is a “co-owner”
of the Property, she does not allege she holds title, and in fact concedes that
Defendants hold title. The complaint also fails to comply with subdivision (d)
by failing to plead the date as of which the determination is sought.
Plaintiff alleges she has paid all expenses
related to the Property, including the mortgage, taxes, insurance, utilities,
maintenance, and repair costs, since the purchase of the Property in 2008.
Plaintiff also states that she has resided in the Property since 2009,
exclusive of Defendants.  However, she
has not alleged that title is based upon adverse possession,
nor does she allege the specific facts constituting any purported adverse
possession as is required by § 761.020, subdiv. (b).
Plaintiff further states that her interest in
the Property arises from an agreement with Defendants that Defendants would
deed the Property to Plaintiff at a later date, when Plaintiff would be
eligible to hold title in her own name. However, Plaintiff does not allege that
this
contract has come due or been breached, nor does she allege whether any such contract
is written or oral (C.C.P. §430.10, subdiv. (g)), nor does she allege the terms
of the purported contract or attach it to the complaint as is required.  (Otworth v. Southern Pacific Transp. Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452.)  Moreover, assuming arguendo the agreement was oral, the express
allegations of the complaint compel the conclusion that it is barred by the
statute of frauds.  Contracts regarding
the sale of real property or an interest therein must be in writing, signed by
the party to be charged. (Civil Code § 1624(a)(3).)
Plaintiff has therefore failed to allege facts
stating a cause of action for either quiet title or breach of contract.  The complaint makes no reference to any facts
or allegations regarding any claims for foreclosure scheme, breach of fiduciary
agreement or mortgage fraud, and therefore states no such causes of action.
 
 
5.    
Conclusion

Based on the
foregoing, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer with leave to amend.  Plaintiff is ordered to file an amended pleading
within twenty (20) calendar days of this order.

Defendants are ordered to serve and file notice of the
court’s ruling. 
 
DATED: December 19, 2024
 
 
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court