  Case Number:  22STCV39547    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




eduardo luna

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
villa patrician home
   owner’s association, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV39547




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
cross-defendant’s motion to strike answer
  and cross-complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff and cross-defendant
Eduardo Luna
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants BJD Services, LLC, Dawn
Kuykendall, Jerilyn Rivetti Kuykendall, Brian McWilliams, Rodney Owens, Villa
Patrician Home Owner’s Association Inc., and Villa Patrician Home Owner’s
Association Inc. 
Motion to Strike Answer and Cross-Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The
court denies plaintiff Eduardo Luna’s request for judicial notice, filed on May
16, 2023, as to exhibit 1 because, while the court may take judicial notice of
recorded CC&Rs as official acts of the executive department, plaintiff
Eduardo Luna has not submitted evidence showing that these CC&Rs were
recorded.  (Evid. Code, §¿452, subd. (c); Eisen v. Tavangarian (2019)
36 Cal.App.5th 626, 641, n. 12.)   
The court grants plaintiff and cross-defendant Eduardo Luna’s request
for judicial notice as to exhibits 2-4. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).) 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff and cross-defendant Eduardo Luna (“Luna”) moves the court
for an order           (1) striking the
answer of Villa Patrician Home Owner’s Association, Inc. (“Villa HOA”), and (2)
striking the Cross-Complaint filed by Villa Patrician Home Owner’s Association,
Inc., established 11/30/2022, file No. 5354171 (“Villa HOA 2”).[1]  Luna filed the pending motion to strike on
May 16, 2023, moving for relief on the grounds that (1) Villa HOA is a
suspended California business entity and therefore cannot defend itself in this
action, and (2) Villa HOA 2 is not authorized to act pursuant to the subject
CC&Rs, such that it “has no basis to sue for unpaid fees and assessments.”  (Notice of Mot., ¶¶ 1-2.) 
In their opposition papers filed on November 9, 2023, Villa HOA and
Villa HOA 2         (1) explained that
there are two corporations of the same name; (2) conceded that the first entity,
i.e., Villa HOA, has had its corporate status suspended; and (3) submitted the
declaration of Villa HOA’s President, Dawn Kuykendall, in which Kuykendall
stated that Villa HOA “has retained the Law Offices of Guenther A Richter to
resolve the corporate issues pertaining to it and its suspended status.”  (Opp., p. 2:17-18; Kuykendall Decl., ¶ 1.)  On November 21, 2023, the court granted Villa
HOA’s request that the court continue the hearing on Luna’s motion to allow
Villa HOA an opportunity to obtain a certificate of revivor.  However, Villa HOA has not filed a
supplemental declaration or other evidence with the court establishing that it
has obtained a certificate of revivor. 
The court therefore rules on the merits of Luna’s motion. 
First, the court grants Luna’s motion to strike the answer filed by defendant
Villa HOA because the judicially noticed matters establish that Villa HOA is a
suspended entity and therefore cannot defend itself in this action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; RJN Exs. 2, 3
[Villa HOA has a status of “Suspended – FTB”]; Tabarrejo v. Superior Court (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 849, 861 [“a corporation that has had its powers suspended
‘lacks legal capacity to prosecute or defend a civil action during its
suspension’”].) 
Second, the court denies Luna’s motion to strike the Cross-Complaint
filed by Villa HOA 2.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436.)  Although Luna contends that
Villa HOA 2 “cannot advance claims based on the formation documents[,]” Luna
has based this argument on materials of which the court has not taken judicial
notice.  (Mot., p. 3, ¶ 1 [relying on
exhibit 1 to the request for judicial notice].) 
Thus, the court finds that Luna has not shown that Villa HOA 2’s
Cross-Complaint should be stricken based on the face of the Cross-Complaint and
materials of which the court has taken judicial notice. 
ORDER

The court grants in part plaintiff and cross-defendant Eduardo Luna’s
motion to strike as follows. 
The court orders that the answer, as filed by defendant “Villa
Patrician Homeowner’s Association, Inc., a suspended corporation” on April 3,
2023, is stricken. 
The court denies all other relief requested in plaintiff and
cross-defendant Eduardo Luna’s motion. 
The court orders plaintiff and cross-defendant Eduardo Luna to give
notice of this ruling. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 5, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


