  Case Number:  22STCV07972    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MICHELLE LEONARD, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
BRIAN E. CLAYPOOL, an individual, THE CLAYPOOL LAW FIRM, and
  DOES 1 through 20 inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
The Claypool Law Firm, PC d/b/a The Claypool Law Firm, a
  California Domestic Professional Corporation; Brian E. Claypool Esq., an
  Individual;
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
Michelle Leonard, an Individual;
                        Defendant.


 Case No.:          22STCV07972
  [Lead Case]
[Consolidated
  with 22AHCV00796]
 Hearing Date:   7/8/24
 Trial Date:        8/6/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
The Claypool Law Firm and Brian E. Claypool’s Motion to
  Bifurcate Liability and Damages Phases of Trial [Res ID # 8720].



 
I. Background
On April 19, 2024, The Claypool Law
Firm and Brian E. Claypool (the Claypool Parties) filed a motion to bifurcate
trial in this action as between the liability phase of trial and the damages
phase of trial.
On June 17, 2024, Michelle Leonard
filed an opposition, and on June 28, 2024, the Claypool Parties filed a reply.
The Claypool Parties’ motion is now
before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Bifurcate: DENIED.
A. Legal Standard
“The court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after
notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of pretrial
conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held, or, in
other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial of any
issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any
part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried first
pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
“The court, in furtherance of
convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to
expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action … or
of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues ….” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)
Additionally, Evidence Code section
320 provides that “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by law, the court in its
discretion shall regulate the order of proof.” “Under these provisions, trial
courts have broad discretion to determine the order of proof in the interests
of judicial economy.” (Grappo v. Coventry Financial Corp. (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 496, 504.) Further, “[t]he statutory provisions for severance and
separate trials (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 598, 1048) are not limited to the separate
trial of a ‘cause of action’ but also authorize a separate trial of any
‘issue.’” (American Motorists Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 864, 872.)
Bifurcation serves to (1) promote
judicial economy by avoiding introduction and consideration of unnecessary
evidence; and (2) prevent the determination of liability from being tainted by
the consideration of irrelevant, confusing, misleading, and prejudicial
evidence related to the issue of damages. (Plaza Tulare v. Tradewell Stores,
Inc. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 522, 524; see Foreman & Clark Corp. v.
Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888, fn. 8 [Bifurcating trial may be proper to
achieve the purpose of affording a more logical presentation of the evidence
and simplifying the issues for the jury].)
B. Analysis
The Court finds in favor of
Michelle Leonard.
In support of their motion, the
Claypool Parties generally argue: “In this matter, the issue of liability of
Defendant Leonard for breach of contract with her former attorney is complex
and surely would require the full attention of a jury prior to presentation of
damages evidence” such that “[a]llowing damage evidence to proceed without
first answering the question of whether liability lies with the Defendant,
would necessitate an undue time expense, [where] the damages evidence to be
presented would require lengthy witness and expert testimony, an introduction
of exhibits, such as present value of money, appropriateness of attorney’s
fees, reasonable fees in mass tort cases, hourly fees for services, etc., which
m[a]y be unnecessary if liability is not first determined by the fact-finder.
…. [¶] Further, introduction of damages evidence prior to the determination of
the complex question of liability is likely to confuse the issue and cause
undue prejudice to Plaintiffs given the sensitive underlying action that this
case stems from and is requested so as to enable the fact-finder’s passion via
damages evidence.” (Mot., p. 3.)
However, as argued by the
opposition, the possibility that no evidence of damages would be necessary if
no liability is found, or that there damages evidence will inflame a jury’s
determination on liability is intrinsic to any trial. (Opp’n, p. 3.) No specifics
are mentioned here, other than the “sensitive underlying action” referred to.
It is not clear to this Court how much information will need to be presented as
to that issue in the first place, since the issue raised by the Claypool
parties’ complaint is whether Ms. Leonard violated her contract by initiating a
non-binding arbitration of her fee dispute (Mot., p. 1) while the issue raised
by Ms. Leonard’s complaint is whether the Claypool Defendants are entitled to a
percentage of her recovery in fees, or quantum meruit. (Opp’n, p. 2.) 
Moreover, the record is
contradictory as to whether the liability phase of trial will be complicated.
The moving papers argue that the presentation of damages evidence will be
lengthy and may confuse the jurors as to liability, However, the opposition
argues that the liability determination will boil down to a single, simple
question—i.e., “Did the attorney forward a copy of the fully executed contract
to the client at the time of signing as required by Cal. Business &
Professions Code §6148?”—which, if answered in the negative, could void the
parties’ retainer agreement. (Compare Mot., p. 3, with Opp’n, p. 3.)
And as argued in the opposition, the
Court does have a concern that bifurcation as to the liability and damages
phases of trial may result in the recall of witnesses (not convenience to
witnesses) and in the duplication of the handling of the litigation (not
efficiency). (Opp’n, p. 3.)
Based on this record, the Claypool
Parties have failed to show how bifurcation would promote judicial economy or
prevent the liability determination from being tainted or otherwise influenced
by damages evidence.
The Court notes that the arguments in
the parties’ papers also raise the need for clarity regarding the claims to be
tried at the trial. This Court related these two actions and then consolidated
them on May 17, 2023 for all purposes. The moving papers focus on the Claypool
parties’ claims against their former client, while the opposing papers focus on
the client’s claim against her attorneys. Based on the arguments made by the
moving party, as explained above, the Court denies this motion, but orders the
parties to meet and confer as to the issue of consolidation of the case for
trial, to be prepared to discuss this issue fully at the FSC. It may be that
some other form of bifurcation or sequencing of the evidence may be
appropriate.
The Claypool Parties’ motion is DENIED. 
III. Conclusion
The Claypool Law Firm and Brian E.
Claypool’s Motion to Bifurcate Liability and Damages Phases of Trial [Res ID #
8720] is DENIED.