  Case Number:  21STCV26615    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  73 11/27/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
YUN v. PICO BUILDING SUPPLY CO., et al. (21STCV26615) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff:  Jung Won Yun (Pro Per) 
Counsel for
Defendants: Thomas Gelini (Bennett, Gelini & Gelini)
 
Defendants’ MOTION TO enforce settlement (filed 10/22/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to
Enforce Settlement. Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to provide his W9 to Defendants’ counsel within 10 days for
check issuance.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 19,
2021, Plaintiff Jung Won Yun (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Pico Building Supply Corporation (erroneously sued as Pico
Building Supply Co.) and Saviss Pico, LLC (“Defendants”).
 
Plaintiff brought this action with
causes of action for negligence and premises liability for injuries resulting
from a slip and fall that occurred on Defendant’s property. Plaintiff
alleges that as he was exiting from the back yard of the property of Defendant
Pico, he slipped and fell because “sand and dirt had been spilled from a big
truck of Pico.” (Complaint p. 4, 5.)
 
On
October 22, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant Motion to Enforce Settlement, arguing:  
·      
The parties agreed to mediate this
dispute with Hon. Joe Hilberman (ret.) on January 24, 2024. Plaintiff Jung Won
Yun was present with his counsel, Andrew Kim. Defendants appeared through their
counsel and Defendants’ insurer participated throughout the mediation.
·      
The parties did reach settlement. The
parties agreed: 
o   1. Defendants will pay Plaintiff a total sum of $45,000.00. 
o   2. No funding to take place until the Medi-Cl and Medicare
lien issues are resolved. 
o   3. In exchange of payments described, Plaintiff will dismiss
this action with prejudice. 
o   4. This settlement is governed and binding by the terms of
CCP section 664.4. 
o   5. A more formal and robust settlement agreement and mutual
release will be executed. 6. Each side to bear their own fees and costs. 
o   7. Waiver of Civil Code section 1542.
·      
Plaintiff and his attorney executed
the short form settlement agreement on January 24, 2024, binding themselves to
this agreement. A formal settlement agreement was submitted to Plaintiff, but
it was never returned executed.
·      
Due to the fact that there is an
enforceable executed agreement, that Defendants have already discharged the
lien portion of their obligation, and are ready to fulfill the remainder of
their obligation but for the fact that Plaintiff has been uncooperative, this
motion is necessary.
·      
All requirements have been met in
order to obtain an order enforcing settlement under CCP section 664.6. The first requirement is met: pending
litigation. Plaintiff filed his lawsuit on July 19, 2021, and it is still
active. The second and third requirements are also met: the party’s stipulation
to settlement. The written agreement, Exhibit A, contains all the materials
terms of the settlement.
·      
Pursuant to CCP section 664.6,
Defendants respectfully request the following: 
o   1. An order for Plaintiff’s attorney Andrew Kim to provide
his W9 for check issuance so that Defendants can tender the balance of the
settlement funds in the amount of $29,375 to Plaintiff. Defendants respectfully
request that the W9 be tendered no later than end of business December 2, 2024;
and 
o  
2. An order dismissing this action
once payment of the balance of the settlement funds is made. The settlement
funds will be issued and tendered to Plaintiff within 10 business days. This
matter should be dismissed by December 20, 2024.
 
Plaintiff filed a declaration in opposition:
·      
Plaintiff’s
declaration states: 
o   “On Jan.24, 2024, I was in my
attorney's office, engaging in the mediation through zoom with opposing counsel
and defendants. Hon. Joe Hilberman mediated the session.”
o   “During the mediation, I was surprised that defendants' counsel
started the negotiation with very low amount.”
o   “Ultimately, my attorney recommended me to accept their offer
to settle in the amount of $45,000.00. I reluctantly indicated that I will
settle at $45,000.00.”
o   “I even signed the Short Form Settlement Agreement. However,
now, I have to say that I simply do not agree with the settlement amount. I
have much more medical cost than the settled amount of $45,000.00.”             
·      
Plaintiff states he would like to
cancel the settlement.
 
Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff admitted to executing the short form settlement
agreement which very specifically stated the settlement would be governed by
CCP section 664.6 unequivocally. The very purpose of CCP section 664.6 is to
create a binding legal agreement. If the requirements for an agreement to be
enforceable under section 664.6 are met, the statute creates a mechanism to
enforce the agreement in the event an opposing party disputes the settlement
terms. Viejo Bancorp, Inc. v. Wood (1989) 217 Cal.App.3d 200, 206.
·      
Plaintiff’s opposition fails to raise any fact, evidence or
argument that could undo this settlement under CCP 664.6.
·      
Not only has Plaintiff and his attorney executed the short form
settlement agreement, but Defendants have already materially relied upon the
settlement agreement and paid off the Medicare Demand as part of the terms of
the settlement agreement.
 
II.ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
CCP section 664.6 provides that “[i]f
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside
the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the
case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to
the terms of the settlement.  If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
664.6.)
 
CCP section 664.6 further provides “a
writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any of the following: (1) The
party. (2) An attorney who represents the party. (3) If the party is an
insurer, an agent who is authorized in writing by the insurer to sign on the
insurer's behalf.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6.)
 
B.     
Discussion
 
Defendants move the Court for an
order enforcing the settlement reached between the parties. Defendants request:
(1) An order for Plaintiff’s attorney Andrew Kim to provide his W9 for check
issuance so that Defendants can tender the balance of the settlement funds in
the amount of $29,375 to Plaintiff; and (2) An order dismissing this action
once payment of the balance of the settlement funds is made.
 
On January 24, 2024, the parties
participated in a mediation with Hon. Joe Hilberman (ret.), Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s
counsel, Defendants’ counsel and Defendants’ insurer. (Kung Decl., ¶ 2.) The
parties reached a settlement. (Ibid.)
 
In support of its motion, Defendants
attached a copy of the executed Mediated Settlement Agreement (Short Form) (“Short
Form Settlement Agreement”). The Short Form Settlement Agreement sets forth the
terms of the settlement, stating in relevant part: 
 
“Defendants
Pico Building Supply Corporation, and Saviss Pico, LLC, through Great Lakes
Insurance have agreed to pay Plaintiff the total amount of $45,000 as follows: 
 
• $45,000
payable to Jung Won Yun and his attorney Law Offices of Andrew Kim, subject to
liens asserted to Medicare and Medi-Cal.
 • No funding to take place until the final
Medi-Cal/Medicare lien is provided and then three separate settlement drafts
will be issued, one to Medicare for the final lien, one to Medi-Cal/DHCS for
the final lien amount, and one for the remaining balance of the $45,000
settlement amount, payable to Plaintiff and his Attorneys, Law Offices of
Andrew Kim.  
 
In exchange
for such payment Plaintiff agree to dismiss the above-referenced action as to
the settling Defendants with prejudice…”
 
“The parties
agree that this agreement is binding and enforceable on all parties and is
intended to
be enforceable under California Code of Civil Procedure Section 664.6.
 
The parties,
by signing below, hereby express their intent to be bound by the terms of this
mediated agreement. The parties understand that they are giving up their right
to further litigation between plaintiff(s) and defendant(s) referable to this
dispute and that the release of all claims applies equally to the plaintiff and
the defendant.”
 
(Kung Decl., Ex. A, pp. 1-2.) The Short
Form Settlement Agreement is signed by Plaintiff, Jung Won Yun, and his
attorney, Andrew Kim. (Kung Decl., Ex. A, p. 2.)
 
In Plaintiff’s declaration that he
filed in opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute he accepted Defendants’
settlement offer and that he signed the Short Form Settlement Agreement. (Yun
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Plaintiff states in his declaration: “However, now, I have to
say that I simply do not agree with the settlement amount.” (Yun Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
In Defendants’ reply they assert
that all the requirements of CCP section 664.6 have been met and Plaintiff’s
opposition fails to raise any fact, evidence or argument that could undo this
settlement under CCP 664.6. Defendants contend they have also already materially relied upon
the settlement agreement and paid off the Medicare Demand as part of the terms
of the settlement agreement. (Kung Decl., ¶¶ 7-9, Exs. B-D.)
 
The Court finds Defendants are
entitled to an order to enforce the settlement. The Short Form Settlement
Agreement was signed by Plaintiff. The agreement contained the material terms
of the settlement and indicates the parties intended for it to be enforceable under
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 664.6. (Kung Decl., Ex. A, pp. 1-2.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants
Defendants’
Motion to Enforce Settlement and orders Plaintiff’s counsel to provide his W9 to Defendants’ counsel
within 10 days for check issuance.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to
Enforce Settlement. Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to provide his W9 to Defendants’ counsel within 10 days for
check issuance.
 