  Case Number:  21STCV08662    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CARLOS WOODS 
 
        
  vs.
 
LOS ANGELES
  COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT 
 


 Case
  No.:  21STCV08662
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: July 16, 2024



 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to vacate is DENIED.
 
On 3/4/2021,
Plaintiff Carlos Woods (Plaintiff) filed suit against Los Angeles Community
Colleges District (Defendant). On 2/13/2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) defamation; (2) violation of due process; (3)
wrongful termination; (4) racial discrimination; and (5) failure to take all
reasonable steps to prevent discrimination. 
 
            On
9/15/2023, Defendant’s unopposed motion for summary judgment was granted.
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to set aside the judgment and vacate dismissal.
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to set aside the entry of judgment against him, pursuant to CCP section
473(b). 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure (CCP) section 473, subdivision (b) provides:
 
The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.
 
The mandatory relief provision of Code
of Civil Procedure section 473 subs. (b) provides, in part: 
 
Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk..., or (2) resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered.... 
 
            Here,
judgment was entered on 9/15/2023. As such, six months from the entry of
judgment was 3/15/2024. Plaintiff did not move to set aside until 4/3/2024.
Plaintiff’s motion makes no mention of the fact that Plaintiff does not qualify
for the relief granted  by section
473(b). Furthermore, the mandatory provision of section 473(b) expressly states
that it only applies to applications for relief “is
made no more than six months after entry of judgment.” 
 
            Plaintiff did not set forth any
evidence to show that he is entitled to relief on any other basis. Moreover,
and importantly, Plaintiff’s motion was not accompanied by a proposed
opposition to the motion for summary judgment. As such, Plaintiff’s motion was
not accompanied by a proposed filing.
 
            Taken together, Plaintiff failed to
oppose a motion for summary judgment, moved after six months to set aside the
judgment, and failed to file any responsive filing to the very motion that
resulted in dismissal. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to vacate is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 