 Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California County of Los  Angeles   DEPARTMENT 17   TENTATIVE RULING      JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO- RODRIGUEZ, et al.                   vs.   AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al.        Case    No.:  23STCV08440          Hearing Date:  July 16, 2024         Defendant  Dal-Tile International, Inc.’s, Dal-Tile LLC’s, and Mohawk Industries, Inc.’s  motions to strike are GRANTED.    On 4/17/2023,  Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara Sanchez (collectively,  Plaintiffs) filed suit against 39 Defendants, alleging: (1) negligence; (2)  strict liability—warning defect; (3) strict liability—design defect; (4)  fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of  consortium.    Now,  Defendant Dal-Tile International, Inc. (Dal Inc.) moves to strike Plaintiff’s  FAC.                Separately,  Defendant Dal-Tile LLC (Dal LLC) and Mohawk Industries, Inc. (Mohawk) move to  strike Plaintiff’s FAC.                Given  that the parties raised substantially similar issues, the Court has  consolidated its analysis for ease.    Discussion                Defendants  argue that Plaintiff’s FAC’s allegations of the product “One Quartz”, its  allegations at Paragraphs 555 and 556, and its generalized reference to “and  other silica-containing stone products” violates the toxic tort pleading  requirements of Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Company, Inc. (1999) 21  Cal.4th 71   In its April  19, 2024, ruling, this Court ruled in favor of Dal Tile Distribution, Inc’s  Motion to Strike, striking the exact same language at Page 31, Line 14.   For the same  reasons set forth there, the Court grants the relief sought here. In reply,  Defendant brought to the Court attention Plaintiffs’ counsel has agreed to  strike this very language, verbatim, from all silica related actions that are  currently pending in California, and the parties have executed a  stipulation.     Based on the  foregoing, all three motions to strike are granted.    It is so ordered.    Dated:  July     , 2024                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.       

Superior Court of California

County of Los
Angeles

 

DEPARTMENT 17

 

TENTATIVE RULING

 




JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-
RODRIGUEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08440  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 16, 2024






 

Cosentino’s
motion to quash based on lack of jurisdiction is DENIED. 

 

On February
2, 2024, Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara

Sanchez (collectively, Plaintiffs)
filed the operative first amended complaint against

39 Defendants, alleging: (1)
negligence; (2) strict liability—warning defect; (3)

strict liability—design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied

warranties; and (6) loss of consortium.

 

            On
4/26/2024, the Court continued Cosentino’s motion to quash based on lack of
jurisdiction to allow jurisdictional discovery to take place. 

 

            No
supplemental briefing has been filed since. Accordingly, the Court finds no
basis for granting Cosentino’s motion. 

 

It is so ordered. 

 

Dated:  July   
, 2024

                                                                                                                                                           

   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court

 

 

 

Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  

 

 