  Case Number:  21STCV37799    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  50  Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



ALEX COTRAVIWAT,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
CHARLIE CHENG-HAN TSAI, et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV37799
  [r/w     22STCV14597] 
 




Hearing Date:


January 18, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION AS TO
  PLAINTIFF’S 1ST AND 2ND CAUSES OF ACTION AND DEFENDANT’S 1ST AND 2ND
  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES
 



Background
On October 12, 2021, Plaintiff Alex
Cotraviwat (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Charlie Cheng-Han
Tsai (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of
contract and (2) unjust enrichment. 
On November 23, 2022, Defendant filed an
answer to the Complaint. Defendant’s answer alleges affirmative defenses of unconscionability
and failure of consideration. 
Plaintiff now moves for summary judgment or
in the alternative, summary adjudication as to the first and second causes of
action of Plaintiff’s Complaint and Defendant’s first and second affirmative
defenses. Defendant opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained. (See Roger
v. County of Riverside (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 510, 531, “assertions ‘upon information and belief’ are insufficient to
support a factual finding…declarations followed by the phrase ‘To the best of
my knowledge’ or upon ‘information and belief’ are insufficient because they
‘indicate[] something less than the ‘personal knowledge’ required under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c’]…” [emphasis in original].)

Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No. 3: overruled
Objection No. 4: sustained
Objection No. 5: sustained as to Exhibit 2.   
Objection No. 6: sustained
Objection No. 7: sustained
Objection No. 8: sustained
Objection No. 9: sustained
Objection No. 10: sustained
Objection No. 11: sustained as to Exhibit 3. 
Objection No. 12: overruled
Objection No. 13: sustained as to Exhibit 4. 
Objection No. 14: overruled
Objection No. 15: sustained 
Objection No. 16: overruled
Objection No. 17: sustained as to Exhibit 6. 
Objection No. 18: overruled 
Objection No. 19: overruled
Objection No. 20: overruled 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary adjudication
as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in¿Civil Code section
3294, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to
the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)¿“A motion for summary adjudication
shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Ibid.)¿
The moving party bears
the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact. ((Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. ((Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” ((Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
For
purposes of motions for summary judgment and summary adjudication, a plaintiff
“has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about April 21, 2020, [Plaintiff] loaned
[Defendant] $1,250,000.00, evidenced by a secured promissory note (the
‘Loan’).” (Compl., ¶ 8.) “The Loan was due to be paid in full on July 21, 2020.
However, [Defendant] failed to repay the loan as of the due date. After
[Defendant’s] default, [Plaintiff] undertook repeated efforts to recoup the
borrowed funds from [Defendant] but to no avail.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[Defendant’s] failure to repay the loan,
together with the pendency of other personal and business-related disputes
between [Plaintiff] and [Defendant], culminated in the entry and execution of a
settlement agreement between [Plaintiff] and [Defendant] on or about September
1, 2021 (the ‘Settlement Agreement’).” (Compl., ¶ 9.) “Pursuant to the
Settlement Agreement, [Defendant] agreed, inter alia, to pay [Plaintiff]
the sum of $727,000.00 under an installment plan. If a payment was late…[Defendant]
was required to pay a late fee equal to 5% of the unpaid amount. The Settlement
Agreement also imposed interest to accrue on all unpaid amounts at an annual
rate of 10%...” (Compl., ¶ 10.)
“The initial installment payment of $100,000.00 was due to be paid on
August 4, 2021. Despite the agreed-upon amount for the first installment,
[Defendant] failed to pay that initial installment payment when due. Instead,
on or about August 9, 2021, [Defendant] issued a…payment of $1,000.00.”
(Compl., ¶ 11.) “The second installment payment of $142,333.00 was due to be
paid on August 27, 2021. [Defendant] failed to pay that second installment
payment when due, and as of the date of filing [the] Complaint, no such payment
has been received by [Plaintiff].” (Compl., ¶ 12.) “The third installment
payment of $242,333 under the Settlement Agreement was due to paid [sic] on
September 27, 2021. [Defendant] failed to pay that third installment payment
when due, and as of the date of filing of [the] Complaint, no such payment has
been received by [Plaintiff].” (Compl., ¶ 16.)
Plaintiff alleges that “there is a balance due and owing from
[Defendant] to [Plaintiff] of $726,000.00, together with applicable late fees
and accrued interest thereon.” (Compl., ¶ 19.)
B.    First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract 
In the first cause of
action for breach of contract, Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about
September 1, 2021, [Plaintiff] and [Defendant] entered into a valid and binding
contract. Specifically, [Plaintiff] and [Defendant] entered into that certain
Settlement Agreement and agreed to be bound by its terms. Among other things,
[Defendant] agreed to pay the total sum of $727,000.00 in accordance with a schedule
of installment payments.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges that “[Defendant]
breached the parties’ Settlement Agreement by, among other things, failing to
satisfy his payment obligations when due, and anticipatorily breaching and/or
repudiating his obligation to satisfy all installment payments required under
the Settlement Agreement. Specifically, as of the date of this Complaint,
[Defendant] failed to pay, which failure continues to this day, the total
amount of $726,000.00.” (Compl., ¶ 23.)
“The essential elements of a claim of breach of contract,
whether express or implied, are the contract, the plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, the defendant’s breach, and the resulting damages to
the plaintiff.” ((San Mateo Union High
School Dist. v. County of San Mateo (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 418, 439.) “A settlement agreement is a
contract, governed by the same legal principles which apply to contracts
generally.” ((Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 130.) 
Plaintiff asserts that he has
established each of the elements of his breach of contract cause of action. As
to the first element of the breach of contract cause of action, Plaintiff
states that “[a]ttached to the concurrently filed Appendix of Exhibits as
Exhibit O and fully incorporated herein, is a true and correct copy of the
fully executed Settlement Agreement and Release that I entered into with
Charlie Tsai, with an effective date of August 1, 2021 (the ‘Settlement
Agreement’).” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O.) 
As to the second element of the breach of contract cause of action, Plaintiff
asserts that “[t]here is no dispute that [Plaintiff] performed his contractual
obligations required under the terms of the Settlement Agreement…” (Mot. at p.
6:6-7.) The Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia, “Cancellation
of the Note; Release of Security on Tsai’s Home. The Parties agree that the
Tsai Loan is hereby cancelled and of no further force and effect. Cotraviwat
releases any security interest on Tsai’s home located at Number 258, 15th
Floor, Xindian Road, Xindian District, New Taipei City.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶
34, Ex. O, § 6.) The Settlement Agreement also
provides, inter alia, that “[w]ith the exception of the obligations set
forth in this Agreement, the Parties hereby release each other and their
respective owners, members, officers, directors, employees, predecessors,
successors and attorneys from any and all existing claims, liens, demands,
causes of action, obligations, damages, and liabilities of any nature
whatsoever, whether or not now known, suspected, or claimed, that arise out of
or relate to the Disputed Matters, the Tsai Loan, the Transferred Membership
Interests, and the Transfer and Assignment Agreements between Tsai and Jaback.”
(Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 7(a).) Plaintiff
states that “I, on behalf of myself and Jaback Group, performed all conditions,
covenants, and promises required under the terms of the Settlement Agreement,
including canceling the Note, releasing the security interest in the
residential property located at Number 258, 15th Floor, Xindian Road, Xindian
District, New Taipei City, and providing a comprehensive release of all known
and unknown claims to Charlie Tsai.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 35.) 
            As to the third element of the
breach of contract cause of action, Plaintiff asserts that “[t]here is no
dispute that Defendant breached the Settlement Agreement by failing to pay
$726,000.00 of the total $727,000.00 settlement sum.” (Mot. at p. 6:9-10.) The
subject Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia, that “Tsai shall pay
Cotraviwat the sum of $727,000 plus interest and any late fees pursuant to the
schedule and under the terms set forth below.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 3(a).)[1] 
Plaintiff indicates that on March 8, 2023, Defendant served responses
to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set No. 1. (Suh Decl., ¶ 16, Ex. CC.)
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory No. 16 provides, “State all facts RELATING TO
any of YOUR efforts to pay amounts owed on the SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.” (Ibid.) Defendant’s response to Special
Interrogatory No. 16 provides, “Defendant objects to this interrogatory on the
grounds that it is vague, ambiguous, and therefore unduly burdensome. Without
waiving these objections, Defendant responds as follows: Defendant paid $1,000
on or about August 9, 2021, Defendant tried but did not have funds to pay
further amounts owed on the SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.” (Ibid.)
In addition, in his supporting declaration dated October 26, 2023, Plaintiff
states that “[t]o date, aside from the August 9, 2021 payment of $1,000.00, I
have not received any further monetary payment from Charlie Tsai or anyone else
on behalf of Charlie Tsai as required under the terms of the Settlement Agreement.
Accordingly, Charlie Tsai has failed to pay the balance of $726,000.00 due
under the Settlement Agreement even as of the date of this declaration.”
(Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 45.) 
As to the fourth element of the breach of contract cause of action,
Plaintiff asserts that “[t]here is no dispute that [Plaintiff] was indeed
harmed as a proximate result of Defendant’s breach of the Settlement
Agreement…” (Mot. at p. 6:10-12.) Plaintiff states in his supporting
declaration that “Charlie Tsai’s breach of the Settlement Agreement has caused
me harm in that I effectively canceled the underlying Note and released Charlie
Tsai of all claims relating to the various disputed matters between us, but did
not receive the total monetary payment due under the Settlement Agreement. As
such, I have been damaged in the amount of $726,000.00, together with
recoverable pre-judgment interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs as specifically
provided for in the Settlement Agreement.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 45.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has met his
initial burden of showing that there is no defense to
the first cause of action for breach of contract. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1), “[a] plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of
showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved
each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the
cause of action.”) The burden now
shifts to Defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the first cause of action for breach of contract. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(1).) 
In the opposition, Defendant asserts that “usury supports an
affirmative defense of failure of consideration.” (Opp’n at p. 2:1-2.) Defendant notes that “[t]he essential elements of usury
are: (1) The transaction must be a loan or forbearance; (2) the interest to be
paid must exceed the statutory maximum; (3) the loan and interest must be
absolutely repayable by the borrower; and (4) the lender must have a willful
intent to enter into a usurious transaction.” ((Ghirardo v. Antonioli (1994) 8 Cal.4th 791, 798.) Defendant argues that “[t]he
underlying April 21, 2020 promissory note between the parties (Plaintiff’s Exh.
D) contains all of these elements.” (Opp’n at p. 3:21-23.) 
In his declaration in support of the motion,
Plaintiff states that “[a]ttached to the concurrently filed Appendix of
Exhibits as Exhibit D and fully incorporated herein, is a true and correct copy
of the April 21, 2020 Promissory Note.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D.) The
subject Promissory Note provides, inter alia, that “[f]or value
received, Charlie Cheng-Han Tsai, an individual (hereinafter referred to as
‘Borrower’), promises to pay to the order of Alex Cotraviwat, an individual
(‘Lender’), at his offices or at such other place as the Lender hereof may from
time to time designate to Borrower in writing, the principal sum of one million
two hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($1,250,000), with interest as specified
below, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this promissory note (the
‘Note’).” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D.) 
Defendant notes that the Promissory Note
further provides that “Interest in the total amount of three hundred
seventy-five thousand dollars ($375,000) shall accrue on the principal balance
of this Note effective on the date hereof. Accrued but unpaid interest shall be
due and payable no later than three (3) months from the date of this Note (i.e
July 21, 2020) (the ‘Final Maturity Date’). For illustration purposes, with no
prepayment of principal or interest, the total payment due on the Final
Maturity Date would be $1,625,000.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D.) Defendant
asserts, inter alia, that the Promissory Note establishes “30% interest
in 3 months,” which “far exceed[s] any limit in Article XV.” (Opp’n at p. 4:4.)
Cal. Const., art. XV, § 1, cited by Defendant, provides in part as
follows: 
 
“The rate of
interest upon the loan or forbearance of any money, goods, or
things in action, or on accounts after demand, shall be 7 percent per annum but it
shall be competent for the parties to any loan or forbearance of any money, goods, or things in action to contract in writing for a rate of interest:
 
(1) For any loan or forbearance of any money, goods, or things in action, if the money, goods, or things in action are for use primarily for personal, family, or household
purposes, at a rate not exceeding 10 percent per annum; provided, however, that
any loan or forbearance of any money, goods or things in action the proceeds of which are used primarily for the purchase,
construction or improvement of real property shall not be deemed to be a use
primarily for personal, family or household purposes; or
 
(2) For any loan or forbearance of any money, goods, or things in action for any use other than specified in paragraph (1), at a rate
not exceeding the higher of (a) 10 percent per annum or (b) 5 percent per annum
plus the rate prevailing on the 25th day of the month preceding the earlier of
(i) the date of execution of the contract to make the loan or forbearance, or
(ii) the date of making the loan or forbearance established by the Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco on advances to member banks under Sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act as now
in effect or hereafter from time to time amended (or if there is no such single
determinable rate of advances, the closest counterpart of such rate as shall be
designated by the Superintendent of Banks of the State of California unless
some other person or agency is delegated such authority by the Legislature).
 
No person, association, copartnership or
corporation shall by charging any fee, bonus, commission, discount or other
compensation receive from a borrower more than the interest authorized by this
section upon any loan or forbearance of any money, goods or things in action.” 
It appears that as to the third element of
usury, Defendant contends that “the loan is repayable by the borrower. This
rule addresses complex financial instruments that are irrelevant here, for the
parties’ money loan with a fixed amount and timeline for repayment in cash.”
(Opp’n at p. 4:8-10.) Defendant does not appear to cite any supporting evidence
as to this element. 
Defendant also asserts that “the lender
Cotraviwat intended to enter into a usurious transaction.” (Opp’n at p. 4:11.)
Defendant notes that “[t]he intent sufficient to
support the judgment [of usury] does not require a conscious attempt, with
knowledge of the law, to evade it. The conscious and voluntary taking of more
than the legal rate of interest constitutes usury and the only intent necessary
on the part of the lender is to take the amount of interest which he receives;
if that amount is more than the law allows, the offense is complete.” (Ghirardo v. Antonioli, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 798 [internal
quotations omitted].) The Court notes that Defendant also does not appear to cite
any supporting evidence as to this element.
Defendant further asserts that the “[p]arties’
2021 ‘Settlement Agreement and General Release’ does not cleanse the usury from
the 2020 Promissory Note or otherwise make usurious interest collectable by
Plaintiff.” (Opp’n at p. 5:1-2.) Defendant cites to Westman v. Dye (1931) 214 Cal. 28, 38, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[i]f a transaction is usurious in its inception, it
remains usurious until purged by a new contract; and all future transactions
connected with or growing out of the original are usurious and
without valid consideration. An original taint of usury attaches to the
whole family of consecutive obligations and securities growing out of the
original vicious transaction; and none of the descendant obligations, however
remote, can be free of the taint if the descent can be fairly traced. Every
renewal of a note given for a usurious loan of money is subject to the defense
of usury between the original parties and purchaser with notice; but a renewal
in the hands of a bona fide purchaser for value,
without notice is valid.” (Internal quotations omitted, emphasis in original.) Defendant
argues that “in this case, the 2021 Settlement Agreement was expressly a
descendant obligation and extension growing out of the original usurious April
21, 2020 promissory note...” (Opp’n at p. 8:1-2.)   
In the reply, Plaintiff counters that “[a]ny usuriousness in the
note was purged by the Settlement Agreement.” (Reply at p. 4:20.) Plaintiff
asserts that “the Settlement Agreement does not reference any interest
amount, usurious or otherwise, originally called for in the Note…Recitals A and
B of the Settlement Agreement clearly reference only the $1.25 million
principal amount unpaid on the Note, directly refuting Defendant’s unsupported
contention that prior to executing the Settlement Agreement, Mr. Cotraviwat
took the position that Defendant owed both the principal and interest on the
Note.” (Reply at p. 5:6-10, emphasis omitted.)  
Recitals A and B of the Settlement Agreement provide that “A. On or
around April 21, 2020, Cotraviwat loaned to Tsai $1,250,000, maturing on July
21, 2020 secured by Tsai’s home in Taiwan, pursuant to the terms of a written
promissory note (the ‘Tsai Loan’)” and that “B. Tsai has failed to repay the
Tsai Loan, and as of the date of this Agreement, it is more than one-year
overdue…” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, Recitals A, B.)  
Plaintiff also asserts that “in proclaiming that the purported taint
of any usury in the Note creeped into the Settlement Agreement, Defendant
clearly ignores the fact that the Note was extinguished and canceled, having no
further force and effect, upon entry of the Settlement Agreement.” (Reply at p.
5:21-23, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiff cites to paragraph 6 of the Settlement
Agreement, which, as set forth above, provides, “Cancellation of the Note;
Release of Security on Tsai’s Home. The Parties agree that the Tsai Loan
is hereby cancelled and of no further force and effect. Cotraviwat releases
any security interest on Tsai’s home located at Number 258, 15th Floor, Xindian
Road, Xindian District, New Taipei City.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 6, italics added.) As discussed, Westman v. Dye, supra, 214 Cal. 28 at page 38, relied upon
by Defendant in the opposition, provides that “[i]f
a transaction is usurious in its inception, it remains usurious until purged by
a new contract….” 
Plaintiff also notes that the
“Mutual Release” provision of the Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia,
that “With the exception of the obligations set forth in this Agreement,
the Parties hereby release each other and their respective owners, members,
officers, directors, employees, predecessors, successors and attorneys from any
and all existing claims, liens, demands, causes of action, obligations,
damages, and liabilities of any nature whatsoever, whether or not now known,
suspected, or claimed, that arise out of or relate to the Disputed Matters, the
Tsai Loan, the Transferred Membership Interests, and the Transfer and
Assignment Agreements between Tsai and Jaback.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O,
§ 7(a).) The Mutual Release also provides that “[h]aving
been fully informed of the provisions of California
Civil Code Section 1542, the Parties nevertheless hereby waive any rights
which they may otherwise have to dispute the scope of this Agreement on the
grounds of said code section or any similar provision of state or federal law.”
(Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 7(d), italics
added.)[2]  Plaintiff asserts that “the interest rate of a
prior, canceled and released loan is wholly irrelevant to the Court’s
determination regarding the validity and enforceability of a subsequent
settlement agreement.” (Reply at p. 6:7-8.) 
In the opposition, Defendant
cites to Hardwick v. Wilcox (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 975, 978,
where “[b]etween 1999 and 2010, Albert P. Wilcox made a
series of loans to James N. Hardwick. In 2013, Hardwick filed [the] action to recover usurious
interest and prevent Wilcox from foreclosing on
property securing his loans. Wilcox countersued
for breach of contract and judicial foreclosure. The trial court entered
judgment in favor of Hardwick, finding, among other things,
that usurious interest payments made over the course of the relationship offset
the principal debt, and that Hardwick could
recover $227,235.83 in interest payments he made during the two years prior to
the filing of this lawsuit. On
appeal, Wilcox contend[ed] the judgment must be reversed because (1) Hardwick waived his usury claim with respect to any
loan payment he made prior to April 2012, and (2) the statute of limitations
bars Hardwick’s claim with respect to any loan that was paid off
more than two years before [the] lawsuit was filed.” The Cour of Appeal
affirmed. (Ibid.)
The Court of Appeal in Hardwick found, inter alia, that “[t]he record supports the trial court’s finding that
construing this particular release as a waiver of usury would violate public
policy. Section 1668 of the Civil Code states: ‘All
contracts which have for their object, directly or indirectly, to exempt anyone
from responsibility for his own fraud, or willful injury to the person or
property of another, or violation of law, whether willful or negligent, are
against the policy of the law.’ At trial, Hardwick stipulated
that the rate of interest he set in every one of the notes in the series of
notes at issue in this case exceeded the constitutional maximum rate. This
concession and other evidence regarding the interconnection between the
series of 15 notes and amendments to the notes substantially supports the trial
court’s finding that the Forbearance Agreement was an extension of the
underlying usurious loan transaction. Thus, construing the unilateral general
release in that agreement as a waiver of usury would allow Wilcox to escape the consequences of his violation of
the law by permitting him to benefit from his illegal contract and retain the
usurious interest he extracted from Hardwick.” 
In the reply, Plaintiff
asserts that Hardwick is distinguishable, as “the Hardwick
court deliberately and repeatedly pointed out that its ruling was limited by
the fact that the general unilateral release of known and unknown claims
relating to previously usurious loans was contained in a ‘Forbearance
Agreement’ and not in a settlement agreement.” (Reply at p. 6:21-23, emphasis
omitted.) Indeed, the Hardwick Court found, inter alia, that “[t]urning to the second prong of the trial court’s analysis,
assuming that policy concerns could be overcome, the court found that the
unilateral release did not constitute a knowing waiver of Hardwick’s usury
claim. This finding was relevant because Wilcox attempted to invoke
the proposition that a usury claim can be released in a settlement agreement. In the present case, the factual evidence showed that the
release was not part of a settlement of a usury claim or of any other dispute.
Rather, the sole purpose of the Forbearance Agreement was to extend the due
dates for the loans.” (Hardwick
v. Wilcox, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 989 [internal citation omitted].) The Hardwick
Court further noted that “Wilcox cites Casey v. Proctor (1963)
59 Cal.2d 97, 111…for the following proposition: ‘[T]he policy of
the law is to encourage out-of-court settlements. To further this policy the
parties to a dispute should be encouraged to negotiate settlements and to enter
into releases.’…the policy favoring out of court settlements does not benefit
Wilcox because the release in this case was not part of a settlement
agreement.” ((Id. at p. 990.) Here, a
Settlement Agreement between the parties is at issue. 
Plaintiff also asserts that “[t]he
Hardwick court was concerned that construing the unilateral (not mutual)
release as a waiver of an unknown usury defense would allow Wilcox (the lender)
to retain usurious interest already extracted and paid by Hardwick…Here, we
have a mutual release and Defendant never paid any amounts, principal or
interest to Mr. Cotraviwat on the Note so the usury-based public policy concern
present in Hardwick is nonexistent on the present facts.” (Reply at p. 6:16-20,
emphasis omitted.) The Court agrees that Hardwick is
distinguishable from the facts here. 
Plaintiff cites to Credit Finance Corp. v. Mox (1932) 125 Cal.App. 583, 586, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “as said in Lamb v. Herndon, 97 Cal. App. 193 [275 P. 503, 508], in
the absence of a showing of fraud or undue influence, a compromise agreement,
like a judgment, is decisive of the rights of the parties thereto, and [e]ven
though there had been usury in the original transaction, it would seem that
upon a settlement upon which each of the parties released the others from all
claims and liabilities of every character then existing, the right to rely upon
a previous usurious transaction would cease to exist.” (Internal
quotations omitted.) In his opposition to the instant motion, Defendant does
not appear argue that any fraud or undue influence exists here.  
            Defendant
also argues in the opposition that he “has already repaid Plaintiff more than
the principal of the April 21, 2020 promissory note, such that any award in
this case would only be usurious interest from that promissory note.” (Opp’n at
p. 9:9-10.)
            Defendant notes that the Settlement
Agreement provides, inter alia, that “Tsai transfers all of his rights
and interests in the following cars to Cotraviwat: i) 2018 Mercedes AMG GTR -
VIN # WDDYJ7KA2JA017186 ii) 1993 Acura NSX - VIN # JH4NA1150PT000171…”
(Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 1.) Defendant
also notes that the Settlement Agreement provides that “Tsai hereby irrevocably
assigns to Cotraviwat all of Tsai’s rights to and interest in that unsecured
loan he made to Zurdo Ramirez in the principal amount of $300,000, pursuant to
an oral agreement only…with a current estimated total value of $324,000.”
(Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 2.) In addition,
Defendant notes that the Settlement Agreement provides that  “[e]ffective as of the date of this
Agreement, Tsai shall transfer, convey, and assign to Jaback, and Jaback shall
acquire from Tsai, all of Tsai’s right, title and interest in and to the
membership interests of the Jaback Subsidiaries owned by Jaback—namely 10%
membership interest in Kinjabang and 8.73% membership interest in Klimon (the
‘Transferred Membership Interests’),” and that “Tsai and Jaback agree that,
notwithstanding the valuations assigned to Kinjabang and Klimon and membership
interests in each in the 2021 Investment Rounds, the Transferred Membership
Interests in Kinjabang shall be valued at $500,000 total and the Transferred
Membership Interests in Klimon shall be valued at $436,500 total.” (Cotraviwat
Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 4(a), 4(c).)
            Defendant asserts that “[t]he stated
valuations of the assets transferred from Mr. Tsai to Mr. Cotraviwat pursuant
to the Settlement Agreement (as stated in the Settlement Agreement itself)
total $1,260,500, which exceeds the $1,250,000 principal of the April 21, 2020
Promissory Note.” (Opp’n at p. 10:23-25.) In support of this assertion,
Defendant cites to his Additional Material Fact (“AMF”) No. 9, which cites
generally to the Settlement Agreement and the Promissory Note. (See
Defendant’s AMF No. 9.) However, it is unclear how Defendant arrived at the purported
amount of $1,260,500. In addition, Defendant does not cite any legal authority
in support of his arguments contained in Section “IV” of the opposition. Moreover,
Defendant notes that “[i]n the absence of fraud the
inadequacy of consideration will not defeat a contract.” ((Taylor v. Taylor (1944) 66 Cal.App.2d 390, 398.) 
As set forth above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has met his initial
burden of showing that there is no defense to the
first cause of action for breach of contract. The Court does
not find that Defendant has met his burden to show that a triable issue
of material facts exists as to this cause of action. The Court does not find
that Defendant has shown that the subject Settlement Agreement is a
usurious transaction. 
C.    Second Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment 
In the second cause of action
for unjust enrichment, Plaintiff alleges that “[d]espite the Settlement
Agreement, and repeated requests for satisfaction of the payment terms
thereunder, [Defendant] refuses to pay the agreed-upon settlement sum to [Plaintiff].”
(Compl., ¶ 27.) Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of [Defendant’s]
continuing conduct, [Defendant] has been unjustly enrichment [sic] to the
material detriment of [Plaintiff] in the amount of at least $726,000.00 as of
present day.” (Compl., ¶ 29.) 
“Generally, one who is unjustly enriched at the
expense of another is required to make restitution. The elements of a cause of
action for unjust enrichment are simply stated as “receipt of a benefit and
unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Professional Tax
Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238 [internal citation omitted].) Plaintiff asserts that “[i]n
this case, Defendant was conferred a benefit at the expense of [Plaintiff] when
[Plaintiff] canceled the Note, released security interest in the Taiwan
Property, and provided Defendant a comprehensive general release of all known
and unknown claims arising from and relating to the Note and the various
disputed matters between [Plaintiff] and Defendant.” (Mot. at p. 7:11-14.) 
As discussed, the Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia, “Cancellation
of the Note; Release of Security on Tsai’s Home. The Parties agree that the
Tsai Loan is hereby cancelled and of no further force and effect. Cotraviwat
releases any security interest on Tsai’s home located at Number 258, 15th
Floor, Xindian Road, Xindian District, New Taipei City.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶
34, Ex. O, § 6.) The Settlement Agreement also
provides, inter alia, that “[w]ith the exception of the obligations set
forth in this Agreement, the Parties hereby release each other and their
respective owners, members, officers, directors, employees, predecessors,
successors and attorneys from any and all existing claims, liens, demands,
causes of action, obligations, damages, and liabilities of any nature
whatsoever, whether or not now known, suspected, or claimed, that arise out of
or relate to the Disputed Matters, the Tsai Loan, the Transferred Membership
Interests, and the Transfer and Assignment Agreements between Tsai and Jaback.”
(Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 7(a).) 
Plaintiff states in his supporting declaration that “Charlie Tsai’s
breach of the Settlement Agreement has caused me harm in that I effectively
canceled the underlying Note and released Charlie Tsai of all claims relating
to the various disputed matters between us, but did not receive the total
monetary payment due under the Settlement Agreement. As such, I have been
damaged in the amount of $726,000.00, together with recoverable pre-judgment
interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs as specifically provided for in the
Settlement Agreement.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 45.) As discussed, Plaintiff states
that “Charlie Tsai has failed to pay the balance of $726,000.00 due under the
Settlement Agreement even as of the date of this declaration.” (Ibid.)  
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has met his
initial burden of showing that there is no defense to
the second cause of action for unjust enrichment. In the
opposition, Defendant does not appear to specifically address Plaintiff’s
second cause of action. Rather, Defendant generally asserts that “usury
supports an affirmative defense of failure of consideration.” (Opp’n at p.
2:1-2.) As discussed above, the Court does not find that Defendant has
shown that the Settlement Agreement is a usurious transaction. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for
summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s Complaint.  
 
 
D.    Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Defendant’s Affirmative
Defenses 
In the motion, Plaintiff asserts that “in the alternative, Plaintiff
is entitled to summary adjudication as to Defendant’s affirmative defenses.”
(Opp’n at p. 7:25-26.) As set forth above, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion
for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
alternative request for summary adjudication of Defendant’s affirmative
defenses is moot.
E.     Requested Judgment

Plaintiff also states in his notice of motion that “by way of the
instant Motion, Plaintiff seeks a judgment in his favor and against Defendant,
in the amount of $726,000.00, plus prejudgment interest of $167,278.36 (through
January 18, 2024)…and attorneys’ fees and court costs as statutorily and
contractually authorized, to be sought by way of subsequent memorandum of costs
and motion/application for attorneys’ fees.” (Notice of Motion at p. 3:4-8.) As
set forth above, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment as to
Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
As discussed, Plaintiff states in his supporting declaration dated
October 26, 2023 that “[t]o date, aside from the August 9, 2021 payment of
$1,000.00, I have not received any further monetary payment from Charlie Tsai
or anyone else on behalf of Charlie Tsai as required under the terms of the
Settlement Agreement. Accordingly, Charlie Tsai has failed to pay the balance
of $726,000.00 due under the Settlement Agreement even as of the date of this
declaration.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 45.) 
As also set forth above, the Settlement Agreement provides, inter
alia, that “Tsai shall pay Cotraviwat the sum of $727,000 plus interest and
any late fees pursuant to the schedule and under the terms set forth below.”
(Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 3(a).) The
Settlement Agreement sets forth installment payment due dates of August 4,
2021, August 27, 2021, September 27, 2021, and October 27, 2021. (Cotraviwat
Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 3(a).) In addition, the
Settlement Agreement states, “if any Installment Payment is late, the interest
rate on the unpaid balance shall increase to an annual rate of 10%.”
(Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 34, Ex. O, § 3(b).) Plaintiff
cites to Civil Code section 3289, subdivision (a), which provides that “[a]ny
legal rate of interest stipulated by a contract remains chargeable after a
breach thereof, as before, until the contract is superseded by a verdict or
other new obligation.”  
Plaintiff asserts that “the Settlement Agreement was breached by
[Defendant] effective September 30, 2021 when he failed to pay amounts due on
the Settlement Sum as of that extended payment date.” (Suh Decl., ¶ 33.) In his
supporting declaration, Plaintiff states, inter alia, that “[t]he third
installment payment deadline of September 27, 2021 passed, and I had still not
received any money from Charlie Tsai or anyone on behalf of Charlie Tsai, other
than the $1,000.00 payment on August 9, 2021. However, based on the extension
requested and granted, I presumed that a monetary payment would be made by no
later than September 30, 2021 that satisfied the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd
installment payment obligations.” (Cotraviwat Decl., ¶ 43.) Plaintiff states
that “September 30, 2021 came and passed, and I did not receive any monetary
payment from Charlie Tsai or anyone on behalf of Charlie Tsai.” (Cotraviwat
Decl., ¶ 44.)
Plaintiff’s counsel states in his supporting declaration that “I have
computed that the number of days between September 30, 2021, the date of the
breach, and the anticipated hearing date of this Motion, January 18, 2024, as
841 days. At the rate of 10% per annum, the total interest per year on the
unpaid sum of $726,000.00 is $72,600.00. Dividing that annual figure by 365
days equates to $198.90 of interest accruing [on] a daily basis. Multiplying
$198.90 by 841 days equals $167,278.36 in total accrued, prejudgment interest
from September 30, 2021 to January 18, 2024.” (Suh Decl., ¶ 33.) In the
opposition, Defendant does not appear to dispute Plaintiff’s interest
calculations. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
demonstrated that he is entitled to judgment against Defendant in the amount of
$726,000.00, plus pre-judgment interest of $167,278.36. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for
summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Plaintiff’s alternative motion
for summary adjudication as to Defendant’s affirmative defenses is moot. The
Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated that he is entitled to judgment
against Defendant in the amount of $726,000.00, plus pre-judgment interest of
$167,278.36. 
The
Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days of
the date of this Order.¿Plaintiff must file a separately noticed motion should Plaintiff seek attorneys’ fees
and costs.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  January 18, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 


