  Case Number:  22TRCV00645    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
PHIN
  KHENG, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00645




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JULIANA
  WU,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 25,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant/Cross Complaint Juliana
Wu
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Phin Kheng
Motion
for Attorney’s Fees
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for attorney’s fees is
DENIED on the merits with prejudice.
BACKGROUND
On August 1, 2022, Phin Kheng filed
a complaint against her sister Juliana Wu to quiet title to real property.  Plaintiff alleged that in April 2009, she
purchased the property at 1334 W. 221st Street, Torrance, as an
investment.  Prior to the purchase,
defendant agreed to guarantee the loan for the purchase and signed the loan
documents with plaintiff.  As a
requirement of the lender, the parties took title to the property as joint
tenants.  Plaintiff claimed that she is
the rightful sole owner in fee and was in control of the property, which was
rented out to third parties.  Plaintiff
has consistently collected all rents, paid all bills associated with the
property, maintained the property at her own expense, and claimed the property
as investment property on her taxes as the sole owner.
Plaintiff is desirous of
refinancing the property and constructing additional improvements and has
demanded that defendant quitclaim title to the property to plaintiff but
defendant refuses to do so and instead purports to claim a 50% ownership in the
property.
On October 27, 2022, Juliana Wu
filed a cross-complaint for partition of real property.  She maintained that she was a co-owner of the
real property, as reflected by the recorded title documents.
On March 29, 2023, Wu filed a First
Amended Cross-Complaint for partition of real property, breach of joint venture
agreement, breach of fiduciary duty, and accounting.
A bench trial was conducted on phase
one of the case - the quiet title and partition claims.
On August 16, 2024, the Court
issued a proposed statement of decision.
On October 4, 2024, the Court
issued a Final Statement of Decision. 
The Court found that Plaintiff had not met her burden of proof on her
quiet title action to establish that she was the sole owner of the real
property.  That Final Statement of
Decision, consistent with Rule of Court 3.1591 expressly stated that “[p]ursuant
to Rule 3.1591, no Judgment shall be entered at this time.”
The trial on the accounting issues
is set for December 3, 2024.
Defendant/Cross-Complaint has filed
this motion seeking an award of attorneys fees mid-stream in these proceedings,
claiming entitlement on the grounds that she has expended attorneys fees for
the “common benefit” of the parties in the partition action she brought to
force the sale of the jointly held property.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §1032(b) states:  “Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding.”
CCP §1033.5(a)(10)(B)-(C) provides
that attorney’s fees are recoverable as costs when authorized by “statute” or
“law.”
Moving party claims entitlement
under Code of Civil Procedure §
874.010 which provides:
“The costs of partition include:
(a) Reasonable attorney's fees
incurred or paid by a party for the common benefit.”
The attorneys fees provision in Code of Civil Procedure § 874.010 was
discussed in Forrest v. Elam (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 164, 173 [151
Cal.Rptr. 591, 596].
“ ‘(I)t is only when the costs,
including counsel fees entailed in said action, shall be found to have been
expended for the common benefit, that they shall be chargeable or recoverable
by whichever of the parties, plaintiff or defendant, shall have so expended the
same.’ ” (Capuccio v. Caire, 215 Cal. 518, 526, 11 P.2d 1097, 1100.)  
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant
Juliana Wu requests attorney’s fees in the amount of $61,874.51 [$350/hr. x
138.8 hrs.; $300/hr. x 48.2 hrs. paralegal].
The Court
issued a Final Statement of Decision on October 4, 2024 on the portion of the
case that was tried.  The Court concluded
that plaintiff had failed to persuade the Court by a preponderance of the
evidence that she was the sole owner of 1334 W. 221st Street.  The Court found that the property was
acquired by both parties intending that they both co-own the property, taking
title as joint tenants.  Plaintiff had
failed to prove that plaintiff and defendant intended that the property was
purchased for plaintiff and that defendant’s participation was merely as a
co-signer on the loan to assist plaintiff to acquire the property as plaintiff
did not qualify for a loan.  Thus, on the
quiet title cause of action in the complaint, the Court found in favor of
defendant and did not quiet title in favor of plaintiff and against defendant.
On the
partition cause of action in the cross-complaint, the Court found for
cross-complainant Wu that she is a co-owner of the property, owing a 50%
interest and that she is entitled to an order to partition the property by
sale.  No actions have been taken yet to
partition the real property.  The Court
directed the parties to meet and confer regarding the partition of the
property.  The Court scheduled trial on
the accounting cause of action in the cross-complaint for December 3, 2024 as
that claim remains unresolved.
 
Defendant
argues that she is entitled to attorneys’ fees pursuant to CCP §1033.5 and CCP §874.010
and Cal. Rules of Court 3.1702 because she “obtained a judgment” in her favor
on October 4, 2024.  The Court notes that
no judgment has been entered in this case, and the Final Statement of Decision
states as much.  The October 4, 2024
ruling was an order, not a judgment. 
Further, the accounting claim is set for trial on December 3, 2024.
Plaintiff
argues that attorney’s fees are recoverable as “costs of partition” under CCP §874.010
because the fees were “incurred in furtherance of achieving the common goal of
partitioning the property, clarifying ownership interests, and securing an
equitable division of the property proceeds.” 
Plaintiff also contends that the attorney’s fees should be apportioned
based on the parties’ ownership interests under CCP §874.040.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the motion is premature as no judgment has
been entered and there is no prevailing party. 
Plaintiff also asserts that the motion is devoid of evidentiary support
and that there is no itemization of what time was spent on what tasks.  Plaintiff further argues that defendant has
not established a “common benefit” as she “has acted in her own self-interest
at every stage of this case.”
In reply,
defendant argues that the motion is not premature.  Defendant also argues that she has adequately
substantiated her fee requests because it is supported by “detailed billing
records.”  She also reiterates her
argument that the fees were incurred for the “common benefit.”
 
Moving
party is not entitled to recover any attorneys fees.  First, the actions taken to date were not for
the common benefit of the co-owners.  CCP
§874.010, provides that “reasonable attorney’s fees incurred or paid by a party
for the common benefit” are recoverable as costs in a partition action.  
“Attorney
fees and costs awarded to the lienholders were unjustified by anything in the
record before us.  The statute, as
previously discussed, states that costs may be awarded when they are incurred
for the common benefit.  As stated in Capuccio
v. Caire (1932) 215 Cal. 518, 526, 11 P.2d 1097: “... since it is expressly
provided therein that it is only when the costs, including counsel fees
entailed in said action, shall be found to have been expended for the common
benefit that they shall be chargeable or recoverable by whichever of the
parties, plaintiff or defendant, shall have so expended the same.”  * * * “ ‘It will be observed, however, that
the section (Code Civ.Proc., § 796) provides only that counsel fees may be
included in the costs of partition expended by either plaintiff or defendant
for the common benefit of all the parties to the action, and that they must be
paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the land divided.’  (P)  We
find nothing in the record indicating that legal services performed for
Glendale Federal and Verdugo Service were for the common benefit of all parties
to the suit.  * * *  The common benefit doctrine is the basis of
Code of Civil Procedure section 874.010.  There is no showing that the appearances of
the lienholders were for the common benefit. Therefore attorney fees are not
allowable to them under the Code of Civil Procedure and they must pursue their
contract rights under the trust deed to recover their costs.”  Stutz v. Davis (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d
1, 5–6 [175 Cal.Rptr. 701, 703]
The
action that was litigated was the issue of who was the owner, not the issues
that are normally encompassed in a “partition” action.  Defendant did not incur fees for the “common
benefit” on plaintiff’s claim that plaintiff was the sole owner.  Rather, the attorney’s fees were incurred to
establish that there were two owners so that partition is appropriate.
The
attorney time and effort was devoted to exactly the opposite of the “common benefit.”  The effort was devoted to Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
efforts to establish that she was a co-owner. 
That did not benefit the joint owners in the partition action.  Instead it benefited only Defendant/Cross Complainant
Wu, to the detriment of Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant.  On this ground, the Court rejects the motion
on the merits finding that no attorneys fees have been expended for the common
benefit in the partition action.
No fees
have been incurred yet on the actual partition. 
Moreover, defendant failed to provide sufficient evidentiary support for
the amount expended.  Counsel referred to
exhibits attached to their declarations but there were none attached.
Further,
the time spent was excessive and out of line. 
The quality of work observed by the Court did not reflect that the
claimed hours were reasonable.  The
quality of work suggested that the fees claimed are not reasonable.  If, as claimed, the amount of time devoted to
this case was the amount claimed, then the Court would find the hourly rate
charged for all the hours claimed is unjustified.  Hence, even Defenant/Cross-Complainant
established entitlement to an award of attorneys under CCP § 874.010, the Court
would dramatically reduce an award based on that factor.
Second,
as noted by Plaintiff, the motion is premature as the issues in this case have
not been fully resolved.  No judgment has
been entered.  
            The
motion is DENIED. 
ORDER
The motion is DENIED on the merits
with prejudice.
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice.