  Case Number:  20STCV42104    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  47 On May 8, 2024, the Court ruled that the underlying
conduct in Plaintiff’s complaints dated 9/14/23 (Exh. F), 11/9/23 (Exh. H),
11/28/23 (Exh. J and K), and 3/11/24 (Exh. P) were sufficiently “like or
related” to the alleged retaliation and harassment asserted in Plaintiff’s
administrative complaint filed with the Department of Fair Employment and
Housing (DFEH) to satisfy administrative exhaustion.  In its ex parte application for
reconsideration of the Court’s ruling, Defendants argue that, under controlling
law, the Court “has no jurisdiction to litigate facts not alleged in a DFEH
(now CRD) complaint, unless those facts occurred during the applicable
statutory period,” that is, “one year before the filing of the DFEH
complaint.”  (Ex Parte Application, pp. 2,
10 [emphasis added].)  Defendants also
contend that the underlying misconduct asserted in these internal complaints
should be excluded because they do not support a finding that there was a
continuous, pervasive pattern of harassment or retaliation.  Finally, Defendant argue that the evidence
should be excluded under Evidence Code § 352 because its probative value is
substantially outweighed by the probability it will require the undue
consumption of time.  
The Court grants the ex
parte application for reconsideration in part as to one of the 11/28/23
complaints (Exh. J) and the 3/11/24 complaint (Exh. P) based on Evidence Code
§352 and otherwise denies it. 
            An
employee must exhaust his or her administrative remedies
by filing a verified complaint with the DFEH and obtaining a right-to-sue
notice before filing a judicial action under the FEHA. (Wills
v. Superior Court (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 143, 153 (Wills).) The
DFEH complaint must be filed within one year of the unlawful acts, set forth
the name of the person or entity that committed the unlawful practice and the
particulars of the alleged acts. (Gov. Code, § 12960, subd. (c).) An “unlawful
practice” may be a distinct act, such as termination or failure to hire, or it
may be a course of conduct occurring over a period of time. (Brown
v. City of Sacramento (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 587, 598–599 (Brown).)
            The
scope of the civil complaint is limited to the scope of the administrative
charge, the completed administrative investigation, or any investigation that
might reasonably have been expected to grow out of the administrative charge. (Nazir
v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 266.)
The exhaustion requirement is satisfied if FEHA claims in the
judicial complaint are “‘like and reasonably related to’” those in the DFEH
charge (Id.; Wills, supra, 195 Cal.App.4th at p. 154) or
“likely to be uncovered in the course of a DFEH investigation” (Okoli v.
Lockheed Technical Operations Co. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1607,
1617 (Okoli)).
            Allegations
that are not set forth in the DFEH charge are, nonetheless, actionable so long
as they are “like and reasonably related to” those in the administrative
complaint.  In adopting the federal
standard for evaluating the sufficiency of administrative discrimination
charges submitted to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the
Court of Appeal in Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc, supra, embraced the
standard in a leading treatise that explained:  
“The administrative exhaustion requirement is
satisfied if the allegations of the civil action are within the scope of the
EEOC charge, any EEOC investigation actually completed, or any investigation
that might reasonably have been expected to grow out of the charge. Thus, the
judicial complaint may encompass any discrimination ‘like and reasonably
related to’ the allegations of the EEOC charge. [Citations.] [¶] ...
Administrative charges are to be construed liberally because they are often
drafted by claimants without the assistance of counsel. Accordingly, ‘[i]t is
sufficient that the EEOC be apprised, in general terms, of the alleged
discriminatory parties and the alleged discriminatory acts.’ (Sosa v.
Hiraoka (9th Cir.1990) 920 F.2d 1451, 1458 ...; see also B.K.B. v. Maui
Police Dept. (9th Cir.2002) 276 F.3d 1091, 1100 [EEOC charges construed
‘with utmost liberality’].) [¶] ... [¶] ... Plaintiffs may proceed on claims
not explicitly set forth in a charge of discrimination if the claim is ‘like or
reasonably related to the EEOC charges’ and could reasonably be expected to
grow out of an EEOC investigation of the charge. [Citation.]” (Chin, supra, §
16:195 et seq., p. 16–27.) 
The Nazir court
also explored the holding Baker v. Children’s Hospital Medical Center
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1057, and its examination of a series of cases, including
Sanchez v. Standard Brands, Inc. (5th Cir.1970) 431 F.2d 455, and Oubichon
v. North American Rockwell Corporation (9th Cir.1973) 482 F.2d 569.  Based on its review, the Nazir court
concluded that discrimination charges submitted to the DFEH “must not only be
construed liberally in favor of plaintiff, [they] must be construed in light of
what might be uncovered by a reasonable investigation.” (Nazir, supra, at
p. 268.)  
            Contrary to Defendant’s argument, moreover, the “like or
reasonably related” standard is not restricted to events before the DFEH charge
is filed.  Indeed, Baker, and Oubichon
both permitted litigation based on allegations of post-charge
misconduct.  Thus, in Baker, the
plaintiff raised charges of racially discriminatory actions in his
administrative complaint but asserted additional later racially charged
misconduct and retaliation for filing civil rights complaints in his
lawsuit.  The Baker court held
these to be actionable, concluding it to be “reasonable that an investigation
of the allegations in the original DFEH complaint would lead to the
investigation of subsequent discriminatory acts undertaken by respondents in
retaliation for appellant’s filing an internal grievance.”  (Id., at p. 1065.)  Similarly, in Oubichon, the plaintiff
submitted a discrimination charge to the DFEH and received a right-to-sue
letter, then filed an EEOC complaint with three subsequent discriminatory
incidents but did not refile an expanded charge with the DFEH.  The Oubichon court rejected the
employer’s argument that plaintiff could only pursue his case based on the one
discriminatory incident submitted to the DFEH, holding that the later
misconduct was “like or reasonably related” to the first incident.  In ruling in this way, the Ninth Circuit
clarified that “[t]o force an employee to return to the state agency every time
he claims a new instance of discrimination in order to have the EEOC and the
courts consider the subsequent incidents along with the original ones would erect
a needless procedural barrier.”  (Oubichon,
supra, at p. 571.)  
            Defendants rely on Okoli v. Lockheed Tech. Operations
Co., supra, to argue that no conduct occurring after the
administrative charge is filed is actionable in a subsequent lawsuit, but that
is not the core holding in that case. 
The plaintiff in Okoli filed a DFEH charge alleging denial of
promotion based on his race and national origin.  In his lawsuit, he asserted that his employer
also retaliated against him for filing the discrimination charge but he never
amended his charge to add allegations of retaliation.  Distinguishing Baker, Oubichon, and
other cases involving subsequent conduct that was “like or reasonably related”
to the kind of discrimination alleged in the DFEH charge, the Okoli Court
found the subsequent acts of retaliation were not actionable because they
alleged a new and different theory of unlawful conduct, and that the accusation
of unlawful retaliation was not “like or related” to the charges of
discrimination based on race and national origin.  (Id., at pp. 1614-1617.)  In doing so, the appellate court quoted a
respected source commenting that Sanchez and Oubichon would not
permit litigation of claims not presented in an administrative charge where the
judicial complaint adds “an entirely new basis for the alleged discrimination,”
as where the original charge asserted race discrimination and the subsequent
complaint sex discrimination.  (Id.,
at p. 1615.)  This is not the situation
here, so the ruling in Okoli is inapposite.   
            In this case, the DFEH complaint was very bare-bones,
alleging that Plaintiff was “harassed because of her disability” and that she
“experienced retaliation because [she] reported or resisted any form of
discrimination or harassment, requested or used leave under the california
family right act or fmla (sic) . . . and as a result was reprimanded.”  (Defendants’ Exh. A.)  As is common in many discrimination cases, a
right-to-sue letter was issued soon after the charge was filed based on Plaintiff’s
request, so no actual investigation was conducted by the DFEH.  (Defendants’ Exh. B.)  In the complaint that commenced this action,
Plaintiff laid out more specifics about the challenged conduct and alleged
generally that “[s]ince requesting and using medical leave in January 2020,
Mrs. Harris has been subjected to hostile and adverse treatment by Norwood and
since filing a complaint against Norwood on August 25, 2020, Mrs. Harris has
been subjected to increased scrutiny and harassment.”  (Complaint, ¶ 26.)  The Court construes the allegations to accuse
Defendants of a course of harassing and retaliatory conduct in the form of
“hostile and adverse treatment by Norwood” and “increased scrutiny and
harassment.”
            Some of the conduct underlying the internal complaints
lodged by Plaintiff are plainly “like or reasonably related” to her DFEH
charge. Thus, for example, in complaints dated 9/13/23 and 11/28/23, Plaintiff
alleges that “[f]or the past three years, Rebecca Norwood has moved students from
my kindergarten class to another kindergarten class with no explanation,” and asserted
other related actions by Norwood that are reasonably related to Plaintiff’s
allegations of harassment, hostile treatment, and increased scrutiny.  (Exh. F and K.)  In her 11/9/23 internal complaint, Plaintiff
alleged parents reported that Norwood told them to contact her rather than
Plaintiff if their children were having problems in the class, an allegation
that smacks of increased scrutiny and potential harassment.  (Exh. H.)  
            While the allegations in another 11/28/23 complaint and a
3/8/24 complaint include accusations of mistreatment that are similar to those
originally raised by Plaintiff, they reflect somewhat different concerns to the
effect that Norwood acted through other supervisors, such as Joanna Silva and
Veronica Cervantes, to engender disrespectful or exclusionary treatment of
Plaintiff.  (Exh. J and P.)  Because these allegations are not at the core
of the harassment and retaliation accusations originally raised by Plaintiff,
and because they involve many new witnesses whose testimony would consume an
inordinate amount of time, the Court excludes evidence regarding these
accusations under Evidence Code § 352.   
            Finally, the Court rejects Defendants’ effort to secure a
merits ruling on whether the more recent allegations of mistreatment satisfy
the substantive legal standards for harassment or retaliation.  This goes well beyond what can be sought in a
motion in limine, instead requesting what amounts to summary adjudication in
Defendants’ favor by way of an ex parte application. (Ex Parte
Application, p. 17 [arguing the complaints “must” be excluded because the
three-year gap between the DFEH charge and the events in the recent complaints
cannot be found, “as a matter of law,” to be “severe or pervasive” or a
“concerted pattern or harassment or a repeated [or] routine nature”].)  The time for a motion under Code of Civil
Procedure §437c expired months ago. 
In summary, the Court
GRANTS the ex parte application for reconsideration in part as to one of
the 11/28/23 complaints (Exh. J) and the 3/11/24 complaint (Exh. P) based on
Evidence Code §352, and DENIES it as to Plaintiff’s complaints dated 9/14/23
(Exh. F), 11/9/23 (Exh. H), and 11/28/23 (Exh. K).  Consistent with Defendants’ request, the
Court directs Plaintiff’s counsel to identify any witnesses who will offer
testimony regarding the events underlying Plaintiff’s complaints dated 9/14/23
(Exh. F), 11/9/23 (Exh. H), and 11/28/23 (Exh. K).  