 Case Number:  22STCV04378    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 14, 2024                         TRIAL DATE: March 11, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         G&P Group, Inc, v. City National
Bank
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV04378            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH THIRD-PARTY SUBPOENAS FOR BUSINESS RECORDS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff G&P Group, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant City
National Bank
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/03/22: Complaint filed.
·        
01/05/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract stemming from a commercial
banking agreement.
 
            Plaintiff
moves to quash a series of third-party subpoenas for business records
propounded to various financial institutions by Defendant. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash Third-Party Subpoenas for Business Records is GRANTED.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on payment of $300 in filing fees within 10 days of this
order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff
moves to quash a series of third-party subpoenas for business records
propounded to various financial institutions by Defendant. 
 
//
Multiple Motions in One
 
            Plaintiff
has improperly moved to quash six separate subpoenas in a single motion. Multiple
motions should not be combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§
70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests
ordinarily should be filed separately.”].) 

 
            In the
interest of an efficient resolution of this dispute, the Court will consider all
six subpoenas as presented in a single motion. However, the Court will
condition its ruling on the payment of an additional $300 in filing fees.
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 provides:
 
If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).) There is no meet and
confer requirement in section 1987.1. There is no requirement for a showing of
good cause for production of documents in connection with a deposition
subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.510(b); Terry v. SLICO (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 352, 358.)
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiff
objects to the Declaration of Robert Wartburg in support of Defendant’s
opposition to the Motion. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
            Objection
No. 1: OVERRULED. Objection goes to weight, not admissibility.
 
The remainder of the objections pertain to statements in the
declaration which are not material to the Court’s ruling. The Court therefore
declines to rule on the balance of the objections.  
 
//
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to quash six deposition subpoenas for business records issued by
Defendant to (1) Barclays Bank Delaware; (2) Capital One N.A.; (3) EverBank,
N.A., (4) Goldman Sachs Bank USA; (5) JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., and (6)
PayPal, Inc. Each of the subpoenas sought seven categories of documents and
records, consisting of any documents or communications pertaining to accounts
opened or held with each institution by Plaintiff since January 1, 2015,
including account statements (Nos. 1-3), loans (No. 4), investment products
(No. 5), or savings products sought or obtained by Plaintiff from each
institution since that date (No. 6). (Declaration of Damion Robinson ISO Mot.
Exhs. 4-10 Nos. 1-6.) The subpoenas also sought any documents or communications
pertaining to any payment made by Plaintiff to each institution since January
1, 2015, with special emphasis on payments pertaining to accounts, loans, and
investment or savings products held by George or Elizabeth Barraza, the
individual owners of G&P Group. (Id., No. 7.)  
 
            Plaintiff
argues these subpoenas are improper because they demand broad disclosure of the
private financial information of Plaintiff and its employees, officers, and
shareholders. 
 
            In ruling
on a privacy objection in the context of discovery, the party asserting a
privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest. (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) The party asserting a privacy
right must also establish an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
the given circumstances. (Id.) Further, the party asserting a privacy
right must establish a threatened intrusion that is serious. (Id.) The
Court need not proceed to the fourth step of balancing competing interests if
all three of the above are not satisfied. (Id. at 555.) If the Court
reaches the fourth step, the Court must balance the competing considerations.
The party seeking information may raise whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure may serve. (Id. at 552.) The party
seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same
interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. (Id.)
Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate a “compelling
need” simply because discovery of any facially private information is sought. (Id.
at 556-557.) When a privacy interest is asserted, the party seeking production
must show that the information sought is directly relevant to a cause of action
or a defense. (Harris v. Superior Court (Smets) (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
661, 665, citing Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859-62.)
 
1.      Legally
Protected Privacy Interest
 
            As
Plaintiff argues, well-established precedent holds that personal financial
information falls within the protections of the right to privacy under the
California and United States Constitutions. (Valley Bank of Nev. v. Superior
Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656; City of Carmel-by-the-Sea v. Young
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 259, 268.) Defendant does not dispute that Plaintiff has a
legally protected privacy interest in the material sought. 
 
//
2.      Reasonable
Expectation of Privacy
 
            Plaintiff
argues that it has a reasonable expectation of privacy in its financial affairs
under these circumstances because the requests for production are so broadly
worded that Defendant is seeking essentially all of Plaintiff’s financial
information dating back to 2015. In opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
has not demonstrated a reasonable expectation of privacy under these
circumstances because Plaintiff put its financial condition at issue. In
general, a party has a reasonable expectation of privacy in its banking
affairs. (Valley Bank, supra, 15 Cal.3d at 656.) Where the financial
information “goes to the heart” of a party’s claims, however, that expectation
of privacy is diminished. (Rawnsley v. Superior Ct. (1986) 183
Cal.App.3d 86, 91.) 
 
            Defendant
contends Plaintiff put its financial condition at issue by alleging that Plaintiff
was reliant on loans and credit from Defendant, including overdraft credit, to
continue operating its business. Plaintiff alleges Defendant placed it in
Defendant’s “Special Assets Division” for distressed accounts without
justification (¶¶ 28-30), appointed a representative who induced Plaintiff to
go into overdraft and become wholly dependent on Defendant (¶¶ 31-36, 42-57),
took effective control of Plaintiff’s finances (¶¶ 61-64), and then cut off
Plaintiff’s credit and forced it out of business. (¶¶ 71-79.) Defendant argues
without meaningful explanation that these allegations somehow suffice to
abrogate Plaintiff’s reasonable expectation in the privacy of its dealings with
other financial institutions. The Court is not persuaded that Plaintiff should
have expected, by bringing this action, that its financial information would be
subject to such expansive subpoenas. The Court finds that Plaintiff has a
reasonable expectation of privacy in the information sought in these
circumstances. 
 
3.     
Seriousness of Invasion
 
            Plaintiff
argues the broad nature of the requests renders the subpoenas a serious
intrusion on the privacy of Plaintiff and its employees, officers, and
shareholders. Defendant downplays the seriousness of the threatened intrusion
by arguing that the protective order entered on June 21, 2023 in this case
mitigates the danger posed by the subpoenas. The Court disagrees. These
requests seek disclosure of Plaintiff’s entire financial dealings with multiple
banking institutions without any meaningful restriction. This is manifestly a
serious intrusion into Plaintiff’s privacy interests.
 
4.     
Balancing of Interests
 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that this information is directly relevant to
Plaintiff’s claims and Defendant’s defenses and cross-claims, but does not
point to any particular claim or defense upon which this discovery might bear.
Instead, Defendant broadly asserts that it needs information regarding payments
made by Plaintiff to other financial institutions to determine whether the
overdrafts from Defendant were actually needed for Plaintiff to operate its
business. Although Defendant identifies the institutions to which payments were
made, no further details are provided regarding these payments. (Declaration of
Robert Wartburg ISO Opp. ¶ 11.) Further, Defendant offers no justification for
its inference that these unidentified payments might have been used to pay down
other lenders or to fund the Barraza’s personal lifestyles. Mere speculation
does not suffice to show direct relevance to any of the issues in this action.
Moreover, because Defendant does not identify the specific payments which it
seeks to investigate, the Court has no basis upon which to find that the
balance of interests requires that the subpoenas be enforced, even with some
narrowed scope. Instead, the Court is forced to conclude that the balance of
interests requires that the subpoenas be quashed in their entirety. 
 
            Defendant
served blunderbuss subpoenas for records concerning all or substantially all of
Plaintiff’s dealings with other financial institutions for the past nine years.
In response to Plaintiff’s well-founded privacy objections, Defendant offers
only supposition and innuendo, leaving the Court with nothing upon which to
permit even narrowed discovery. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order
quashing the subpoenas. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Third-Party Subpoenas for Business Records is
GRANTED.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on payment of $300 in filing fees within 10 days of this
order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: May 14, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 