  Case Number:  20STCV28649    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JACOB MCGEE and ZHONTILE REDDICK, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JULIEN BRUNET, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV28649  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DENYING MOTIONS TO COMPEL WITHOUT PREJUDICE  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 7, 2024  Defendant Julien Brunet ("Defendant”) propounded (1) form interrogatories, set one, (2) special interrogatories, set one, and (3) request for production of documents (“RPDs”), set one, on Plaintiff Zhontile Reddick (“Plaintiff Reddick”) on November 28, 2022. Responses were due on or before December 30, 2022. On December 28, 2022, Plaintiffs’ counsel filed a motion to be relieved as counsel, set to be heard on February 2, 2023. The parties agreed to an extension for discovery responses to be due no later than 35 days after the hearing to be relieved as counsel. On February 2, 2023, the Court granted the motion, and on February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel filed the Notice of Ruling granting the motion to be relieved as counsel. Defense counsel mailed letters to Plaintiff Reddick informing him of the deadline for discovery responses. To date, Plaintiff Reddick has not served responses. Defendant therefore seeks an order compelling Plaintiff Reddick to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.   The motions are unopposed. However, the Court notes the proofs of service indicate that Plaintiffs’ former counsel, McCune Wright Arevalo, LLP, were served with the motions. As provided for by Defendant, Plaintiffs are no longer represented. To date, both Plaintiffs are in pro per, and any motion must be served directly to Plaintiffs.   Unless defense counsel files a copy of the proof of services, prior to the hearing, evidencing that Plaintiffs were properly served pursuant to CCP Section 1005, the motions are denied without prejudice.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 6th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   