  Case Number:  24NNCV01110    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 9,
2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01110

 
MP:     The
Estate of Desiree Marie Meguerditchian, Hovig Meguerditchian, Joanne Urquilla (Defendants)            
RP:     Karen
S. Darling (Plaintiff) [No Response]

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Karen S.
Darling (Plaintiff) brings this action against the Estate of Desiree
Marie Meguerditchian (Decedent) (hereinafter the Estate), Hovig Meguerditchian
(Hovig), individually and in his capacity as administrator of Decedent’s
estate, and Joanne Urquilla (Urquilla). 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that she was an attorney for Foothill Law Group (FLG) from 2017 to
2022. (Compl. ¶¶ 18, 35.) FLG was owned and operated by Decedent until her
death in 2022. (Compl. ¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges that around July 2021 FLG
stopped paying her. (Compl. ¶ 28.) Plaintiff states that she was not paid,
though she continued to work for FLG and bill hours. (Compl. ¶¶ 29-35.)
Plaintiff alleges that Decedent was either not around or on medical leave
during most of this time. (Compl ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges she was
eventually paid $32,000 in 2022 but maintains that she is owed ion excess of
$250,000 for her billed hours. (Compl. ¶¶ 39, 60.) Plaintiff brings claims
against Decadent’s estate and its administrator Hovig. 
Plaintiff
has also included Urquilla, FLG’s administrator, as a Defendant. Plaintiff
alleges that she submitted her billed hours and time sheets to Urquilla
regularly. (Compl. ¶36.) Plaintiff alleges she notified Urquilla that some
invoices were incorrectly recorded as they listed the handling attorney as
Decedent. (Compl. ¶ 41.) Plaintiff alleges Urquilla input these incorrect
invoices regardless. (Compl. ¶ 42.) 
Plaintiff
previously submitted a creditor’s claim in the administration of Decedent’s
Estate which was denied. (Compl. ¶ 17.) Plaintiff alleges, among other
things, that Hovig purchased a home in Lake Havasu with funds from the FLG
account. (Compl. ¶ 50.) 
Before the Court are two Demurrers and one
Motion to Strike. Defendants Hovig and the Estate demur to each cause of action
as time barred. Although Hovig and the Estate reserved this hearing for a
Demurrer and Motion to Styrike, no notice or briefing for the Motion to Strike
was ever filed with the Court. 
 
Urquilla demurs to each cause of action as
failing to allege sufficient facts. Urquilla also moves to strike all requests
for punitive damages and each cause of action against her as time barred. 
 
On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff attempted to file
a First Amended Complaint (FAC) with the Court. The Court rejected the FAC as
there are two anti-SLAPP motions pending regarding the operative Complaint. At
a prior hearing on August 30, 2024, the Court explained the rejection to
Plaintiff’s counsel and granted a continuance of the hearing on the instant
motions so that the parties could brief the issue of whether Plaintiff’s
amendment was proper. The Court, having read the supplemental briefing of both
parties, now issues the following ruling. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Timeline 
 
Given the importance of the
filing dates in resolving this matter, the Court finds a brief chronology of
the motions would be of use. The filings regarding the motions presently on the
Court’s calendar proceeded as follows: 
 
·        
On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed her
Complaint. 
·        
On June 10, 2024, Hovig and the Estate filed
their Demurrer. 
·        
On June 24, 2024, Urquilla filed her Demurrer
and Motion to Strike. 
·        
Also on June 24, 2024, Urquilla filed her anti-SLAPP
Motion to Strike. 
·        
On August 19, 2024, Hovig and the Estate filed
their anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike. 
 
Of particular importance to the
Court’s analysis here is the fact that Plaintiff’s deadline for opposing the
Demurrer of Hovig and the Estate was August 23, 2024. C.C.P. § 1005 provides
that an opposition to a demurrer is due nine court days before the hearing. The
hearing for Hovig and the Estate’s demurrer was set for September 6, 2024. This
means that Plaintiff filed her FAC on the same day as her deadline to oppose
the demurrer. The Court finds that this timing indicates Plaintiff’s FAC was
intended as an attempt to rectify the issues presented by the demurrer, and not
to moot the pending anti-SLAPP motions. 
 
Discussion
 
The Court acknowledges that case
law regarding this particular situation is divided. Insofar as procedure is
concerned, the Court finds the two most analogous cases are Oakland Bulk and
Oversized Terminal, LLC v. City of Oakland (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 738
(hereinafter Oakland) and JKC3H8 v. Colton (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 468 (hereinafter Colton). 
 
In Oakland, a company sued
the City of Oakland (the City) alleging three breach of contract and seven tort
causes of action. (Oakland supra, 54 Cal.App.5th at 741, 745.) In
response, the City filed a demurrer and a standard motion to strike per C.C.P.
§ 436; the hearing for both was set for April 25, 2019. (Id. at 746.)
Meanwhile, the City filed an anti-SLAPP motion to strike the complaint in part;
the hearing for which was set for May 14, 2019. (Id.) The trial court
advanced the City's anti-SLAPP motion so that it came on for hearing with the
other two matters. (Id. at 741.) The court sustained the demurrer in part with
leave to amend. (Id. at 749.)
 
The Court of Appeal confirmed the
trial court’s deferral of the anti-SLAPP motions. (Id. at 750.) The Oakland court
opined that it “made perfect sense for the court to allow the company to amend
their complaint and to defer a ruling on the anti-SLAPP motion until the
operative pleading/complaint is filed.” (Id. [cleaned up]) The Court
reasoned that it would make little sense to examine the merits of an anti-SLAPP
motion while it remained possible that the operative pleading could change. (Id.
at 751) The Court also expressed a concern for the use of Anti-SLAPP motions to
cause prejudicial delay. (Id. At 760.) 
 
Hovig and the Estate attempt to
distinguish Oakland, arguing that this case is different because no
hearing on the demurrers has yet occurred. The Court concedes that the
procedural events do not mirror each other exactly. The plaintiff in Oakland
did not seek amendment by way of filing an FAC, rather amendment was the
result of the trial court’s ruling on the demurrers. Regardless, the Court does
not see this procedural difference as affecting the logic behind Oakland’s
holding. Whether the amendment arises by virtue of a plaintiff’s filing or
by virtue of the Court’s leave does not change the fact that ruling on an anti-SLAPP
motion under the circumstances would not make sense. Plaintiff’s filing of the
FAC in this case produces the same result as if the Court were to grant her
leave to amend in sustaining a demurrer. 
 
The Court also echoes Oakland’s
concern over the abuse of the anti-SLAPP process. If the law were such that the
filing of an anti-SLAPP after a demurrer prevented a plaintiff from amending as
of right, the demurring party would be highly incentivized to always bring anti-SLAPP
motions to thwart any opposition/amendment. 
 
On a related note, Colton addressed
concerns of abuse by the amending party by stating the following:   
 
So too does an
amended complaint render moot an anti-SLAPP motion directed to a prior
complaint, with the following caveat: A plaintiff or cross-complainant may not
seek to subvert or avoid a ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion by amending the
challenged complaint or cross-complaint in response to the motion.
 
(Colton supra, at 477
[citations omitted].) 
 
The above quotation exemplifies
that the primary purpose for prohibiting amendment after an anti-SLAPP would be
to prevent situations where the amending party specifically seeks to avoid the anti-SLAPP
through amendment. The Court agrees that amendment should be prohibited in
situations where such abuse is shown. At the same time, the Court finds there
is no indication here that Plaintiff was amending as an attempt to avoid the anti-SLAPP
motions. The timing of Plaintiff’s FAC suggests to the Court that the FAC was
intended as a response to the pending demurrers. 
 
In short, instances where an anti-SLAPP
motion and Demurrer are pending present opportunities for abuse on both sides.
This is not to suggest that either side in this case engaged in such behavior.
Rather, the Court finds that these concerns inform the reasoning of Oakland and
Colton and dictate that amendment should be allowed in this case. The
Court finds it makes little sense to entertain an anti-SLAPP motion where the
right to amend still exists, so long as the amending party is not shown to be
motivated by mooting the anti-SLAPP. 
 
As such, the Court finds that
Plaintiff should be granted leave to file her FAC. Plaintiff is ordered to
refile her FAC. Given this forthcoming amendment, the Court finds the demurrers
MOOT. Hearings for the anti-SLAPP motions are ordered advanced to this date and
vacated. 
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records. 
 
ORDER
 
The Estate of Desiree Marie Meguerditchian,
Hovig Meguerditchian, Joanne Martinez’s Demurrer
and Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on September 9, 2024,
with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and
the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:
 
PLAINTIFF
IS GRANTED LEAVE TO FILE HER FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT AND SHALL DO SO WITHIN 10
DAYS. 
 
THE
DEMURRERS OF DEFENDANTS HOVIG MEGUERDITCHIAN, THE ESTATE, AND JOANNE URQUILLA ARE
MOOT. 
 
THE
ANTI-SLAPP MOTIONS SCHEDULED TO BE HEARD SEPTEMBER 13, 2024 AND SEPTEMBER 20,
2024 ARE HEREBY ADVANCED TO THIS DATE AND VACATED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  September
9, 2024                            _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 