 Case Number:  23TRCV01448    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                      Wednesday, May 22, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar
No. 12
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Gerard Collette, et al. v. Olary Yim Ambrosi, et al.  
            23TRCV01448
1.      Olary
Yim Ambrosi, Lawrence P. Ambrosi, Viriyane Norodom Richardson, Individually,
and as Trustee of the Viriyane Norodom Richardson Trust’s Motion to Set Aside
Default 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Olary
Yim Ambrosi, Lawrence P. Ambrosi, Viriyane Norodom Richardson, Individually,
and as Trustee of the Viriyane Norodom Richardson Trust’s Motion to Set Aside
Default is denied without prejudice. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on May 5, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
owned and operated Hermosa Ink, a popular tattoo and piercing studio based at
802 Hermosa Avenue in Hermosa Beach. Defendants are his landlords and owners of
the property. Defendants stole Plaintiff’s business.
 
            Request
for Judicial Notice  
 
            Defendants’
request for judicial notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
            Objections
 
            Plaintiffs’
objections 1 to 3 are sustained.
            
            Motion
to Set Aside Default
 
            CCP §
473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
. . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
            CCP §
473.5(a) states, in relevant part: “When service of a summons has not resulted
in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or
default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she
may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action. 
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time,
but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a
default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or
her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.”

 
            CCP §
473.5(b) states: “A notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment
and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for making the
motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be
accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party's lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice
a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the
action.” The phrase “actual notice” means “genuine knowledge of the party
litigant” and does not include constructive or imputed notice to the client. Tunis
v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1077.
 
            “After
six months from entry of default, a trial court may still vacate a default on
equitable grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable.  . . . One ground for equitable relief is
extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied when circumstances extrinsic to the
litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing on the merits. Extrinsic
mistake is found when [among other things] ... a mistake led a court to do what
it never intended[.] When a default judgment has been
obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.
[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court. Beyond this period there is a strong public policy in favor of
the finality of judgments and only in exceptional circumstances should relief
be granted.  . . . To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party
seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981–82 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            Defendants
move for an order setting aside the defaults entered against Defendants on
January 12, 2024, on the grounds that the defaults were entered because of
excusable neglect, fraud, and/or mistake. CCP § 473(b). 
 
             Defendants state that on or about September 5,
2023, Defendants retained Joseph Hobaica as an attorney purportedly licensed in
California and New York. Defendants contend that they relied on Hobaica to
represent them, but that Hobaica failed to protect Defendants’ interests, did
not file the necessary documents, and continually misrepresented the status of
the action to Defendants. Defendants state that they later found out that, in
fact, Hobaica was a disbarred attorney and had done virtually nothing on their
case. Defendants state that they were deceived by Hobaica. Defendants also
argue that Plaintiff Beautiful Ink lacks capacity to sue because it has failed
to pay taxes to the California Franchise Tax Board.
 
            The
Court notes the following case authority which was in the context of reviewing
whether to set aside a dismissal rather than a default. “As a general rule,
however, the negligence of an attorney is imputed to the client. [¶]
California courts recognize an exception to this rule in those cases where the
attorney's neglect is of that extreme degree amounting to positive misconduct,
and the person seeking relief is relatively free from negligence. This
exception is premised on the concept such extreme misconduct obliterates the
existence of the attorney-client relationship and for this reason the client
has no attorney from whom negligence can be imputed. . . . Imputation of the
attorney's neglect to the client ceases at the point where abandonment of the client
appears. [¶] What constitutes “abandonment” of the client depends on the facts
in the particular action. Even where abandonment is shown, however, the courts
also consider equitable factors in deciding whether the dismissal of an action
should be set aside. These factors include the client's own conduct in pursuing
and following up the case, whether the defendant would be prejudiced by
allowing the case to proceed and whether the dismissal was discretionary
or mandatory. The courts must also balance the public policy favoring a trial
on the merits against the public policies favoring finality of judgments and
disfavoring unreasonable delays in litigation and the policy an innocent
client should not have to suffer from its attorney's gross negligence against
the policy a grossly incompetent attorney should not be relieved from the
consequences of his or her incompetence.” Seacall Development, Ltd. v. Santa
Monica Rent Control Bd. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 201, 204–205 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Here,
under the facts presented by Defendants, it does appear that former attorney
Hobaica’s actions may constitute the type of conduct that would constitute
abandonment of the client as noted above. However, the Court requires more
information regarding the conduct of Defendants relative to their own diligence
including their “own conduct in pursuing and following up the case.” Id.
 
            First,
the Court notes that Defendants were all served by substitute service wherein
service was completed by mailing which occurred on May 31, 2023. While Yim
states that the Complaint was not discovered until August 2023 due to her
travels, the Court notes that the defaults had originally been entered in July
2023. These defaults were only vacated due to a typographical error regarding
the address on the entry of default form. No defects in the proofs of service
were identified by the Court. Defendants have not fully explained why they did
not obtain notice of the service of the summons and complaint until August
2023. The Court notes that substitute service indicates that a “Jane Doe” took
receipt of the documents on May 31, 2023. Defendants have not explained why
they did not receive notice of the service through this method. Further, even
assuming the August 2023 date as the first date of notice, Defendants fail to
explain the apparent month delay before retaining counsel in September.
 
            Second,
as noted above, the defaults that were entered in July 2023 were vacated by the
Court and the defaults were reentered in January 2024. As noted above,
Defendants’ declarations attempt to provide facts that they had been relying
upon Hobaica to represent them which would presumably involve filing responsive
pleadings to avoid the defaults being reentered in January 2024. Text messages
to and from Defendant Yim appear to raise frustrations regarding Hobaica as
early as late September 2023 and increasingly serious suspicions regarding
Hobaica’s handling of this action as early as November 2023. (Decl., Yim, Ex. 2.)
 Ultimately, Yim herself states that “[m]y
suspicion that Hobaica had been lying and had done nothing on this action arose
when I received the Request for Entry of Defaults on or about January 19, 2024[.]”
(Decl., Yim, ¶ 13.) Defendants provide no reasonable explanation for the delay
in filing this motion from at least January 19, 2024 (and perhaps earlier as
noted above) to the date that the motion was eventually filed on April 5, 2024.
“We have not found any case where relief from default judgment has been deemed
proper where there was an extended period of delay and little or no
explanation.”  Stafford v. Mach
(1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1184 (reviewing authorities in which a three-month
unexplained delay was sufficient grounds to deny the motion).
 
            Defendants
alternative ground that the defaults must be set aside due to the corporate
standing of co-Plaintiff Beautiful Ink, LLC is unavailing. The Court notes the
following case authority.
 
            “Respondents'
arguments are based on their belief that Color-Vue's suspension for failure to
pay its taxes deprived Color-Vue of standing to prosecute its action.
Respondents are mistaken. Suspension of corporate powers results in a lack of capacity
to sue, not a lack of standing to sue. 
There is a difference between the capacity to
sue, which is the right to come into court, and the standing to sue,
which is the right to relief in court. Incapacity is merely a legal disability,
such as infancy or insanity, which deprives a party of the right to come into
court. The right to relief, on the other hand, goes to the existence of a cause
of action. It is not a plea in abatement, as is lack of capacity to sue. Our
Supreme Court has specifically stated that a plea of lack of capacity of a
corporation to maintain an action by reason of a suspension of corporate powers
for nonpayment of its taxes 'is a plea in abatement which is not favored in law
[and] is to be strictly construed[.] The distinction is significant because a
plea in abatement such as lack of capacity to sue must be raised by defendant
at the earliest opportunity or it is waived.... The proper time to raise a plea
in abatement is in the original answer or by demurrer at the time of the
answer. [Citation.] It is a technical objection and must be pleaded
specifically. Thus an affirmative defense or demurrer which contains a general
assertion that plaintiff has not stated a cause of action does not suffice to
raise a plea in abatement. Lack of standing, by contrast, is not waived by
failure to timely object.  Indeed, lack
of standing to sue can be raised at any time, even for the first time on
appeal. Based on their incorrect belief that corporate suspension resulted in a
lack of standing, respondents argued that Color-Vue was required to prove that
it was in good standing with the Secretary of State. Again, respondents are
mistaken. Unless required by a governing statute, a plaintiff's capacity to sue
is not an element of a cause of action. A plaintiff corporation need not allege
that it has qualified to do business in California or that it has paid all of
its state taxes. An allegation by a plaintiff that it is a corporation is
sufficient to show that it has the general capacity to sue.” Color-Vue, Inc.
v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603–1606 (internal citations and
quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            Thus,
the proper method to challenge Beautiful Ink, LLC’s capacity to sue is through
an answer or demurrer, and there is no competent authority provided by
Defendants that this purported lack of capacity provides sufficient grounds to
set aside the defaults. Logically, this makes sense because if an entry of
default is improper based on the capacity of a corporate Plaintiff, it would
appear to place the burdensome onus upon all clerks’ offices throughout the
State of California to check whether each corporate Plaintiff has or has not
been suspended by the California Secretary of State prior to entering a default
in their favor.
          Thus,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside the Defaults is
denied without prejudice.
 
             Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of this ruling.