  Case Number:  22TRCV00532    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Wednesday, May 22, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 11  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jane
Doe v. American Medical Response Ambulance Service, Inc., et al.   
22TRCV00532
1.     
Jane Doe’s Motion
for Leave to File Third Amended Complaint    
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Jane Doe’s Motion for Leave to File Third Amended
Complaint is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on August 18, 2022,
and the Second Amended Complaint was filed on November 1, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff, a minor, had an episode at her High
School in Temecula, California, while high on drugs and became suicidal. The
assigned High School police officer placed her on a 72-hour Welfare &
Institution Code § 5150 hold. During the detention period, the police officer
and emergency doctors at the local hospital concluded that she needed to be
transported to a psychiatric facility.  American
Medical Response (“AMR”) employees, Jason D. Anderson and Shaivam Sharma
(apparently incorrectly named as he contends his first name is Shivam), arrived
at the hospital in Temecula with an AMR for transport to Torrance, California. Defendant
EMT Anderson sexually battered Plaintiff, a minor, while she was strapped to a
gurney enroute to the psych ward. EMT driver, Sharma, observed Anderson’s
conduct but refused to intervene and pull over the vehicle. Plaintiff alleges the
following causes of action: 1. Sexual Harassment in a Defined Relationship
(Civil Code § 51.9); 2. Sexual Battery (Civil Code §1708.5); 3. Battery; 4.
Gender Related Violence (Civil Code § 52.4); 5. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress. 
 
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.   Cal. Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281. 
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as
soon as the need to amend is discovered. 
The closer the trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave
to amend.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. 
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to amend to file a Third
Amended Complaint to add a cause of action for Negligence against existing Defendants
AMR and Shaivam Sharma (the Court again notes that Plaintiff continues to spell
this Defendant’s name in this manner despite the fact that this Defendant
insists that his name is “Shivam Sharma”), and to add a new Defendant, Eric
Leahy, to the Negligence cause of action.    
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) states: “A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Plaintiff adequately complied with Rule 3.1324(a).
Plaintiff provided a “red-lined” version of the Third Amended Complaint which
details the additions and changes made. 
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the
moving party must submit a separate declaration specifying:
“(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.”
 
Plaintiff provided a declaration adequately meeting
elements (1) to (4) above. (Supplemental Decl., Manuel Corrales, Jr., ¶¶ 3-15.)

 
Defendants’ arguments in opposition are unavailing.
Defendants’ arguments mostly consist of contending that the newly proposed
cause of action fails to state sufficient facts against Defendants including
newly proposed Defendant Leahy. However,
when reviewing a motion for leave to amend, the Court will usually not evaluate
the viability or merits of the pleading. The preferable practice is to test the
legal sufficiency of the proposed pleading with a proper motion or demurrer.  See, Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (stating that, in the context of analyzing a
motion for leave to amend a pleading, that “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”) 
 
Defendants also vociferously question why the
Negligence cause of action was included in the FAC, omitted in the SAC, and now
seeks to be reasserted in the TAC. However, Plaintiff has adequately explained
that new facts were uncovered in discovery, from October 2023 to March 2024,
that would provide a basis to reassert this cause of action. (Suppl. Decl.,
Corrales, Jr., ¶ 14.)  As noted above, if
the cause of action cannot be well stated by the Plaintiff, then Defendants
will have the opportunity to challenge the cause of action through the proper
procedural mechanisms. In addition, there is no prejudice by any purported
delay because the trial date is on May 20, 2025, and there is sufficient time
for all parties to conduct discovery as to the newly proposed cause of action. 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File Third
Amended Complaint is granted. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file the Third Amended
Complaint within three days and serve the Third Amended Complaint on existing
parties within three days of this date. Plaintiff may wish to consider
correcting the spelling error of Defendant Shivam Sharma’s name prior to filing
the official version of the Third Amended Complaint.
 
An OSC Re: Dismissal for Failure to Serve Eric Leahy
is set for _________.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.