 Case Number:  21CHCV00316    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/1/23
Case #21CHCV00316
 
MOTION TO SET
ASIDE & VACATE DEFAULT
 
Motion filed on 7/3/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Roshmore Development  Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Lucy Holdings, LLC
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order setting aside the
default entered against Roshmore.
 
RULING: The motion is denied without
prejudice.  
 
On 11/29/22, Defendant Roshmore Development Inc.
(Roshmore) was served, via substitute service and subsequent mailing on
11/30/22, with Plaintiff Lucy Holdings, LLC’s (Plaintiff) Second Amended
Complaint.  As such, a responsive
pleading was due 1/10/23.  CCP 414.20
(service was complete 10 days after mailing). 
On 3/7/23, default against Roshmore was entered.  On 3/9/23, Roshmore’s then counsel contacted
Plaintiff’s counsel requesting that Plaintiff stipulate to the setting aside of
the default.  (Mbamalu Decl. ¶¶4-5).  Plaintiff’s counsel indicated he would only
agree to set aside the default, if Roshmore responded with only an answer to
the Second Amended Complaint.  (Id.
¶6, Ex.A2; Arnold Decl. ¶8, Ex.B). 
Counsel for the parties met and conferred regarding setting aside the
default but did not come to an agreement. 
(Mbamaulu Decl. ¶¶7-10, Ex.A4-A6; Martz Decl. ¶¶12-18, Ex.B-C; Arnold
Decl. ¶¶9-13, Ex.C-F).
 
On 7/3/23, Roshmore filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order setting aside the default entered against Roshmore.  Plaintiff has opposed the motion.
 
Roshmore makes this motion pursuant to CCP 473(b) which
provides, in relevant part:
 
“The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. .  .  . .
. No affidavit or declaration of merits shall be required of the moving party.
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the time within
which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section
583.310.”
 
(emphasis added)
 
The motion claims that a copy of a proposed demurrer is attached
to the motion.  (See Motion,
p.4:25-p.5:3).  Although a proposed
cross-complaint is attached as part of Exhibit C to the motion which is a copy
of a proposed stipulation to set aside the default, which was rejected by
Plaintiff, a proposed demurrer is not attached. 
(See Motion, generally and exhibits attached thereto).  If Roshmore intends to demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint, the filing of a cross-complaint would not be appropriate at
the time of the filing of a demurrer as cross-complaints may be filed without
leave at the time of the filing of an answer. 
See CCP 426.30(a); CCP 428.50(a).
 
Since the motion is not accompanied by a “copy of the
answer or other pleading proposed to be filed,” the application cannot be
granted.  CCP 473(b).  
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s argument that if the
motion is granted, Roshmore should be limited to only filing an answer to the
Second Amended Complaint is not supported by the authority cited.  As noted above, CCP 473(b) provides for the
filing of an answer or other proposed pleading. 
Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion, CCP 428.50(c) does not require the
filing of a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint under the
circumstances.  CCP 428.50 provides:
 
“(a) A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
(c) A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one
filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave
may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.”
 
Nothing in CCP 428.50 states that a party that seeks to
have a default set aside and file an answer cannot also submit a proposed
cross-complaint as another proposed pleading to be filed along therewith.  Plaintiff has not cited any case law or other
authority which says otherwise.  
 
The Court also notes that Roshmore has failed to
electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to the motion as required by CRC
3.1110(f)(4).  The parties are warned
that failure to comply with this requirement in the future may result in papers
not being considered, matters being continued to allow for papers to be
re-submitted in compliance with the rule and/or the imposition of sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied without prejudice.  
 
 
 
    
 
 