 Case Number:  21STCV26161    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, A.L. filed this action
against Doe 1 for damages arising out of childhood sexual abuse.  Plaintiff added LBUSD as a doe
defendant.  The Court consolidated
21STCV26161 with 22LBCV00364, Huggins v. LBUSD, which arises out of similar
misconduct.      
 
LBUSD filed this motion to stay in
the personal injury hub court, which then transferred the matter to this
independent calendar court for all future proceedings.  The matter was fully briefed prior to
transfer.  
 
2.     Motion
to Stay Proceedings
a.     Legal
Standard 
“Any party may file a motion for an
order under Code of Civil Procedure section 404.5 staying the proceedings in
any action being considered for, or affecting an action being considered for,
coordination, or the court may stay the proceedings on its own motion.  The motion for a stay may be included with a
petition for coordination or may be served and submitted to the Chair of the
Judicial Council and the coordination motion judge by any party at any time
prior to the determination of the petition.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.515.)  

 
b.     Request
for Judicial Notice 
 Pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 451, 452, subds.
(d) and (h), 453, Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted as to
Request Nos. 1 to 12.   Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice of Exhibits 1-35 is also granted.  
 
c.     Analysis
Defendant moves to stay the trial
because (1) there are two pending writs before two different appellate courts
to decide the constitutionality of California Assembly Bill 218 (“AB 218”) and
(2) Defendant wants to be able to engage in meaningful settlement negotiations
without fear that its relevant Board will violate the law to authorize payments
for any settlement agreement.  To
elaborate, AB 218 authorized a three-year window beginning in January 1, 2020
that allowed claims of childhood sexual assault to be brought regardless of how
long the abuse allegedly occurred.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 340.1, subd. (q).)  AB 218
amended Government Code § 905 to retroactively strip statutory governmental
immunities for public entities which violates Article XVI section 6 of the
Constitution and its prohibition of gifts of public funds.   
 
Defendant states the first pending
writ, West Contra Costa U.S.D. v. Superior Court (First Appellate District Case
No. A16934), wherein the parties are awaiting the requested oral arguments and
have submitted their respective briefs. 
(See RJN Nos. 1-8, Exhs. B,C.)  In
the second pending writ, Roe # 2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District,
Div. 6, Case No. B334707), the court requested an informal response to the
filed writ, granting the school district until May 17, 2024 to file an informal
reply to the response.  (See RJN Nos.
9-12, Exh. G.)   
 
“In exercising its discretion
[regarding stay] . . . the court should consider the importance of discouraging
multiple litigation designed solely to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding
unseemly conflicts with the courts of other jurisdictions . . . [and] whether
the rights of the parties can best be determined by the court of the other
jurisdiction because of the nature of the subject matter, the availability of
witnesses, or the stage to which the proceedings in the other court have
already advanced.”  (Farmland Irr. Co. v.
Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, 215.)   
 
First, Defendant argues that like
Caiafa Prof. Law Corp. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (1993) 15
Cal.App.4th 800, 807-808 wherein a stay of a state court action involving the
obligation to pay attorney’s fees was justified because a broad action involving
RICO was pending in federal court that would govern that case and other cases
involving such fee obligations, here this case should be set aside because one
or both of the two pending appellate writ proceedings could resolve the issue
as to AB 218’s unconstitutionality. 
Defendant further explains that staying this case is the only way to
ensure the case will not conflict with the decisions reached in the two pending
Appellate Court cases.  Next, Defendant
also asserts staying the action will not prejudice Plaintiff’s rights because
Plaintiff waited 17 years to file the lawsuit and any stay would toll the time
within which Plaintiff is required to bring the case to trial.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 583.340.)   
 
In opposition, Plaintiff responds
that (1) no legal support exists to mandate a stay in similar contexts and (2)
staying the action would prejudice Plaintiff.   

Plaintiff notes that the Second
District has summarily denied similar writ petitions.  Plaintiff notes that, in the event the
different courts of appeal split, this case will be in the same procedural
posture it is in now.  Plaintiff also
notes that the issue will likely go to the Supreme Court, regardless of whether
the courts of appeal split, and this could take years.  
 
Plaintiff also argues the factors,
set forth in Nken v. Holder (2009) 556 U.S. 418, 426, do not support a
stay.  Those factors are: “(1) whether
the stay applicant has made a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on
the merits; (2) whether the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a
stay; (3) whether issuance of the stay will substantially injure the other
parties interested in the proceeding; and (4) where the public interest lies.
(Id., at p. 434.) “Once an applicant satisfies the first two factors, the
traditional stay inquiry calls for assessing the harm to the opposing party and
weighing the public interest.”
 
The Court agrees with
Plaintiff.  Granting the instant motion
would prejudice Plaintiff.  There is no
guarantee that the decisions made by the Court of Appeals in the pending writs
would create a definitive ruling on the issue as it could always be further
appealed to the Supreme Court, potentially taking years to resolve.  The Court notes that the vast majority of
trial courts have held against the District on this argument, and this trial
court has consistently held against the District on this issue.  
 
The motion is therefore
denied.  Defendant is ordered to give
notice.     
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 