 Case Number:  23LBCV02120    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Daveon Clark filed this
action against Defendants, Kiari Kendrell Cephus aka Offset, Demetrius Deandre
Carter aka YRN Murk, Buzzfeed, Inc., and Contemporary Services Corporation on
11/07/23.  Plaintiff alleges that, while
he was working as a security guard for an event owned and/or operated by the
entity defendants, the individual defendants assaulted and battered him.  
 
On 4/11/24, Plaintiff filed proof
of service of the summons, complaint, and related papers on Defendant
Cephus.  The POS indicates Plaintiff’s
process server served Defendant by substitute service on his brother on 3/25/24
at 3660 Kilpatrick Court in Snellville, GA, and then mailed the same documents
later that same day.  The process server
includes a declaration of diligence indicating he attempted service four times
at the Kilpatrick address before successfully serving Defendant’s brother.  
2.     Motion
to Quash
Defendant moves to quash service of
the summons and complaint, contending (a) the address of the purported service
is his mother’s house, but he does not live there; and (b) prior to
effectuating service by substitute service, there must be attempts to serve the
defendant at a proper address by personal service.  Notably, the two arguments are two sides of
the same coin.  If Defendant resides at
the address, then both the prior attempts and the actual service were
proper.  If he does not, then neither the
attempts nor the service was proper.  
 
The burden of proof on a motion to
quash is on the party asserting that service was proper.  See Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 403, 413.  Plaintiff,
in opposition to the motion, contends both the attempts at service and the
actual service were proper because Plaintiff attempted to serve Defendant at an
address in Woodland Hills, but the building management informed the process
server that Defendant was no longer a client of theirs and they could not
accept service on his behalf.  Plaintiff
contends service at the Georgia address was proper because the Clayton County
Tax Commissioner’s website lists Defendant’s mailing address as the Kilpatrick
address.  Plaintiff contends he properly
made numerous attempts to serve Defendant at the Kilpatrick address before
effectuating service on his brother.  
 
Defendant, in reply, notes that the
Kilpatrick address is in Gwinnett County, not Clayton County.  He contends the unauthenticated screenshot of
the Clayton County website is not evidence that he resides at the subject
address.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiff failed to
meet his burden to show the Kilpatrick address is Defendant’s “usual mailing
address” such that service there was proper. 
As Defendant correctly notes in reply, the website attached to the
opposition papers as Exhibit E is not properly authenticated.  Even if it were, at most is shows that
Defendant is a co-owner of the subject address, which is not the same as
showing that it is his “usual mailing address.” 
Defendant declares it is not, as do his mother and brother.  A website showing Defendant co-owns the house
is insufficient to meet the burden of proof to contest these declarations.  
 
Additionally, while not the basis
for this ruling, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s attorney does not explain why
he was attempting to serve a former management company for Defendant in
Woodland Hills, and does not explain why he believes Defendant resides at the
Kirkpatrick address.  The Court also
notes that Plaintiff attaches various declarations of diligence that were not
included with the proof of service itself; these declarations, however, do not
change the analysis, as they are all for the address in Woodland Hills and the
address on Kirkpatrick.  
The motion to quash is
granted.      
 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   