 Case Number:  23LBCV01384    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Elsy Henriquez filed this action against Defendants,
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and Caliber Motors, Inc. dba Mercedes-Benz of Anaheim for
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act and negligent repair.  
 
2.    
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RPD
a.     Subject RPD
Plaintiff propounded RPD 18 on Defendant.  The RPD seeks production of: The operative
Franchise Agreement, if any, on the date of sale of the SUBJECT VEHICLE between
YOU and the dealership that sold the SUBJECT VEHICLE to Plaintiff.  
 
b.     Dispute
Defendant objected to the RPD, and refused to produce the
agreement.  Despite attempts to meet and
confer, the parties have been unable to resolve the issue.  Plaintiff moves to compel a further response,
without objections, to the RPD.  
 
c.    
Burdens
Plaintiff has the initial burden to show “good cause” for production of
the franchise agreement.  CCP
§2031.310(b)(1).  Once Plaintiff meets
that burden, the burden shifts to Defendant to justify any objection asserted
as to the request.  Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.
 
d.    
Good Cause
Plaintiff contends there is good
cause for production of the franchise agreement because the agreement likely
sets forth the standards Defendant expects its dealership to comply with when
selling and repairing vehicles. 
Plaintiff contends the agreement will show the agency relationship
between Defendant and its dealerships, and will detail requirements for the
dealership regarding reporting of repairs, duration, etc., to the manufacturer,
which will go to Defendant’s knowledge of the problems with the vehicle and its
obligation to repurchase the vehicle under the Act.  
 
Defendant, in opposition to the
motion, argues there is no good cause for production of the franchise agreement
because the only relevant discovery in a lemon law case concerns Plaintiff’s
own vehicle and its repair history, and nothing in the franchise agreement goes
to that issue.  Defendant contends agency
is assumed under the law and Plaintiff need not prove agency in order to
prevail in the action.  
 
Plaintiff, in reply, contends the
franchise agreement will tend to show whether Defendant knew or should have
known the vehicle could not be conformed to the warranty after a reasonable
number of attempts.  
 
The Court is not clear on what the
“good cause” is to produce the agreement. 
It appears all parties are in agreement that the dealership was acting
as Defendant’s agent for purposes of repairing the vehicle.  See opposition, page 5, lines 22-26;
Defendant would be judicially estopped from arguing otherwise in this action
after making this statement.  It is also
not clear how the franchise agreement would show that the vehicle could not be
repaired after a reasonable number of attempts. 
The Court understands Plaintiff’s position, but finds it is so
attenuated that it cannot support the necessary finding of good cause.  The idea appears to be that the agreement
between Defendant and its dealerships would set forth how they repair vehicles
and how they report vehicle repairs to Defendant, and this information, in
turn, could lead to discoverable information showing that the subject vehicle
could not be repaired.  It seems,
however, that there would be much easier ways to obtain this information,
including simply asking for repair records and/or repair reports running
between the dealership and Defendant. 
The franchise agreement will necessary include voluminous information
that is not the least bit relevant to this action.
 
Finally, the Court notes that it
appears Plaintiff purchased the vehicle from Mercedes-Benz of Long Beach (see
opposition, page 6, line 13), but had it repaired at Defendant, Mercedes-Benz
of Anaheim.  It is, therefore, even less
clear how the franchise agreement with Long Beach would be relevant to repairs
performed at Anaheim.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff failed to
show good cause and therefore the motion is denied.
 
e.     Objections
In the event the parties appear and
the Court becomes satisfied with Plaintiff’s articulation of good cause, and in
an abundance of caution, the Court has considered Defendant’s objections.  
 
The Court notes that Defendant does
not, in opposition to the motion, even attempt to justify the majority of the
objections it asserts in its responses to RPD 18.  The Court asks Defendant to assert only
meritorious objections to discovery in the future, as boilerplate objections
complicate the discovery process unnecessarily. 

 
Defendant, at page 5, lines 19-20,
contends the franchise agreement contains confidential and trade secret
protected information.  Defendant fails
to provide any evidence or meaningful argument to support this contention, and
therefore fails to justify the objection.
 
Defendant also argues the RPD
violates the right of privacy of the selling dealership, Mercedes-Benz of Long
Beach.  It then cites various Vehicle
Code sections that protect personally identifiable consumer data.  It is not clear how a franchise agreement
would have personally identifiable consumer data in it.  It is also not clear that a dealership would
have “consumer data,” as it does not seem a dealership is a consumer.  Defendant therefore also failed to justify
its privacy objection.  
 
In the event the Court ultimately
finds in favor of Plaintiff on the good cause issue, the Court will grant the
motion because Defendant failed to justify any objection to the discovery.  
 
f.      Sanctions

Both parties seek sanctions in
connection with the motion and opposition. 
The Court finds both parties took their positions in good faith and with
substantial justification, and therefore no sanctions are imposed.  
g.     Conclusion

The motion to compel further
responses is denied.  no sanctions are
imposed.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   