  Case Number:  20STCV47746    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Petition
to Approve Compromise of Minor
Plaintiffs, RDB and David Blandin,
individually and as successors-in-interest to Decedent, Christina Elizabeth
Hurley filed this action against Defendants, Dignity Health, et al. for
wrongful death/medical malpractice.  RDB
is a minor and has appeared in this action through his GAL and his
attorney.  The parties have agreed to a
global settlement of the entire case, and Blandin, as RDB’s parent and GAL,
seeks approval of RDB’s settlement.  
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
to approve the settlement, and finds there are errors that must be cured before
the Court can approve the settlement. 
¶10 of the unredacted version of the petition contains a redaction.  ¶11 appears to contain incorrect and
incomplete information.  11(a) is
checked, which is appropriate when no other plaintiff has a settlement of the
case.  11(b) is not checked, but is
filled out; this should only be filled out if another plaintiff is receiving
settlement proceeds.  11b(3) indicates
Petitioner is not a party to the case, but this is not correct.  Petitioner is a plaintiff in the case.  Notably, the Notice of Settlement, filed on
5/28/24, indicates the entire case has settled. 
All terms of the settlement with all parties must be disclosed in ¶11,
including the amounts of settlement and reasons for apportionment of the
settlement proceeds.  Additionally, if
Counsel will receive funds from Petitioner’s settlement, those funds must be
disclosed at ¶17c.  
 
Finally, the Court notes that
Petitioner wishes to have $55,000 transferred to a custodian pursuant to the
Uniform Transfers to Minors Act. 
Petitioner failed to file required Attachment 18b(6), which would set
forth the name and address of the proposed custodian and the money or other
property to be transferred to the custodian. 
Petitioner is admonished to fully review Probate Code §3900, et seq., if
Petitioner wishes to have monies transferred in this manner.  By way of example, Petitioner must review §3912,
which details the duties of custodians, including 3912(e), which requires the
custodian to keep records of the monies and to make those records available to
a parent or legal representative of the minor or to the minor himself if he has
attained the age of 14.  Petitioner is
admonished that he cannot be the custodian of the monies.  
 
Petitioner must reserve a hearing
for a future petition to approve minor’s compromise and must file and serve an
amended petition curing the above defects at least sixteen court days prior to
the hearing date.  
 
2.     Motion
to Seal Records
Petitioner moves to seal the
various documents detailed above, contending the parties’ settlement agreement
includes a confidentiality provision, such that all documents revealing the
amount of the settlement, amount of attorneys’ fees, and healthcare records
should be redacted.  
 
a.            
Law Governing Motions to Seal
(1) Scope of Rules. C.R.C., Rules 2.550 and 2.551 apply to
trial court records sealed or proposed to be sealed by court order. They do not
apply to discovery motions and records in discovery proceedings, but do apply
to discovery materials used at trial or submitted for adjudication of matters
other than discovery proceedings. (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(a).) 
 
(2) Records Presumed To Be Open. “Unless confidentiality is
required by law, court records are presumed to be open.” (C.R.C., Rule
2.550(c).)
 
(3) Findings Required To Seal Records.  The court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish all of the
following:
 
(a) “There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record.” (C.R.C.,
Rule 2.550(d)(1).)
 
            (b) “The
overriding interest supports sealing the record.” (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(d)(2).)
 
(c) “A substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed.” (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(d)(3).)
 
            (d) “The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored.” (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(d)(4).)
 
            (e) “No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (C.R.C., Rule
2.550(d)(5).)
 
(4) What Constitutes an “Overriding Interest?”  The Advisory Committee Comment to C.R.C.,
Rule 2.550 notes that the rule leaves the determination of what constitutes an
“overriding interest” to case law and that, in appropriate circumstances,
courts have found various statutory privileges, trade secrets, and privacy
interests to be “overriding interests.”
 
(5) Court Approval Required. A record may not be filed under
seal without a court order or based solely on the agreement or stipulation of
the parties. (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(a).)
 
(6) Motion/Application To Seal Record.  Sealing a record is requested by a motion or
application for an order sealing the record, supported by a memorandum and a
declaration of facts sufficient to justify sealing. (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(b)(1).)
If necessary to prevent disclosure, the motion or application and supporting
and opposing documents may be filed in a public redacted version and lodged in
a complete version conditionally under seal. (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(b)(5).) A copy
of the motion or application must be served on all parties who have appeared. A
party who already possesses copies of the records to be placed under seal must
be served with both a complete unredacted version and a redacted version.
(C.R.C., Rule 2.551(b)(2).)
 
(7) Lodging Records “Conditionally Under Seal.”  When the motion or application is made, the
record is lodged “conditionally under seal” unless the record has previously
been lodged or good cause exists for not lodging it. (C.R.C., Rule
2.551(b)(4).) A record that may be filed under seal is lodged with the court in
a sealed envelope or container labeled “conditionally under seal” with a cover
sheet containing the information required on a caption page and stating that
the record is subject to a motion or application to file the record under seal.
The clerk endorses the cover sheet with the date of receipt and retains the
record without filing. (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(d).)
 
(8) Procedure for Confidential Documents.  A party who files or intends to file
documents disclosed during discovery that are subject to a confidentiality
agreement or a protective order but does not intend to request sealing must (a)
lodge the unredacted records and other documents that disclose their contents
conditionally under seal, (b) file redacted copies that do not disclose the
contents, and (c) give written notice to the party who produced the records
that the records and documents lodged under seal will be placed in the public
court file unless that party files a motion or application to seal the records.
(C.R.C., Rule 2.551(b)(3)(A).) Within 10 days, the party who receives the
notice may file a motion or application to seal the records or to extend the
time to file. If the party does so, the documents remain conditionally under
seal until the court rules on the application or motion. If the party does not
do so, the clerk “promptly” places the documents in the public file. (C.R.C.,
Rule 2.551(b)(3)(B).)
 
(9) Contents of Sealing Order.  The order sealing a record must be narrowly
tailored, “specifically set forth the facts that support the findings” and
“[d]irect the sealing of only those documents and pages, or, if reasonably
practicable, portions of those documents and pages, that contain the material
that needs to be placed under seal.” All other portions of the documents must
be placed in the public file. (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(e).) The order must state
whether the order itself, the register of actions, any other court records, or
any other records in the case are to be sealed and whether any person other
than the court is authorized to inspect the record. (C.R.C., Rule 2.550(e)(2),
(e)(3).) Unless the sealing order provides otherwise, the parties may not disclose
the contents of any sealed materials in subsequently filed records or papers.
(C.R.C., Rule 2.550(e)(4).)  
 
There must be no less restrictive means to achieve the
overriding interests.  These findings
embody constitutional requirements for a request to seal court records,
protecting the First Amendment right of public access to civil trials.  (See NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218; Huffy Corp. v. Superior Court
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 97, 104; People v. Jackson (2005) 128 Cal.App 4th 1009,
1026 – in determining whether to seal records, courts must weigh constitutional
requirements for disclosure against such factors as privacy rights.)
 
(10) Grant of Motion or Application.  If the court grants the motion or
application, the clerk replaces the cover sheet with a file-endorsed copy of
the court's order and labels the record “sealed by order of the court on
(date).” (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(e)(1).)
 
(11) Denial of Motion or Application.  If the motion or application is denied, the
clerk returns the lodged record to the requesting party and does not place it
in the case file unless that party notifies the clerk in writing within 10 days
after denial that the record is to be filed. (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(b)(6).)
 
(12) Custody of Sealed Records.  Sealed records are securely filed and kept
separate from the public file in the case. (C.R.C., Rule 2.551(f).) Where
voluminous records in the possession of a public agency are to be sealed, the
order may direct the agency to maintain the records in a secure fashion.
(C.R.C., Rule 2.551(g).)
 
b.            
Settlement Agreement Confidentiality
Pursuant to Hinshaw, Winkler, Draa,
Marsh & Still v. Superior Court (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 233, 241,
it is in the public interest to uphold the confidentiality of a private
settlement.  Petitioner lodged an
unredacted version of the petition to approve minor’s compromise, and also
filed a redacted version.  The main
difference between the redacted and unredacted version of the petition is the
amount of the settlement.  Additionally,
as noted above, the names of the settling defendants are redacted from both versions
of the document.  The Court wishes to
hear from Counsel, at the hearing, concerning why the names of the settling
defendants are redacted.  Notably, their
identify is public record, as the complaint and all other documents in the case
remain unsealed.  
The Court finds the redactions concerning
amounts are appropriately and narrowly tailored.  The Court will grant the motion to seal the
entire petition, but will only permit Petitioner to file the amended petition
with the names sealed if the Court is satisfied with the explanation at the
hearing.  The Court will make an order
concerning the amended petition at the time of the hearing, such that no
additional motion to seal the amended petition need be filed.  The Judicial Assistant will handle the petition
in accordance with the procedure detailed above.  
 
3.     Conclusion
The motion to seal documents is
granted.  
 
The petition to approve compromise
is denied without prejudice for the reasons set forth above.  Petitioner must file an amended petition
curing all defects at least sixteen court days prior to any newly scheduled hearing
date.  