 Case Number:  22LBCV00894    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Claire Stanford filed
this action against Defendants, The Palisades Association, Inc., Long Beach
Home Solutions, Inc., Boris Bogomolny, and Renee Bogomolny for damages arising
out of a fall down a staircase at her apartment complex.    
 
2.     Motion
for New Trial
a.    
Trial
This case was tried to a jury from
4/16/24 to 4/22/24.  At the conclusion of
the trial, Plaintiff made a motion for a mistrial, which was denied.  The jury found in favor of Defendants and
against Plaintiff.  On 5/13/24, the Court
entered judgment in favor of Defendants. 

 
b.     Grounds
for Motion
Plaintiff moves for a new trial
based on:
(1) Irregularity in the proceedings
of the Court (CCP § 657(1)); 
(2) Irregularity in the proceedings
of the jury (CCP § 657(1)); 
(3) Irregularity in the proceedings
caused by (adverse party) (CCP § 657(1)); 
(4) Improper orders of the Court
(CCP § 657(1)); 
(5) Abuse of discretion by the
Court (CCP § 657(1)); 
(6) Accident or surprise, which
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against (CCP § 657(3)); and
(7) Error in law occurring at the
trial and objected to by the moving party (CCP § 657(7)
 
Substantively, Plaintiff argues a
new trial is necessary because:
(1)   The
Court did not allow her to demonstrate how she fell;
(2)   The
Court did not allow Plaintiff’s expert to use demonstrative evidence to show
the severity of the condition on which she fell; and
(3)   The
Court did not allow Plaintiff to submit testimony showing the reasonableness of
her medical bills. 
 
c.     Initial
Note
While Plaintiff’s notice of motion
indicates she is moving for a new trial on seven delineated grounds, her points
and authorities are not clear concerning what ground she is moving on.  §III(A) of her brief purports to brief
“irregularities in the proceedings” under §657(1).  Her very short argument thereafter
incorporates other aspects of §657(1). 
The Court notes that the full text of §657(1) provides for a new trial
when there is: Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse
party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party
was prevented from having a fair trial.
The Court will do its best to rule
on the motion based on all of the asserted grounds, but is doing so without the
benefit of meaningful briefing from Plaintiff concerning which grounds she
contends support which substantive argument in her moving papers.  
 
d.     Law
Governing Motion for New Trial Under §657(1)
A new trial may be granted for:
“1. Irregularity in the proceedings
of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of
discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.”  CCP §657(1). 
As will be seen, “irregularity” is broadly interpreted to encompass many
forms of misconduct and error that would also be ground for mistrial or
reversal on appeal.
 
“Irregularity in the proceedings of
the court”: This phrase refers to conduct other than orders and rulings and
reaches matters that may have to be proved by affidavit rather than by
exceptions on the record during trial. 
It includes personal misconduct by the trial judge or “any departure by
the court from the due and orderly method of disposition of an action by which
the substantial rights of a party have been materially affected.”  Montoya v. Barragan (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1226, 1229-1230.  
 
CCP § 657(1) also authorizes new
trials based on “any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either
party was prevented from having a fair trial.” 
CCP § 657(1).  Evidentiary rulings
by which relevant evidence was erroneously excluded (or conversely, irrelevant
evidence erroneously admitted) may be ground for a new trial if prejudicial to
the moving party's right to a fair trial. 
Marriage of Carlsson (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 281, 294.  This may include the erroneous exclusion of
expert testimony.  People ex rel. Dept.
of Transp. v. Clauser/Wells Partnership (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1066,
1084-1086.  
 
e.     Demonstrative
Evidence
Plaintiff’s first argument is that
the Court erred in refusing to permit her expert to use demonstrative evidence
to show the severity of the condition on which she fell.  Plaintiff contends she offered to present the
dog, the leash, and the laundry basket for the purpose of showing the weight of
each object and to show she could not have been tripped by the leash, which was
retractable.  Plaintiff cites various
cases from more than fifty years ago that collectively establish the trial
court has the discretion to permit introduction of demonstrative evidence when it
will clarify a witness’s testimony.  
 
As an initial note, Defendants
correctly establish, in their opposition, that Plaintiff failed to provide
evidence sufficient to support her position in this regard.  The sole evidence is her attorney’s
declaration, which conclusively states that she was “not allowed” to introduce
this evidence.  Counsel does not state
whether and when the evidence was proffered, whether it was proffered in a
procedurally proper manner, or what ruling the Court made on any such proffer.  While Defendants address this issue in
opposition, Plaintiff fails to address it in reply, effectively conceding the
deficiency of the moving papers.
 
Even if the Court were to find the
evidence sufficient, the Court finds any ruling it made in this regard was
correct.  Evidence Code §352 permits the
Court to exclude any evidence that would be more prejudicial than
probative.  Permitting a plaintiff to
bring a dog into a courtroom would be highly disruptive and unusual.  Notably, Plaintiff failed to show that she
could not simply testify as to the weight of the dog, the weight of the laundry
basket, and the retractable quality of the leash, and that this would not be
sufficient for the jury to deliberate on the issue.
 
f.      Dangerousness
of Stairs
Plaintiff’s next argument is that
the Court erred in refusing her to introduce demonstrative evidence showing the
dangerousness of the stairs. 
Specifically, she contends the Court refused to permit her expert to write
the measurements of each individual stair on the photo of the stairs, which
would have shown the substantial deviations from the building code.
 
Plaintiff’s second argument suffers
from the same evidentiary deficiency as her first argument.  She fails to show that she attempted to
introduce this evidence, how she attempted to do so, or what ruling was made concerning
this evidence.  
 
Additionally, the Court finds
Plaintiff was welcome to introduce testimony about any deviations from the
building code, and Plaintiff failed to show any order precluding her from
writing this testimony on a photograph was not prejudicial.
 
g.     Reasonableness
of Medical Bills
Plaintiff’s third argument is that
the Court erred in refusing to permit her expert, Dr. Ghodadra, to testify
concerning the reasonableness of her medical bills.  Plaintiff argues, in her moving papers, that
this error was prejudicial because she was not allowed to show the severity of
her damages or the necessity of her treatment. 

 
This argument fails for the same
reason stated above; again, Plaintiff did not provide any evidence showing what
testimony she attempted to introduce, how she attempted to do so, or what court
order was issued precluding her from doing so. 
Additionally, the jury verdict was rendered based on a finding that
there was no dangerous condition, and therefore any evidence of medical damages
was not relevant to the verdict. 
Plaintiff, in reply, argues this evidence was necessary for credibility
reasons.  She did not make this argument
in her moving papers, and cannot raise it for the first time in reply.  
 
h.     Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion for a new trial
is denied on both procedural and also substantive grounds, as discussed fully
above.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   