 Case Number:  23VECV01229    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  W CYRUS
MAZAHERIAN, et al. v. CAMERON MAZAHERIAN, et al.
 
DEFENDANTS’ demurrer to plaintiff’s
complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        September
18, 2023                         Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV01229
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Monika Mazaherian 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Cyrus Mazaherian and Linda Terashita 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Bloom Decl. ¶¶2-4.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 20, 2023, Plaintiffs Cyrus
Mazaherian and Linda Terashita filed a complaint against Defendants Cameron
Mazaherian and Monika Mazaherian for breach of contract, unjust enrichment,
money lent, money paid, constructive trust, judicial foreclosure, and
declaratory relief. Plaintiffs allege they entered promissory note agreements
with Defendants whereby Plaintiffs agreed to provide loans to Defendants at
various times. Plaintiffs further alleged they have not received any of the monthly
payments and moreover, Defendants are amidst a separation, which Plaintiffs
believe this will cause an Event of Default / anticipatory repudiation under all
three promissory notes if reasonable and timely assurances are not made about payments
of the promissory notes and the status of the secured interests.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Monika Mazaherian’s Demurrer to the First, Second, Third, Fifth, Sixth,
Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant Monika Mazaherian’s Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Actions is
OVERRULED. 
 
discussion
 
First and
Second Cause of Action
 
Defendant
demurs to the first and second causes of action on the grounds the claims fail
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendant and
are uncertain. 
 
“The standard
elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) “A written contract
may be pleaded by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the
contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by
its legal effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) “In order to plead a contract by its legal effect,
plaintiff must allege the substance of its relevant terms.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant
argues the complaint fails to allege whether the Three Alleged Promissory Notes
are written contracts, oral contracts, or contracts implied by conduct nor do Plaintiffs
set out the essential terms of the agreements. Moreover, Defendant argues the
Complaint’s allegations are inconsistent as to the alleged parties to the
purported contracts.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue they have alleged the essential terms of the
Promissory Notes and moreover, have alleged sufficient facts to show the
contract was written. 
 
When an
action is founded upon a contract, the complaint is subject to demurrer if
it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written,
is oral, or is implied by conduct. (CCP § 430.10(g); Maxwell v. Dolezal
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 93.) The court may consider other allegations in
the complaint and, when read in its entirety, conclude that the alleged
contract was a written contract. (Maxwell, supra, 231 Cal.App.4th
at p. 99.) Here, Plaintiffs have alleged the parties entered into Promissory
Notes, which were signed by Cameron. The allegations also includes essential
allegations of when the Promissory Notes were entered into, the amount
borrowed, the monthly payments, and the properties the Promissory Notes were
secured by. Therefore, the allegations include material terms and it could
be ascertained that the Promissory Notes were written. However, the court
agrees the allegations are inconsistent. Throughout the complaint, the
Plaintiffs allege both Defendant Cameron and Monika entered into the Promissory
Notes. However, the complaint goes onto only allege it was signed by Cameron.
Accordingly, it is not clear who was actually party to the agreement and if all
three Promissory Notes were entirely written. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Monika’s Demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
Third Cause
of Action
 
Defendant
Monika demurs to the third cause of action for breach of oral contract on the
grounds the alleged oral contract violates the statute of frauds and Plaintiffs
failed to allege some of the essential terms that are required for loan
contracts, such as the interest rate due on the alleged loans, whether there
are cure provisions, etc.
 
The statute
of frauds bars enforcement of certain agreements unless the agreement is
confirmed in some form of writing and “subscribed to the party to be charged.”
(Civ. Code § 1624.) Where the complaint seeks to
enforce an agreement required to be in writing, but nonetheless alleges the
agreement was oral, a general demurrer lies because the complaint discloses a
bar to recover. (Parker v. Solomon (1950) 171 Cal.App.2d 125, 136; Rossberg
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1503.)  
 
Defendant
Monika argues the cause of action is barred by the statute of frauds because
the allegations involve an interest in real property and involves a promise to
loan money in an amount greater than $100,000, not primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes, made by a person engaged in the business of
lending or arranging for the lending of money or extending credit.  Defendant
Monika also contends the cause of action is missing the essential terms. The
court notes it has already addressed Defendant Monika’s essential terms
argument. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues there is no mention or allegation of a lien on or
any right in real property in the third cause of action and moreover, Defendant
Monika misleads the court regarding section 1624(a)(7) of the Civil Code. That
section provides that a commitment to loan money which is secured by
residential property of one to four dwellings is deemed to be for “personal,
family or household purposes” and thus exempt from the statute of fraud’s
requirement of a written contract.  
 
The court
finds the allegations insufficient to support a claim for breach of oral
contract. First, Plaintiffs have not satisfied the statute of frauds. “The
authorities are clear that the alleged oral agreement is subject to the statute
of frauds.”  (Reeder v. Specialized
Loan Servicing LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 795, 801.) While the oral
agreements may not violate Section 1624(a)(7), they would appear to violate
(a)(1), which covers “any agreement that by its terms is not to be performed
within a year form the making thereof.”   

 
Accordingly,
Defendant Monika’s demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Fourth Cause
of Action
 
Defendant
Monika demurs to the fourth cause of action for unjust enrichment on the
grounds it is not a valid cause of action and the theory is unavailable since
the parties allegedly entered into express contracts. 
 
There is a
split amongst California courts regarding whether unjust enrichment is an
independent cause of action. Some courts have explicitly stated that “there is
no cause of action in California for unjust enrichment.” (Melchior v. New
Line Prods., Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793; McKell v. Wash. Mut.,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1490; Jogani v. Superior Court
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 901, 911.) These courts conclude that unjust enrichment
is “not a cause of action ... or even a remedy, but rather a principle,
underlying various legal doctrines and remedies. It is synonymous with
restitution.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387
(internal quotation marks and citations omitted). However, other California
courts have recognized an independent cause of action for unjust enrichment.
(See First Nationwide Sav. v. Perry (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1657, 1662–63;
Lectrodryer v. SeoulBank (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 723, 726.) The court
follows the line of authority that unjust enrichment may be alleged as cause of
action. (See Professional Tax Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc.
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the cause of action is pled in the
alternative. While “an unjust enrichment claim does not lie where the parties
have an enforceable express contract[]” (Durell, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at p.
1370), the court agrees that Plaintiff may plead alternative theories at this
time.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Monika’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fifth and
Sixth Causes of Action
 
Defendant
Monika demurs to the fifth and sixth causes of action for common counts on the
grounds that while common counts are generally not subject to demurrer, if it
is based on the same facts as a specific count that is subject to demurrer, the
common counts may also be challenged.  
 
“It is true
that common counts are not subject to a general demurrer (Auckland v. Conlin
(1928) 203 Cal. 776, 777, 265 p. 946; Moya v. Northrup (1970) 10
Cal.App.3d 276, 279, 88 Cal.Rptr. 783; Miller v. McLaglen (1947) 82
Cal.App.2d 219, 223, 186 P.2d 48), but here they are subject to the rule that ‘if
plaintiff is not entitled to recover under one count in a complaint wherein all
the facts upon which his demand is based are specifically pleaded, it is proper
to sustain a demurrer to a common count set forth in the complaint, the
recovery under which is obviously based on the set of facts specifically
pleaded in the other count.’” (Jones v. Daly (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 500,
510.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues this rule does not apply when a general demurrer
lies to the specific count on the ground of statute of frauds. (See White
Lighting Co. v. Wolfton (1968) 68 Cal. 2d 336, 346.) The court has
sustained the breach of contract causes of action on grounds other than statute
of frauds. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Monika’s demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Seventh Cause
of Action
 
Defendant
Monika demurs to the seventh cause of action for constructive trust on the
grounds the imposition of a constructive trust is an equitable remedy, not a
substantive claim for relief. Moreover, Plaintiffs do not allege that the
defendants’ acquisition of money was wrongful nor do they allege Defendants
wrongfully acquired the Somis Property, Washington Property, or Merrill Lynch
account. Defendant Monika also argues it is unclear where the Merrill Lynch
account is located, and Defendants sold the Somis Property over a year ago. 
 
A
constructive trust is an involuntary equitable trust created by operation of
law as a remedy to compel the transfer of property from the person wrongfully
holding it to the rightful owner. The essence of the theory of constructive
trust is to prevent unjust enrichment and to prevent a person from taking
advantage of his or her own wrongdoing. (Communist Party v. 522 Valencia,
Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 980, 990; Campbell v. Superior Court
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 904, 920.)  To allege a constructive trust, a
plaintiff must plead: 1) a wrongful act (underlying claim incorporated into the
cause of action); 2) specific, identifiable property or property interest, or
excuse for inability to describe it; 3) plaintiff’s right to the property; and
defendant has title thereto. (Communist Party, supra, 35
Cal.App.4th at 990.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has failed to plead any wrongdoing on the part of Defendant Monika,
or that Defendant currently has title to the property that Plaintiff is
alleging was wrongfully taken. As such, Plaintiff may not maintain a cause of
action for constructive trust against Defendant Monika. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Monika’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Eighth Cause
of Action
 
Defendant
Monika demurs to the eighth cause of action for judicial foreclosure on the
grounds the court lacks jurisdiction since the real property is located in
Washington and a judicial foreclosure can only be commenced by “filing a
complaint in the superior court of the county in which the real property is
situated.”
 
Plaintiffs do
not address this argument. The court finds because one of the two properties is
located in Washington, Plaintiff does not have a claim for judicial
foreclosure. Accordingly, Defendant Monika’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND. 
 
Ninth Cause
of Action
 
Defendant
Monika demurs to the ninth cause of action for declaratory relief on the
grounds the ninth purported claim is entirely duplicative of other causes of
action, and therefore superfluous and subject to demurrer. 
 
“In general,
if a complaint for declaratory relief alleges the existence of an actual
controversy . . . , the court should not sustain a general demurrer on the
theory that any declaration would necessarily be adverse to the plaintiff.” (Teachers
Management & Investment Cop. v. City of Santa Cruz (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d
438, 449; see Jefferson, Inc. v. City of Torrance (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d
300, 302.)  
 
However, the
court agrees Plaintiffs have not alleged an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Monika’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 