  Case Number:  23CHLC23201    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           YT Solutions
India Pvt. v. Sanli Pastore & Hill Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                23CHLC23201
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   10/24/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Cross-Complainant’s objections to the Naha declaration
are SUSTAINED as to paragraphs 5-6 and OVERRULED as to paragraphs 7-8.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant YT Solutions India Pvt. moves for
summary adjudication of Defendant/Cross-Complainant Sanli Pastore & Hill
Inc.’s second cause of action for fraud. Cross-Defendant poses one issue: the
undisputed facts establish that it disclosed the sales commissions to
Cross-Complainant. 
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) “[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” (OCM Principal Opportunities
Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845.)
Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud when: (1) there is
a fiduciary relationship between the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant
makes partial representations but also suppresses some material facts. (Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 803, 831.) 
 
The cross-complaint provides the
following allegations relevant to the cause of action for fraud. The parties
entered into a contract wherein Cross-Defendant would develop and install new
billing software for Cross-Complainant. (CC ¶6.) A technology consultant
working for Cross-Complainant (Joshua Gottlieb) recommended Cross-Defendant’s
billing software. (CC ¶ 7.) Neither the consultant nor Cross-Defendant
disclosed to Cross-Complainant that the consultant, Gottlieb, was charging
Cross-Complainant an hourly fee for consulting work while simultaneously
receiving a 33% commission from Cross-Defendant. (CC ¶ 8.) The concealment of
the commission structure was material to Cross-Complainant, and
Cross-Complainant would not have contracted with Cross-Defendant had it known
of this conflict of interest. (CC ¶9.) Furthermore, the billing software never
functioned properly, failing to transmit all time entered onto monthly
invoices. (CC ¶ 10.) Cross-Complainant paid Cross-Defendant a total of $58,533.52
for this non-functional software. (CC ¶ 11.) Cross-Defendant intentionally
failed to disclose its commission relationship with Cross-Complainant’s
consultant. (CC ¶ 18.) Had Cross-Complainant known about the commission
relationship it would never have executed the contract with Cross-Defendant.
(CC ¶ 19.) Accordingly, Cross-Complainant was damaged by this fraud by no less
than $58,533.52. (CC ¶20.) 
 
Cross-Defendant argues that no
fraud existed because the commissions were disclosed and deducted from the
ultimate contract price. Cross-Defendant cites a March 11, 2020, email sent to Cross-Complainant’s
representatives discussing the undisclosed commissions. The email states, in
relevant part:
 
I have talked with Joshua on his
commission for the project and he has mentioned forfeiting all future
commission as he has been taken out of the project. Please note our company has
already paid him the commission for the earlier work done collecting data from
SPH old system, CRM data and on-site training for SPH. The 30% commission paid
to Joshua is on $10,553.50 which is mentioned here https://prnt.sc/rejws2. 
 
The remaining project cost where
commission has not been paid is $34,214 - $10,553.50 = $23,660.50. Hence the
commission reduction of30% (sic)on the remaining project cost is $7098.15 which
make the revised project cost as $10,553.50+( $23,660.50 - $7098.15) =
$27,115.85. The rest of the project remains the same. We need confirmation on
this figure so we can send you the reduced invoice and move this
projectforward.
 
(UMF 1-2.) Cross-Defendant explains that on March 16, 2020, the
parties amended their agreement to remove the commission and proceeded on the
amended contract. (UMF 2.) Defendant is still using the software pursuant to
the contract but is not paying for ongoing charges or for additional users.
(UMF 7-8.) Cross-Defendant argues that Cross-Complainant could not justifiably
rely on the non-disclosure of the commissions because it knew the truth. 
 
Cross-Defendant fails to meet its
initial burden to negate the elements of non-disclosure and actual reliance. The
relevant misrepresentation is the alleged non-disclosure of the commissions. (CC
¶ 8-9.) In reliance on this non-disclosure, Defendant entered into the software
contract with Plaintiff. (CC ¶¶ 18-19.) The record shows that the parties
entered into this contract before the March 2020 email. This is
self-evident, as the email pertains to a refund of the commissions.
Further, Cross-Complainant demonstrates that the parties signed the initial
contract in July 2019, without any disclosure of the commissions. (AMF 9.) The
fact that Cross-Defendant later discussed the commissions would not
vitiate Cross-Defendant’s duty to disclose the material facts of the
commissions before entering into the software contract.
 
Cross-Defendant does not provide
authorities for the proposition that amendment to the contract fully settled
any claims for fraud. Furthermore, Cross-Defendant cites no evidence that the
parties considered this refund a settlement of any fraud claims. 
 
Cross-Defendant also cites a
conclusory statement from its own agent, asserting that Cross-Complainant “was
aware” and “objected to” the commission payments to Josuha Gottlieb. (Naha
Decl., ¶ 5.) This bald assertion is not specific and substantial evidence that
Cross-Complainant knew of the commissions at the relevant juncture—prior to
entering into the software project in July 2019. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.
 