 Case Number:  24TRCV01331    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative  Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 May 16, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV01331  CASE NAME:                          RREEF America Reit II Corp. BBB v. Burkelly, Inc., et al.                                                    MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, RREEF  America Reit II Corp. BBB   RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Burkelly, Inc. a California  corporation doing business as “CYCLEBAR” (No Opposition)   TRIAL DATE:                        May  16, 2024      MOTION:                              (1) Motion to Strike Answer   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.  Defendant is granted immediate leave to file  an amended answer though legal counsel, as corporations cannot represent  themselves in California without a lawyer   I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual              On  April 19, 2024, Plaintiff, RREEF America Reit II Corp. BBB (“Plaintiff”) filed  an unlawful detainer complaint against Defendant, Burkelly, Inc., a California  corporation doing business as “CYCLEBAR” (“Defendant”), and DOES 1 through 10.                The  complaint is based on Plaintiff’s allegation that it leased the premises known  as 3160 N. Sepulveda Boulevard, Space No. S-135, Manhattan Beach, County of Los  Angeles, CA 90266, to Defendant’s predecessor-in-interest. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7,  8.) However, Plaintiff contends that Defendants have entered into the  possession of the premises under the lease and continue to occupy the premises.  (Complaint, ¶ 9.) Further, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants have failed to pay  rent in the amount of $107,945.83 as of April 2, 2024. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) On  April 2, 2024, Plaintiff alleges that it served upon Defendants a written  notice to pay rent or surrender possession by sending the notice to Defendants  via FedEx. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) Per the moving papers, plaintiff claims the  notice set forth the nature of Defendants’ default and required Defendants to  pay rent due or deliver possession of the premises within five (5) days, and  states Plaintiff’s election to declare a forfeiture of the lease. (Complaint, ¶  13.) Nonetheless, Plaintiff alleges that more than five (5) days have elapsed  since the service of notice, but Defendants have not paid the full amount of  rent due and owning, nor have they vacated the premises within the five (5) day  period. (Complaint, ¶ 14.) Thus, Plaintiff brought this complaint for unlawful  detainer, seeking possession of the premises. (Complaint, ¶ 15.)               On  April 29, 2024, Defendant filed an in pro per answer to the unlawful detainer  action.                Because  Defendant is a corporation, and the Answer was field by an individual rather  than by a lawyer representing the corporation, Plaintiff now moves to strike  Defendant’s answer.    B. Procedural   On May 5, 2024, Plaintiff  filed this Motion to Strike Defendant’s answer. To date, no opposition has been  filed.    II. ANALYSIS                                                                                                                             A. Motion to Strike  ¿ Any party, within the time allowed to respond to  a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any  part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may, upon a  motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,  strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d  767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is  surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or  disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of  the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant  allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;  is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or  defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations  of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for  moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial  notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿    B. Discussion     Plaintiff  moves to strike Defendant’s answer on the grounds that it was filed in pro per.  “[U]nder a long-standing common law rule of procedure, a corporation, unlike a  natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of record in propria  persona, nor can it represent itself through a corporate officer, director or  other employee who is not an attorney. It must be represented by licensed  counsel in proceedings before courts of record.” (CLD Const., Inc. v. City  of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.) A proper response to a  corporate pleading filed in pro per is an order striking the answer. (Id.)  (motion to strike corporation’s complaint filed in pro per improperly granted  w/prejudice and without leave to amend; remanded to allow for leave to file  amended pleading). However, the corporate defendant must be allowed an  opportunity to file an amended pleading through counsel, because the failure to  file an answer with proper representation is a curable defect. (Id.)   As  such, this Court will strike Defendant’s answer and give the defendant  corporation immediate leave to file an amended answer through its counsel.  