  Case Number:  23STCV02546    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 16, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV02546
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Larry Tran v. Tesla,
Inc., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, Tesla, Inc.
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Larry Tran
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
                                                (2)
Motion to Strike
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendants’ Demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the product liability causes of action
(2nd, 3rd and 4th) which are barred on the FAC
of the FAC by the statute of limitations, and SUSTAINED as to the fraud causes
of action (5th, 6th and 7th) with oral argument
as to whether further leave to amend should be permitted.
                                                (2) Defendants’
Motion to Strike is Mooted
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
On August 4, 2023,
Plaintiff, Larry Tran (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants,
Tesla, Inc., Tesla Motors, Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. On January 4, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Express Warranty under the Cal UCC 2313; (2) Strict
Liability - Product Liability Failure to Warn; (3) Strict Liability - Design
Defect; (4) Mfg. Defect - Duty to Warn Negligence; (5) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (6) Intentional Misrepresentation; (7) Concealment. 
 
Previously, on December 12, 2023, the Court ruled
on Tesla’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s original Complaint. In that previous minute
order, it: (1) sustained, without leave to amend, Plaintiff’s first and second
causes of action for Song-Beverly, Magnuson-Moss Act, and UCC Claims; (2)
sustained, WITH leave to amend, Plaintiff’s third cause of action for Breach of
Warranty – Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act; (3) sustained, without leave to amend,
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for Breach of Implied Warranty of
Merchantability; (4) overruled the demurrer to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of
action for Breach of Express Warranty under California Uniform Commercial Code
section 2313; (5) sustained, with leave to amend, Plaintiff’s sixth, seventh,
and eighth causes of action for products liability – failure to warn, design
defect, and duty to warn; (6) sustained, with leave to amend, Plaintiff’s
ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action based on fraud; (7) sustained, with
leave to amend, Plaintiff’s twelfth cause of action for Illegal Tying
Arrangement under the Cartwright Act; (8) sustained, with leave to amend,
Plaintiff’s thirteenth cause of action for CLRA Civil Code §§ 1770, et seq.;
and (9) sustained, with leave to amend, Plaintiff’s Fourteenth cause of action
for Violation of Business and Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq. 
 
Defendant, Tesla, Inc.,
has now filed a new demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC.
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On February 6, 2024, Tesla, Inc. filed a Motion to Strike
portions of the FAC. On February 8, 2024, Tesla filed a Demurrer. On May 3,
2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions to both motions. On May 9, 2024 Tesla, Inc.
filed reply briefs to both oppositions. 
 
¿II.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Filed concurrently with Tesla, Inc.’s moving papers,
Tesla includes a request for judicial notice of the following documents: 
 
1.    
Articles of Incorporation and Statements of
Information regarding AutoNation, Inc., filed with the California Secretary of
State. (Exhibit 2.) 
2.    
Articles of Incorporation and Statements of
Information regarding Tesla, Inc. d/b/a Tesla Motors, Inc., filed with the
California Secretary of State. (Exhibit 3.)
 
This Court GRANTS
Tesla, Inc.’s request and takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
            The FAC alleges
that Plaintiff purchased his pre-owned model year 2013 Tesla Model S on June
27, 2020 with 97,134 miles on the odometer. 
(FAC ¶¶ 10, 13.)  He alleges that
the balance of the original new car warranty applied to his purchase, an 8
year, 150,000 mile warranty for the battery and drive unit, given the
allegation that the original warranty period commenced on November 26, 2013 so
he contends he has nearly 1-1/2 years remaining under the warranty.  (Id. and ¶ 16.)  Plus he alleges there are an infinite number
of miles for the battery pack and drive unit per written promise from Elon Musk
himself.  (Id. ¶17.)  He further alleges an extension of the warranty
period past November 26, 2021 under (an unspecified) California law by virtue
of repair visits he made.  The FAC
alleges that Plaintiff had a concern that there was “something wrong” with the
battery shortly after his purchase, on July 12, 2020.  (Id. ¶19.)  The FAC contains numerous paragraphs
detailing Plaintiff’s repair history, communications or attempted communications
with Tesla, and the dates and amount of repair or replacement parts he
purchased.  He alleges in Paragraphs 67-69
that he did not discover the nature of the defect until
April 9, 2022 when his Model S died on Sierra Highway, and that Tesla
prevented his earlier discovery of the defect because of prior assurances of
successful repair and allegations that Tesla prevented him from discovering “certain
facts” by refusing to disclose “the metrics from its software diagnostics” and
because Tesla “had secret teams to suppress” other customers’ driving range
complaints.  
 
A.   
Demurrer
 
Legal Standard 
 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain
if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may
lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so
confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿
 
Discussion 
 
            Tesla
demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that it argues Plaintiff’s second
cause of action for Strict Liability – Product Liability Failure to Warn, third
cause of action for Strict Liability – Design Defect, fourth cause of action
for Mfg. Defect – Duty to Warn Negligence, fifth cause of action for Negligent
Misrepresentation, sixth cause of action for Intentional Misrepresentation, and
seventh cause of action for Concealment each fail because they are barred by
the applicable statute of limitations, failed to plead Plaintiff is entitled to
tolling principles, and fails to allege facts sufficient facts to maintain a
claim against Defendant, Tesla. 
 
Product
Liability Failure to Warn, Design Defect, and Duty to Warn (Second, Third, and Fourth
Causes of Action)
 
            In this
demurrer, Tesla – again – argues that the Plaintiff’s causes of action two
through four are time-barred. As noted previously, the statute of limitation
for Product Liability actions is two years. In this Court’s previous ruling on
the demurrer to the original complaint, the Court noted that Plaintiff failed
to include, in the original complaint, a statute of limitation tolling section.
Moreover, this Court clarified that the allegations in the original complaint,
which spoke to the continuous repairs, did not allude to a tolling of the
product liability causes of action, but instead spoke to the potential tolling
of the fraud causes of action. Since then, Plaintiff has amended his Complaint
with his FAC. The FAC contains some allegations that arguably bear on the issue
of potential tolling of the statute of limitations, as discussed below. 
 
            The FAC
confirms that Plaintiff purchased the subject vehicle on June 27, 2020, and
that the vehicle “lacked sufficient instructions or warning of potential risks
if the operator of the vehicle continued to drive the vehicle after the SOC
read 10% or lower.” (FAC, ¶¶ 10, 81.) Tesla argues that Plaintiff’s Products
Liability causes of action (second through fourth) accrued on July 12, 2020,
when Plaintiff claims he brought his Tesla into an authorized service center
and was concerned with the battery life. (FAC, ¶ 19.)   Plaintiff disputes Tesla’s argued trigger
date for the running of the statute of limitations.  Instead, the FAC appears to allege that the statutory
clock began ticking no earlier than May 14, 2021 when Plaintiff alleged sustained
injuries (emotional distress and fear) when his vehicle unexpectedly died with
more that 4% SOC displayed on the dashboard while he was on the 5 Freeway.
(FAC, ¶ 23.)  Paragraph 23 contends that the
May 2021 incident “caused the plaintiff severe panic, anxiety, fright, anger
and angst resulting in severe emotional distress.”  Paragraph 24 alleges that the same day, May
14, 2021, Plaintiff called Tesla’s service center “and reported the defect to
Tesla including the issue with the battery usage, but Tesla refused or failed
to fix the problem although it was still under warranty.”  Paragraphs 67-69 of the FAC
contains a later, inconsistent allegation of a trigger date for the statute of limitations
on April 9, 2022 when his Model S died on Sierra Highway.  This lawsuit was filed on August 4, 2023,
more than two years after the May 14, 2021, alleged incident but within two
years of the April 9, 2022 incident.  
 
            In his opposition
to the Demurrer, Plaintiff provides only one paragraph of factual analysis,
with no case law or statutory analysis as applied to the facts.  Plaintiff, a self-represented party, also filed
declarations in opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike, apparently
under the mistaken belief that a demurrer or motion to strike hearing is an evidentiary
hearing like a trial or arbitration.  It
is not an evidentiary hearing.  In
considering a demurrer or motion to strike, the judge only considers the
pleading, i.e., the allegations of the complaint or amended complaint, matters
of which the Court is requested to take judicial notice, plus any exhibits
attached to the complaint, rather than affidavits or declaration or other matters
outside the four corners of the complaint and its exhibits.
 
Plaintiff’s Opposition argues that
the FAC adequately and sufficiently apprises the Defendant of the nature of the
claim and the basis upon which the Plaintiff is seeking relief. Plaintiff also argues
that he had no knowledge or had reasonable knowledge of his injuries because of
Tesla’s repeated statements that the vehicle was functioning. However, the
Court cannot ignore the specific allegations made in the FAC regarding the
essential elements of Plaintiff’s product liability causes of action, i.e., an
allegedly defective product, injury or harm to the plaintiff, and a causation
connection between the defect and the injury. 
The FAC alleges that there was a defect, one he reported to Tesla on May
14, 2021, and that the defect was the cause of an alleged injury-causing
incident earlier that same day.  (FAC ¶¶
23, 24.) The California Supreme Court addressed the discovery rule and its
potential tolling or delaying the running of the statute of limitations in the seminal
case of Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Company.  The Jolly Court discussed the polies
behind the product liability statute of limitations as follows: 
 
“the fundamental
purpose of the statute is to give defendants reasonable repose, that is, to
protect parties from defending stale claims. A second policy underlying the
statute is to require plaintiffs to diligently pursue their claims. Because a
plaintiff is under a duty to reasonably investigate and because a suspicion
of wrongdoing, coupled with a knowledge of the harm and its cause, will
commence the limitations period, suits are not likely to be unreasonably
delayed, and those failing to act with reasonable dispatch will be barred. At
the same time, plaintiffs who file suit as soon as they have reason to believe
that they are entitled to recourse will not be precluded.”  (Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co. (1988)
44 Cal.3d 1103, 1112.)  
 
“In sum, the limitations
period begins when the plaintiff suspects, or should suspect, that she [or he]
has been wronged.”  (Id. at p. 1114.)  
 
The
FAC alleges that Plaintiff had a concern that there was “something wrong” with
the battery shortly after his purchase, on July 12, 2020.  (FAC ¶19.) 
Tesla argues that this concern meets the Jolly suspicion
of wrongdoing requirement, but the Court does not so find with respect to the product
liability claims because the FAC does not allege any bodily injury as of that
date.  For the product liability causes
of action, the bodily injury claim is alleged to have been sustained on (and
after) May 14, 2021.  (Id. ¶¶ 23,
24.)  “Once the plaintiff has a suspicion
of wrongdoing, and therefore an incentive to sue, she [or he] must decide
whether to file suit or sit on her [or his] rights. So long as a suspicion
exists, it is clear that the plaintiff must go find the facts; she [or he] cannot
wait for the facts to find her [or him]. 
(Jolly, supra, 44 Cal.3d at p. 1111.)  The FAC thus alleges a defect or problem, one
that was first suspected to be wrongdoing in 2020 but which is alleged to have continued
despite numerous efforts by Plaintiff to obtain repair or other remedy, later
resulting in an alleged injury-causing event in 2021 and a later one in
2022.  On its face, the FAC alleged facts
that show that the statute of limitations on a product liability clam for the alleged
fear, emotional distress and other allegedly compensable personal injuries
occurred more than two years before the lawsuit was filed.  The Court thus SUSTAINS Tesla’s demurrer
as to the product liability causes of action (Second, Third, and Fourth causes
of action) without leave to amend. 
 
Fraud Causes of Action
(Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Causes of Action)
 
            Tesla also again
argues that the statute of limitations bars Plaintiff’s bringing of fraud
causes of action. As noted previously, the statute of limitations applicable to
an action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake is three years. However,
the Court notes that it did NOT sustain the prior demurrer to these fraud
causes of action in the demurrer to the original complaint on statute of limitations
grounds. In fact, the Court previously noted in its tentative ruling, that Plaintiff’s
allegations sufficiently alleged tolling of the statute of limitations as to
the fraud causes of action. Because the allegations in the original complaint,
which were the basis of this Court’s previous statute of limitations analysis,
are still present in the FAC, this Court notes that – again – it finds
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged tolling as to the fraud causes of action
here. 
 
            The reason
this Court previously sustained Tesla’s demurrer as to the misrepresentation causes
of action was that Plaintiff had previously failed to identify a single
individual with knowledge that any representations were false and/or who
concealed information or who acted with the intent to induce reliance. Further,
as for the concealment cause of action, this Court sustained the demurrer to
the original complaint on the grounds that it failed to allege that Tesla had a
duty to make such disclosures to a person who did not purchase a Tesla vehicle directly
from Tesla or a Tesla-affiliated entity. Plaintiff alleged that he purchased
his Model S from AutoNation, not directly from Tesla (id. ¶ 10.)  There is no allegation that AutoNation is a
Tesla authorized sales facility.
 
The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.)  
 
The elements of fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a
defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) intent to
defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4)
the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did
if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) the
plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of
fact. (Hambridge v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)   There are four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; or
(4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some
material fact.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) A
duty to disclose may also arise when a defendant possesses or exerts control
over material facts not readily available to the plaintiff. (Jones v. Conoco
Phillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1198, 1199.)  The Court
agrees that there are insufficient allegations of the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, but that is only one of the four actionable circumstances where a
duty to disclose may arise.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
FAC alleges more specificity as to service technicians, and their authority to
speak, and what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.  (FAC, ¶ 113, 126, and 142.) Plaintiff, in a
conclusory way, includes the following paragraph into the three fraud-based
causes of action: “Defendants, Tesla, Inc., Tesla Motors, Inc. and Does 1
through 10 are jointly and severally liable as principal/agent, successor
liability, fiduciary duty, acting in concert, employer/employee, or other legal
theory of vicarious liability.” (FAC, ¶¶ 124, 137, 151.) Further, Plaintiff
also added the allegation to its concealment cause of action that: “Tesla, as
the manufacturer of the Model S, who owned and operated the Tesla Service
Department that plaintiff visited, owed a duty to disclose material information
about the vehicle to plaintiff when it came to safe operation of the vehicle
even though plaintiff did not purchase the Tesla vehicle from Tesla or a Tesla
affiliated entity.” (FAC, ¶ 140) These allegations do not fit as currently alleged
in any of the four categories of actional fraud, which are outlined in LiMandri
above.  
The Court will
entertain oral argument as to what further amendment he truthfully could make
to address the deficiencies in his allegations of misrepresentation or
fraud.  The Court reiterates that the FAC
does not adequately allege any fraud in the inducement or concealment claim  based on the purchase of a Tesla through
AutoNation. For the foregoing reasons, the Court’s tentative ruling is to
SUSTAIN demurrer as to causes of action five, six, and seven, and to take oral argument
as to whether the Court should grant further leave to amend. 
B.    Motion
to Strike 
¿ 
Legal
Standard 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)¿ The court may also strike all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿ (Id., § 436(b).)¿
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.¿ (Id.,
§ 436.)¿ The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿ (Id., § 437.)¿ “When the defect
which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow
leave to amend.”¿ (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)
 
Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a)
authorizes punitive damages in non-contract cases “where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
 
Discussion
 
Here, Tesla bases its Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for Punitive Damages on the argument that Plaintiff has not plead the
fraud causes of action with the specificity required. Because this Court has
SUSTAINED each cause of action (five, six, and seven) for which Defendant has
made this Motion to Strike punitive damages within, this Court tentatively
rules that its decision above has MOOTED the Motion to Strike.   
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Tesla’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED. Additionally, the Motion to Strike is mooted. 
 
Tesla is ordered to give
notice. 
¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
 
 