 Case Number:  24TRCV00170    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 May 16, 2024 CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00170   CASE NAME:                        Karin Friedman v.  Anthony Cavuoti, LMFT, et al.    MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Karin Friedman    RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendants,  Anthony Cavuoti, LMFT, Carellon Behavioral Health of CA, Inc., et al. (No  Opposition)   TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set.   MOTION:                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for  Leave to File Second Amended Complaint   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.         I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual   On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff, Karin  Friedman (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Anthony Cavuoti,  LMFT, Carellon Behavioral Health of CA, Inc., and DOES 1 through 100. The  Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Professional Negligence; (2)  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (3) Negligent Hiring.  On March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: : (1) Professional  Negligence; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (3) Negligent  Selection of an Independent Contractor.    Now, Plaintiff has filed a Motion for  Leave to File Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) (erroneously entitled “Motion to  Amend First Amended Complaint”)   B. Procedural    On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  Motion for Leave to Amend and file Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). To date,  no opposition has been filed.        II. ANALYSIS                Prelminarily,  this Court notes that although Plaintiff’s Motion is entitled “Motion for Leave  to file First Amended Complaint,” this Court notes that because Plaintiff filed  a First Amended Complaint already, on March 5, 2024, that this is actually  Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint.    A.    Legal Standard     Leave to amend is permitted  under the Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576.  The policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is  “so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be  justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great  liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the  proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be  applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..  [citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and  probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v.  Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)     A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also  comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule  3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what  allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence  was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made  earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered  amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that  would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,  necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for  delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)    B.     Discussion                Here,  Plaintiff asserts that she is originally filed this case on January 23, 2024,  and acted with expediency when filing her original FAC. She notes that she  received Defendant Carellon’s meet and confer correspondence regarding their  potential demurrer to the FAC on April 2, 2024. The Plaintiff notes that the  parties spoke via telephone on April 10, 2024, and the parties agreed Plaintiff  would seek leave to amend her pleading. Here, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s  counsel, Robert J. Lisky, filed a declaration indicating what allegations are  to be added and where, and what new evidence was discovered warranting the  amendment, and why it was not made earlier (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.)  Although new evidence was not per se found out, Plaintiff did become aware of a  demurrer that would be filed by the Carellon Defendant, and claims that the  parties agreed that Plaintiff would amend her pleading. This Court also notes  that Plaintiff did move expeditiously in amending her pleading.                Also,  pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, this Court notes that the  motion and declaration include: (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered  amendment, (2) specifications by reference to page and lines the allegations  that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration by Robert J. Liskey that  specifies the effect, necessity, and propriety of the amendments.                Because  no opposition has been filed, and according to Plaintiff, the parties agree  that Plaintiff should amend, the Court GRANTS this motion pursuant to the policy of great liberality in permitting amendments.    III. CONCLUSION    For  the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File her Second Amended  Complaint is GRANTED.  The Second Amended  Complaint shall be filed forthwith as a stand-alone document, not as an  attachment or exhibit to the motion.  Defendant’s  responsive pleading shall be filed within 30 days of service of this ruling as  per the parties stipulation which the Court approved on May 14, 2024.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.  