 Case Number:  23STCV03048    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  MARK SCHAEFER, et al., Plaintiffs,vs. THE NICE GUY, LLC, et al.,Defendants.  Case No.:  23STCV03048 Hearing Date:  June 11, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEMURRER TO THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT FILED BY DEFENDANTS THE NICE GUY, LLC AND THE HWOOD GROUP, LLCThe demurrer to the second amended complaint filed by Movants The Nice Guy, LLC and The Hwood Group, LLC. is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Moving party to give notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for negligence, negligent hiring, supervision and retention, assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence and premises liability. Plaintiffs allege that, in the early morning hours of February 12, 2022, they were shot and injured by Doe Defendants at the “Subject Location,” which the complaint defines as “inside, at, near, or on the sidewalk, street, and/or property adjacent to near 401 North La Cienega Boulevard, Los Angeles County, California 90048.” The complaint alleges Moving Defendants owned, operated, managed, and controlled the Subject Location, including a restaurant/lounge on the property. At the time of the shooting, an “after-party” was taking place at the restaurant/lounge. The complaint alleges Moving Defendants anticipated or should have reasonably anticipated that criminal conduct, including gun violence, would take place during the after-party. PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn February 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Mark Schaefer and Adam Rahman filed this action against Defendants The Nice Guy, LLC, The Hwood Group, LLC, Justin Bieber, Bill K. Kapri aka Kodak Black aka Dieuson Octave, Revolve Group, Inc., Leslie A. Glick, Leslie Glick 2021 Irrevocable Gift Trust, City of Los Angeles, City of West Hollywood, County of Los Angeles, and Does 1-20On July 31, 2023, the Court sustained a demurrer filed by Defendants The Nice Guy, LLC and The Hwood Group, LLC with leave to amend.On September 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (FAC).On November 2, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed Defendant County of Los Angeles from this action.On December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed the City of West Hollywood from this action.On March 13 and 27, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed Defendants Leslie Glick and Revolve Group, Inc. from this action.On April 22, 2024, the Court sustained demurrers filed by Defendants Justin Bieber, The Nice Guy, LLC, and The Hwood Group, LLC with leave to amend.On May 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint. On May 13, 2024, Defendants The Nice Guy, LLC and The Hwood Group, LLC (Movants) filed a third demurrer.On May 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.On June 4, 2024, Movants filed a reply.DISCUSSIONMovants demur to Plaintiffs’ SAC on the grounds that the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to support causes of action for negligence, negligent hiring, and public nuisance against Movants. Plaintiffs only allege three causes of action against Movants.A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).)a. Meet and ConferA party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).) “The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a)(2).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections 430.41 (a)(4).)Here, Movants’ counsel testifies that he met and conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel via telephone on May 8, 2024 and the parties could not resolve their dispute over the FAC. (Real Decl., ¶5.) Movants satisfy meet and confer requirements.b. Discussioni. First Cause of Action -- NegligenceMovants first demur to the cause of action for negligence on the grounds that the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to support a cause of action for negligence.“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917, internal quotations omitted.) “The first element, duty, may be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128, internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he existence of a duty is a question of law for the court.” (Ky. Fried Chicken of Cal. v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819.)“[W]hile negligence is ordinarily a question of fact, the existence of a duty is generally a question of law that may be addressed by demurrer. (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1096.) Whether one owes a duty to another must be decided on a case-by-case basis. (Weirum v. RKO General, Inc. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 40, 46.) Every case is governed by the rule of general application that all persons are required to use ordinary care to prevent others from being harmed as a result of their conduct. (Id.)Civ. Code, section 1714(a) provides that everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.Here, as before, the SAC alleges that on February 12, 2022, Plaintiffs were severely injured during a violent incident at a restaurant, “The Nice Guy,” in Los Angeles, California, where Defendant Bieber was hosting an after party. (SAC ¶¶19, 24.) Plaintiff Rahman was a patron of the restaurant and exited shortly before gunfire began. (SAC ¶25a.) Plaintiff Schaefer was an onlooker at the event collecting autographs on the property. (SAC ¶25b.) Plaintiffs were both shot by Does 3 through 20. (SAC ¶24.) The restaurant is owned and operated by Movants and other entities. (SAC ¶21.) Defendants’ promotion and marketing of the event attracted more people than the venue’s capacity, causing people to occupy the sidewalk, street, and properties adjacent to the restaurant. (Id.) Defendants anticipated or should have anticipated that criminal conduct, including gun violence, in the area would take place during the event. (SAC ¶22.) Defendants should have known that Defendant Kodak Black was involved in an altercation during the event. (Id.) Defendants knew or should have known that Defendant Kodak Black was involved in an altercation during the event that further increased the risk and foreseeability of violent conduct. (Id.) Plaintiffs now also allege that The Hwood Group, LLC previously operated another venue which shut down after neighbors made complaints about the noise and patrons, causing the venue to be declared a public nuisance. (SAC ¶22a.) There were prior incidents of violence on and around the subject property, including that in April 2015, four patrons leaving the premises beat a photographer. (SAC ¶22b.) There were other violent incidents at other locations operated by The Hwood Group, LLC in 2016 and 2018. (SAC ¶22c.) Defendants knew Kodak Black would be attending the event and knew he and his entourage to cause gun violence, be a draw for gun violence, and had a history of gun violence. (SAC ¶22d.) Defendants’ employees had engaged in or exacerbated violence at past events. (SAC ¶22e.) Before the incident, Defendants became aware of a violent altercation involving Black at the event which worsened over the course of the night. (SAC ¶22f.) Each Defendant caused or contributed to severe overcrowding and over-serving of action to individuals with a known history of gun violence. (SAC ¶22g.)Although Defendants undertook to provide security for the event, Defendants failed to exercise reasonable care in the rendering of these services, instigated violence, escalated the violence of others, and failed to use reasonable care rendering security services. (SAC ¶23.) Security personnel were to perform duties, including maintaining crowd control, discouraging altercations, providing security and protection to guests, employees, and property, and restraining and/or ejecting intoxicated, disorderly, or insubordinate guests. (SAC ¶23b.) Defendants’ security personnel used excessive force, exacerbating the violence, and failed to deescalate the conflict. (Id.) The violence moved from within the restaurant to a broader area around the restaurant. (SAC ¶24.) Defendants entered into contracts with each other to provide security for the protection of patrons, onlookers, and passersby, including Plaintiffs, during the event. (SAC ¶30b.)ForeseeabilityMovants first argue that the SAC fails to state facts showing they owed a duty to protect the public at large for a third party’s conduct occurring off the premises on nearby land. Businesses such as shopping centers, restaurants, and bars have an affirmative duty to take reasonable steps to secure their premises, as well as adjacent common areas within their control, against reasonably foreseeable criminal acts of third parties. (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 249. “A proprietor’s general duty of maintenance, which is owed to tenants and patrons, includes the duty to take reasonable steps to secure common areas against foreseeable criminal acts of third parties that are likely to occur in the absence of such precautionary measures.” (Id. at p. 236.) “Duty in such circumstances is determined by a balancing of foreseeability of the criminal acts against the burdensomeness, vagueness, and efficacy of the proposed security measures.” (Id. at p. 238.) Due to the high social costs of imposing a duty on landowners to hire private police forces, “a high degree of foreseeability is required in order to find that the scope of a landlord’s duty of care includes the hiring of security guards.” (Ibid.) This “requisite degree of foreseeability rarely, if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of violent crime on the landowner’s premises.” (Ibid; see also Wiener v. Southcoast Childcare Centers, Inc. (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1138, 1149-1150 [finding a heightened standard necessary due to the difficulty or impossibility of predicting when a criminal will strike, and the difficulty of removing all means available to a criminal intent on a particular victim or goal].) Where the burden of preventing future harm caused by third party criminal conduct is great or onerous, heightened foreseeability shown by prior similar incidents or other indications of reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in that location will be required. (Tan v. Arnel Management Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1087, 1097.)Here, Plaintiffs are essentially arguing that Defendants had a duty to provide security services to protect patrons, onlookers, staff, and the public both inside and in the area surrounding the subject property. To impose such a duty would be particularly onerous due to the cost of providing security both in and outside the restaurant. Thus, Plaintiffs must make a showing of heightened foreseeability that the subject shooting would take place.As before, the facts are insufficient to show that the subject incident was foreseeable. First, the incident resulting in Plaintiffs’ injuries was a shooting. Although Plaintiffs now allege there were other similar incidents at the subject property, the incident described in the SAC was a beating, which is not similar to the subject shooting. Additionally, the incident described took place in 2015, seven years before the subject incident. The fact that a beating took place seven years ago at this location is insufficient to show that the subject shooting was likely to take place. Although Plaintiffs now allege that there were prior incidents at other locations operated by The Hwood Group in 2016 and 2018, LLC, these took place in other locations long before the subject incident. Thus, they are too remote to have put Movants on notice that the subject incident was likely to take place. The facts regarding overcrowding remain largely unchanged in the SAC. As before, even if Defendants marketed the event in a manner which invited more guests to attend than the venue could hold, it would not be reasonable to infer that the shooting was foreseeable due to overcrowding alone. Although other injuries may be foreseeable due to overcrowding, the facts are insufficient to show how a shooting was a foreseeable danger of the overcrowding. Even with allegations that the crowd was over-served alcohol and that attendees had a known history of gun violence, there are no allegations of past incidents involving shootings or that Movants knew any attendees were armed. The SAC now alleges that Movants’ employees used excessive force while performing duties within the scope of their employment, that the violence was instigated by the employees, and the employees had instigated violence in the past. However, there are no facts that the employees’ use of excessive force had resulted in similar shootings in the past. Thus, the facts do not support the assertion that the shooting was foreseeable. The SAC now alleges that Defendants knew that Kodiak Black and his entourage had a history of gun violence, were known to commit gun violence, and would be a draw for gun violence. However, even if Kodiak Black and his entourage had a propensity to commit gun violence, Black’s presence at the event alone is insufficient to show that the subject incident was foreseeable. There are no facts which would show Defendants knew Black and his entourage would engage in gun violence during the event. Even if Defendants knew of an altercation during the event involving Defendant Kodiak Black, there are no facts showing how the altercation is related to the alleged shooting. The facts alleged in the SAC are insufficient to show that the alleged shooting was foreseeable, and that Movants had a duty to protect Plaintiffs from the criminal acts of third parties outside the restaurant. Given the heightened foreseeability requirement, the facts alleged are insufficient to show the shooting was foreseeable such that Movants had a legal duty to implement security measures to prevent a shooting from breaking out and injuring onlookers and patrons such as Plaintiffs outside of the restaurant.Special RelationshipMovants argue that there was no special relationship which imposed a duty on Movants to protect Plaintiffs. The parties dispute whether Movants had a special relationship with Plaintiffs by contract or due to Plaintiffs’ status as invitees.A special relationship may arise out of a voluntary assumption of a duty upon which a person reasonably relies. (Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1203.) If a special relationship arises out of a contractual duty, the duty is owed not only to the parties to the contract but also to those persons intended to be benefited by the performance of the contract. (Id.) A special relationship arises by contract only if the contract itself imposes a duty to protect. (McHenry v. Asylum Entertainment Delaware, LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 469, 485–486.) Such a special relationship requires a specific promise in the contract to provide specific protection. (Bom v. Superior Court (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 1, 16.)A volunteer who, having no initial duty to do so, undertakes to provide protective services to another, will be found to have a duty to exercise due care in the performance of that undertaking if either (a) the volunteer’s failure to exercise such care increases the risk of harm to the other person or (b) the other person reasonably relies on the volunteer’s undertaking and suffers injury as a result. (Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 249.) The scope of the duty depends upon the nature of the undertaking. (Id.) Merely because an enterprise chooses to have security does not mean that the enterprise assumed a duty to protect invitees from third party violence. (Id.) Even if a duty is established, foreseeability remains relevant to the factfinder’s determination of breach and causation. (Id. at p. 250.)Here, as before, the SAC alleges that Defendants entered into contracts with each other to provide security for the protection of patrons, onlookers, and passersby. (SAC ¶30b.) Although the SAC states Defendants entered into this contract in anticipation of gun violence at the event, there are no facts showing the contract imposed a duty to protect these groups of people from gun violence. (Id.) The SAC also alleges that Defendants had a duty to provide adequate security, not to escalate violence, to de-escalate violence, and to protect Plaintiffs from the harm they suffered. (SAC ¶32(a)(iv).) However, again, this is a legal conclusion unsupported by facts. Again, there are no facts to show that gun violence in or around the restaurant was foreseeable. Because the SAC does not allege that there was a foreseeable risk of gun violence in and around the restaurant, there are no facts showing that Plaintiffs’ risk of harm would have increased if Movants failed to exercise due care in providing security. Although Plaintiffs allege that they relied on express and implied representations that Defendants would provide security at the venue, this statement is again conclusory and unsupported by facts. (SAC ¶30a.) The SAC alleges Rahman had exited the venue and Schaefer was collecting autographs outside the venue. (SAC ¶25.) It is not reasonable to infer from these facts alone that Plaintiffs knew that Movants had contracted with each other to provide security services and intended their security guards to protect passersby and onlookers. Again, there are no facts that Plaintiffs knew in advance about security at the venue or that they approached the venue because they knew they would be protected even if they were invitees to the event. Thus, Plaintiffs could not have reasonably relied on Movants’ undertaking to provide security at the venue. Therefore, Movants did not owe a duty of due care to provide security despite volunteering to provide private security. Even if Movants volunteered to provide security, foreseeability is still important to other elements of negligence, including breach and causation. As discussed above, the SAC fails to allege facts showing the alleged shooting was foreseeable to the heightened standard required here. Even if Movants had a duty to protect Plaintiffs and the security guards Movants hired were incompetent to provide security services, there are no facts that the alleged shooting was foreseeable. Because the facts fail to show the shooting was foreseeable, the SAC fails to state that Movants’ conduct caused Plaintiffs’ injuries.In any case, the SAC again fails to state facts sufficient to establish that Movants owed Plaintiffs a duty of due care to provide security. Negligence per seAs with their first demurrer, Movants allege the SAC is insufficient to establish a duty of care under the doctrine of negligence per se. The facts supporting the negligence per se theory of liability remain unchanged. Because the facts remain unchanged, this theory fails for the same reasons as Movants’ earlier demurrer.The demurrer is sustained as to the cause of action for negligence.ii. Second Cause of Action -- Negligent hiringMovants next argue that the facts are insufficient to support a cause of action for negligent hiring.“California case law recognizes the theory that an employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee…Liability is based upon the facts that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.” (McKenna v. Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552.) To be liable for negligent supervision, there must be a connection between the employment and injury to a third person.  (Mendoza v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1341.)  “Liability for negligent hiring and supervision is based upon the reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees.”  (Id. at p. 1339.) Failing to require a connection between the employment and the injured party would result in the employer becoming an insurer of the safety of every person with whom the employees come into contact, regardless of their relationship to the employer (Id at p.1341.)Here, the SAC alleges that the security personnel hired were unfit to perform security work, did not act reasonably as a security professional would, failed to refrain from violence, failed to de-escalate violence, and negligently jeopardized Plaintiffs’ safety. (SAC ¶41.) The SAC now also alleges that Movants’ employees had instigated violence at previous events. (SAC ¶22e.) However, as discussed above, there are no facts which would show Movants knew retaining their security personnel would create a particular risk of gun violence. Although the facts alleged would show retaining the personnel increased the risk of violence breaking out at the subject property, there are no facts that these past incidents involved a shooting or that the security personnel increased the risk of the alleged shooting. The SAC fails to allege other facts which would show Movants knew any security personnel created a particular risk for gun violence. Therefore, the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to support a cause of action for negligent hiring.Plaintiffs in opposition allege that how ultimate facts might be proven are uniquely within Defendants’ knowledge and that Plaintiffs were only required to allege ultimate facts. Although Plaintiffs are correct, the ultimate facts still fail to state that Movants’ security personnel increased the particular risk that a shooting would take place. The demurrer is sustained on this ground.iii. Eighth Cause of Action -- Public NuisanceMovants demur to the cause of action for public nuisance on the grounds that the SAC fails to allege that Movants created a condition which was harmful to health, indecent and offensive, or obstructed free passage and use of public streets and sidewalks. “A public nuisance is one which affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance of damage inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.” (Civ. Code, section 3480; see Birke v. Oakwood Worldwide (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1540, 1548.) “A private person may maintain an action for a public nuisance, if it is specially injurious to himself, but not otherwise.” (Civ. Code, section 3493; see Birke, supra, 169 Cal.App.4th at 1548.) Here, the SAC states Civ. Code, section 3479 provides that “Anything which is injurious to health, including, but not limited to, the illegal sale of controlled substances, or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway, is a nuisance.” (SAC ¶94.) Specifically, Defendants caused an excessive number of people who had been over-served alcohol and individuals with a known history of gun violence to impinge on the usage of the streets and sidewalks and rendered foreseeable violent acts including gun violence. (SAC ¶97a.)The SAC now alleges that another location operated by The Hwood Group was declared a public nuisance and shut down. (SAC ¶22a.) However, allegations that a different location was a public nuisance do not show that the conditions at the subject property constituted a nuisance. The allegations that Defendants created a nuisance in the form of an increased risk for gun violence are conclusory. As discussed above, the SAC does not state facts sufficient to show the subject shooting was foreseeable. The allegations that an excessive number of people who had been over-served alcohol were obstructing use of public streets are sufficient to show Defendants created a public nuisance. However, there are no facts that the overcrowding was specially injurious to Plaintiffs. There are no allegations that the overcrowding contributed to Plaintiffs’ injuries resultant from the alleged shooting. Therefore, the SAC does not state facts sufficient to support a cause of action for nuisance.iv. Leave to AmendPlaintiffs seek leave to amend. However, because this is the second time Movants are demurring to the same issues, leave to amend is denied.DATED: June 11, 2024__________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court