 Case Number:  23STCV30386    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  HAJOCA CORPORATION,Plaintiff,vs. GOODSON REAL ESTATE, CO., et al.,Defendants.  Case No.:  23STCV30386 Hearing Date:  June 11, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE THE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT OF GOODSON REAL ESTATE CO. FILED BY CROSS-DEFENDANT THE HAJOCA CORPORATIONThe demurrer filed by Cross-Defendant the Hajoca Corporation is SUSTAINED as to the fraud cause of action, the business and professions code cause of action and the accounting cause of action and is otherwise OVERRULED. The motion to strike filed by Cross-Defendant the Hajoca Corporation is GRANTED.Cross-Complainants must be prepared to discuss leave to amend at the hearing on this matter.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis motion pertains to a Cross-Complainant filed by Goodson Real Estate Co. (GRE) and HIMR Normandie JV, LLC (HIMR) against Cross-Defendants Express Remodeling & Plumbing Inc. (Express), Jacom Mullen, The North River Insurance Company (North River), Hudson Insurance Company (Hudson), and Hajoca Corporation (Hajoca). Cross-Complainants bring causes of action for breach of contract, negligence, fraud, conversion, contractors license bond, violation of Bus. & Prof. Code, section 17200, et seq., tortious interference, and an accounting. Cross-Complainants allege that in 2021, GRE entered into a subcontracting agreement with Express to do plumbing work on an property owned by HIMR in Koreatown. Jacob Mullen is the principal of Express. GRE paid Express more than $194,000 for the work. Express and Mullen failed to perform the work in a timely manner, staff the property, and supply and install lines. The work they did perform was done in a negligent manner. Express and Mullen held up construction on the property, causing Cross-Complainants to spend a significant sum to find a new subcontractor and correct the defective work. Hajoca furnished materials to Express and Mullen without GRE’s authorization and opened an unauthorized charge account to GRE. Although GRE demanded that the unauthorized charges be removed and charged to Express and Mullen, Hajoca issued a Preliminary Notice for $150,000 and fabricated invoices and other information to circumvent California law on Preliminary Notices.  PROCEDURAL HISTORY On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff Hajoca filed its Complaint against Goodson Real Estate Co., HIMR Normandie JV, LLC, Merchants Bonding Company, and Business Alliance Insurance Company.On January 31, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed their Cross-Complaint.On February 1, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC).On March 4, 2024, Cross-Defendant Hajoca filed this demurrer and motion to strike.On April 14, 2024, Jacob Mullen filed a notice of stay of proceedings.On May 1, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed a non-substantive opposition.On May 2, 2024, Hajoca filed an objection to the notice of stay of proceedings.On May 14, 2024, the Court continued this matter to allow Cross-Complainants to file a substantive opposition.On May 29, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed a substantive opposition.On June 4, 2024, Hajoca filed a reply.DISCUSSION I. DemurrerHajoca demurs to the FACC on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against it and because it is uncertain. Hajoca is named in the following causes of action: (1) negligence (second cause of action); (2) fraud (third cause of action); (3) unfair business practices (sixth cause of action); (4) interference with contractual relations (seventh cause of action); and (5) accounting (eighth cause of action).1. UncertaintyHajoca demurs to each cause of action against it on the grounds that the FACC is uncertain.“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.” (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).) “The objection of uncertainty does not go to the failure to allege sufficient facts.” (Brea v. McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) “It goes to the doubt as to what the pleader means by the facts alleged.” (Id.) “Such a demurrer should not be sustained where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet.” (People v. Lim (1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.)  Here, the FACC is not so bad that Hajoca cannot reasonably respond to the allegations against it because it alleges Hajoca furnished materials to Express and Mullen without GRE’s authorization and improperly charged GRE for those materials. Therefore, the facts are sufficient to apprise Hajoca of the issues it is to meet. The demurrer is overruled on this ground.2. Second Cause of Action – NegligenceHajoca argues that the FACC fails to state facts to support a cause of action for negligence on the grounds that (1) the FACC only alleges economic loss and (2) the FACC fails to allege that Hajoca owed Cross-Complainants a duty of care or that Hajoca’s actions caused their damages.“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917, internal quotations omitted.) “The first element, duty, may be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128, internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he existence of a duty is a question of law for the court.” (Ky. Fried Chicken of Cal. v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819.)Economic Loss RuleThe economic loss rule posits that a purchaser of a product that does not live up to the buyer’s expectations can only recover in contract and not tort, “unless [the purchaser] can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.” (Food Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 (quoting Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc. v. Dana Corporation (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988).) A tort claim for fraud must be sufficiently independent from a breach of contract claim for which the plaintiff suffered economic loss. (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 991.) Thus, in order to plead around the economic loss rule, a party must plead the existence of a duty that arises independent of any contractual duty and independent injury, other than economic loss, that arises from the breach of that duty. (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 988-91.)  Here, the FACC alleges that in December 2021, GRE entered into a subcontracting agreement with Express to do plumbing work on the property. (FACC ¶16.) Express did not complete the work on the property and performed the work in a negligent manner. (FACC ¶¶21-23.) During the project, Hajoca was furnishing materials to Express and opened an unauthorized charge account to GRE. (FACC ¶¶30-31.) Hajoca supplied these materials and billed GRE without GRE’s knowledge or authorization. (FACC ¶32.) The FACC alleges that GRE had a contract with Express regarding the plumbing work on the property. GRE was unaware that Hajoca was furnishing materials to Express and that Hajoca had opened a charge account to GRE. It is reasonable to infer from the allegations that GRE had no contract with Hajoca. Because there was no contract between GRE and Hajoca, GRE cannot recover in contract against Hajoca. Therefore, the cause of action is not barred under the contractual strand of the economic loss rule. (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 923.) The moving party has not convinced the Court that the economic loss rule applies here. The rule has been applied in situations where courts are “concerned about imposing liability in an indeterminate amount for an indeterminate time to an indeterminate class.” (Id. at 922.) The cases cited by the moving party do not appear to support the granting of a demurrer here. The FACC alleges that Hajoca purposely billed GRE without GRE’s knowledge or authorization. Under these circumstances, the Court does not find that the economic loss rule bars this cause of action. The demurrer is overruled on this ground.Duty and Causation“[W]hile negligence is ordinarily a question of fact, the existence of a duty is generally a question of law that may be addressed by demurrer. (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1096.) Whether one owes a duty to another must be decided on a case-by-case basis. (Weirum v. RKO General, Inc. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 40, 46.) Every case is governed by the rule of general application that all persons are required to use ordinary care to prevent others from being harmed as a result of their conduct. (Id.)Civ. Code, section 1714(a) provides that everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.Here, the FACC alleges Hajoca breached a duty of care to Cross-Complainants by providing more than a hundred thousand dollars of materials to Express and Mullen without asking for GRE’s authorization, without ensuring the items were used on behalf of GRE, and improperly seeking to hold GRE and HIMR responsible for payment. (FACC ¶59.) In March 2023, Hajoca issued a preliminary notice in the amount of $150,000 with regard to the unauthorized materials. (FACC ¶35.) Hajoca then fabricated and doctored invoices, delivery, and shipment dates to circumvent California laws governing preliminary notices. (FACC ¶36.) The FACC does not allege Hajoca owed any particular duty. Therefore, the duty of ordinary care under Civ. Code, section 1714(a) applies here.The Court cannot say as a matter of law that Hajoca did not owe a duty of care given the facts as alleged. Moreover, the Court cannot say that GRE and HIMR have not suffered damages as a matter of law since Hajoca contends that GRE and HIMR owe it money for the product it provided.The demurrer is overruled as to this cause of action.3. Third Cause of Action – Fraud Hajoca next argues that the FACC fails to allege facts sufficient to support a cause of action for fraud because Cross-Complainants failed to meet the heightened pleading standard for fraud. A claim for fraud must plead all of the following elements: (1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 123, 128; Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332.) In California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  The specificity standard is less stringent when the defendant already has “‘full information concerning the facts of the controversy.’” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 217, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Californians for Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation of the specificity requirement is particularly appropriate in a¿concealment¿case.  Unlike intentional misrepresentation, which requires some affirmative representation or promise, a fraudulent¿concealment¿is the absence of something, the suppression of a fact. (Civ. Code, section 1710.)  Here, the FACC alleges that Hajoca defrauded Cross-Complainants by providing fraudulent and doctored invoices and delivery dates for the materials it allegedly supplied to Express. (FACC ¶71.) Although the FACC alleges Hajoca made misrepresentations about the materials provided to Express by doctoring its records and knew the records were false, there are no allegations in the FACC stating Cross-Complainants reasonably relied on these false records to their detriment. Rather, Cross-Complainants informed Hajoca that the charges were unauthorized and demanded that they be removed. (FACC ¶34.) It is reasonable to infer from this fact that Cross-Complainants were aware Hajoca’s records were doctored. Thus, Cross-Complainants could not have relied on the doctored records to their detriment. Because the FACC fails to plead facts to support each element of fraud, the demurrer is sustained as to this cause of action.4. Sixth Cause of Action – Violation of Business and Professions Code, section 17200, et seq.Hajoca demurs to the cause of action for unfair business practices on the grounds that (1) it is based on allegations that Hajoca recorded a mechanic’s lien and (2) Cross-Complainants allegations of fraud do not survive demurrer.To successfully plead a UCL claim for unfair business practices, a plaintiff must allege facts justifying relief in the form of protecting the public from unfair business practices or deceptive advertising. (Day v. AT&T Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 325, 331-332.) A plaintiff must plead and prove that the defendant engaged in a business practice that was either unlawful (i.e., is forbidden by law) or unfair (i.e., harm to victim outweighs any benefit) or fraudulent (i.e., is likely to deceive members of the public). (Albillo v. Intermodal Container Services, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 190, 206.) “[T]he ‘practice’ requirement envisions something more than a single transaction . . . ; it contemplates a ‘pattern of conduct’ [citation], ‘on-going . . . conduct’, ‘a pattern of behavior’ [citation], or ‘a course of conduct’ . . . .” (Hewlett v. Squaw Valley Ski Corp. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 499, 519 (quoting State of California ex rel. Van de Kamp v. Texaco, Inc. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 1147, 1169-70).)The remedies for UCL claims brought by private individuals are limited to (1) injunctive relief to prevent practices of unfair competition and (2) restitution. (See, e.g., Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb and Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1133; Bus. & Prof. Code, section 17203.) Here, the FACC alleges that Hajoca allowed Express and Mullen to open a charge account to GRE without ever asking for or receiving authorization from GRE. (FACC ¶86.) Additionally, Hajoca doctored invoices and other records to collect funds from GRE for materials GRE never received. (Id.) Additionally, Hajoca filed legally unsupported liens against the subject property. (Id.) As discussed above, the FACC failed to allege facts sufficient to support a cause of action for fraud. Therefore, the FACC does not allege Hajoca engaged in a fraudulent practice. Although the FACC alleges that Hajoca doctored records to circumvent California laws with regard to Preliminary Notices, the FACC does not allege Hajoca violated any laws governing preliminary notices. Thus, the FACC does not allege Hajoca engaged in an unlawful practice.The FACC does allege that Hajoca doctored records concerning the materials supplied to Express despite Cross-Complainants never receiving the benefit of the materials. It is reasonable to infer from this fact that Hajoca engaged in an unfair business practice. However, there are no facts alleged in the FACC which would show this was a pattern of behavior. Therefore, the FACC fails to allege facts sufficient to support a cause of action for unfair business practices.The demurrer is sustained as to this cause of action.5. Seventh Cause of Action – Interference with Contractual RelationsHajoca demurs to the seventh cause of action for interference with contractual relations on the grounds that (1) Cross-Complainants failed to allege that GRE was in a contractual relationship with a third party or HIMR, (2) Cross-Complainants failed to identify what conduct disrupted performance of a contract, and (3) Hajoca had an economic interest in the contract and would not have interfered with Cross-Complainants’ performance of a contract in connection with the renovations on the subject property.The elements for the tort of intentional interference with the performance of a contract are: “(1) a valid contract between plaintiff and another party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the contract; (3) defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation v. Actelion Ltd. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 945, 958.)   A cause of action for interference with contractual relations does not lie against a party to the contract. (See Dryden v. Tri-Valley Growers (1977) 65 Cal.App.3d 990, 999.)Here, Hajoca argues that the FACC fails to allege that GRE was in a contractual relationship with a third party. However, the FACC Alleges that GRE had a contract with HIMR to develop the subject property. (FACC ¶92.) Additionally, HIMR had a contractual relationship with the lender for the property. (FACC ¶93.) Although Hajoca argues this is conclusory, Cross-Complainants were only required to state the ultimate fact that a valid contract existed between them. Court finds the FACC sufficiently alleges a contract existed.Hajoca next argues the Cross-Complaint is conclusory and does not apprise Hajoca of the wrongful acts it is purported to have committed. However, the FACC does allege that Hajoca opened a charge account without Cross-Complainants’ knowledge or authorization, failed to timely issue a preliminary notice, and fabricated invoices to collect the fabricated charges from Cross-Complainants. (FACC ¶¶34-37.) As a result of Hajoca’s actions, construction on the property has been delayed because Cross-Complainants incurred costs dealing with Hajoca’s collection efforts. (FACC ¶39.) Because the Cross-Complaint describes the conduct which disrupted construction on the subject property, the facts sufficiently state Hajoca’s actions disrupted Cross-Complainants’ agreement to develop the property. Finally, Hajoca argues that it does not make sense for Hajoca to interfere with Cross-Complainants’ contract because Hajoca was economically interested in the contract. Specifically, Hajoca argues it has no interest in interfering with the contract. Hajoca cites Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514 (Applied Equipment) in support of this argument. However, the cause of action for interference with contractual relations protects “the expectations of contracting parties against frustrations by outsiders who have no legitimate social or economic interest in the contractual relationship, the tort cause of action for interference with a contract does not lie against a party to the contract.” (Applied Equipment at p.514.) Thus, Applied Equipment does not state that anyone with any economic interest is shielded from a cause of action for interference with economic relations. Rather, the cause of action only applies to strangers to the contract who have no legitimate economic interest under the contract. Here, because Hajoca is not a party to the contract, Cross-Complainants may bring a cause of action for interference with economic relations against it. The demurrer is overruled as to this cause of action. 6. Eighth Cause of Action – AccountingFinally, Hajoca demurs to the eighth cause of action for accounting on the grounds that (1) Cross-Complainants failed to state facts sufficient to constitute any claim against Hajoca and (2) the FACC does not allege Cross-Complainants are owed anything from Hajoca.A cause of action for an accounting requires “a showing that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.”  (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.) But “[a]n action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Id.) An accounting is an equitable proceeding that must be supported by some underlying misconduct which allows the plaintiff to invoke the right to an equitable remedy for accounting. (Green Valley Landowners Assn. v. City of Vallejo (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 425, 442, citing Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1137.) Although, as Hajoca points out, an accounting is generally a remedy, it may be a cause of action in some cases, such as when one party owes another a fiduciary duty that requires an accounting, and some balance is due to a plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. (Pantoja v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2009) 640 F.Supp.2d 1177, 1191; Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 593.) Here, Hajoca does not owe money to Cross-Complainants. Rather, this is a dispute over whether Hajoca’s charges to GRE were proper. Where a defendant owes no money to a plaintiff, the plaintiff has no right to an accounting. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 594.) A complicated accounting relationship between the parties by itself is not sufficient to permit the maintenance of a claim for an accounting. (Id.) Here, because Hajoca does not owe Cross-Complainants money, Cross-Complainants are not entitled to an accounting.The demurrer is sustained as to this cause of action.7. Leave to AmendThe burden is on Cross-Complainants to show in what manner the FACC may be amended and how the amendment would change the legal effect of his pleading. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335.) Here, Cross-Complainants do not discuss how the FACC may be amended to cure the above deficiencies and must be prepared to discuss this issue at the hearing on this matter.II. Motion to StrikeHajoca moves to strike portions of the FACC related to punitive damages. In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725 [examining Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1)].) “A conscious disregard of the safety of others may constitute malice within the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code. In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) “As amended to include [despicable], the statute plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) “[T]he imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own fault. It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.” (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive. An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees. But the law does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the ‘officer[s], director[s], or managing agent[s].’” (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [citation omitted].) As to ratification, “[a] corporation cannot confirm and accept that which it does not actually know about.’” (Ibid. [citing College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 726 [for ratification sufficient to justify punitive damages against corporation, there must be proof that officers, directors, or managing agents had actual knowledge of the malicious conduct and its outrageous character]].) Here, Hajoca argues that Cross-Complainants’ demand for punitive damages must be stricken because the FACC fails to plead facts sufficient to show any conduct which would warrant a claim for punitive damages. As discussed above, the FACC alleges that Hajoca opened a charge account for GRE without GRE’s knowledge, made $150,000 in unauthorized charges to GRE, and falsified invoices to collect the money from GRE. GRE never received the benefit of the materials Hajoca charged it for.The facts alleged show that Hajoca acted with a willful disregard of Cross-Complainants’ interests because Hajoca made unauthorized charges to GRE. The Court also finds the FACC alleges Hajoca engaged in despicable conduct because Hajoca thereafter used false invoices to collect the charges despite GRE notifying Hajoca of the unauthorized charges. Because the facts show Hajoca engaged in conduct which is both despicable and willfully disregards Cross-Complainants’ interests, the Court finds that these facts are sufficient to show Hajoca engaged in malicious conduct. However, the FACC fails to name an officer, director, or managing agent who ratified this conduct. Therefore, the FACC fails to state sufficient facts to support a demand for punitive damages against Hajoca, a corporation. The motion to strike is GRANTED.DATED: June 11, 2024__________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court