 Case Number:  22STCV16375    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce Iwasaki 
Department 58 
 
Hearing Date:             October
3, 2024           
Case Name:                 Serrano v. American Honda Motor Co.
Case
No.:                    22STCV16375
Motion:                       Motion to Compel Deposition of Person(s) Most Qualified; 
Request for Production of Documents;
Request for Sanctions
Moving Party:             Defendant American Honda Motor Co.

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Mirna Serrano
 

 
Tentative Ruling:      Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Person(s) Most
Qualified is granted in part.
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents is granted in part.
Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions is denied.

 

 
Background
 
This case is a lemon
law action filed by Plaintiff Mirna Serrano (“Plaintiff”) against Defendants
American Honda Motor Co. (“Defendant”). Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint,
filed on November 18, 2022, asserts three causes of action: (1) Violation of
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, Breach of Express Warranty; (2)
Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, Breach of Implied Warrant;
and (3) Fraudulent Inducement, Concealment.
 
Plaintiff served
Defendant with a Notice of Deposition of Person(s) Most Qualified and
Custodian(s) of Records and a Request for Production of Documents on April 30,
2024. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 3, Exhibit A.) Plaintiff
noticed the deposition for June 18, 2024, although there is no evidence that this
date was agreed upon. (Declaration of Timothy
Lupinek, ¶ 3, Exhibit A.) On June 13, 2024, Defendant served its
objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition, refusing due to Plaintiff’s
unilateral notice and Defendant’s objections. (Declaration
of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 5, Exhibit B.) The following day, Plaintiff sent a
written letter seeking to meet and confer, requesting a response by June 18,
2024. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 6,
Exhibit C.) Plaintiff’s counsel also sent emails requesting alternative dates. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 6, Exhibit D.)
 
On June 18, 2024, Defendant’s counsel
offered November 6, 2024 as an alternate deposition date. (Declaration of Scott
Hancox, ¶ 12, Exhibit H.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded that he did not believe
they could accept the alternative date, because it would be three days before
the discovery cut-off, and asked for an earlier date. (Declaration of Scott
Hancox, ¶ 13, Exhibit I.) Plaintiff followed up on June 24 and July 9 seeking
alternative mutually agreeable dates. (Declaration of Scott Hancox, ¶ 15,
Exhibit K.)
 
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance of a Person Most
Qualified (“PMQ”), Request for Production of Documents, and Request for
Sanctions.
 
Discussion
 
“Any party may obtain discovery . .
. by taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any
party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  “The service of a deposition notice under
Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to
attend and to testify.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
If the deponent is not a natural
person, “the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of
their officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on their behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.230.) Furthermore, the notice must “describe with reasonable particularity
the matters on which examination is requested.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.)
Any party served with a deposition
notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three calendar
days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the party
seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom the
deposition notice was served. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)
If after receiving notice, a party fails to appear, to
answer any question, or to produce any document or tangible thing specified in
the deposition notice, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling attendance and production. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).) The motion must be accompanied by a good faith meet and confer
declaration under section 2016.040 or, “when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”¿
(CCP § 2025.450,¿subd. (b)(2).)¿ 
 
1.    
Motion
to Compel Deposition of Person Most Qualified
 
On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff
properly served Defendant with a Notice of Deposition that was timely and, in
part, reasonably particularized. The
deposition notice included twenty-five (25) matters for examination. (Declaration
of Timothy Lupinek, ¶
3, Exhibit A.) 
On June 13, 2024, Defendant timely served
its objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition, refusing due to Plaintiff’s
unilateral notice and Defendant’s objections. (Declaration
of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 5, Exhibit B.) The court does not agree with
Defendant’s objection to a unilateral notice. “The service of a deposition notice…is effective to
require any deponent who is a party to the action…to attend and to testify...” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) However, Defendant also offered
to coordinate rescheduling on a mutually agreeable date.
(Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶
5, Exhibit B.) 
Defendant’s other objections include that
the matters listed were vague, ambiguous, overly broad, and sought information
not relevant to the subject matter of the litigation. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 5, Exhibit B.) However,
the court finds that some of Plaintiff’s matters for examination are reasonably
particularized. Matters 1–9 all pertain to the specific vehicle which Plaintiff
owned. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 3,
Exhibit A.) The court does not agree that these matters are overbroad, as
Plaintiff argues that “testimony and evidence regarding repairs performed on
Plaintiff’s vehicle, warranty claims and warranty coverage are relevant because
it is related to the very basis for Plaintiff's claims…” (Separate Statement of
Issues in Dispute, p. 6.) Thus, Plaintiff can seek to depose Defendant’s PMQ on
these matters.
Matters 11–21 regard policies,
procedures, and training guidelines for vehicle repurchases and replacement,
defining and measuring “nonconformity” and “reasonable number of repair
attempts, dealership warranty claims, and tracking vehicles with warranty repair
presentations. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶
3, Exhibit A.) Defendant argues that these matters are also vague, ambiguous,
and overly broad. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶
5, Exhibit B.) The court disagrees that these matters are overbroad, as they
encompass Defendant’s policies and procedures at the time of Plaintiff’s
vehicle ownership. It should be within the deponent’s personal knowledge what
Defendant’s policies were at the time of Plaintiff's vehicle ownership, and
whether those policies were followed with regards to Plaintiff's vehicle. Thus,
Plaintiff can seek to depose Defendant’s PMQ on these matters.
However, the remainder of matters are not
reasonably particularized or covered under attorney-client privilege. Matter 10
involves documents Defendant has produced in this litigation thus far. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 3, Exhibit A.) Defendant
argues that this request calls for information that is “confidential,
commercially sensitive, and/or proprietary in nature,” and that the testimony
sought is “overly broad, harassing, unduly burdensome, and improperly asks for
information from third Parties over whom [Defendant] has no control.” (Objection
to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition, p. 8.) The court agrees that this request
is overly broad and calls for deponent to testify to matters that may be
covered under attorney-client privilege.
Matters 22–24 regard databases, software,
methodology, and searchability of Defendant’s warranty data. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 3, Exhibit A.) The
court agrees that this category is overbroad—it is not limited in time to Plaintiff’s
vehicle ownership. It is unclear how deponent’s knowledge of earlier warranty
data and handling of that data pertains to Plaintiff’s claim. Finally, Matter
25 regards Defendant’s discovery responses in this case. (Declaration of Timothy Lupinek, ¶ 3, Exhibit A.) Plaintiff’s
request is not narrowly tailored, as Plaintiff has access to these past
discovery responses. 
Though Defendant has not filed a separate
statement on the matters for deposition or the documents to be produced, the
court finds Plaintiff cannot seek to depose Defendant’s PMQ on matters 10 and
22–25.
Defendant most recently offered November
6, 2024 as an alternate deposition date. (Declaration of Scott Hancox, ¶ 12,
Exhibit H.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded that that date was too close to the
end of discovery—in the event of unavailability of the PMQ witness, Plaintiff
would have no time to move to compel a further competent witness. (Declaration
of Scott Hancox, ¶ 13, Exhibit I.) “[A]ny party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) The trial date in this case is December
9, 2024. Plaintiff would have until November 24, 2024 to file a motion to
compel, should Defendant fail to produce a witness on the date they provided. 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition
of a person most qualified is granted in part and denied in part. The court
orders parties to conduct this deposition on the offered date of November 6,
2024. Defendant must produce its PMQ deponent for deposition as to matters of
examination 1-9 and 11–21 proposed in Plaintiff’s notice of deposition dated
April 30, 2024. 
Discovery motions regarding the
deposition may be filed on or before November 24, 2024. The court orders that
parties meet and confer before a hearing on discovery motions to identify a
date on or before November 8, 2024.
2.    
Request
for Production of Documents
Plaintiff’s April 30, 2024 Notice
of Deposition included a request for documents in 17 categories. (Declaration
of Timothy Lupinek, ¶
3, Exhibit A.) Defendant similarly objected to these categories for being vague,
ambiguous, overly broad, and sought information not relevant to the subject
matter of the litigation. (Declaration of Timothy
Lupinek, ¶ 5, Exhibit B.)  The
Court grants the request for production solely to the topics permitted for the
deposition identified above.
Plaintiff’s motion to compel production
of documents is thus granted in part and denied I part. The court orders
Defendant to produce responsive documents to Plaintiff’s categories 1–9
proposed in Plaintiff’s notice of deposition filed April 30, 2024. Defendant
must produce documents on or prior to the deposition date of November 6, 2024. All
other production requests are denied.
3.    
Request
for Sanctions
The Court is concerned that Defendant was
not more responsive regarding deposition scheduling.  This motion should have been resolved without
court intervention.  Because the topics and
production requests were in some cases overbroad, Defendant’s conduct was not
without substantial justification.  The Court
denies Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.