

Hearing Date:             October 3, 2024
Case Name:                Angel v. Monster Energy
Company.
Case
No.:                    19STCV28457
Motion:                       Motion
for Summary Adjudication
Moving
Parties:          Defendants/Cross-Defendants
Promote Mexico, LLC and Roger Norman

Responding Party:      Defendant/Cross-Complainant Morgan
Langley


 
Tentative
Ruling:      The motion for summary
adjudication is granted.

 

 
This action arises out of injuries
sustained by Plaintiff Magna Angel (Plaintiff) during the 2018 Baja 1000 Race
in Ensenada, Mexico (Race). The Race was owned and operated by Defendant
Promote Mexico, LLC dba Score International (Promote Mexico). On October 30,
2018, Plaintiff entered into an agreement as an independent contractor with
Defendant Monster Energy Company (Monster Energy) to attend the Race. At the
Race, a race vehicle driven by Defendant Morgan Langley (Langley) and owed by
COPS Racing, LLC (COPS Racing) and Langley Productions, Inc. (Langley
Productions) struck and injured Plaintiff. On August 12, 2019, Plaintiff filed
her original Complaint against Defendants Monster Energy, Langley Productions,
COPS Racing, and Langley based on claims of negligence. On August 29, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint adding claims for Negligence, and
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention against Promote Mexico (as Score
International), Roger Norman (Norman), Score-SRL, COPS Racing, Langley, and
Monster Energy.
 
On October 28, 2019,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Monster Energy filed a Cross-Complaint against
Cross-Defendants Promote Mexico (as Score International), Morgan Langley,
Langley Productions, Inc., and COPS Racing, LLC, alleging causes of action for
(1) express indemnity; (2) breach of contract; (3) implied equitable indemnity;
(4) comparative indemnity; (5) contribution; (6) apportionment; and (7)
declaratory relief. On April 21, 2021, Monster Energy filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint adding two new parties, Roger Norman and Score International, S
de RL de CV (Score-Mexico).
 
On January 7, 2020,
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Promote Mexico filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant Tempt Media, LLC alleging causes of
action for (1) implied equitable indemnity, (2) contribution and indemnity; (3)
declaratory relief, (4) express indemnity, (5) breach of contract, and (6)
breach of contract. On April 9, 2020, Promote Mexico filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint that added Cross-Defendants Monster Energy, Langley, Langley
Productions, and COPS Racing as cross-defendants.
 
September 21, 2021, Defendants/Cross-Complaints
COPS Racing and Langley filed their operative First-Amened Cross-Complaint (the
FAXC) against Promote Mexico, Norman, Monster, and Does 1 through 100,
inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1) implied indemnity, (2)
contribution and indemnity, (3) declaratory relief, (4) express indemnity, (5)
breach of contract – duty to indemnify, and (6) breach of contract – duty to
defend.  
 
On July 18, 2023, Promote Mexico and
Norman filed a motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication (the “July 18 Motion”) on a variety of issues, including that
Langley and affiliated entities owed 
duty to defend Promote Mexico and Roger Norman in this action.
 
On October 30, 2023, the Court issued its
ruling on the July 18 Motion. Among other things, this Court concluded that
Langley had a duty to defend Promote Mexico. 
Langley petitioned for a writ of mandate.   
 
On June 27, 2024, the Court of Appeal granted
Langley’s petition, concluding that Langley did not have a duty to defend
Promote Mexico or Norman against Plaintiff’s claims. (June 27 Opinion.)
 
            The
Court of Appeal also held that this Court’s ruling on the July 18 Motion could
only be construed as adjudicating the issue above (i.e., whether Langley had a
duty to defend Promote Mexico or Norman against Plaintiff’s claims). (August 30
Opinion, p. 14, the third full paragraph [“In sum, we construe the order to
grant summary adjudication only as to Langley’s duty to defend. We express no opinion
on the court’s rulings as to indemnity and the covenant not to sue, which
rulings were in Langley’s favor for procedural reasons and therefore are not
before us in the writ proceeding”].)
 
            On July
17, 2024, Promote Mexico and Norman (collectively Cross-Defendants) filed the
instant motion for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for
implied indemnity, second cause of action for contribution and indemnity, and
third cause of action for declaratory relief in the Langley/COPS FAXC, arguing that
the a November 15, 2018 Release and Indemnity Agreement that Langley signed bars
Langley from bringing those claims. 
 
On September 19, 2024, Langley filed
his opposition. 
 
First, Langley argues that the release
required Cross-Defendants to provide Langley with liability insurance as part
of their performance, and because the Cross-Defendants failed to do so, they do
not have a right to enforce the release. (Opposition, pp. 2:21-26; 6:1-7:2.)
 
Second, Cross-Defendant Promote
Mexico’s interpretation of the release renders it  unconscionable and unenforceable. Langley
argues: “The right to contribution from a joint tortfeasor is a statutory right.
Civ. Code, § 1432. California has strong public policies favoring equitable
indemnity claims between joint tortfeasors.” (Opposition, p. 8:21-23.) He
further contends that Cross-Defendants’ broad reading of the release “is not
consistent with California public policy nor the overall language of the entire
clause. Cross-Defendants should not be able to potentially immunize themselves
from their fair share of liability. There simply is no policy reason to enforce
the clause at issue in the manner proposed by Cross-Defendants.” (Opposition,
p. 9:7-11.)  He maintains that the
release is procedurally unconscionable because it was authored by
Cross-Defendants without negotiation, presented to Langley the day before the Race
on a take-it-or-leave-it-basis, and Langley was not given a chance to review
the release with his lawyer. (Opposition, p. 10:17-22.) The release is
substantively unconscionable because it is one-sided and unfair; it only
affects Langley’s rights and not the Cross-Defendants, and “is not consistent
with Langley’s reasonable expectations.” (Opposition, p. 11:5-10.) The Cross-Defendants’
reading of the release is contrary to California’s public policy. (Opposition,
p. 11:9-10.)
 
In reply, Cross-Defendant Promote
Mexico argues that the release disposes of the first thee counts of Langley’s
cross-complaint. 
 
First, in interpreting the scope of
the release, the Court of Appeal did not distinguish between claims arising
from Langley’s injuries and claims arising from third-party injuries. (Reply,
p. 5:21-22.) Instead, the appellate court stated the release applied to “claims,”
brought by Langley and specified affiliates, for “injury or damage resulting from
Langley’s participation in the race.” (Reply, p. 5:16-22.) Here, the first
three causes of action in the FAXC are based on injury or damage that “resulted
from” Langley’s “participation” in the Race, and, therefore, those claims are
barred by the release. (Reply, pp. 5:25-6:2.) 
 
Second, the release is not unconscionable.
“The record contains no evidence that the release was in any way unexpected or
surprising to Langley. …. Further, [Langley testified] that he carefully read
and fully understood the agreement, he was aware it was a release of claims,
and signed of his own free will. [Citation.] No evidence has been presented
that the Releasees in any way concealed or misrepresented the language of the
release to attempt to obscure its effect.” (Reply, p. 8:23-26.) 
 
In addition, the “public interest”
justification for invalidating a contractual release “has never been found to
exist with respect to liability waivers concerning recreational and sporting
activities. Indeed, for over 40 years, and in more than 20 cases, appellate courts
have uniformly held that releases in connection with recreational and sporting
activities do not affect the public interest and are therefore valid and
enforceable. Langley does not cite a single case that holds otherwise and
invites this Court to be the first.” (Reply, p. 2:7-14.)
 
Finally, Langley’s argument that
Cross-Defendants have not proved that they satisfied their contractual
obligations is misplaced. The instant motion does not concern FAXC’s fourth
through sixth causes of action, which allege that Langley was not provided with
insurance coverage. (Reply, p. 10:15-18.) In any event, the contract
performance argument is based on language contained in the Racer Brief, a
document that was provided to race teams before the Race. (Reply, p. 10:22-25.)
However, the Racer Brief is an informational document only and not a contract.
(Reply, p. 11:2.) “Langley argues the Racer Brief was relevant to his
participation in the event, but he engages in no effort to establish the Racer
Brief is an actual contract. Indeed, the Racer Brief does not purport to
obligate the Releasees ‘to do or not to do a certain thing,’ it is not signed
by any party, and it contains no language evidencing an attempt to bind
parties. Langley’s attempt to transform the Racer Brief into a contract is
unpersuasive.” (Reply, p. 11:3-8.)
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “The party moving for summary
judgment [or adjudication] bears the burden of persuasion that there is no
triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 850.) A triable issue of material fact exists if the evidence would allow
a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment [or adjudication], the court must consider all of the evidence
set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an
objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that
evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            It
is undisputed that on November 15, 2018, Langley “voluntarily executed” the
General Waiver, Release, Consent and Indemnification Agreement. (Langley’s response to
Cross-Defendants’ separate statement of undisputed material facts, filed on
September 19, 2024, ¶ 1.)
 
            The
parties dispute whether Section 5 of the release bars the first cause of action
for implied indemnity, second cause of action for contribution and indemnity,
and third cause of action for declaratory relief in the FAXC. 
 
Whether the Language of the Release is Clear,
Unambiguous, and Explicit
 
“To be effective, a written release
purporting to exculpate a tortfeasor from future negligence or misconduct must
be clear, unambiguous, and explicit in expressing the intent of the subscribing
parties. [Citation.] Language that would release a party from its own tortious
conduct ‘must be clear, explicit and comprehensible in each of its essential
details. Such an agreement, read as a whole, must clearly notify the
prospective releasor or indemnitor of the effect of signing the agreement.’
[Citations.]”  (Bennett v. United
States Cycling Federation (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 1485, 1490.) “Waiver and
release forms are to be strictly construed against the defendant. Such a form
is simply a written assumption of a known risk, i.e. a risk reasonably
anticipated by the plaintiff. [Citation.] To be operative, the defendant’s
negligence which results in plaintiff’s injury must be reasonably related to
the object or purpose for which the release is given.” (Lund v. Bally’s
Aerobic Plus, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 733, 738 (Lund).)
 
Here, Section 5 of the release states:
 
As
consideration for being permitted by SCORE International, SRL to participate in
or attend the Event…: (A) I [Langley] hereby agree that I, my assigns,
spouse, heirs, beneficiaries, agents, guardians, legal representatives, team
members, staff, family and individuals affiliated with my race efforts will
not make any claim against, sue, or attach the property of SCORE
International, SRL, Promote Mexico, LLC, dba SCORE Marketing, and
each of their officers, directors, managers, employees, shareholders, members,
volunteers, agents, assigns, contractors, insurers, representatives,
predecessors, successors, licensors, licensees, parents, subsidiaries and
Affiliates (as defined below) (hereinafter referred to collectively as
‘Releasees’) for any injury or damage resulting from the negligence or
other acts, howsoever caused, by any of the Releasees as a result of my participation
in the Event and Related Activities, associated functions and use of
the facilities. I hereby agree to release, discharge, defend,
indemnify and hold Releasees harmless from all liability, actions, claims,
demands, charges, expenses, attorney’s fees of any nature that I, my assignees,
spouse, heirs, beneficiaries, agents, guardians, legal representatives, team
members, staff, family and individuals affiliated with my race efforts now
have or may hereafter have for injury or damage resulting from, related to or
connected with my participation in the Event and Related Activities,
associated functions and use of the facilities.
 
(Declaration of Zagros S.
Bassirian, filed on July 17, 2024, Exhibit 1 – the release, p. 2 – Section 2 [original
emphasis removed; other emphasis added].)
 
            The
release is certainly very broad.  And,
with respect to a different issue, the Court of appeal resorted to the doctrine
of noscitur a sociss to conclude that the “language of the defense and
indemnity clause indicates an intent to shield Promote Mexico from certain
claims brought by Langley and affiliated individuals, not to obligate Langley
to defend Promote Mexico from third party claims such as Angel’s.”  (June 27 Opinion at p. 19.)
 
            Langley
argues that the release does not expressly bar him from seeking indemnity or
contribution from Cross-Defendants for third-party claims.  But the release does not expressly or
implicitly carve out such an exception. 
And Langley’s deposition testimony that he believed that the release
only applied to claims for injuries he or his teammates might suffer as a
result of participating in the event is of no consequence.  A party’s subjective belief about contractual
meaning does not supplant the terms themselves. 
Langley has offered no evidence for his interpretation. 
 
Given the lack of conflicting
extrinsic evidence, the
Court finds that Section 5 of the release is clear, unambiguous, and explicit. According
to the plain language of the release, Langley (1) not only agreed not to “sue”
or make “any” “claims” against Cross-Defendants for injury or damage resulting
from the Cross-Defendants’ negligence, but also (2) released “all” “claims”
that he may have “for injury or damage resulting from, related to or connected
with any participation in the Event and Related Activities ….” Giving the words
or phrases “any,” “all” and “of any nature,” their plain and ordinary meaning, and the fact that Langley
does not dispute that Plaintiff’s alleged damages resulted from, were related
to, or were connected with his “participation in the Event and Related
Activities,” “associated functions,” or “use of the facilities,” the Court
finds that the scope of the release covers the first three causes of action in
the FAXC. 
 
The Court’s interpretation is
consistent with the June 27 Opinion, which interpreted the language at issue to
require the release of claims brought by Langley for injury or damage resulting
from his participation. 


Construed
using the language relevant to the circumstances of the instant case, the
clause reads, ‘[Langley] hereby agree[s] to . . . defend . . . [Promote Mexico]
from all liability, actions, claims, demands, charges, expenses, attorney’s fees
of any nature that [Langley and specified individuals affiliated with him] . .
. have . . . for injury or damage resulting from, related to or connected with
[Langley’s] participation in the [Baja 1000 Race].”
 
This language
does not require Langley to defend Promote Mexico from all claims for
injury or damage resulting from his participation in the race. Rather, it
requires defense (and indemnity and release) only of ‘liability, actions,
claims, demands, charges, expenses, [and] attorney’s fees’ that Langley and the
listed affiliated individuals ‘have.’ On its face, therefore, the defense and
indemnity clause appears intended to require release, indemnification, and
defense of claims brought by Langley and the listed affiliated individuals for
injury or damage resulting from Langley’s participation in the race.
 
(June 27 Opinion, p. 17, the first two paragraphs [italics
in original; emphasis added].) 
 
Whether the Release is Unconscionable and Unenforceable 
 
Langley argues that the release is
unconscionable and unenforceable because (among other things) it was given to
him on a take-it-or-leave-it-basis, and it is one-sided in the sense that it places
all risk on him. 
 
“An adhesion contract has been defined
as ‘“a standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of
superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the
opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.” [Citation.]’ [Citation.]”
(Westlye v. Look Sports, Inc., supra, 17 Cal.App.4th 1715, 1735.)
 
However, as Cross-Defendants point out
in their reply, “‘[t]o describe a contract as adhesive in character is not to
indicate its legal effect.... [A] contract of adhesion is fully enforceable
according to its terms [citations] unless certain other factors are present
which, under established legal rules-legislative or judicial-operate to render
it otherwise.’” (Perdue v. Crocker National Bank (1985) 38 Cal.3d 913,
925.)
 
 “‘[A]n adhesive contract ‘would remain fully
enforceable unless (1) all or part of the contract fell outside the reasonable
expectations of the weaker party or (2) it was unduly oppressive or
unconscionable under applicable principles of equity.’ [Citations.]” (Stirlen
v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1530.)
 
Here, Langley has not submitted any
evidence (e.g., a declaration) showing that the release fell outside his
reasonable expectations. Indeed, “[a]mong the factors which strongly affect the
assessment whether the contract was within the reasonable expectation of the
‘adhering’ party are notice, and the extent to which the contract affects the
public interest.” (Allan v. Snow Summit, Inc. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th
1358, 1375–1376.) “California courts have consistently held that, ‘although
exculpatory clauses affecting the public interest are invalid [citation],
exculpatory agreements in the recreational sports context do not implicate the
public interest.’ [Citations.]” (Lund, supra, 78 Cal.App.4th at
p. 739.) This is especially true where “[t]here is no allegation of fraud,
willful injury or any violation of law.” (Ibid.)
 
Langley has also failed to submit
evidence showing that the release was unduly oppressive or unconscionable. “Unconscionable
agreements typically involve contractual provisions which operate in a harsh
and one-sided manner without any justification. [Citation.] They have both a
procedural and a substantive element. ‘The procedural element focuses on two
factors: oppression and surprise. Oppression arises from an inequality of
bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and an absence of
meaningful choice. Surprise involves the extent to which the terms of the
bargain are hidden in a “prolix printed form” drafted by a party in a superior
bargaining position. Substantive unconscionability inquires into whether the
one-sidedness of an agreement is objectively justified. This component is tied
to procedural unconscionability and requires a balancing test, such that “‘the
greater the unfair surprise or inequality of bargaining power, the less
unreasonable the risk reallocation which will be tolerated.’”’ [Citation.]” (Olsen
v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 608, 621.) Here, Langley makes the
unconscionability arguments in his opposition but has not submitted any
declaration or cited any evidence that shows that the release was a surprise to
him, or that he viewed it as being unfairly one-sided. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds Langley’s
unconscionability and public policy arguments unpersuasive. 
 
Langley’s argument that conditions precedent were not met
 
Lastly, Langley implies that the
release was contingent upon Cross-Defendants providing him with liability
insurance, or that the release obligated Cross-Defendants to provide him with
that insurance as part of their performance under the release. Langley claims
that because the Cross-Defendants failed to give him insurance, they cannot
enforce the release against him. 
 
However, Langley has not pointed to
any language in the release that supports that argument. 
 
Langley only points to the fact that
the Race Brief the Cross-Defendants gave him said he will be given insurance. 
 
However, to the extent Langley seeks
to incorporate by reference that document into the release, “the doctrine of
incorporation by reference generally ‘requires that (1) the reference to
another document was clear and unequivocal; (2) the reference was called to the
attention of the other party, who consented to that term; and (3) the terms of
the incorporated documents were known or easily available to the contracting
parties.’ [Citation.]” (Yu v. Liberty Surplus Ins. Corp. (2018) 30
Cal.App.5th 1024, 1032.) 
 
Here, Langley has not established
those elements. 
 
For the reasons set forth above, the
Court finds that Cross-Defendants have met their burden of showing that the
first cause of action for implied indemnity, second cause of action for
contribution and indemnity, and third cause of action for declaratory relief in
the FAXC have no merit. The Court also finds that Langley has failed to prove
that triable issues exist as to those claims. 
 
Therefore, the motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The motion for summary adjudication is
granted as to the first (1st)
cause of action for implied indemnity, second (2nd) cause of action
for contribution and indemnity, and third (3rd) cause of action for
declaratory relief in the First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by
Defendants/Cross-Complainants COPS Racing, LLC and Morgan Langley on September
21, 2021.
 
 
 