 Case Number:  23STCV05655    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



Maria Flor Garcia-Gonzalez, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
Los
  Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority; and DOES 1 through 20,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23STCV05655 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
Motion
  to Compel Second Physical Examination of Plaintiff; Motion to Continue
 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
December
  20, 2024 



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          This case
stems from an incident that occurred on May 2, 2020 when Maria Flor
Garcia-Gonzalez (Plaintiff) was attempting to board a bus owned and operated by
the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Defendant). Plaintiff
filed an initial Complaint on March 14, 2023, followed by the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC) on October 3, 2023.[1] The
FAC alleges that as Plaintiff was attempting to step on to a bus, the doors of
the bus closed causing Plaintiff to be trapped. (FAC, ¶12-13.) While trapped in
between the doors, part of Plaintiff’s body was inside the bus and part of her
body was outside the bus. (Id.) As the bus began to move, Plaintiff
alleges she fell backward onto the ground suffering injury. (Id.)  
Motion to Compel
The motion
now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion to Compel a Second Physical
Examination of Plaintiff (the Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion; Defendant replied.
 
         
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
“In any case
in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant
may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the
following conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any
diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2032.220(a), emphasis added.) 
“If a
defendant who has demanded a physical examination under this article, on
receipt of the plaintiff's response to that demand, deems that any modification
of the demand, or any refusal to submit to the physical examination is
unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order compelling compliance with
the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2032.250(a).)
If the same
defendant requests a second doctor to perform a physical examination, a court
order must be obtained and may only be granted on a showing of “good cause”. “Good cause” may
be found where plaintiff claims additional injuries, or the
plaintiff's condition is worsening; or even simply because of lapse of
time. (Weil & Brown, Civ. Procedure Before Trial: Examination Upon Court
Order (The Rutter Guide 2024) ¶ 8:1558.) 
 
III.     DISCUSSION
          In its moving
papers, Defendant argues a second independent medical exam (IME) by an
orthopedic surgeon is necessary because the first IME was for a separate injury,
Plaintiff’s alleged traumatic brain injury (TBI). The first IME occurred on
July 23, 2024 and was completed by Dr. Paul E. Kaloostian (Dr. Kaloostian), a
licensed physician specializing in neurosurgery. Defendant contends there is
good cause for a second IME because new information was recently revealed to
Defense counsel: Plaintiff is now alleging a new claim for bi-lateral knee
surgery. (Moving Papers, 3:12-16.)
          In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant was well-aware of injury to both
knees before the first IME occurred. Therefore, this injury is not new and
there is no good cause for a second IME. Plaintiff also contends the motion is
procedurally defective.  In reply,
Defendant provides an e-mail in which Plaintiff appears to agree to the second
IME, under certain conditions.  The Court
will discuss the second IME with the parties. 
It notes the following to be addressed: 
1.   The thrust of
Defendant’s argument is that the need for surgery on Plaintiff’s knee injuries
is new information, and in order to properly assess damages Defendant needs to
conduct a second IME. However, Plaintiff produced medical records on January 3,
2024 that detailed her bilateral knee injuries from her own medical provider
Dr. Rajan Patel. (Opp. Papers, Exh. 2.) Moreover, on July 9, 2024, Plaintiff
produced another report from Dr. Jonathan Frank (Dr Frank). Dr. Frank’s report
contained a diagnosis of a sprain in the left knee, and an osteochondral lesion
and possible meniscus tear in the right knee. (Opp. Papers, Exh. 3.) This is in
addition to Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories served on
January 3, 2024, where Plaintiff provided and stated her injuries as follows:
“Plaintiff suffered a traumatic brain injury and injuries to neck, lower back,
right shoulder, right elbow, right and left knee and chest.” (Opp Papers, Exh.
1, Response to Form Interrogatory No. 6.2.) 
2.  
Defendant argues that Dr. Kaloostian as a
neurosurgeon did not conduct an exam of Plaintiff’s alleged knee injuries, but
solely the body parts related to her TBI claim. However, the initial IME
conducted by Dr. Kaloostian listed both right and left knee pain as part of a
list of injuries identified by Plaintiff that could possibly be examined by Dr.
Kaloostian. (Notice of Lodging Exhibits in Support of Motion to Compel 2nd
IME, Exh. A.) 
3.  
Plaintiff appears to have agreed to the Second IME,
with conditions.  See Exhibits H and I to
Defendant’s Supplemental Exhibits.
Motion to Continue Trial
Trial is
currently scheduled for January 24, 2025. Plaintiff opposes the Motion;
Defendant files a reply.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
          California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored,
the trial date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without
limitation): 
(1)  The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)  The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(4)  The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)  The addition of a new party if:
a.   
The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or
b.  
The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
(6)  A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)  A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.
(Id.,
Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿¿ 
The court may also consider the
following factors: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; (2) Whether there was
any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
party; (3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The court's calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on
the continuance; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.” (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1332(d).)¿¿
III.     DISCUSSION
           Similar
to Defendant’s concurrently filed Motion to Compel a Second Independent Medical
Examination, the primary argument for the instant Motion to Continue Trial is
that the need for surgery on Plaintiff’s knee injuries is new information, and
in order to properly assess damages Defendant needs time to conduct a second
independent medical examination (IME). 
          In
its moving papers, Defendant cites to three cases arguing denial of a
continuance will deprive the moving party of a fair hearing. Defendant cites
to: Cohen v. Herbert (1960) 186 Cal.App.2d 488 (“Cohen”), Palomar
Mortg. Co. v. Lister (1963) 212 Cal.App.2d 236 (“Palomar”), and Muller
v. Tanner (1969) 2 Cal.App.3d 445 (“Muller”). Reliance on Cohen,
Palomar, and Muller is misplaced for two primary reasons. First, the
current iteration of Cal.
Rules of Court 3.1332 is the result of three different changes to the rule. The
earliest of which occurred in 1984. The most recent of which occurred in 2004
and has been effective since then. The most recent case Defendant cites to is
the Muller decision authored in 1969. 
Second, the facts of the three cited
cases are wholly inapplicable to the case before the Court. Cohen was an
action for appointment of a receiver, there the Court of Appeal dealt with the
denial of a request for a one-week continuance. The Court of Appeal reversed
the denial holding that the defendants who requested the denial in Cohen
demonstrated both diligence and good faith, and that the time requested was
reasonable. (Cohen, at 495.) The Court here sees the opposite, the
medical records showing the knee injury at issue was more than sufficient
notice for Defendant to inquire prior to the first IME; Defendant’s filings
fail to address why an inquiry into the knee injury was not conducted sooner. 
Palomar was a case where a one-day continuance
was requested on the first day of trial but was denied. (Palomar, at
237.) The Court of Appeal reversed because not only had opposing counsel
consented to the continuance, but no prejudice nor injury was evident.
Additionally, the moving party’s attorneys were appearing in a separate case on
the same day and could not be present for the first day of the Palomar
trial. Those circumstances do not exist here. 
Finally, Muller’s opinion
addresses the denial of a motion to continue indirectly, however it should be
noted that the Court of Appeal in Muller did not overturn the denial.
Rather, the Muller opinion addresses the irregularities that prevented
the plaintiff – a vexatious litigant – from having a proper hearing on the
issues raised by defendant’s motion for a security deposit. The moving and
reply papers fail to draw parallels between the cited cases and the case at bar.
Thus, the Court is disinclined to
continue trial.  It will, however, discuss
the issue in concert with the issue of a second DME.
Dated this 20th day of December, 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 


