 Case Number:  22NWCV00487    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  C Anitra Washington vs Ersell Valerie Reid
Case No.: 22NWCV00487 
Hearing Date: May 21, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#7
Tentative Ruling 
I.               
Cross-Defendant Alora De La Vara’s
Demurrer as to the First, Second, Third, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth
Causes of Action are OVERRULED. 
II.             
Cross-Defendant Alora De La Vara’s
Demurrer as to the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action are SUSTAINED. 
III.           
Cross-Defendant Anitra Washington’s
Demurrer as to the First, Third, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action
are OVERRULED. 
IV.          
Cross-Defendant Anitra Washington’s
Demurrer as to the Second, Fourth, Fifth, and Ninth Causes of Action are SUSTAINED.

Cross-Defendant Anitra Washington to give
notice. 
 
Cross-Defendant Alora De La Vara and Cross-Defendant Anitra
Washington demur to the nine causes of action alleged in the First Amended
Cross-Compliant (“FAXC”) filed on September 27, 2023, by Cross-Complainant
Ersell Valerie Ried (“Cross-Complainant”) on the grounds that Cross-Complainant
is not a real party in interest and does not have capacity to sue, the
pleadings are vague and unintelligible, the FAXC fails to identify a fiduciary
relationship, and fails to state a claim upon which relief may be granted. 
Background 
This case arises from the purchase of real property located
at 201 Reposadro Drive, La Habra Heights 90631 (the “Subject Property”) by
Plaintiff Anitra Washington with a contribution by Defendant and Cross-Complainant
Ersell Reid. (FAXC ¶¶ 13-14).  The FAXC
alleges, among other things, that Cross-Complainant could not close on the
property by herself, that Cross-Complainant caught COVID-19 during the pendency
of escrow and could not execute transaction documents in person due to her
needing to be in isolation, and that upon close of escrow the property was
titled in Cross-Defendant Washington’s name only.
Cross-Complainant’s real estate agent in the transaction
was Cross-Defendant Alora De La Vara of Keller Williams (FAXC ¶¶ 6, 12-13.)
Cross-Defendant Diane Luongo was the loan officer. (FAXC ¶¶ 4, 16.)
Cross-Defendant Marriann Bohling was the escrow agent and notary facilitating
the close of the transaction of the Subject Property. (FAXC ¶¶ 5, 17.)
This Court has previously adjudicated the issue of
ownership of the property in the underlying complaint between Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Washington and Defendant/Cross-Complainant Reid, which resulted in Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Washington being declared the legal owner of the property.
There are now two demurrers before the Court: one by
Cross-Defendant Alora De La Vara and another by Cross-Defendant Anitra
Washington. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
Cross-Defendant Alora De La Vara and Anitra Washington’s
Request for Judicial Notice is ruled on as follows:
The Court Grants Request for Judicial Notice Nos. 1 and 2
as they are decisions of a Court of the United States. (Cal. Evid. Code §
452(a).) 
Legal Standard 
The
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by
demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or is uncertain. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.10., subds. (e) & (f).)
The
grounds for any demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
matters outside the pleading if they are judicially noticeable. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Tenet
Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 821, 834.)
“If
a demurrer is sustained, the court may grant leave to amend the pleading upon
any terms as may be just and shall fix the time within which the amendment or
amended pleading shall be filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472a, subd. (c).) A trial
court “must grant leave to amend after sustaining a demurrer if a plaintiff
seeks such leave and shows how amendment will cure the defect in the
complaint.” (Thornton v. California Unemployment Ins. Appeals Bd. (2012)
204 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1423.)
Discussion 
First
Cause of Action: Fraud 
Cross-Defendants both argue that Cross-Complainant’s
claim for fraud fails as it is not pleaded with particularity. 
Cross-Complainant Reid alleges that Cross-Defendant Washington
committed fraud by intentionally misrepresenting herself as Cross-Compalint's
landlord to the court, with the intention of depriving Cross-Complainant of her
property or legal rights and causing her harm.
Under California law, fraud is defined as an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact with the intent to
deprive the plaintiff of property or a legal right, or to cause injury (CACI
3116, Fraud Explained).
In the FAXC, Cross-Complainant alleges that
“Cross-complaint and Cross-Defendant [Washington] agreed that the subject
property belonged to Cross-Complaint and the mortgage loan would be refinanced
out of Cross-Complaint’s name. However, it is apparent from the
Cross-Defendant’s actions that she intended to defraud the Cross-Complaint out
of her money, equity, property, and possessory interest in the property.”
(FAXC, ¶ 39.) 
In the FAXC, Cross-Complainant also alleges in relevant
part that “[Cross-Defendant] De La Varas… should have known that recommending
and removing Cross-Complainant’s name from the title of the property would have
grave consequences and made promises that Cross-Complainant would be protected.
De La Vara… misled Cross-Complainant and failed to ensure that
Cross-Complainant’s name was on title prior to recording. Further, the De La
Varas… failed to ensure that Escrow prepared a grant deed to put
Cross-Complainant back on title and under protection. Each Cross-Defendant
harmed Cross-Complainant when they failed to retitle the property in Reid’s
name as promised, and by altering and recording a deed that was not conveyed by
the grantors to Washington alone without the grantor’s knowledge or consent.”
(FAXC, ¶ 44.) 
Here, taking the facts alleged in the FAXC as true, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has properly plead Fraud. 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first
cause of action. 
Second Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary
Duty
Cross-Defendant Alora De La Vara claims that Cross-Complainant
cannot state a claim for fraud against a selling agent under the circumstances,
given that Cross-Complainant was not a client of Cross-Defendant Alora De La
Vara.
In opposition, Cross-Complainant contends that a client
relationship exists between the parties. 
A real estate agent has a fiduciary duty of utmost care,
integrity, honesty, and loyalty in dealings with the client (Civ. Code section
2079.16 (agency disclosure form).) This relationship not only imposes on the
agent the duty of acting in the highest good towards the principal but also
precludes the agent from obtaining any advantage over the principal by virtue
of the agency. Batson v. Strehlow (1968) 68 Cal. 2d 662.
Here, the Court finds that the claim does not fail.
Attached to the FACX is a Disclosure regarding the real estate agency
relationship. (FAXC, Ex. A.) The form states that “A real estate agent, either
acting directly or through one or more salespersons and broker associates, can
legally be the agent of both the Seller and the Buyer in a transaction, but
only with the knowledge and consent of both the Seller and the Buyer.” (FAXC,
Ex. A, p. 1.) This form is signed by both parties. (Id.) Therefore, the Court, at this time taking the facts in the
Complaint as true and the form signed by the parties OVERRULES the demurrer as
to the Breach of fiduciary duty as to Cross-Defendant De La Vara. 
However, the FAXC, makes no allegations of breach of
fiduciary duty as to Cross-Defendant Washington, accordingly the Court SUSTAINS
the demurer as to the second cause of action as to Cross-Defendant Washington. 
Third
Cause of Action: Breach of Contract 
Cross-Defendant Washington demurs to the Third Cause of
Action because Cross-Complainant fails to identify what contract or what terms
were breached. 
In Opposition, Cross-Complainant contends that she clearly
identified the oral agreement between her and Cross-Defendant Washington, where
Cross-Defendant Washington would temporarily assist Reid with the purchase of
the property in exchange for $15,000. Cross-Complainant maintains she fulfilled
her obligation by paying $15,000 to Cross-Defendant Washington. However, Cross-Defendant
Washington breached the agreement by claiming to be Cross-Complainant’s landlord
instead of honoring their agreement.
In the FAXC, Cross-Complainant alleges: “Cross-Complainant
and Cross-Defendant Washington had agreement that Cross-Complaint is buying the
property as an owner and Cross-Defendant Washington was only to be on the loan
temporarily and cross Complaint would refinance the loan out of Cross-Defendant
Washington’s name.” (FAXC, ¶ 59.) The FAXC also alleges, “The agreement between
cross-complaint and cross-defendant Washington, was that Washington would
assist with the sale temporarily. Then Reid would refinance the property out of
Washingtons name within six months. Washington requested to be paid for this
transaction and received over $15,000.00 from Reid to that end. Then Washington
wanted additional funds of $25,000.00 and retaliated against Reid when Reid
refused to sale the subject property, then brought the frivolous
landlord-tenant action against Reid.” (FAXC, ¶ 62.) 
Accordingly, taking the facts in the FAXC to be true, the
Court finds that Cross-Complainant has properly pleaded the third cause of
action and OVERRULES the demurrer as to Cross-Defendant Washington.  
The Court notes that Cross-Defendant De La Vara does not
argue in her moving papers that she did not breach a contract, accordingly the
Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to Cross-Defendant De La Vara. 
Fourth Cause of Action: Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200 
Cross-Defendants both contend Cross-Complainant does not
demonstrate any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.
Cross-Defendants argue that the undisputed facts show that Cross-Complainat
defaulted on her monetary obligations, and she cannot state a claim against
Agent De La Vara for her own wrongdoing.
“The California Unfair Competition Law (UCL) ([Bus. &
Prof. Code] § 17200 et seq.) defines ‘unfair competition’ as ‘any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising.’” (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 609.) Prevailing plaintiffs are limited to injunctive relief
and restitution, but the scope of the law is broad, “embracing anything that
[is] a business practice and [that] at the same time is forbidden by law.” (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 180.)
Here, the Cross-Compliant states general allegations that
Cross-Defendants committed “unlawful, unfair and fraudulent acts.” (FAXC, ¶
72.) The Cross-Complaint does not state specific facts on how Cross-Defendant
was harmed by either Cross-Defendant. Moreover, the opposition does not state
facts of what unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent acts occurred.
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the
Fourth Cause of Action against Cross-Defendant De La Varga. 
Cross-Complainant also does not properly allege in the FAXC
how the Business and Profession Code would apply to Cross-Defendant Washington,
given that she was not engaged in a business practice. Accordingly, the Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer as to Fourth Cause of Action against Cross-Defendant
Washington.
Fifth Cause of Action: Cancellation of
Instruments-Reformation § 3399 
In the moving papers, Cross-Defendants contend Cross-Complainant
fails to identify the recorded deed she seeks to cancel. Cross-Defendants
contend Cross-Complainant was not named as a grantee and did not close the
transaction as a Buyer. 
In the opposition, Cross-Complainant contends that the
validity of the deed can be challenged based on fraud, mistake, or improper
execution. 
Plaintiff
alleges a claim for restoration of title in fee simple pursuant to Civil Code §
3399. “When, through fraud … which
the other at the time knew or suspected, a written contract does not truly
express the intention of the parties, it may be revised on the application of a
party aggrieved, so as to express that intention, so far as it can be done
without prejudice to rights acquired by third persons, in good faith and for
value.”        
Here Cross-Complainant alleges that “the sellers intended
to transfer the title of the deed to the grantees Reid and Washington and the
Deed became effective upon the transfer. In addition, acceptance of the grantee
is necessary to make a delivery effective and the deed operative. At the time
of the transfer both Reid and Washington accepted the delivery and thus the
deed was operative on August 27, 2021, when the deed was given to the escrow
agent.” (FAXC, ¶ 78.) The FAXC goes on to state that “after delivery
Cross-defendant Bohling altered the deed to include Cross-defendant Washington
only. Replacing the page conveying title by the grantors to Reid and Washington
with Washington only.” (FAXC, ¶ 79.) At this stage, the Court must take the
facts alleged in the FAXC as true. However, the Court finds the claims in the
fifth cause of action are specific to Cross-Defendant Bohling. Therefore, the
Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to both Cross-Defendants Washington and De La
Varga.  
Sixth Cause of Action: Fraud-Negligence,
Intentional Misrepresentation 
In the moving papers, Cross-Defendants contend no cause of
action exists as it is pleaded. Cross-Defendant De La Varga contends Cross-Complainant
cannot state a claim against her for any representations that fall outside of a
selling agent’s authority.  Cross-Defendant
De La Varga contends a selling agent has no control over who is named on a
grant deed and she could not make any assurances as to title, escrow, or
financing when Reid was not a buyer and had no interest in the subject
property.                    
Cross-Complainant contends she was not merely an unrelated
party to the transaction rather she was directly involved as a client/buyer and
party to the entire process. As such, Cross-Complainant argues Cross-Defendant
De La Vara had a duty to act in Cross-Complainant’s best interests. Even if she
did not have direct control over the grant deed, she still had a responsibility
to ensure that Cross-Complainant’s interests were protected.
The FAXC, alleges “The false representations made by
cross-defendant Washington include but are not limited to stating that
defendant would temporarily assist defendant in the purchase of the subject
property, knowing that the subject property would was to be defendant’s
property and would be titled in Cross-complainants name. Washington would do so
in for the sum of $15,000.00 and then Cross-Defendant’s name would be removed
off the loan. Washington also falsely stated that Washington would come to subject
property to stay at times until the loan was refinanced out of Washingtons
names. That Washington knew the deposit was not intended as a gift for
Washington to purchase the subject property for herself but was being made by
Reid for the benefit of Reid.” (FAXC, ¶ 88.) 
The FAXC also alleges “In or about September 2021, the De
La Varas… made false representations to Reid, with the intent to deceive and
induce Reid to act or refrain from acting in reliance upon these
misrepresentations. The false representations made by the defendant include,
but are not limited to: claiming that the title of the subject property would
be recorded with Reid’s name and Reid financial and equitable interest would be
protected, inducing Reid to make the deposit on the home knowing that they had
no intention on keeping with the agreement to have escrow prepare a grant deed
with Reid names on title, and it was possible to refinance the subject property
out of Washington’s name.” (FAXC, ¶ 92.) 
Accordingly, taking the facts in the FAXC as true, the
Court finds that Cross-Complainant has properly plead intentional
misrepresentation claim. Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the
sixth cause of action as to both Cross-Defendants. 
Seventh and Eighth Cause of Action: Fraud
Promissory and Fraud Concealment 
Cross-Defendants contend that Cross-Complainant cannot
state a claim for promissory because the evidence presented shows that Cross-Complainant
provided the down payment as a gift, took possession of the property, promised
to make all mortgage payments, but did not follow through on the promises.
Cross-Defendants contend Cross-Complainant lacks standing to allege any injury
related to the subject property as Cross-Complainant was not the buyer and Cross-Defendant
De La Vara has no authority or control over the escrow company’s duties to
prepare documents on behalf of the real parties to the transaction.
In opposition, as to the Promissory Fraud claim, Cross-Complainant
contends that she does not lack standing because she was a party with equitable
and title interest in the property, and she thereby established  a contractual relationship with
Cross-Defendant De La Vara. As to the Negligent Fraud claim, Cross-Complainant
contends that she made the down payment with the understanding that it would be
part of the purchase of a home, not as a gratuitous gift to Cross-Defendant
Washington. As to the Fraud Concealment claim, Cross-Complainant argues that there
was a fiduciary relationship and that Cross-Defendants failed to disclose
information to prevent Cross-Complainant from understanding the effect of the
promissory note. 
“Promissory fraud” is a subset of fraud and deceit. A
promise to do something necessarily implies the intention to perform; hence,
where a promise is made without such intention, there is an implied
misrepresentation of fact that may be actionable fraud.’ ” (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 973-974.)
In the FAXC, Cross-Complainant contends the Cross-Defendants
each made false representations including: “claiming that if title was removed
out of cross-complainants name, title would be restored back to
cross-complainant by grant deed, failing to prepare a grant deed through escrow
with Cross-Complainant back on title as promised while inducing
Cross-Complainant to remove her name off Title to her detriment and the benefit
of others while Cross Complainant was gravely ill with Covid-19.” (FAXC, ¶ 99.)
Cross-Complainant contends that these “false representations were made with the
intent to deceive cross-complainant and induce her to enter into the promissory
agreement under duress while ill with Covid 19” and did in fact induce
Plaintiff to enter into the promissory agreement. (FAXC, ¶¶ 100-01.)
Taking the allegations as true at this stage, the Court
finds that the allegations in the Cross-Compliant sufficiently plead that the
representations by Cross-Defendants induced Cross-Complainant into making the
payment with the understanding that Cross-Complainant would enter into the
promissory agreement. 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the
Seventh Cause of Action. 
The elements for Fraudulent Concealment are: (1) The
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) The defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) The
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) The plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as they did if they had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) As a result of the concealment or suppression
of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage. (Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248).
Here, the FAXC alleges that Cross-Defendants concealed that
they removed Cross-Complainant’s name from the title while she was ill, and
allowed or altered the original grant deed from the grantors without their
knowledge or consent. (FAXC ¶ 106.) The FAXC states that the Cross-Defendants
had a duty to disclose (FAXC, ¶ 108), did so intentionally (Id., ¶ 109), which caused Cross-Complainant to be deceived (Id.),
and resulting in the damages in the amount of $450,000.00 (Id.,
¶ 110.) 
The Court finds, taking the
facts in the Cross-Compliant as true, that Cross-Complainant sufficiently
pleads the elements of the eighth cause of action. 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES
the Demurrer as to the Eighth Cause of Action. 
Ninth Cause of Action: Breach of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Cross Defendants contend that Cross-Complainant cannot
state a claim for breach of good faith and fair dealing because Cross-Complainant
was not the Buyer. As the former tenant in possession, there is no contractual
relationship between Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant De La Vara.
For the reasons stated above, the Court finds there was a
contractual relationship between the parties. Further, in the FAXC, Cross-Complainant
alleges Cross-Defendants “breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing by among other things (1) putting their interest and the interest of
others before that of Cross-Complainants, (2) pressuring the Cross-Complainant
while she was gravely ill with Covid-19 to move with sale with unsavory tactics
and unethical tactics to their benefit and Cross-Complainant detriment, (3)
allowing the removal of Cross-Complainant’s name from the original grant deed,
(4) failing to ensure that escrow prepare a grant deed restoring
Cross-complainant vested interest in the subject property while inducing
Cross-Complainant to wire and transfer funds to purchase the subject property,
and (6) failing to protect and property represent the needs as well as the
financial and equitable interest of the Cross-Complainant. Breaching their
fiduciary duty, breach of contract.” (FAXC, ¶ 115.) 
Accordingly, the Court finds that, at this stage, Cross-Complainant
has sufficiently plead facts for the ninth cause of action. Therefore, the
Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to ninth cause of action. 
However, the Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing section of the FAXC does not assert any allegations as to
Cross-Defendant Washington. Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demur as to
Cross-Defendant Washington. 