 Case Number:  23NWCV01029    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  C CUEVA DE GARCIA, ET AL. V. PREMIER
MEDICAL TRANSPORT, INC., ET AL
CASE
NO: 23NWCV01029
HEARING:
May 21, 2024 @ 9:30AM
 
#3
 
Plaintiff Ana Cueva de Garcia’s
Motion to be appointed as Successor in Interest to Plaintiff Castula
Ballesteros is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Plaintiff
Ana Cueva de Garcia moves to be appointed as successor in interest to Plaintiff
Castula Ballesteros. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs
Ana Cueva de Garcia, Santiago Castillo, and Castula Ballesteros, filed a
complaint against Premier Medical Transport, Inc, Yuyul Song, and Does 1
through 20 for (1) Negligence; (2) Negligence per se; and (3) Motor Vehicle Owner Liability pursuant to Vehicle Code § 17150.  
 
Plaintiff Castula Ballusteros passed away
on November 15, 2023 as stated on her certificate of death. [Cueva de Garcia Decl. Exhibit A.] Ana Cueva de Garcia filed this motion on April 9, 2024.  
 
As of May 17, 2024 this motion is
unopposed. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
“On
motion after the death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the
court shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be
continued by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the
decedent’s successor in interest.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 377.31) 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 377.32 provides the following: 
(a) The person who seeks to
commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding
as the decedent’s successor in interest under this article, shall execute and
file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of
this state stating all of the following: 
        (1) The
decedent’s name
        (2) The
date and place of the decedent's death. 
        (3) “No
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s
estate. 
        (4) If
the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing
distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest. 
        (5)
Either of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof: 
             
(A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest
(as defined in §
377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding. 
             
(B) “The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the
decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in § 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.” 
        (6) “No
other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.” 
                 (7) “The affiant or declarant
affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of
California that the foregoing is true and correct.” 
 
  (b) Where more than one person executes the
affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements required by
subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that fact. 
 
  (c) A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration. 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff Ana Cueva
de Garcia avers that Plaintiff Castula Ballesteros (Decedent) passed on
November 15, 2023 in Kern County; no proceeding is now pending in California
for the administration of Decedent’s estate; Plaintiff Ana Cueva de Garcia is Decedent’s
successor in interest; and no other person has a superior right to be
substituted for Decedent. [Declaration of Ana Cueva de Garcia, ¶¶1-4.]
Decedent’s Certificate of Death is attached to Ms. Cueva de Garcia's
declaration [Cueva de Garcia Decl. Exhibit A.] Having met all the requirements
set forth in Code Civ. Proc. § 377.11,
Plaintiff Ana Cueva de Garcia’s motion to be appointed as Successor in Interest
to Plaintiff Castulla Ballesteros is GRANTED. 
 