 Case Number:  23NWCV01221    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  C Vanessa Duran, et al. vs Zeus
Gonzalez, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01221
Hearing Date: May 21, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#8 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant City of Santa Fe Springs’ Demurrer is
OVERRULED.  Defendant to Answer within 20
days.  
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
On October 24, 2022, at approximately 1:09 p.m., Plaintiff
Vanessa Duran was driving in the number one lane of the intersection of
Houghton Avenue and Pioneer Boulevard heading southbound towards Whiteland
Street in the City of Santa Fe Springs when her vehicle collided with another
vehicle, allegedly causing her severe and continuing bodily injuries and
emotional trauma. (Martinez Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A, Claim for Damages by Vanessa
Duran.) Plaintiff Gia Esquivel, Vanessa Duran’s daughter, was a passenger in
the vehicle, and she too alleges continuing bodily injuries and emotional
trauma. (Martinez Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B, Claim for Damages by Gia Esquivel.)  
The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed on
November 2, 2023, alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence against
Defendants Zeus Gonzales and Elizabeth Rivera Jimenez; and (2) Liability for
Dangerous Condition of Public Property against Defendant City of Santa Fe
Springs. 
Defendant City of Santa Fe Springs (“Defendant”) demurs to
Plaintiffs Vanessa Duran and Gia Esquivel’s (collectively “Plaintiffs”) Second
Cause of Action on the grounds that 1) it fails to plead facts sufficient to
plead a cause of action and 2) it fails to adhere to
the requirements set forth in the California Tort Claims Act.

Request for Judicial Notice 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is ruled on as
follows:
The Court Grants Request for Judicial Notice Nos. 1, 2, 3,
4, and 5.
Legal Standard 
The
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by
demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or is uncertain. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.10., subds. (e) & (f).)
The
grounds for any demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
matters outside the pleading if they are judicially noticeable. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Tenet
Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 821, 834.)
“If
a demurrer is sustained, the court may grant leave to amend the pleading upon
any terms as may be just and shall fix the time within which the amendment or
amended pleading shall be filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472a, subd. (c).) A trial
court “must grant leave to amend after sustaining a demurrer if a plaintiff
seeks such leave and shows how amendment will cure the defect in the
complaint.” (Thornton v. California Unemployment Ins. Appeals Bd. (2012)
204 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1423.)
Discussion 
Compliance
with the California Tort Claims Act
Before
filing a “suit for money or damages” against a public entity, a plaintiff must
present “a timely written claim” to said entity. (Gov. Code, § 945.4; N.G. v.
County of San Diego (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 63, 72.) A claim relating to a cause
of action for injury to person or personal property must be presented within
six months of the accrual of the cause of action. (Gov. Code, § 911.2, subd.
(a).) Once a claim has been presented to, and rejected by, the public entity, a
claimant must file his civil action against the public entity within six months
from the date the written notice of rejection was “personally delivered or
deposited in the mail.” (Gov. Code, §§ 913 & 945.6, subd. (a)(1).) If the
government does not send a notice of rejection, the claimant must file his
civil action within two years from the accrual of the cause of action. (Gov.
Code, §§ 913 & 945.6, subd. (a)(2).)
“[T]he
purpose of the claim is to give the government entity notice sufficient for it
to investigate and evaluate the claim, not to eliminate meritorious actions.” (Stockett
v. Association of Cal. Water Agencies Joint Powers Ins. Authority (2004) 34
Cal.4th 441, 446.) Government Code section 910 states that a claim must include
the name and address of the claimant; the address of the public entity; the
date, place, and circumstances of the occurrence giving rise to the claim; a
general description of the injury or damage incurred; the names of any relevant
employees, if known; and the amount claimed if it is less than $10,000. (Gov.
Code, § 910.)
Our
Supreme Court has held that a sufficient claim “need not specify each
particular act or omission later proven to have caused the injury. [Citation.]
A complaint's fuller exposition of the factual basis beyond that given in the
claim is not fatal, so long as the complaint is not based on an ‘entirely
different set of facts.’ [Citation.] Only where there has been a ‘complete
shift in allegations, usually involving an effort to premise civil liability on
acts or omissions committed at different times or by different persons than
those described in the claim,’ have courts generally found the complaint
barred. [Citation.] Where the complaint merely
elaborates or adds further detail to a claim, but is predicated on the same
fundamental actions or failures to act by the defendants, courts have generally
found the
claim fairly reflects the facts pled in the complaint. [Citation.]” (Stockett v. Assn. of Cal.
Water Agencies J. Powers Ins. Auth., supra, 34 Cal.4th 447.)

The
high court held that the claim need only provide notice of the intended causes
of action. (Stockett v. Assn. of Cal. Water Agencies J. Powers Ins. Auth.,
supra, 34 Cal.4th 447.) For example, the plaintiff in Stockett presented a
claim alleging wrongful termination in violation of public policy. (Ibid.) The
Supreme Court held that this was sufficient, even though the plaintiff “did not
specifically assert his termination violated the public policies favoring free
speech and opposition to public employee conflicts of interest” because “these
theories do not represent additional causes of action and hence need not be
separately presented.” (Ibid.)
On
the other hand, in Fall River v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d
431 (“Fall River”), “the plaintiff was injured at school when a steel door
struck his head. His notice of claim stated the injury was caused by the
school's negligent maintenance of the door, but his complaint additionally
alleged the school had negligently failed to supervise students engaged in
horseplay. [Citation.] The court held the factual divergence between claim and
complaint was too great; the complaint alleged liability ‘on an entirely
different factual basis than what was set forth in the tort claim.’” (Stockett
v. Assn. of Cal. Water Agencies J. Powers Ins. Auth., supra, 34
Cal.4th at 448, quoting Fall River v. Superior Court, supra, 206
Cal.App.3d. at 587.)
Similarly,
in Donahue v. State of California (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 795, the Court
of Appeal held that a plaintiff’s government claim was insufficient because it
failed to “set forth the factual basis for recovery alleged in the complaint;
defendant could not have discovered such defect until plaintiff filed his
complaint.” (Donahue v. State of California, supra, 178
Cal.App.3d at 805.) This was because the plaintiff’s claim did not assert the
same theory of liability as what he eventually pleaded in his complaint: “In
the present case plaintiff's written claim asserts that defendant was negligent
in permitting an uninsured motorist to take a driving test, whereas the
complaint alleges that defendant was negligent in failing to instruct, direct
and control the motorist in his driving examination. The act of permitting an
uninsured motorist to take a driving test is not the factual equivalent of the
failure to control or direct the motorist in the course of his examination.”
(Id. at 804.)
Here, Plaintiffs’ government claims allege the following
conditions of the roadway:
“Based on information and belief, the City of Santa Fe
Springs and its employees failed to, among other things, provide proper
separating barrier for the lanes of travel, a stop sign on Pioneer Boulevard,
and warning signs due to the subject accident location being a residential
street. Moreover, the City of Santa Fe Springs did not provide any road
controls at the subject accident location including but not limited to traffic
signals... The City of Santa Fe Springs knew or should have been aware of the
change in condition at the subject roadway and/or intersection including but
not limited to the increase in traffic and vehicles traveling at a higher speed
at the subject road which has blind spots and bends in the roadway that create
a dangerous condition for vehicles traveling through the subject intersection.”
(Martinez Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Exs. A and B.)  
The FAC alleges that “[o]n or about October 24, 2022, at
approximately 1:09 p.m., Plaintiff, VANESSA DURAN, was traveling southbound
from Houghton Avenue onto Whiteland Road at or near the intersection of Pioneer
Blvd., located in the City of Santa Fe Spring, CA 90670 and attempting to cross
the intersection after making a complete stop at the stop sign at said
intersection.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) 
The FAC alleges the following conditions of the roadway:
“Pioneer Blvd. does not have any stop signs at its
intersection with Whiteland Road or Houghton Avenue. (FAC, ¶ 30.) “[T]he
motorists and flow of traffic traveling on Pioneer Blvd. were traveling at
speeds at a much higher rate than those traveling from Whiteland Road and/or
Houghton Avenue. There are several factors which obscure visibility on Pioneer
Blvd. near its intersection with Whiteland Road/Houghton Avenue including but
not limited to trees, vegetation of adjacent parcels, parked motor vehicles, and
curvature of the roadway causing inadequate corner sight distance.” (FAC, ¶
31.) “[T]here were no traffic controls or warning signs in place to notify
motorists traveling on Pioneer Blvd. of the existence of the obscured
visibility nor the yielding traffic from the adjacent residential roads
traveling at much slower rates of speed.” (FAC, ¶ 32.) “Defendants and their
employees failed to among other things, remediate the limited and obscured
visibility upon the roadway on Pioneer Blvd., provide a stop sign and/or
traffic light on Pioneer Blvd., and/or warning signs due to the obscured
visibility and the subject accident location being a residential street and
yielding motorists traveling from Houghton Avenue and/or Whiteland Road at
slower rates of speed than traffic on Pioneer Blvd. Moreover, the City of Santa
Fe Springs did not provide any road controls at the subject accident location
including but not limited to traffic signals, warnings, and/or adjusted speed
limits to notify motorists of yielding traffic.” (FAC, ¶ 34.) “Defendants
failed to place proper signs and other protection where the incident occurred,
despite a substantial history of accidents and/or near accidents.” (FAC, ¶ 35.)

Reduced to their fundamental elements, each of the
government claims and the FAC allege that the Subject intersection lacks a stop
sign on Pioneer Blvd., has high speed of traffic, obscure visibility, and lacks
adequate traffic controls or warning signs. 
Based upon these commonalities, the Court determines that the FAC
alleges a factual basis for recovery that is fairly reflected in Plaintiffs’
government claims.  While the FAC offers
additional detail regarding the road conditions at the Subject intersection, it
is “predicated on the same fundamental actions or failures to act” as alleged
in the prior claims. (Stockett v. Assn. of Cal. Water Agencies J. Powers
Ins. Auth., supra, 34 Cal.4th 447.)  
Accordingly, the demurrer is not sustained on the basis
that it fails to adhere to the requirements set forth in the California Tort
Claims Act.
Sufficiency of the Second Cause of Action
Defendant City of Santa Fe Springs also demurs to the
Second Cause of Action for Dangerous Condition of Public Property on the ground
that it fails to allege facts sufficient to plead a cause of action.  
Government Code Section 835 provides: “Except as provided
by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in
a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was
proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition
created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred,
and that either:
(a) A negligent or wrongful
act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his
employment created the dangerous condition; or
(b) The public entity had
actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section
835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”
(Cal. Govt. Code § 835.)
Under Government Code Section 830, “Dangerous condition”
means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from
a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or
adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably
foreseeable that it will be used. (Cal. Govt. Code § 830, subd. (a).) 
Here, the Court determines that the Second Cause of Action
is adequately pled based upon allegations that Pioneer
Blvd. does not have a stop sign at the Subject intersection, has a high speed
of traffic, obscure visibility, and the Subject intersection lacks sufficient traffic
controls or warning signs.  Defendant
raises factual issues that are not properly resolved at this stage of the
proceedings.  
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the Second Cause of
Action is OVERRULED.  Defendant to Answer
within 20 days.  