 Case Number:  21NWCV00797    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  C Fernando Arana vs Rodolfo Casasola, et al.
Case No.: 21NWCV00797
Hearing Date: May 21, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#6
Tentative Ruling 
     
I.         
Plaintiff Fernando Arana’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.  
   
II.         
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication is GRANTED as to the First, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Causes of
Action. 
 
III.         
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED as to the Second and Third Causes of Action.
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
Plaintiff Fernando Arana (“Plaintiff”) brings this wage and
hour lawsuit against his former employers, Defendant Rudy’s Wholesale Corp., Rodolfo
Casasola, and Teresa Casasola (collectively “Defendants”).  The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
lists six causes of action for: (1) Failure to Pay Wages; (2) Failure to
Provide Meal Periods; (3) Failure to Provide Rest Breaks; (4) Failure to Issue
Accurate Itemized Wage Statements; (5) Failure to Pay Overtime Wages; (6)
Unlawful/Unfair Business Practices. 
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections:
The Court rules as follows to Plaintiff’s Evidentiary
Objections. Objections No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,7, 8, 9, 10 are OVERRULED.
Objection No. 11 is SUSTAINED. 
Legal Standard 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment “has
met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot
be established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Id.)  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi, supra, 159
Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
Discussion 
Plaintiff moves the Court to grant summary judgment on his
six claims for failure to pay wages, failure to provide meal periods, failure
to provide rest periods, failure to issue accurate wage statements, failure to
pay overtime, and unlawful business practices. 

Wage-and-hour claims are governed by the Labor Code and
Industrial Welfare Commission (“IWC”) order. The courts give “extraordinary
deference” to wage orders and enforce their specific terms. (Martinez v.
Combs (2010) 49 Cal.4th 35, 61; Brinker Restaurant Corp. v. Superior
Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1004, 1026–1027; Lab. Code, § 1185.) 
Wage Order 7-2001, effective January 1, 2001, covers the
mercantile industry in California. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 8, § 11070.) Subdivision
3(A) of Wage Order 7-2001 provides in pertinent part that "employees shall
not be employed more than eight (8) hours in any workday or more than forty
(40) hours in any workweek unless the employee receives one and one-half (1
1/2) times such employee's regular rate of pay for all hours worked over forty
(40) in the workweek." (See also, Labor Code § 510, subd. (a).) 
Subdivision 7(A) of Wage Order 7-2001 provides in pertinent
part that “[e]very employer shall keep accurate information with respect to
each employee including the following … (3) Time records showing when the
employee begins and ends each work period. Meal periods, split shift intervals
and total daily hours worked shall also be recorded … (4) Total wages paid each
payroll period … (5) Total hours worked in the payroll period and applicable
rates of pay.” (See also, Labor Code § 226, subd. (a).)
In support of his motion for summary judgment, Plaintiff
presents the following evidence:
·       Rudy’s
Wholesale Corp. (“RWC”) RWC provides food and supplies to lunch trucks on a
wholesale basis.  It is owned and
operated by Defendants Teresa Casasola and Rodolfo Casasola.  Plaintiff worked for RWC from December 1, 2017
to January 22, 2022.  In January 2022,
RWC closed after all of its assets were sold. (UMF Nos. 1-4.)
·       As a
general laborer, Plaintiff’s tasks included cleaning, loading, delivery
driving, and stocking from the start to the end of each of his shifts. (UMF No.
5.)
·       From
December 1, 2017 to January 22, 2022, Plaintiff received a payment of $420 per
week from RWC, minus tax deductions, regardless of how many hours he worked
each week. (UMF No. 7.)
·       From
December 1, 2017 to June 30, 2021, Plaintiff worked twelve-hour shifts for RWC
from Monday through Saturday, starting work at 4 a.m. and ending his shift at 4
p.m. (UMF No. 8.)
·       In
July of 2021, Plaintiff requested, and was approved, to work only eight-hour
days and no Saturdays. (UMF Nos. 9 and 10.)
·       Plaintiff
has never been paid overtime wages and he has never been offered or given any
rest or break periods.  At most,
Plaintiff received a ten to fifteen minute lunch break each day. (UMF Nos.
11-13.)
·       Plaintiff
did not clock in or otherwise record the hours that he worked nor was he asked
to do so. (UMF No. 14.)
·       Plaintiff
never received wage statements showing the amount of hours that he was working
or the hourly rate being provided for the hours he was working (UMF No. 15.)
·       RWC
did not maintain statements showing the amount of hours that Plaintiff worked.
(UMF No. 16.)
The Court determines that Plaintiff has made a prima facie
showing that Defendants failed to pay all wages (First Cause of Action), failed
to issue accurate itemized wage statements (Fourth Cause of Action), and failed
to pay overtime wages (Fifth Cause of Action). 
Because Plaintiff has made a prima facie showing that Defendants failed
to pay overtime wages, he has also made a prima facie showing that Defendants
engaged in an unlawful business practice under Labor Code § 17200 (Sixth Cause
of Action). (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23
Cal.4th 163, 178-179 (nonpayment of overtime wages may constitute an
unlawful business practice for UCL purposes).) 
The Court determines that Plaintiff has not made a prima
facie showing that Defendants failed to provide meal periods (Second Cause of
Action) and failed to provide rest breaks (Fourth Cause of Action).  Plaintiff has not shown that Defendants knew
or reasonably should have known that he worked during some of his meal periods
and rest breaks. (Brinker Restaurant Corp. v. Superior Court, supra,
53 Cal.4th 1004; Furry v. East Bay Publishing, Inc. (2018) 30
Cal.App.5th 1072.) 
As to the First, Fourth,
Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action, the burden now shifts to
Defendants to raise a triable issue of material fact.  
In opposition to Plaintiff’s motion, Defendants present the
following evidence:
·       Plaintiff
was paid partially in cash and partially in check. This was done at Plaintiff’s
request to help him obtain government benefits.  Plaintiff even signed cash receipts for the
cash.  Teresa Casasola personally
witnessed Plaintiff receiving the cash and signing the cash receipts. (Casasola
Opposition Decl., ¶ 1.) Defendants submit two cash receipts signed by Plaintiff which purportedly show he was paid
$180 per week in addition to his regular pay of $420 per week. (Casasola
Opposition Decl., ¶ 1., Ex. A.)

·       Plaintiff
did not work 12 hours a day, nor did he work 6 days a week. He worked 8 hours a
day, 5 days a week Monday-Friday. During most of his employment, he worked from
4:00AM - 8AM and then from 12:00-4:00 PM. This was at his request and for his
benefit because of his child with special needs and other issues with his
family.  His schedule changed to working
4-12 starting around June 2021, with a 30 minute lunch break and two 10 minute
breaks.  His workload did not change. (Casasola Opposition Decl., ¶ 2.)

·      
Plaintiff never worked overtime and was never
paid below minimum wage.  He was always
provided with all of his 30 minute meal and 10 minute rest breaks. (Casasola
Opposition Decl., ¶ 3.)

·       Teresa
Casosola arrived at the workplace daily around 8 a.m. and saw Plaintiff eat
lunch and leave, returning around noon. (Casasola Sur-Reply Decl., ¶ 2.) 
·       RWC is
not open on Saturdays or Sundays. (Casasola Sur-Reply Decl., ¶ 3.)
Here, Defendants do not provide any reliable evidence of Plaintiff’s
wage statements as required by Subdivision 7(A) of Work Order 7-2001.  Defendants argue that Plaintiff did receive
wage statements.  However, the wage
statements attached as Exhibit 4 to Plaintiff’s motion do not contain the hours
worked or the hourly rate of pay.  The
only documentation submitted by Defendants consists of two cash receipts signed
by Plaintiff which purportedly show he was paid $180 per week in addition to
his regular pay of $420 per week. (Casasola Opposition Decl., ¶ 1., Ex. A.)
However, these receipts do not indicate the time period they cover, and
Defendants provide no other receipts signed by Plaintiff.  
Hernandez v. Mendoza
(1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 721 addresses
a situation, like the present one, in which an employer fails to produce
accurate time records:
“Although the employee has the
burden of proving that he performed work for which he was not compensated,
public policy prohibits making that burden an impossible hurdle for the
employee … In such a situation we hold that an employee has carried out his
burden if he proves that he has in fact performed work for which he was
improperly compensated and if he produces sufficient evidence to show the
amount and extent of that work as a matter of just and reasonable inference. The burden then shifts to the employer to come forward
with evidence of the precise amount of work performed or with evidence to
negative the reasonableness of the inference to be drawn from the employee's
evidence. If the employer fails to produce such evidence, the court may
then award damages to the employee, even though the result be only
approximate." 
(Hernandez v. Mendoza, supra,
199 Cal.App.3d 721 at 727.)

The Hernandez court expanded upon the policy reasons
for such a rule:
"[W]here the employer's
records are inaccurate or inadequate and the employee cannot offer convincing
substitutes a . . . difficult problem arises. The solution, however, is
not to penalize the employee by denying him any recovery on the ground that
he is unable to prove the precise extent of uncompensated work. Such a
result would place a premium on an employer's failure to keep proper records in
conformity with his statutory duty; it would allow the employer to keep the
benefits of an employee's labors without paying due compensation …” 
(Id.)
Here, Defendants are not entitled to rely on the conclusory
statements by Teresa Casasola that “Plaintiff did not work 12 hours a day, nor
did he work 6 days a week” (Casasola Opposition Decl., ¶ 2.) and “Plaintiff
never worked overtime and was never paid below minimum wage.” (Casasola
Opposition Decl., ¶ 3.)  The Court is
required “to draw whatever reasonable inference it can from the employee’s
evidence where the employer cannot provide accurate information.” (Hernandez
v. Mendoza, supra, 199 Cal.App.3d 721 at 728.) Therefore, the Court
determines that Defendants have not produced reliable evidence of the precise
amount of work performed or reliable evidence negating the reasonableness of
the inference to be drawn from the employee's evidence.  As to the First, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth
Causes of Action, Defendants have failed to meet their burden to raise a
triable issue of material fact. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.  As to the First,
Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action, Summary Adjudication in favor of
Plaintiff is GRANTED.  As to the Second
and Third Causes of Action, Summary Adjudication is DENIED.  