  Case Number:  23PSCV01957    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiffs Samuel Mariz, Rosa Lopez, Nicolas Mariz, Samuel
Mariz Jr., and Alma Lopez’s Motion to Strike the Answer in Its
Entirety, or Alternatively, Portions of the Answer to the Complaint
 
Respondent: Defendants Salvador Carrillo and
Veronica Cordova
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiffs Samuel Mariz, Rosa Lopez, Nicolas Mariz,
Samuel Mariz Jr., and Alma Lopez’s Motion to Strike the Answer in
Its Entirety, or Alternatively, Portions of the Answer to the Complaint is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND

On June 29, 2023, Plaintiffs Samuel Mariz,
Rosa Lopez, Nicolas Mariz, Samuel Mariz Jr., and Alma Lopez (collectively,
Mariz-Lopez Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendants Salvador Carrillo,
Veronica Cordova, and Does 1-100, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
violation of Civil Code section 1942.4, (2) tortious breach of the warranty of
habitability, (3) private nuisance, (4) violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200 et seq., (5) negligence, (6) breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment, (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (8) negligence per
se, (9) violation of the Civil Code section 1750 et seq., (10) violation of
Civil Code section 1947.12, and (11) intentional influence to vacate.
 
On February 21, 2024, Carrillo and Cordova
filed a cross-complaint against the Mariz-Lopez Plaintiffs alleging the
following causes of action: (1) indemnification, (2) apportionment of fault,
and (3) property damages.
 
On March 18, 2024, the Mariz-Lopez Plaintiffs
filed the present motion. Prior to filing, the Mariz-Lopez Plaintiffs’ counsel attempted
to meet and confer telephonically with Carrillo and Cordova’s counsel. (Partiyeli
Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
A hearing on the motion to strike is set for May
30, 2024, along with a case management conference and OSC Re: Default as to the
Cross-Defendants.
 
ANALYSIS

The Mariz-Lopez Plaintiffs move to strike Carrillo
and Cordova’s Answer to their Complaint on the grounds that it includes an
improper general denial. But on March 1, 2024, which the Court notes is prior
to the filing of the present motion, Carrillo and Cordova filed a Second
Amended Verified Answer to the Complaint pursuant to a stipulation between the
parties. The present motion appears to be based on the original or first
amended answer and does not reference the second amended answer. Furthermore,
the second amended answer does not appear to include a general denial nor does
the Mariz-Lopez Plaintiffs’ motion provide a citation to such.
 
Accordingly, the Mariz-Lopez Plaintiffs’
motion is summarily DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, the
Mariz-Lopez Plaintiffs’ motion to strike Carrillo and Cordova’s answer is DENIED.