  Case Number:  232STCV00206    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  73 4/29/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JOHN RISK v. FRANKLIN R. FRALEY, JR., et al. (22STCV00206) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Robert Rosen (Rosen & Associates, PC) 
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party:  Thomas Myers (Smith & Myers LLP) 
 
MOTION FOR (1) PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION FOR TURNOVER OF
CLIENT FILES; (2) ALTERNATIVELY, FOR ORDER TO PROVIDE INFORMATION NEEDED FOR A
WRIT OF POSSESSION; (3) REQUEST FOR MONEY SANCTIONS OR FEE AWARD; AND (4) FOR
RELATED RELIEF (filed 5/11/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
(1) Preliminary Injunction for Turnover of Client Files;
(2) Alternatively, for Order to Provide Information Needed for a Writ of
Possession; (3) Request for Money Sanctions or Fee Award; and (4) for Related Relief
is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January 4,
2022, Plaintiff John Risk, individually and as Trustee of the Anne Risk Trust, filed
the instant action against Defendants Franklin R. Fraley, Jr. (“Fraley”);
Fraley & Associates (“F & A”); and the American Arbitration
Association. 
 
From
approximately 2013 to 2019, Fraley and F & A represented Anne Risk and her trusts in an
action in the Orange County Superior Court entitled Risk v. Cox, Case
No. 30-2014-00747205-CU-CO-CJC (the “Cox Action”). (Compl., ¶ 4.) After Anne
Risk’s death in April 2021, Plaintiff John Risk assumed Anne Risk’s role as
sole trustee of the surviving trust. (Compl., ¶¶ 17, 31.) In November 2021,
Fraley filed a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association
and a complaint with the Orange County Superior Court alleging that he is owed
money for his representation of Anne Risk and her trusts in the Cox Action. In
January 2022, Plaintiff filed the complaint in this action alleging 20 separate causes of action on various theories, including breach of
contract and negligent misrepresentation.
 
On
May 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion for (1) Preliminary Injunction for Turnover of Client
Files; (2) Alternatively, for Order to Provide Information Needed for a
Writ of Possession; (3) Request for Money Sanctions or Fee Award; and (4) for
related relief against Defendants Fraley and F & A (collectively “Defendants”),
arguing:
·      
Starting in November 2021, Plaintiff and his lawyers repeatedly
asked Fraley and his lawyers for all client files in Fraley’s possession
pertaining to Defendants’ representation of the Anne Risk Trust. 
·      
Only 25 boxes were produced to Plaintiff on or about October 10,
2022 – almost one year after Plaintiff’s first request. (Bleistein Decl. ¶11).
Plaintiff contends that Fraley’s attorney admitted that the client files have
not all been produced and that at least 8-15 additional boxes of client files
still needed to be produced. Also, Fraley did not produce the most relevant
documents - such as timesheets, bills, receipts, and other documents related to
Fraley’s claim that he is owed more than $1.8 million for the Cox Action.
·      
Thus,
Plaintiff seeks a preliminary
injunction for the turnover of all relevant client files in Fraley’s
possession. Or in the alternative, Plaintiff seeks an order for Defendants to
provide information needed for Plaintiff to file a Writ of Possession for the
recovery of the client files. 
·      
Plaintiff also requests money sanctions or a fee award in the
amount of $40,524 against Fraley based on C.C.P. §§ 2023.010, 2023.030 and
2031.300 and the equity powers of the Court.
 
On
May 24, 2023, Defendants filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Defendants do
not dispute that Plaintiff has requested and is entitled to receive the client
file related to Fraley’s representation of Anne Risk and her trusts in the Cox
Action. 
·       Defendants
submit the declaration of Fraley stating that he had medical issues that
prevented him from turning over the client files earlier. Defendants further
state that Fraley is now doing better and believes he can complete this task by
June 5, 2023. (Fraley Decl. ¶ 36.)
 
Plaintiff
filed a reply on May 31, 2023 stating:
·      
Plaintiff
consents that the Court delay the effective date of the requested preliminary
injunction until June 5, 2023 in light of Fraley’s medical condition.
 
II.DISCUSSION
 
A.     Preliminary
Injunction
 
a.     Legal
Standard for Preliminary Injunction
 
The
function of a preliminary injunction is the preservation of the status quo
until a final determination of the merits.” (Beehan v. Lido Isle Cmty. Ass’n
(1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 858, 866.) “Trial courts traditionally consider and weigh
two factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction. They are
(1) how likely it is that the moving party will prevail on the merits, and (2)
the relative harm the parties will suffer in the interim due to the issuance or
nonissuance of the injunction.” (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Servs.,
Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.) “The greater the showing
on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.” (Ibid.,
quoting Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678, brackets
and ellipses omitted.) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as the moving
party “to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a preliminary
injunction.” (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452,
1481.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Preliminary
injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient
factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g., Ancora-Citronelle
Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150 [injunction erroneously
granted without verified complaint, affidavits, or declarations to support
injunctive relief].) Injunctive relief may be granted based upon a verified
complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, as opposed to ultimate,
facts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (a).) A plaintiff seeking injunctive
relief must also show the absence of an adequate damages remedy at law. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(4).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A
preliminary injunction may be classified as either a prohibitory injunction,
which requires parties “to refrain from a particular act,” or a mandatory
injunction, which requires parties to perform “an affirmative act that changes
the position of the parties.” (Davenport v. Blue Cross of California (1997)
52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446.) Mandatory preliminary injunctions are rarely granted.
(Teachers Insurance & Annuity Association v. Furlotti (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1493.) More specifically, “[t]he granting of a mandatory
injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme cases where the
right thereto is clearly established.” (Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
A
preliminary injunction may be granted upon affidavits where the complaint or
affidavits establish sufficient grounds. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿527(a).) The burden
is on the moving party to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a
preliminary injunction.¿ (O'Connell v. Superior Court¿(2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)¿ 
¿ 
“In
deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, a trial court weighs two
interrelated factors: the likelihood the moving party ultimately will prevail
on the merits, and the relative interim harm to the parties from the issuance
or nonissuance of the injunction.” (Hunt v. Superior Court¿(1999) 21
Cal.4th 984, 999.) “The trial court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’
of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff's
showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.”
(Butt v. State of California¿(1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) 
 
b.     Preliminary
Injunction for Turn Over of Client Files
 
Plaintiff seeks a preliminary injunction based on
Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action, requiring Defendants turn over all client
files in Fraley’s possession pertaining to Defendants’ representation of the
Anne Risk Trust. 
 
Plaintiff’s
seventh cause of action seeks a Temporary Restraining Order requiring immediate delivery of all
client files including “all attorney-client engagement agreements;
communications whether by paper, email or FAX; all original time records;
evidence of expenses, including third party invoices; the entire Cox Case
litigation file including communications, all court filings and discovery
documents propounded and received; and bank records evidencing deposits and
withdraws from Fraley’s attorney client trust account and general account of
funds originating from the Anne Risk Trust; and all documents evidencing
Fraley’s representation of John Risk in any capacity.” (Compl., ¶ 364.)
 
Plaintiff contends that
Defendants have failed to fully turn over and make available the entire client
file to which Plaintiff is entitled. Thus, Plaintiff seeks a preliminary
injunction to recover possession of the client files. However, courts have held
that an injunction is not available to recover possession of personal property;
the proper remedy is a writ of possession under claim and delivery (replevin)
law. (Simms v. N.P.C.K. Enterprises, (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 233,
242-44; San Antonio
Water Co. v. Bodenhamer (1901)
133 Cal. 248, 251.) “The
existence of another effective judicial remedy is grounds for denying
injunctive relief,” including when “there is an adequate remedy under the claim
and delivery law.”  (Simms v. NPCK Enterprises, Inc. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 233, 243.)  “Claim and delivery is a remedy by which a party
with a superior right to a specific item of personal property . . . may recover
possession of that specific property before judgment.”  (Waffer
Internat. Corp. v. Khorsandi (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1261, 1271.) 
California has a detailed claim and delivery law.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
511.010 et seq.)  A party with a claim that he is entitled to possession
of property may apply for a writ of possession.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
512.010.)  A writ of possession directs the levying officer to levy on
specified property.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.080, subds. (b), (d).) 
The Court may also order the defendant to transfer possession of the property
to the plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.070.) 
 
In Plaintiff’s motion, he asserts
that an injunction is procedurally appropriate to require delivery of client
files and cites to Voorhies v. Greene (1983) 139 Cal. App. 3d 989 and Millennium v. Peckinpaugh
(2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 352. However, Voorhies does not support the contention that an injunction is the proper
procedure for the recovery of personal property. In Voorhies,
an attorney shareholder filed a complaint against other members of his law
corporation, alleging deceit, fraud, malpractice, breach of fiduciary duty,
slander, and other claims. (Voorhies, supra, 139 Cal. App.
3d at 993.) The plaintiff obtained a temporary restraining order and a
preliminary injunction allowing the plaintiff access and use of the office
premises, accounting books, and client files. (Ibid.) On appeal, the Court of Appeal reversed the preliminary
injunction, holding that courts of equity generally should not issue
injunctions to recover possession of personal property.  (Id. at p.
996 [citing San Antonio Water Co. v. Bodenhamer (1901) 133 Cal. 248].) On the
other hand, the court in Millennium, did not reverse an order
granting injunctive relief for the recovery of personal property. In Millennium,
four former employees were sued by the firm for unfair business
practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. (Millennium, supra
126 Cal.App.4th at 354.) Both parties sought preliminary injunctive relief
relating to the possession of confidential client files and information, and
both motions were heard on the same date. (Ibid.) The firm filed no
opposition to the employees' application. (Ibid.) The trial court denied
the firm's application, and granted the employees' application, which included
an order for the recovery of client files, as unopposed. (Ibid.) The
firm appealed the court's grant of injunctive relief to the employees,
contending it was deprived of its right to a fair hearing on the employees'
preliminary injunction request. (Ibid.) The Millenium court found
the firm’s appeal was without merit. (Ibid.)
 
Nevertheless, even if an injunction could be filed
for the possession of property, the existence of another effective judicial
remedy is grounds for denying injunctive relief. (Triple A Machine Shop, Inc.
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 131, 138.) Here, Plaintiff is seeking an injunction
requiring Defendants to turn over client files to Plaintiff. Given that there is an
adequate remedy under the claim and delivery law, injunctive relief is likely
not appropriate. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary injunction to recover
possession of the client files on this basis.
 
B.    
Order to Provide Information Needed for a Writ of Possession
 
a.    
Legal Standard for Writ of Possession
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the
plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing
a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is
brought.”  (CCP § 512.010(a).) 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b), the
application must be submitted under oath and include: 
 
(1)
A showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's
claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached. 
 
(2)
A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the
manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the reason for the detention. 
 
(3)
A particular description of the property and a statement of its value. 
 
(4)
A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part
of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take
possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there. 
 
(5)
A statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property
of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such
seizure. 
 
Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the Defendant must
be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of
Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in
support thereof.  (CCP § 512.030.) 
 
“The writ will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's
claim is probably valid and the other requirements for issuing the writ are
established.”  (CCP § 512.040(b).)  “A claim has ‘probable validity’
where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment
against the defendant on that claim.”  (CCP § 511.090.)   
 
b.     Information
Needed for a Writ of Possession
 
Plaintiff
seeks an order from the Court requiring Defendants to provide information
needed for a writ of possession.
 
As stated
above, a writ of possession is a proper remedy to recover possession of the
client files. However, Plaintiff’s motion does not specify the information he
is missing to file an application for a writ of possession. Since Plaintiff has
not established that he is missing information required to file a writ of
possession or specified what information the Court should order Defendant
provide, this order is denied on this basis. 
 
C.     Request for Money Sanctions and Related Relief
 
Plaintiff
also requests the Court order sanctions or a fee award on its own motion, on an
equitable basis or based on Fraley’s misuse of the discovery process. Since
Plaintiff’s motion is denied, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
or a fee award. 
 
 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
(1) Preliminary Injunction for Turnover of Client Files;
(2) Alternatively, for Order to Provide Information Needed for a Writ of
Possession; (3) Request for Money Sanctions or Fee Award; and (4) for Related
Relief is DENIED.