

Hearing Date:             August 7, 2024            
Case Name:                 Daryl Levings, Jr. v. Open
Text Corporation, et al.
Case
No.:                    24STCV05440 
Motion:                       (1)
Demurrer and (2) Motion to Strike 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Open Text
Corporation 

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Daryl Levings, Jr. 


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Defendant’s demurrer to
the FAC is overruled.  Defendant’s motion
to strike is granted.  Defendant to
answer by August 28, 2024.
 

 
I.  Background
 
            Plaintiff
alleges Defendant’s website www.opentext.com
installs tracking spyware on users’ devices without their consent.  Plaintiff pleads that upon visiting
Defendant’s website, Defendant secretly accessed Plaintiff’s device and
installed a “pen register” (“PR”) and “trap and trace” tracking (“TT”) software
(collectively “PR/TT”).  Plaintiff
alleges this violated California Invasion of Privacy Act (“CIPA”).  On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint
for violation of CIPA, Penal Code section 638.51.  
 
II.  Requests for
Judicial Notice.
 
            Defendant’s
RJN of Exhibits A and B is GRANTED. 
Defendant seeks judicial notice of the FAC in 23STCV30742 and by a
minute order issued in Licea v. Hickory Farms, LLC, 23STCV26148.
 
            Plaintiff’s
RJN of Exhibits 1-6 is GRANTED.  These
documents are Legislative bill analyses of Sen. Bill 1428, filings and minute
orders in other cases.  The truth of the
contents of these documents is not judicially noticed, only their issuance and
filing.
 
III.  Discussion
 
            A.  Legal Standard
                        
            A demurrer
is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either
the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
. . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
            B.  CIPA, Penal Code section 638.51
 
            “Except
as provided in subdivision (b), a person may not install or use a pen register
or a trap and trace device without first obtaining a court order pursuant to
Section 638.52 or 638.53.”  (Pen. Code,
§638.51, subd. (a).)  “A violation of
this section is punishable by a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500), or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one year,
or by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170, or by both that
fine and imprisonment.”  (Pen. Code,
§638.51, subd. (a).)
 
            “‘Pen
register’ means a device or process that records or decodes dialing, routing,
addressing, or signaling information transmitted by an instrument or facility
from which a wire or electronic communication is transmitted, but not the
contents of a communication. ‘Pen register’ does not include a device or
process used by a provider or customer of a wire or electronic communication
service for billing, or recording as an incident to billing, for communications
services provided by such provider, or a device or process used by a provider
or customer of a wire communication service for cost accounting or other
similar purposes in the ordinary course of its business.”  (Pen. Code, §638.50, subd. (b).)  
 
            “ ‘Trap and
trace device’ means a device or process that captures the incoming electronic
or other impulses that identify the originating number or other dialing,
routing, addressing, or signaling information reasonably likely to identify the
source of a wire or electronic communication, but not the contents of a
communication.”  (Pen. Code, §638.50,
subd. (c).)  
 
            “Any person
who has been injured by a violation of this chapter may bring an action against
the person who committed the violation for the greater of the following
amounts:
(1) Five thousand dollars ($5,000) per violation. [¶] (2)
Three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the
plaintiff.”  (Pen. Code, §637.2, subd.
(a).) 
 
            “It is not
a necessary prerequisite to an action pursuant to this section that the
plaintiff has suffered, or be threatened with, actual damages.”  (Pen. Code, §637.2, subd. (c).)
 
            C.  Penal Code section 637.2 creates a private
right of action for violations of Penal Code section 638.50 
            
            Defendant
argues there is nothing in Penal Code section 638.50 creating a private right
of action and Penal Code §637.2 does not apply. 
While the Court agrees that section 638.50 does not contain any language
indicating a Legislative intent to create a private right of action for
violating its terms, the same cannot be said for Penal Code section 637.2.  Section 637.2 creates a private right of
action for violations of “this chapter.” 
(Pen. Code, §637.2, subd. (a).) 
Section 638.50 is in the same chapter as Section 637.2, Chapter 1.5,
“Invasion of Privacy.”  
 
            Violation
can result in civil actions where a criminal statute “expressly or impliedly
give[s] rise to a private right of action.” 
(Animal Legal Defense Fund v. Mendes (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th
136, 141.)  Here, the Legislature
expressly provided in Penal Code §637.2 for a civil right of action if the
criminal statutes set forth in Chapter 1.5 of Title 15 of Part 1 of the Penal
Code.  
 
            In order to
have standing to sue under Penal Code section 637.2, subdivision (a), Plaintiff
had to have suffered injury, although actual damages are not required under
subdivision (c):  “Any person who has
been injured by a violation of this chapter may bring an action against the
person who committed the violation for the greater of the following
amounts:  (1) Five thousand dollars
($5,000) per violation….”  (Pen. Code,
§637.2(a).)  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant installed pen register and trap software on Plaintiff’s device and
that Plaintiff was actually tracked as a result.  (FAC, ¶28.) 
Plaintiff’s allegations sufficiently allege injury in fact due to the
purported violation.  
 
            D.  Plaintiff alleges a violation of Penal Code
section 638.51[1]
            
            Defendant
Opentext demurs, contending that Plaintiff’s “boilerplate” allegations are
insufficient to state a claim for violation of Penal Code section 638.51.  The definitions of a PR and TT device or process
under section 638.50 are broad. They cover “a device or process that records or
decodes dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling information transmitted by
an instrument or facility from which a wire or electronic communication is
transmitted” and “a device or process that captures the incoming electronic or
other impulses that identify the originating number or other dialing, routing,
addressing, or signaling information reasonably likely to identify the source
of a wire or electronic communication, but not the contents of a communication.”  (Pen. Code, §638.50, subd. (b) and (c).)
 
            Plaintiff
explains the general nature of such devices. 
(FAC, ¶¶14-17.)  Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant installed at least one PR/TT beacon on its website to capture
electronic impulses originating from the site to identify and capture routing,
address, geolocation and signaling information. 
(FAC, ¶18.)  Plaintiff also
alleges specifically how Defendant’s alleged PR/TT beacon works, “The PR/TT
beacon on Defendant’s website deploys numerous signaling mechanisms to trap and
trace users: it monitors user activity (such as page views, searches, or
purchases), de-codes the device used by each website visitor, and enables
Defendant and its partners to identify the location, race, age, preferences,
internet browsing history, and ethnicity of each user. This data is captured
and processed for the purpose of identifying the source of electronic
communications on the website for consumer identification purposes.”  (FAC, ¶19.) 
Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient to allege Defendant’s use of a
PR/TT as defined under Penal Code section 638.51.  
 
            Plaintiff further
alleges that, “[t]o deter ‘copycat’ litigation, Plaintiff does not specify the
beacon by name, the details of its deployment, or the breadth of its operation
in this complaint; Plaintiff will, however, provide a fulsome explanation to
Defendant upon reasonable request.”  (FAC,
¶18.)  It appears, however, that
Plaintiff’s pleading already represents mirror-image litigation, as Plaintiff’s
counsel in this action and in 23STCV307042 are the same and the FACs in both
actions are essentially identical.  In
any case, additional information regarding Defendant’s operations is
unnecessary at the pleading stage given the broad definitions of pen
registration and trap software under Penal Code section 638.50.
 
            E.  Defendant fails to establish that IP
addresses are not protected by the right of privacy, nor does Plaintiff limit
his allegations to illegal collection of IP address information by use of a
PR/TT device or software
 
            Defendant
also argues there is no legally protected privacy interest in IP addresses
alone.  However, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant’s PR/TT beacon collects more than just IP addresses.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s PR/TT beacon
collects routing information, address, geolocation, signaling information,
location, race, age, preferences, internet browsing history, and ethnicity of
each user.  (FAC, ¶¶18 and 19.)  
 
             Defendant cites to U.S. v. Forrester 512
F.3d 500 (9th Cir. 2007) (“Forrester”) and U.S. v. Rosenow,
50 F.4th 715, 738 (9th Cir. 2022) (“Rosenow”) for the proposition that
IP address are not protected by the right of privacy.  However, Forrester and Rosenow
discussed whether there was a reasonable expectation of privacy from search and
seizure under the Fourth Amendment of the United States Constitution.  (Forrester, supra, 512 F.3d at
510; Rosenow, supra, 50 F.4th at 738.)  Defendant fails to cite to any authority
discussing whether IP addresses are included in the enumerated categories of
information that may not be obtain by use of PR/TT devices or processes.
 
            Plaintiff argues
that an IP address is personal information protected by the right of privacy
under California law.  Plaintiff relies
on sections of the California Electronic Privacy Act, Penal Code sections 1546,
1546.1 and 1546.4, which prohibit Internet Service Providers from providing a
user’s IP address without a warrant or other limited exception.  Plaintiff also cites to California Consumer
Privacy Act of 2018, in which IP addresses are recognized as personal
information.  Plaintiff establishes a
reasonable expectation of privacy over IP addresses and the type of information
allegedly collected by Defendants’ PR/TT beacon.  (In re: Google RTB Consumer Privacy
Litigation (2022) 606 F. Supp.3d 935, 947 (recognizing that under
California law, persons have reasonable expectation of privacy over IP address,
geo-location data, and web-browsing information, search terms, and sensitive
websites that plaintiffs visited relating to race, religion, sexual
orientation, and health and mere fact that such information is routinely shared
did not negate any reasonable expectation of privacy)(citing Civ. Code,
§1798.140).  
 
            Defendant
also argues Plaintiff consented to collection of his IP address.  However, Plaintiff alleges he did not consent
to collection of his address; his factual allegation of lack of consent must be
accepted as true.  (FAC, ¶25.)  Moreover, Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendant collected more than just his IP address.  
 
            In
addition, Penal Code section 638.51 does not criminalize collection of the
enumerated categories of information. 
Penal Code section 638.51 criminalizes use of certain devices to acquire
that information.  Plaintiff has alleged
Defendant’s use of such means to acquire some of the categories of information
enumerated under section 638.51, subdivisions. (b) and (c).  
 
            F. FAC
is not a sham pleading
            
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s FAC is a sham pleading because Exhibit 1 thereto contradicts
his allegation that Defendant placed a PR/TT beacon on his device.  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1
controls if it contradicts allegations in the complaint.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
FAC cannot be deemed a sham pleading merely by comparing the complaint
allegations to Exhibit 1.  The sham
pleading doctrine compares amendments and deletions to successive pleadings,
not contradictions within the same pleading. 
(Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck Development Co. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 929, 946-9457; Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 751
(omitting alternate factual allegation that has proven to be erroneous is not
“sham pleading”).)
            
            However,
where an exhibit attached to a complaint contradicts the complaint allegations,
the exhibit controls.  (Vallejo
Development Co., supra, 24 Cal.App.4th at 946.)  The version of Plaintiff’s FAC filed with the
Court does not have an Exhibit 1 attached.
            
            G.  Motion to Strike
 
            “In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)
 
            “‘Malice’
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a
person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's
rights.” (Id. subd. (c)(2).)
 
            Defendant
moves to strike the punitive damages claim and the request for attorney’s
fees.  Defendant argues Plaintiff fails
to allege fraud, malice or oppression. Defendant also argues the statutory
penalties allowed for under Penal Code section 637.2 are the only penalties that
may be recovered, and that there is no basis for attorney’s fees alleged.
 
            Plaintiff
has alleged that Defendant intentionally installed a PR/TT beacon to capture
information illegally and in violation of Penal Code section 638.51.  However, the facts do not support a finding
that Defendant did so with the intent to injure the Plaintiff.  
            
            In addition,
Plaintiff is alleging a statutory violation that carries with it statutory
penalties in the event of injury without damage and treble damages as a penalty
if actual damages are suffered.  (Pen.
Code, §637.2(a).)  These remedies are in
themselves punitive, exemplary damages. 
There is also no language indicating that such remedies are nonexclusive
or in addition to all other remedies at law. 
The Legislature has expressly stated in enacting other statutory
penalties that such remedies were cumulative or nonexclusive.  (De Anza Santa Cruz Mobile Estates
Homeowners Assn. v. De Anza Santa Cruz Mobile Estates (2001) 94 CalApp.4th
890, 910.)  “Thus one can infer that the
Legislature if it intends a stated remedy to be nonexclusive or cumulative,
knows how to express such a concept, and its silence on the subject therefore
indicates a contrary intent. Furthermore, the Legislature has specifically
provided in other statutes in other California codes that punitive damages are
available, and presumably it was capable of including similar express language
in section 798.86 if it so intended.”  (Id.)
 
            Defendant’s
motion to strike punitive damages is granted. 
Plaintiff fails to allege malice, nor does it appear from the face of
the statute that the Legislature intended the penalties under Penal Code
section 637.2 to be cumulative.  
 
            Defendant’s
motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees is also granted.
Plaintiff fails to cite any statute, law or contract that would allow Plaintiff
to recover fees.       
                        
III.  Conclusion
 
            Defendant’s
demurrer to the FAC is overruled. 
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted. 
Defendant shall serve and file its Answer on or before August 28, 2024.


