

Hearing Date:             August 7, 2024            
Case Name:                 Yongtong “Jade” Liu v. Miniso
Depot CA, Inc., USA, et al.
Case
No.:                    23STCV24321 
Motion:                       Motion
to Stay Proceedings Pending Appeal and for Protective Order Staying Discovery 
Moving
Party:             Defendants Miniso Depot
Ca, Inc., USA Miniso Depot, Inc. and Lin Li                             

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Yongtong “Jade” Liu


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Defendants’ Motion to
Stay and for Protective Order is DENIED. 
Defendants are ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $4,500. 
 

 
I.  Background
 
            In this
employment action, Plaintiff Yongtong “Jade” Liu filed a Complaint on October
5, 2023 alleging causes of action for FEHA violations and violations of the
Labor Code against her former employers, Defendants Miniso Depot Ca, Inc. and
USA Miniso Depot, Inc., and its CEO, Defendant Lin Li.  
 
II.  Discussion
 
            On
February 2, 2024, the Court denied Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration.
Defendants have appealed the Court’s February 2, 2024 order.  Defendants asks that the Court stay this
action pursuant to its discretionary authority to stay an action and enter a
protective order as to discovery until completion of the appeal. 
 
            On January
1, 2024, Code of Civil Procedure section 1294 became effective.  Under section 1294(a), an “aggrieved party
may appeal from:  (a) an order dismissing
or denying a petition to compel arbitration. 
Notwithstanding Section 916, the perfecting of such an appeal shall not
automatically stay any proceedings in the trial court during the pendency of
the appeal.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., §1294,
subd. (a).)  
 
            Defendants
rely on Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino, et al. (2005) 35 Cal.4th
180 (“Varian”) to request a discretionary stay.  However, Varian discussed at length the
reasons for automatic stays generally under Code of Civil Procedure section
916.  Applying that reasoning, Varian found
that an order denying the defendant’s SLAPP motion was automatically stayed
pursuant to section 916.
 
            The
Legislature has already answered the question of whether section 916 applies to
appeals of orders denying arbitration.  Defendants
maintains, however, that the reasoning of Varian applies to justify a
discretionary stay.  Defendants’ arguments
in favor of staying the action would apply to all cases in which a motion to
compel arbitration was denied.  Defendants’
position would nullify the Legislature’s intent to remove appeals of an order
denying a motion to compel arbitration from Code of Civil Procedure section
916(a). 
 
            A trial
court has the inherent power, in its discretion, to stay proceedings when such
a stay will accommodate the ends of justice. 
(St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company v. AmerisourceBergen
Corporation (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 1, 13.)  The nature of a stay pending appeal is essentially
equitable in nature.  (Daly v. San
Bernardino County Bd. of Supervisors (2021) 11 Cal.5th 1030, 1054.)  “A trial court's familiarity with the
evolving circumstances of a case normally constitutes it the appropriate forum
to weigh the relative hardships on the parties, including the likelihood that
substantial questions will be raised on appeal, and its refusal to grant or to
continue an injunction during appeal is entitled to great weight.”  (People ex rel. San Francisco Bay Conservation
and Development Commission v. Town of Emeryville (1968) 69 Cal.2d 533, 537.)  
 
            Defendants
fail to identify specific circumstances in this case that would justify
discretionary stay of this action. 
Defendants complain that, without a stay, they will be burdened by
having to litigate this action and they will be deprived of the benefit of
arbitration.  Again, this can be said of
any order denying arbitration.  
 
            Moreover, regardless
of the outcome of the appeal, Defendants will have to litigate the sexual
harassment claims.  A stay would unfairly
prejudice Plaintiff’s right promptly to litigate her sexual harassment claims.   
 
            Denial of
the stay would also not deprive Defendants of the benefit of any potential
reversal.  The parties’ litigation of
this action can translate to usable information in the arbitration proceedings,
if there were a reversal.  There are also
no indications that the appeal will take longer than it would take to litigate
this action to judgment, such that a reversal compelling arbitration of the
non-sexual harassment claims would be meaningless.  
 
            Balancing
the burden of staying the action on Plaintiff and the burden of denying
Defendants’ request for stay, the Court finds the equities do not support
imposition of the stay.  The burden on
Plaintiff’s clear right to litigate her sexual harassment claims outweighs any
prejudice Defendants will suffer if they are forced to litigate in the face of
a potential partial reversal.  
            
            Defendants’
motion for a stay of this action pending appeal is denied.  Defendants fail to establish that equitable
considerations or the ends of justice favor issuance of a discretionary
stay.  
 
            For these
same reasons, Defendants fail to establish good cause for issuance of a
protective order staying all discovery pending the appeal.  Defendants would also have been subject to
discovery in arbitration.  Having them
participate in discovery pending the appeal would not be inefficient, unfair,
harsh or unreasonable.  
 
            Plaintiff
requests that Defendants be sanctioned pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.420, subdivision (h):  “The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., §2025, subd. (h).)
 
            Plaintiff
requests $7500 in sanctions against Defendants and their attorney of
record.  Plaintiff’s counsel submits a
declaration attesting to 13.3 hours @ $800/hr for total of $10,640.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is granted
in the amount of 10 hours @ $450/hr for a total of $4,500.  Defendants fail to establish that they acted
with substantial justification.  
              
III. Conclusion
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Stay and for Protective Order is DENIED.  Defendants shall pay discovery sanctions in
the amount of $4,500 to Plaintiff’s counsel on or before August 30, 2024.  