 Case Number:  24STCV11643    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  11 Mendez (24STCV11643)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           11/20/24
Time:                          10:00
am
Moving Party:           Great Hire Inc. (“Great Hire”)
Joinders:                    CR Creative Services, LP (“CR”) and MVP Payroll
Financing, LLC (“MVP”)
Opposing Party:        Alfredo Mendez (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                         David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing is continued.  The
Court intends to conduct an evidentiary hearing with live testimony regarding
the transportation-worker exception.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Great Hire is a staffing agency.  
 
CR is a packing, shipping, and warehousing company.
 
MVP is a provider of human resources. 

 
Great Hire assigned Plaintiff to work for CR “from January through
December 2023.”  (Motion, p. 6.) 
 
Plaintiff claims Great Hire, CR, and MVP jointly employed him at that
time and subjected him and other current and former employees to numerous
wage-and-hour violations. 
 
Great Hire moves to compel arbitration.
 
CR and MVP seek to join the motion.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence, Assent, and
Applicability
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
As
noted above, Plaintiff worked
for CR “from January through December 2023.” 
(Motion, p. 6; see also Complaint, ¶ 4.)
 
“In
April 2024, Plaintiff . . . returned to Great Hire” to get a new work
assignment.  (Motion, p. 56.)  He e-signed Spanish-language onboarding
documents, including an arbitration agreement, during the assignment
process.  (See, e.g., Opposition, p. 1
[conceding that Plaintiff signed the documents].)
 
The
arbitration agreement is attached to the declaration of Great Hire’s recruiting
professional, Maria Alvarez, at exhibit 2. 
The English-language version states:
 
Arbitration Agreement
 
This arbitration agreement (“Agreement”) is made and
entered into as of the date on which this agreement is signed by the employee
on page 4 (the “Effective Date”) by and between Great Hire Inc., a California
corporation (the “Employer”), and the name of employee printed on page 4 of
this document, an individual (the “Employee”). (The Client and the Employee are
collectively referred to herein as the “Parties”.) 
 
* * *
 
1. Intent of the agreement. It is the intent of
the Employee and the Employer that this Agreement shall govern the resolution
of all disputes, claims, and any other matter at hand arising from or relating
to the employment relationship between the Parties. The Parties shall resolve
all conflicts arising from their employment relationship in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
2. Mandatory arbitration. The Client and the
Employee agree that any claim, complaint or dispute related in any way to the
employment relationship between the Parties, whether based on contract, tort,
statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory, will be submitted
to binding arbitration administered by JAMS pursuant to its Employment Rules
and Procedures then in effect (“JAMS Rules”). The JAMS Rules are available
online at jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration. The Parties can also call
JAMS at (800) 352-5267 if they have questions about the arbitration process.
The Client shall provide the Employee with a printed copy of the JAMS Rules
upon written request by the Employee. If the JAMS Rules are inconsistent with
the terms of this Agreement, the terms of the Agreement shall prevail.  
 
3. Claims covered. This Agreement covers all
complaints, disputes, claims or causes of action (collectively, “Legal
Objectives”) in any local, state or federal court or agency, under applicable
local, state or federal law, arising from the Employee’s employment with the Employer
and the termination thereof, including any claims the Employee may have against
the Employer or any entity to which the Employee may provide services on behalf
of the Employer, or against its o icers, directors, administrators, supervisors,
managers, members, shareholders, employees or agents, acting in such capacity
or otherwise, or which the Client may have against the Employee. Claims covered
by this Agreement include but are not limited to claims for breach of any
contract or covenant (express or implied), tort claims, claims for wrongful
dismissal (constructive or actual) in violation of public policy, claims for
discrimination, retaliation or harassment (including, among others, harassment
and retaliation), or discrimination based on race, sex, gender, religion,
national origin, age, marital status, medical condition, psychological
condition, mental condition, disability or sexual orientation, claims based on
the violation of any state or federal law, statute, regulation or ordinance, or
other government, including but not limited to claims arising under Title VII
of the Civil Rights Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the
Americans with Disabilities Act, the California Fair Employment and Housing
Act, the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, and the
Employment Retirement Income Security Act. The Parties specifically agree that
all individual claims under the California Labor Code, including but not
limited to overtime, unpaid wage and meal and rest break claims, shall be
subject to this Agreement. 
 
4. Claims not covered. Not covered by this
Agreement are workers’ compensation claims, claims for unemployment
compensation benefits, administrative charges for unfair labor practices filed
with the National Labor Relations Board, Excluded Claims (as defined in
paragraph 5 below) or any other claim that, by law, the Parties cannot agree to
arbitrate. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent employees
filing complaints in courts under state or federal law in relation to disputes
for sexual harassment/assault, or complaints with the California Department of
Fair Employment and Housing and/or the federal Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission and the National Labor Relations Board. 
 
5. Class and representative action waiver. With
the exception of representative claims that cannot be waived under applicable
law and which are, therefore, excluded from this Agreement (“Excluded Claims”),
the Employee and the Client expressly intend and agree that (a) class and
representative action procedures are waived and shall not be asserted or apply
in any arbitration under this Agreement; (b) The Employee shall not assert any
class or representative action against the Client in arbitration or otherwise;
and (c) The Employee shall only submit the Employee’s own individual claims to
arbitration, including but not limited to individual claims under the
California Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”), and shall
not seek to represent the interests of any other person. To the extent that the
Parties’ dispute involves both Excluded Claims, filed in a timely manner, and
claims subject to this Agreement, the Parties agree to bifurcate and stay such
Excluded Claims for the duration of the arbitration proceedings. 
 
6. Claim procedure. Arbitration will be initiated
by express notice in writing by either party. The injured party must give
written notice of any claim to the other party. Written notice of a claim by
the Employee is to be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the employer’s president at 14241 Firestone Blvd #400,
La Mirada, CA 90638 (“Address for Service”). Written notice of a claim by the
Employer will be sent to the Employee at the Employee’s last known address. The
written notice shall identify and describe the nature of all claims filed, the
facts upon which such claims are based, and the remedy sought. Written notice
of arbitration shall be initiated within the California statute of limitations
applicable to such claim(s), and the Parties are encouraged to notify any claim
in writing as soon as possible after the event or events in dispute so that
arbitration of any difference may take place promptly. 
 
7. Selection of the arbitrator. The arbitrator
shall be selected pursuant to the JAMS Rules. 
 
8. Venue of arbitration. Unless otherwise agreed,
the arbitration hearing shall take place “in person” in the county in which the
Employee was last employed by the Employer. Either party, at that party’s
exclusive expense in the first instance, may arrange and pay for a court reporter
to provide a stenographic record of proceedings. 
 
9. Discovery. The JAMS Rules regarding the
exchange of information, the issuance of subpoenas for witnesses or documents,
and depositions and written discovery shall apply to arbitration under this
Agreement, except to the extent modified by this paragraph. Each party shall be
entitled to take depositions from up to three fact witnesses and any expert
witness designated by another party. The arbitrator selected under this
Agreement shall decide all discovery disputes and may grant additional
depositions and written discovery if the arbitrator finds that the party has
shown a need for such discovery to adequately arbitrate the claim, taking into
account the parties’ mutual desire for a dispute resolution mechanism that is
fast, less formal, and cost-effective. 
 
10. Substantive law. The arbitrator shall apply
substantive state or federal law (and the law of remedies, if applicable) as
applicable to the claim(s) asserted, including but not limited to the
enforcement of the applicable statutes of limitation. The arbitrator has no jurisdiction
to apply any other substantive law or law of remedies. The Federal Rules of
Evidence shall apply. The arbitrator shall conduct and preside over an
arbitration hearing of a reasonable duration, to be determined by the
arbitrator. The arbitrator shall provide the Parties with a written decision
explaining the arbitrator’s findings and conclusions. The arbitrator’s decision
will be final and binding on the Parties. 
 
11. Interstate commerce. The Parties agree that
the Client is engaged in business that substantially affects interstate
commerce and that the Employee’s job is in relation to such interstate
commerce. The Parties further agree that procedures to enforce this Agreement
and/or to confirm, modify or vacate any award will be controlled and performed
in accordance with the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. and
applicable state law.  
 
12. Motions. The arbitrator shall have
jurisdiction to hear and decide disputes prior to a hearing and is authorized
to hold pre-hearing conferences by telephone, by Zoom video conference or in
person, as may be deemed necessary by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall have
the authority to set time limits to complete discovery and file motions for
summary judgment, and to set briefing schedules for any motion. The arbitrator
shall have the authority to adjudicate any cause of action, or the entire
claim, pursuant to a motion for summary adjudication and/or summary judgment,
and, in deciding such motions, shall apply the law of the State of
California.  
 
13. Mandatory arbitration/enforcement of award.
Either party may take court action to compel arbitration under this Agreement
and confirm, vacate or enforce an arbitral award, and each party shall bear its
own attorneys’ fees and costs and other expenses in said action. The Parties
further agree that the question of arbitrability of any class or representative
action will be decided by a federal or state court. 
 
14. Fees and costs. The Client shall be
responsible for paying any arbitration filing fee and the arbitrator’s fees and
costs. In contrast, each party shall pay its own attorneys’ fees and costs.
However, if either party prevails in a legal claim that provides for the prevailing
party’s attorneys’ fees and costs, the arbitrator may award reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs to the prevailing party, following the same standards
as a court would apply under applicable law to the claim(s) in question. Any
dispute as to the reasonability of any fee or cost shall be resolved by the
arbitrator.  
 
15. Term of agreement. This Agreement shall
survive termination of Employee’s employment and the expiration of any benefit
plan. It may only be revoked or amended by written agreement signed by both
Parties and specifically indicating their intention to revoke or amend this Agreement.

 
16. Severability. If any provision of this
Agreement is deemed void or unenforceable, in full or in part, such void or
unenforceable provision shall be severed, and such adjudication shall not affect
the validity of the remainder of the Agreement. All other provisions shall
remain in full force and effect based on the Parties’ mutual intent to
establish a binding agreement to arbitrate their disputes. 
 
17. Entire and sole agreement. This is the
compensation agreement between the Parties on the subject matter hereof.
However, if this Agreement is deemed unenforceable for any reason, any previous
arbitration agreement between the Parties shall govern. Neither of the parties
is relying on any oral or written representation on the effect, enforceability
or meaning of this Agreement, except as specifically set forth in the
Agreement.  
 
18. Consideration. The Parties’ promises to
arbitrate their differences, rather than litigating them in court, are made
mutually, and continued employment shall serve as evidence of the Parties’
consent to this Agreement in the event that the Agreement is not signed. 
 
19. Jury trial waiver. The Parties fully
understand and agree that by executing this Agreement, they are waiving their
constitutional right to a trial by jury and their normal appeal rights after a
decision has been issued, except where California law provides for a judicial
review of arbitration proceedings. The Parties anticipate that by executing
this Agreement, they will obtain the benefits of a fast, less costly dispute
resolution procedure.  
 
I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE CAREFULLY READ THIS AGREEMENT,
THAT I UNDERSTAND ITS TERMS, THAT ALL UNDERSTANDINGS AND AGREEMENTS BETWEEN ME
AND THE COMPANY IN RELATION TO THE SUBJECTS COVERED IN THE AGREEMENT ARE
CONTAINED IN IT, AND THAT I HAVE ENTERED INTO THE AGREEMENT VOLUNTARILY WITHOUT
RELIANCE ON ANY PROMISE OR REPRESENTATION BY THE COMPANY NOT CONTAINED IN THIS
AGREEMENT. I UNDERSTAND THAT BY ACCEPTING THIS AGREEMENT, I AM WAIVING MY RIGHT
TO A JURY TRIAL. 
 
I FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE BEEN GIVEN THE
OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS THIS AGREEMENT WITH MY PRIVATE LEGAL COUNSEL AND I HAVE
AVAILED MYSELF OF THIS OPPORTUNITY TO THE EXTENT I WISH TO DO SO. SIGNING THIS
AGREEMENT IS VOLUNTARY AND NOT A CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT OR ANY EMPLOYMENT
BENEFIT AND THERE WILL BE NO RETALIATION IF THE EMPLOYEE CHOOSES NOT TO SIGN
THIS AGREEMENT. 
 
(Alvarez
Decl., Ex. 2, emphasis in original, footnotes omitted.)
 
Facts
and terms like these suffice to establish an agreement to arbitrate. 
 
Nevertheless,
Plaintiff asserts that the motion to compel should be denied.  He contends the agreement does not apply to
his claims given that he e-signed it months after he stopped working for CR.  He claims the agreement was meant to cover
claims related to a potential new work assignment with a different
company.  (See Opposition, pp. 1-2, 4-7.)
 
In
response, Great Hire makes two arguments. 
One, the plain language is broad; it states that the agreement covers
“all disputes” and does not indicate that claims arising “prior to the signing”
are excluded.  (Reply, p. 8.)  Two, Plaintiff signed another arbitration
agreement in January 2023, which also covers his claims.  (See id. at pp. 2, 8.)
 
The
Court agrees with the first argument. 
“[A]n arbitration agreement may be applied retroactively to transactions
which occurred prior to execution of the arbitration agreement.”  (Salgado v. Carrows  Restaurants, Inc. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
356, 361.)  Retroactive effect depends on
the agreement’s scope.  (See Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:8.12.)  Great Hire’s 2024
agreement provides:
 
1. Intent of the agreement. It is the intent of
the Employee and the Employer that this Agreement shall govern the resolution
of all disputes, claims, and any other matter at hand arising from or relating
to the employment relationship between the Parties. The Parties shall resolve
all conflicts arising from their employment relationship in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
2. Mandatory arbitration. The Client and the
Employee agree that any claim, complaint or dispute related in any way to the
employment relationship between the Parties, whether based on contract, tort,
statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory, will be submitted
to binding arbitration administered by JAMS pursuant to its Employment Rules
and Procedures then in effect (“JAMS Rules”). The JAMS Rules are available
online at jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration. The Parties can also call
JAMS at (800) 352-5267 if they have questions about the arbitration process.
The Client shall provide the Employee with a printed copy of the JAMS Rules
upon written request by the Employee. If the JAMS Rules are inconsistent with
the terms of this Agreement, the terms of the Agreement shall prevail.  
 
3. Claims covered. This Agreement covers all
complaints, disputes, claims or causes of action (collectively, “Legal
Objectives”) in any local, state or federal court or agency, under applicable
local, state or federal law, arising from the Employee’s employment with the Employer
and the termination thereof, including any claims the Employee may have against
the Employer or any entity to which the Employee may provide services on behalf
of the Employer, or against its o icers, directors, administrators, supervisors,
managers, members, shareholders, employees or agents, acting in such capacity
or otherwise, or which the Client may have against the Employee. Claims covered
by this Agreement include but are not limited to claims for breach of any
contract or covenant (express or implied), tort claims, claims for wrongful
dismissal (constructive or actual) in violation of public policy, claims for
discrimination, retaliation or harassment (including, among others, harassment
and retaliation), or discrimination based on race, sex, gender, religion,
national origin, age, marital status, medical condition, psychological
condition, mental condition, disability or sexual orientation, claims based on
the violation of any state or federal law, statute, regulation or ordinance, or
other government, including but not limited to claims arising under Title VII
of the Civil Rights Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the
Americans with Disabilities Act, the California Fair Employment and Housing
Act, the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, and the
Employment Retirement Income Security Act. The Parties specifically agree that
all individual claims under the California Labor Code, including but not
limited to overtime, unpaid wage and meal and rest break claims, shall be
subject to this Agreement. 
 
(Alvarez
Decl., Ex. 2, footnotes omitted.)  The
plain language is broad and does not “contain[] a  limitation or restriction based on the age of
the claim.”  (Salgado, supra,
33  Cal.App.5th at 361; see
also Franco v. Greystone Ridge Condominium (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th
221, 229 [agreeing with Salgado].) 
Paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 support retroactive application.
 
The
second argument is unavailing.  Great
Hire moved pursuant to the 2024 agreement, not the 2023 one.  It is improper to invoke the 2023 agreement
for the first time in reply.  
 
Moreover,
the 2023 agreement does not appear to qualify as an arbitration agreement.  There is only one sentence, and there are no
terms: “GHI promotes a voluntary system of alternative dispute resolution,
which uses binding arbitration to settle all disputes that may arise in the
context of employment.”  (Bivins Supp.
Decl., Ex. 3, footnote omitted.)
 
Still,
the 2024 agreement applies retroactively, so Great Hire’s burden is satisfied.
 
Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
 
The
2024 agreement states:
 
11. Interstate commerce. The Parties agree that
the Client is engaged in business that substantially affects interstate
commerce and that the Employee’s job is in relation to such interstate
commerce. The Parties further agree that procedures to enforce this Agreement
and/or to confirm, modify or vacate any award will be controlled and performed
in accordance with the [FAA], 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. and applicable state law.
 
(Alvarez Decl., Ex. 2.) 

 
Notwithstanding
this wording, Plaintiff contends the Court should find the FAA inapplicable,
and apply the California Arbitration Act instead, due to an exception.  He claims the FAA does not apply to
transportation workers.  He argues that
his warehouse work for CR constituted transportation work and affected
interstate commerce.  (See Opposition,
pp. 7-9 [discussing Ortiz v. Randstad Inhouse Services, LLC (9th
Cir. 2024) 95 F.4th 1152 and Nieto v. Fresno Beverage Co., Inc.
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 274].)
 
Great
Hire disagrees.  Great Hire claims
“Plaintiff was a warehouse worker involved with the transportation not of goods
traveling in interstate commerce, but the transportation and storage of
individuals’ own property.”  (Reply, p.
6; see also id. at p. 7.)
 
Section
1 of the FAA “exempts . . . ‘contracts of employment of seamen, railroad
employees, or any other class of workers engaged in foreign or interstate
commerce[]’” – i.e., transportation workers – “from the statute’s ambit[.]”  (Southwest Airlines Co. v. Saxon
(2022) 596 U.S. 450, 454 (“Southwest”).) 
“The party opposing arbitration bears the burden of demonstrating that
the exemption applies.”  (Performance
Team Freight Systems, Inc. v. Aleman (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
1233, 1241.)  To establish the exemption, the opposing party must show that the
agreement is “both a ‘contract of employment’ and one entered into with a ‘worker’
of the type described in” section 1.  (Amos
v. Amazon Logistics, Inc. (4th Cir. 2023) 74 F.4th
591, 596.)
 
Contract of Employment
 
The 2024 agreement is titled “Arbitration Agreement[.]”  (Alvarez Decl., Ex. 2, emphasis in
original.)  
 
The only other documents in the record are the untranslated
application (see Bello Decl., Ex. 3) and the untranslated employment
contract.  (See Bivins Supp. Decl., Ex.
3.)  
 
Plaintiff does not demonstrate that the 2024 agreement is a
contract of employment as opposed to a standalone agreement.
 
Transportation Worker
 
“‘Transportation
workers’ are those workers ‘engaged in the movement of goods in interstate
commerce’” (Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:58 [citing Southwest, supra, 596 U.S.
450]), but a qualification exists. 
“[T]he more related to the transportation industry an enterprise is, the
less necessary it becomes for the employee to be directly transporting goods.”  (Garrido v. Air Liquide Industrial U.S. LP
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 833, 840.) 

 
Plaintiff describes what he did at CR this way:
 
As a warehouse worker, my duties primarily involved opening
packages and boxes of goods that were brought into the warehouse for storage
and shipment, checking the goods against paperwork indicating what was coming
through, inspecting the items for damages, bringing the goods that were damaged
to the workers who would document any damage, and moving the inspected goods
into the area of the warehouse where other workers would organize the goods
within the warehouse. At times, when it was busy, on approximately a weekly
basis, I would also assist with unloading goods from trucks, preparing goods to
be shipped out, or loading goods onto trucks. There were approximately 60 to 80
workers performing similar duties to me handling and organizing goods within
the warehouse at CR[’s] . . . Los Angeles location. As part of my job, I would
receive paperwork identifying the goods passing through the receiving
department and the paperwork would also indicate the goods’ final destination
which would include locations in California but often included out-of-state
locations. 
 
(Mendez
Decl., ¶ 3.)  
 
In Ortiz,
the plaintiff worked at a warehouse that stored and shipped Adidas products
that “were still moving in interstate commerce[.]”  (Ortiz, supra, 95 F.4th at
1162.)  The plaintiff:
 
*
“ensured that goods would reach their final destination by processing and
storing them while they awaited further interstate transport” (ibid.); and
 
* “handled
[the products] as they went through the process of entering, temporarily
occupying, and subsequently leaving the warehouse.”  (Ibid.)
 
The
Ninth Circuit found him exempt.  (See id.
at pp. 1161-1165.)
 
Additional
evidence is necessary to determine whether Ortiz is analogous.  CR’s president declares that the employees at
the Los Angeles warehouse “managed, catalogued, stored, and then packaged and
shipped” “home furnishings and art” “within California, throughout the United
States, and internationally.”  (Katz
Decl., ¶ 2.)  According to Great Hire,
the home furnishings and art were personal properties belonging to
clients.  (See Reply, pp. 6-7.)  The intimation is that CR is more a moving
business than a company shipping merchandise for sale.  The Court cannot tell if this is true and if
it makes a difference.    
 
Summary
 
On the
current record, Plaintiff fails to establish the transportation-worker
exception.
 
The
Court is inclined to hold an evidentiary hearing with live testimony.  The transportation-worker exception is a
fact-intensive exception.  The
evidentiary hearings that the Court has held in other cases were fruitful in
revealing the true facts.
 
Unconscionability
and Enforcement
 
Plaintiff
contends:
 
* Labor
Code section 432.6 bars arbitration of Labor Code claims (see Opposition, pp.
9-11);
 
* the
claim for unpaid wages in the sixth cause of action is inarbitrable (see id. at
pp. 11-13); and
 
* the
class waiver is unenforceable under Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 443.  (See id. at pp.
13-15.)
 
For
now, the Court declines to rule.  The
outcome of each of these arguments depends on whether the FAA applies. 
 
CR
and MVP
 
CR and
MVP are nonsignatories.  They claim they
can enforce the 2024 agreement because the complaint alleges agency, joint-employer,
and alter-ego theories.  They also rely
on equitable estoppel.  (See, e.g., MVP
Joinder, p. 8.)
 
Plaintiff
did not respond.  This portion of the
motion is unopposed.
 
“Certain persons who did not sign the agreement
to arbitrate may be entitled to enforce it and prosecute the arbitration in
their own names.”  (Knight, supra, at ¶
5:262.)  For example, third-party
beneficiaries (see id. at ¶ 5:263), employees (see id. at ¶ 5:265.7),
associates (see ibid.), agents (see id. at ¶ 5:266.5), and assigns.  (See id.at ¶ 5:266.7.)  Another example is when equitable estoppel
applies.  (See id. at ¶
5:266.15.)  “[A] nonsignatory
defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to
arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are
‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract
obligations.”  (Marenco v. DirecTV LLC
(2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1419-1420.)
 
In light of these rules, the Court tends to
agree with CR and MVP; however, the FAA issue needs to be decided before a
final ruling on the right to enforce can be made.  
 
 
 
 