  Case Number:  24VECV03786    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ALLY BANK LEASE TRUST,
  an association, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
MANUEL REDONDO, an individual; DOES 1
  through 10, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
)


     CASE NO.: 24VECV03786
 
ORDER
  GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S APPLICATION FOR PRE-TRIAL WRIT OF POSSESSION 
 
 



 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This is a claim
and delivery of personal property action between Plaintiff Ally Bank Lease Trust
(“Plaintiff”), and Defendant Manuel Redondo (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges
Defendant stopped making payments on his lease of a 2021 Jeep Grand Cherokee,
VIN 1C4RJECG9MC597681 (“Vehicle”), and, as the owner and holder of a first
priority security interest in the Vehicle, Plaintiff now has a right to take
possession of the Vehicle. (See First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 6-9.) Plaintiff seeks a writ
of possession.
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On August 9,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Complaint, alleging (1) Claim and Delivery of Personal
Property. 
On August 28,
2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint, alleging (1) Claim and
Delivery of Personal Property. 
On September
11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Application for Pre-Trial Writ of
Possession (“Application”). 
Defendant has
not filed a responsive pleading or opposition.  
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
“Upon the filing of the complaint
or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for
a writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the
court in which the action is brought.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.010(a).)[1] 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 512.010(b), the application must be submitted
under oath and include: 
“(1) A
showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's
claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be
attached. 
(2) A
showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the
manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the reason for the detention. 
(3) A
particular description of the property and a statement of its value. 
(4) A
statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part
of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take
possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there. 
(5) A
statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine,
pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.” x
Before
the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the Defendant must be served with (1) a
copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and
(3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 512.030.) 
“The
writ will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably
valid and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 512.040(b).) “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 511.090.)   
Prior to
the issuance of a writ of possession, the Plaintiff must file an undertaking
“in an amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's interest in the
property or in a greater amount,” unless the court finds the defendant has no
interest in the property. (Code Civ. Proc. § 515.010(a), (b).) 
IV.         
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff
seeks a writ of possession for the Vehicle based on Defendant’s alleged breach
of the Vehicle’s lease agreement (“Lease”). (See Application, ¶ 2; Declaration
of James Singleton filed September 11, 2024 (“Singelton Decl.”), ¶ 5, Ex. A.) 
The Court
finds Plaintiff has established probable validity of the Plaintiff’s claim to
possession of the Vehicle. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 512.040(b), § 511.090.)
Plaintiff has presented the Lease, indicating Plaintiff’s right to immediate
possession upon Defendant’s default, and evidence that Plaintiff is the
lienholder. (See Application ¶¶ 3-5; Singleton Decl., ¶ 5, Exs. A, B.) Plaintiff
has included a description of the vehicle and its value. (See Application
¶ 4; Singleton Decl., ¶¶ 5, 7, Exs. B, C.) Plaintiff has also included the
required statements regarding the Vehicle’s location and status. (See Application
¶¶ 6-7, 8; Singleton Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) Defendant was served as required by Code
of Civil Procedure § 512.030. (See Proof of Service filed December 30,
2024.) 
The Court
further finds there is probable cause to believe the Vehicle is located at 354
El Conejo Dr, Ojai, CA 93023. (See Application, ¶¶ 6-7; Singleton Decl.,
¶¶ 5, 10, Exs. A, B.) 
Plaintiff has
not filed an undertaking, but the Court finds an undertaking unnecessary. Per
Code of Civil Procedure § 515.010(a), Defendant has no interest in the Vehicle
because the amount Defendant owes under the Lease exceeds the market value of
the Vehicle. (See Application, ¶ 4; Singleton Decl., ¶¶ 5-7, Exs. A, C.)

Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Application.
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Application for Writ of Pre-Trial
Possession. The Court orders Plaintiff to submit a Proposed Order on Judicial
Council Form CD-120 consistent with this order for the Court’s review and
signature before the writ may issue. 
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      January 3, 2025



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


