 Case Number:  20STCV20375    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
ORIEL
  POOLE,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
IEVGENII
  SLYNKO, GANNA SLYNKO, PLATON SYLNKO a/k/a PLATON SLUNKO, OLENA KUHTARYEVA,
  and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  20STCV20375
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  5/29/2020
3rd
  Amended Complaint Filed:  5/3/2021
Trial
  Date:  8/19/2024



 
Hearing
date:  June 26, 2024
Moving
Party:  Plaintiff Oriel Poole
Responding
Party:  Defendant Ganna Slynko
Motion
to Compel Further Answers to Deposition           
The Court
considered the moving papers and opposition.
            The
motion is DENIED. The request for
sanctions is also DENIED.
 
Background
            This
is a wrongful eviction case. Plaintiff Oriel Poole (“Plaintiff”) filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on May 3, 2021, against Defendants Ievgenii
Slynko, Ganna Slynko, Platon Slynko a/k/a Platon Slunko, Olena Kuhtaryeva
(“Defendants”), and DOES 1 to 100. The SAC allege causes of action for: (1)
Forcible Entry; (2) Forcible Detainer; (3) Wrongful Eviction; (4) Breach of
Written Contract; (5) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (6)
Constructive Eviction; (7) Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code § 151.05;
(8) Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code § 151.09; (9) Negligence; (10)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (11) Conversion. 
The SAC alleges
the following: Plaintiff entered into three separate written rental agreements
with Defendants in or around November 2014, November 2026, and May 2016. (SAC
¶¶10-11, 13, Exs. A-B.) Defendants permitted another resident to occupy the
space Plaintiff was renting and use Plaintiff’s personal items such as bedroom
furniture. (SAC ¶23.) Plaintiff believes that the agreements she signed with
the Defendants to lease portions of the property located at 2731 Angus Street,
Los Angeles, CA 90039 (“Property”) were illegal and in violation of Los Angeles
County rule and statutes. (SAC ¶¶1, 25.)
            On
January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Further Answers
to Deposition of Defendant Ganna Slynko. On June 12, 2024, Defendant Ganna
Slynko filed an opposition. No reply has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
            “If
a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(a).)
“This motion
shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(b).)
 
Meet and Confer 
            Plaintiff
advances the declaration of her attorney of record, William W. Bloch, attesting
to meet and confer efforts made prior to bringing the instant motion. 
            Here,
Bloch states he prepared a meet and confer letter on or about December 6, 2024,
to defense counsel D. Jay Ritt. (Bloch Decl., ¶5, Ex. C.) Mr. Ritt responded
with a date for a telephonic meet and confer. (Id., ¶6, Ex. D.) Bloch
and Mr. Ritt spoke over Zoom on or about December 14, 2023, concerning the
questions and instructions made at Defendant Ganna Slynko’s October 20, 2020
deposition. (Id., ¶¶2-3, 7.) The parties were unable to resolve their
issues informally. (Id., ¶7.) 
Therefore,
Plaintiff sufficiently met and conferred with defense counsel prior to bringing
the instant motion. 
 
Discussion
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant Ganna Slynko (1) to promptly resume her
deposition, to answer three questions objected to, and reasonable follow-ups,
(2) to enjoin further instructions not to answer, and (3) to impose the costs
for completing the deposition on Defendant Ganna Slynko and her counsel. 
 
Merits of the Motion
Plaintiff argues Defendant Ganna Slynko’s counsel made repeated,
frivolous objections that Plaintiff’s questions as to the purchase of the
Property at issue in this case were irrelevant and invaded her privacy. Specifically,
Plaintiff contends an attorney may only give instructions not to answer on the
basis of attorney-client privilege or other recognized absolute privilege.
Furthermore, Plaintiff contends the right to privacy is not absolute but
subject to a balancing test.  Moreover,
Plaintiff asserts subject to the balancing test, the questions asked by
Plaintiff at the deposition seeks relevant information so that Plaintiff can
determine if there are others who should be added as defendant in the case, if
one or more defendants acted with fraud or malice, and if evidence about
unpermitted rooms being rented to Plaintiff needs to be eliminated. As such,
Plaintiff argues defense counsel’s instructions to Defendant Ganna Slynko not
to answer these questions were improper and justify sanctions. 
In opposition, Defendant Ganna Slynko argues “[t]he right of privacy
provided for in California Constitution, Article 1, Section 1, may be invoked
by a litigant as justification for refusal to answer questions or respond to
requests for information that unreasonably intrude on that right.” (1 California
Deposition and Discovery Practice § 30.02 (2024).) Thus, Defendant Ganna Slynko
asserts Plaintiff must show that the information is directly relevant to a
cause of action or defense, such that disclosure is essential to the fair
resolution of the case. 
“The protection of information from discovery on the ground that it is
privileged or that it is a protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 2018.010) is waived unless a specific objection to its disclosure
is timely made during the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.460(a)[1].)
Meanwhile, “[o]bjections to the competency of the deponent, or to the
relevancy, materiality, or admissibility at trial of the testimony or of the
materials produced are unnecessary and are not waived by failure to make them
before or during the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.460(c)[2].) Furthermore,
“even were the questions designed to elicit irrelevant evidence, irrelevance
alone is an insufficient ground to justify preventing a witness from answering
a question posed at a deposition.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1014 (Stewart).) As such, “[c]ounsel should
not direct a deponent to refuse to answer questions unless they seek privileged
information or are manifestly irrelevant or calculated to harass.” (LASC, Rule
3.26, Appx. 3.A.(e)(9).)
“Privacy concerns are not absolute; they must be balanced against other
important interests.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 1, 37.) “[A] plaintiff alleging an invasion of privacy in violation
of the state constitutional right to privacy must establish each of the
following: (1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant
constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Id. at 39-40.)
“[I]ndividuals have a legally recognized privacy interest in their
personal financial information. In the face of an objection based on privacy, the party seeking discovery
of the information must show that the information is ‘directly relevant’ to a
cause of action or defense, such that disclosure is ‘essential to the fair
resolution of the lawsuit.’” (Look v. Penovatz (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 61,
73.)
Here, Defendant Ganna Slynko was instructed not to answer three
deposition questions at issue in the present motion on the basis that they seek
confidential/financial information of the Slynko family and not reasonably
calculated to lead to discovery. (Plf. Sep. Stmt. 2:5-26, 3:1-26, 4:1-26,
6:10-26, 7:1-20, 9:2-26, 10:1-12.) According to California case law and the
local court rules, Defendant Ganna Slynko’s counsel’s objections were on the
grounds of privacy and relevancy were proper per Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.460, but the instructions for her not to answer were improper if
the information sought is not manifestly irrelevant. As discussed above,
Plaintiff seeks answers to questions pertaining to whose money was used to
purchase the Property at issue in this lawsuit, whether Defendant Ganna Slynko
took out a loan from a bank or financial institution to purchase the Property,
and whether Defendant Ganna Slynko plans to take out a loan against the
Property. First, it is undisputed that these questions seek personal financial
information of Defendant Ganna Slynko and potentially third-parties. Thus,
Defendant Ganna Slynko has a legally protected privacy interest. Second, Defendant
Ganna Slynko has a reasonable expectation in the privacy of her personal
financial information. Nonetheless, Plaintiff’s conduct in seeking answers
related to Defendant Ganna Slynko’s personal financial information will only be
a serious invasion of privacy if not directly relevant to the lawsuit and
essential to the fair resolution of the case. Plaintiff fails to show that the
information sought, i.e., when, whom, and how the Property was purchased is
directly relevant to a wrongful eviction case or reasonably likely to lead to
admissible evidence pertinent to the causes of action or defenses set forth in
this case. Ownership of the Property is not at issue because Plaintiff was
merely leasing a room in the Property and makes allegations concerning her
eviction, detainment of her personal property, and physical attacks from a
former roommate. By contrast, Plaintiff’s questions are manifestly irrelevant
to the case at hand because they seek information beyond the scope of the
lawsuit. 
Therefore, an order compelling further answers to Defendant Ganna
Slynko’s deposition are not warranted. 
 
Request for Monetary Sanctions
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480(j).)
            Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel seeks $2,300.00 in sanctions consisting of: (1) 1.0 hour
meeting and conferring; (2) 2.0 hours reviewing opposition and preparing a
reply; (3) 1.5 hours preparing for the hearing at an hourly rate of $750.00
and; (4) $61.35 filing fee. As explained above, the questions Plaintiff seeks
further answers to at deposition are manifestly irrelevant as they go beyond
the scope of the lawsuit. Thus, the instant motion is denied making imposition
of sanctions unjust. 
 
            Therefore,
Plaintiff Oriel Poole’s Motion to Compel Further Answers at Deposition is
DENIED. The request for sanctions is also DENIED. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: June 26, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 
[

