  Case Number:  20STCV40677    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SALVADOR
  BARRIOS, et al.,
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
HEALTHY START—EAST LA, INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  20STCV40677
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant City of Commerce
(the “City”) filed a motion for leave to conduct a neuropsychological
examination of Plaintiff Salvador Barrios and for the issuance of a protective
order regarding the post-examination handling of test contents, raw data, and
the audio recording of the examination. 
 
Defendant City’s
motion is GRANTED.  The details relating
to the neuropsychological examination and related Court orders are set forth
below.  
 
Background
 
          On October 22, 2020, Plaintiffs Salvador Barrios and Elena Barrios
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Healthy Start-East LA,
Inc., Daniel Tercero Neri, County of Los Angeles, the City, Karapet Dzheragyan,
Henry Loaiza, Anait Krgatbashyan, Lusine Krgatbashyan, Siranush Krgatbashyan,
and Casa de Los Angles Cal. Corp. The complaint arises from a motor vehicle
accident, alleging causes of action for: (1) negligence (motor vehicle
collision); (2) negligence (negligent entrustment and vicarious liability); (3)
dangerous condition of public property; (4) negligent/reckless acts of public
employees, agents and/or contractors; (5) general negligence; and (6) loss of
consortium. 
 
          On
January 7, 2021,  the City filed a
cross-complaint. 
 
          On
April 8, 2021, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging causes of action for: (1) negligence (motor vehicle collision); (2)
negligence (negligent entrustment and vicarious liability); (3) dangerous
condition of public property; (4) negligent/reckless acts of public employees,
agents and/or contractors; (5) general negligence; and (6) loss of consortium.  
 
          On
October 5, 2023, the City filed and served a motion (the “Motion”) for leave to
conduct a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff Salvador Barrios
(“Plaintiff”) and for a protective order regarding the post-examination
handling of test contents, raw data, and the audio recording of the
examination. The City contends that “[a]s of the date of [the] [M]otion, the
only issue remaining to be decided is with respect to the handling of the raw
data gathered as a result of the testing process as well as the tests
themselves.” (Motion at 4:26-28.) Defendant City requests that the Court “issue
an order permitting the neuropsychological examination of [P]laintiff Salvador
Barrios and to further order the production of the audio recordings of the
examination of Plaintiff [Salvador] Barrios, test questions and raw data to
[P]laintiff’s counsel subject to a protective order which will be presented to
the court for execution upon the hearing of this matter.” (Motion at 5:16-20.) 
 
          In
their opposition, Plaintiffs acknowledge that they do not oppose Defendant
City’s request for a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff in principle. Plaintiffs
indicate that Plaintiffs and the City “were unable to agree to the manner that
the neuropsychological examination would be conducted and the manner in which
the raw data from the examination would be produced.” (Opposition at 2:6-10.)
Plaintiffs contend that: (1) the Court should require that Plaintiffs’ counsel
receive the raw data of any testing, test questions, and audio records; and (2)
the Court should limit the City and Defendant County of Los Angeles to one
neuropsychological examination.  (This
latter point is moot, as the Court granted a protective order to this effect on
October 19, 2023 as discussed below.)  Plaintiffs
indicate that they are agreeable to signing a protective order limiting the
disclosure of the raw data to individuals not working on the instant
litigation. (Opposition at 2:16-18.) No reply brief has been filed. 
 
          On
October 19, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court granted Plaintiff’s
motion for a protective order. The Court’s October 19, 2023 order provides that
the City and Defendant County of Los Angeles shall be limited to one
neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff. The Court therefore finds that
Plaintiffs’ argument as to a protective order limiting the number of
neuropsychological examinations is moot considering the Court’s October 19,
2023 order. 
 
          Thus,
the sole issues to be addressed in this ruling are whether: (1) The City has
shown good cause to warrant a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff; and
(2) the Court should allow Plaintiffs’ counsel to receive the raw data of any
testing, test questions, and audio records from Plaintiff’s neuropsychological
examination. 
 
 
Meet and Confer
 
          The
Court finds that the meet and confer requirement is met pursuant to California Code
of Civil Procedure, Section 2032.310(b). 
           
Legal Standard
 
A defendant who seeks to conduct a mental
examination of plaintiff must file a motion and “obtain leave of court.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.310(a).) Such a motion must “specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310(b).) The court may grant such a
motion “only for good cause shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320(b).) A showing
of good cause generally requires that “the party produce specific facts
justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of
the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) A
mental examination is generally appropriate only when a plaintiff alleges
continuing emotional distress or mental injury and so places his or her mental
or emotional condition “in controversy” in the action. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.020(a); Vinson v. Superior Court, supra, 43 Cal.3d at p.840.) 
 
“An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2032.320(d).) “The court is to describe in detail who will conduct the
examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed. The way to
describe these diagnostic tests and procedures—fully and in detail—is to list
them by name.” (Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249,
260.) 
 
The party who seeks to compel a mental
examination bears the burden to specify the diagnostic tests and procedures to
be conducted. (Carpenter v. Superior Court, supra, 141
Cal.App.4th 249, 267.)¿“Insisting that section 2032.320 means what it says—that
the diagnostic tests and procedures must be specified—will result in an orderly
and efficient means of balancing the interests of the plaintiff and defendant.¿
The defendant, aware that the court must name the diagnostic tests and
procedures in the order granting a mental examination, will identify the
potential tests and procedures in its moving papers.¿ The plaintiff, assisted
by counsel and a psychologist or other expert, may consider whether the
proposed tests are inappropriate, irrelevant, or abusive, and submit evidence
and argument to that effect if necessary.”¿(Ibid.)¿ 
 
 
Discussion
 
          Good Cause 
          The City has met its
burden, and Plaintiffs do not oppose such an examination.  According to the declaration of Christopher
Bagnaschi (“Bagnaschi”) in support of the Motion, Defendant City served a
Notice of Neuropsychological Examination on Plaintiffs, which is scheduled for
November 10, 2023 with Dr. Dean Delis PhD. (Bagnaschi Decl., ¶ 2 and Exhibit
1.) Plaintiff was involved in a motor vehicle accident on February 25, 2020,
and has placed both his existing and future mental and emotional condition at
issue. (Id., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff has previously been examined by a
neurologist which examines the objective, physical manifestation of a TBI. (Id.)

          Here, the Court finds that
Defendant City has made a showing of good cause to justify a neuropsychological
examination of Plaintiff. The FAC alleges that Plaintiff sustained and
continues to sustain mental suffering, grief, anxiety, humiliation, and
emotional distress. In response to Defendant City’s Form Interrogatories,
Plaintiff indicated that he suffers from amnesia, diminished capacity for
speech, permanent brain scarring, frequent mood changes, traumatic brain
injury, and other ailments due to the motor vehicle accident. (Bagnaschi Decl.,
¶ 4 and Exhibit 3.) 
          Thus, the Court finds good
cause to grant Defendant City’s request to conduct a neuropsychological
examination of Plaintiff.  
Legal Standard for Disclosure of
Raw Data and Audio Records 
“If a party submits to a . . .  mental examination . . . that party has the
option of making a written demand that the party at whose instance the
examination was made deliver . . .  to
the demanding party . . . [a] copy of a detailed written report setting out the
history, examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made,
diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.610(a)(1).) “If the option under [Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.610(a)] is
exercised, a copy of the requested reports shall be delivered within 30 days
after service of the demand, or within 15 days of trial, whichever is earlier.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.610(b).) 
Where a mental examination occurs,
“[t]he examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental
examination on audio tape.”  (Golfland
Entertainment Centers, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 739,
750.) The main purposes of audiotaping a mental examination “are to ensure that
the examiner does not overstep the bounds set by the court for the mental
examination, that the context of the responses can be judged for purposes of
trial, that the examinee’s interests are protected (especially since the
examinee’s counsel ordinarily will not be present), and that any evidence of
abuse can be presented to the court.” (Ibid.)  Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.530(a) grants the
examinee the right to record a mental examination by audio technology and
implies that the examinee can retain a copy of the recording.  (Randy’s Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court
of Kern County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 837.)  A court has discretion to order the
production of the raw data and audio recording from a mental examination.  (Ibid.)
“There is no statutory authority .
. . precluding a trial court from ordering the disclosure of test materials or
test data when ordering a mental examination.” (Randy’s Trucking, Inc. v.
Superior Court of Kern County, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 834.) A plaintiff
has a “right to take discovery and cross-examine defendants’ expert witnesses,
which includes being able to examine the expert on the matter upon which the
expert’s opinion is based and the reasons for that opinion.” (Id. at p.
838.)  Without access to raw data and
audio recordings, a plaintiff “cannot effectively scrutinize the way the data
was collected, determine if there are discrepancies, and cross-examine the
neuropsychologist on the basis and reasons for the neuropsychologist’s
opinion.” (Ibid.) 
Discussion of Randy’s Trucking
Randy’s Trucking, Inc. v. Superior
Court of Kern County, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818 is instructive.
In Randy’s Trucking, plaintiff sustained injuries in a vehicle accident
and during discovery claimed that she suffered a severe traumatic brain injury.
The defendants thereafter moved for an order compelling plaintiff to undergo a
mental examination by their neuropsychologist. 
The defendants moved for such an order after plaintiff refused to
proceed with the examination unless their attorney received all raw data and
test information from the mental examination. The trial court granted
defendants’ motion to compel; however, the trial court denied defendants’
request to limit the transmission of raw data and test materials to a licensed
psychologist or neuropsychologist. Instead, the trial court ordered defendants’
neuropsychologist to transfer the raw data and an audio recording of the
examination to plaintiff’s attorney pursuant to a protective order. 
Thereafter, defendants sought a
petition for writ of mandate to direct the trial court to modify its order to
require the transmission of the raw data and audio recording to plaintiff’s
retained psychologist or neuropsychologist as opposed to plaintiff’s attorney.
Defendants asserted that: (1) the trial court erred in ordering transmission of
raw data and audio recordings to plaintiff’s counsel because those items are
not among the materials set forth in Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.610(a); and (2)
psychologist confidentiality prohibited disclosure of test materials.  In rejecting defendants’ contentions, the Randy’s
Trucking court held that there is no statutory authority prohibiting a
trial court from ordering the disclosure of test materials or test data when
ordering a mental examination.  (Randy’s
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th 818, 834.) Moreover, the court opined that due to the trial court’s
broad discretion in discovery matters, the trial court retained jurisdiction to
order the production of materials and therefore did not abuse its discretion in
doing so. (Id. at p. 837.)
Analysis 
Here, exercising its discretion,
the Court finds that it is appropriate pursuant to Randy’s Trucking to
allow disclosure of the raw data, test materials, and audio recordings to
Plaintiff’s counsel. The facts in this action are similar to those in Randy’s
Trucking. Dr. Delis, PhD, has requested that the audio record as well as
the assessment tests and raw data from the tests be produced only to
Plaintiff’s retained neuropsychologist and not to Plaintiff’s counsel because
16 CCR 1396.3 seemingly prohibits this dissemination to nonprofessionals. (Bagnaschi
Decl., ¶ 6.) However, without access to test materials, raw data, and audio
recordings, the Court finds that Plaintiff would not be able to scrutinize the
data collected by Dr. Delis and prepare for cross-examination if this case goes
to trial.  Moreover, the same arguments
Defendant City raises here in opposition to disclosure of raw data and test
materials were rejected by the court in Randy’s Trucking. 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’
request that the raw data, test questions, and audio recordings from
Plaintiff’s neuropsychological examination be disclosed to Plaintiff’s counsel.

While the Court finds that disclosure
of raw data, test materials, and audio recordings from Plaintiff’s
neuropsychological examination should be disclosed to Plaintiff’s counsel, the
Court finds that such disclosure is warranted pursuant to a protective order. (Randy’s
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 828.) The Court therefore GRANTS Defendant
City’s request for a protective order regarding the post-examination handling
of test contents, raw, data and audio recording of the examination. 
Defendant City’s motion contends
that a protective order will be presented to the Court for execution upon the
hearing of this matter. If such protective order is not presented to the Court
upon hearing in this matter or prior to the neuropsychological examination,
this Court orders the following protective order—that was issued in Randy’s
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 828—be entered in this matter:
 
“Plaintiff’s counsel, defense
counsel and all experts, consultants and the employees of the respective firms
shall maintain the security of all raw data, test materials, and other
medically private information obtained during the examination. However, such
raw data, test materials and other medically private information may be
disclosed to plaintiff’s counsel, defense counsel and all experts, consultants
and employees of the respective firms for use in this case. Such materials and data
may also be shown to the trier of fact at the time of trial, or such other time
as may be necessary for the adjudication of the above-captioned matter. These
materials may be used for no other purpose, may not be disseminated to any
other party and the parties shall take reasonable steps to maintain the
confidentiality of the above-identified materials.” 
Counsel may seek to add or modify
the above terms by stipulation or motion; however, pending a protective order
from the parties concerning disclosure, the above protective order shall apply.

Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendant City’s
motion for an order to conduct a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff
Salvador Barrios.
The Court GRANTS Defendant City’s
request for the issuance of a protective order regarding the post-examination
handling of test contents, raw data, and the audio recording of the
neuropsychological examination.  
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’
request that the raw data, test questions, and audio recording from Plaintiff’s
neuropsychological examination be disclosed to Plaintiff’s counsel. 
Plaintiff Salvador Barrios is
ORDERED to appear for neuropsychological examination. The neuropsychological
examination will be conducted on November 10, 2023, at 9:00 AM at 31726 Rancho
Viejo Rd., Suite 104, San Juan Capistrano, CA 92675. 
The neuropsychological examination
will begin at 9:00 AM and will last until 5:30 PM with a one-hour lunch break. The
neuropsychological examination shall take no longer than 7.5 hours exclusive of
the one (1) hour lunch break. The neuropsychological examination will be
performed by Dr. Dean Delis, PhD (Neuropsychology). The neuropsychological
examination will consist of a clinical interview and administration of the
following psychological tests: Weschler Adult Intelligence Scale-4 (WAIS-4)
subtests; Wide Range Achievement Test-5 (WRAT5) subtests; Boston Naming Test or
NAB Naming Test; Wechsler Memory Scale-4 (WMS-4) subtests; California Verbal
Learning Test-3 (CVLT3); Wisconsin Card Sorting Test; Delis-Kaplan Executive
Function System (D-KEFS) Subtests; Cognitive Validity Measures; Minnesota
Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 RF (MMPI-2/RF) and/or Beck Depression and
Anxiety Inventories and/or Delis Rating of Executive Functions. 
Within 30 days of the examination,
Defendant City will provide to Plaintiff’s counsel a copy of detailed written
report setting out the history, examinations, findings, including the results
of all tests made, diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the examination.
This will include raw data of any testing and test questions. Within 30 days of
the examination, Defendant City will provide the audio recording of the
examination to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of the examination. 
The City has stated that it is
possible that Dr. Delis will refuse to comply with this order “which will
thereafter require defendant to eek an alternative report.”  (Motion at 5:12-14.)  If that is true, the City must inform the
Plaintiffs no later than November 3, 2023 and in that case Plaintiff will not
be required to go forward with the examination on the date currently scheduled.
Plaintiff’s counsel, defense
counsel and all experts, consultants and the employees of the respective firms
shall maintain the security of all raw data, test materials, and other
medically private information obtained during the examination. However, such
raw data, test materials and other medically private information may be
disclosed to plaintiff’s counsel, defense counsel and all experts, consultants
and employees of the respective firms for use in this case. Such materials and
data may also be shown to the trier of fact at the time of trial, or such other
time as may be necessary for the adjudication of the above-captioned matter.
These materials may be used for no other purpose, may not be disseminated to
any other party and the parties shall take reasonable steps to maintain the
confidentiality of the above-identified materials.
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 
 