 Case Number:  22STCV31510    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF
CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DANIELLE SALTZMAN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN, INC., et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 22STCV31510
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (“Kaiser”)
moves the Court for an order requiring Plaintiff Danielle Saltzman
(“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate her disputes with Kaiser and staying this action
pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
Kaiser’s motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
 
 
Background
 
          Plaintiff
has health insurance with Kaiser through an HMO plan issued to her husband,
Michael Saltzman (“Michael”). Both Plaintiff and Michael were enrolled in
Kaiser’s health insurance through Gold Coast Joint Benefit Trust (“Gold
Coast”). Gold Coast had an agreement (the “EOC”) with Kaiser under which Kaiser
provided healthcare services for beneficiaries of Gold Coast and their eligible
dependents, including Plaintiff. (Motion, Exhibit A (“EOC”).) Plaintiff was
enrolled under the EOC by her husband,  Michael.
          
 
In 2020, Plaintiff was diagnosed
with a tumor and sought out-of-network treatment at UCLA. Plaintiff alleges
that Kaiser improperly refused to authorize Plaintiff’s request for treatment
at UCLA, in breach of the insurance contract and in violation of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing. Plaintiff also alleges that Kaiser failed to
meet its duty of care under Civil Code Section 3428 to arrange for the
provision of medically necessary health care services.
 
Plaintiff filed this action against
Kaiser on September 26, 2022, alleging (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (3) violation of Civil
Code Section 3428.
 
          On September
21, 2023, Kaiser moved to compel arbitration. 
Plaintiff opposed, arguing that Kaiser’s arbitration disclosure violates
Health & Safety Code Section 1363.1 and is therefore unenforceable.  Kaiser filed a reply.    
 
 
Legal Standard
 
           Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) 
 
The party moving to compel
arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement
between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) “With respect to the
moving party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of
an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present
a copy of the contract to the court. (See Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 (Condee ); see also
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel arbitration or to stay
proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must
state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must
be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to
the petition and incorporated by reference”].) 
 
Once the party moving to compel
arbitration presents proof of the existence of the arbitration agreement, the
burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel.  The opposing party may present any challenges
to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those
challenges. [Citation].” (Baker v.
Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Discussion
 
          The
Arbitration Agreement 
 
          Kaiser
attaches the EOC to its motion, including the EOC’s arbitration provision. (EOC
at p. 74-76.)
 
          The EOC states,
in relevant part:
 
          “Binding Arbitration
For all claims
subject to this “Binding Arbitration” section, both Claimants and Respondents
give up the right to a jury or court trial and accept the use of binding
arbitration. . . .
 
Scope of arbitration
Any dispute shall be
submitted to binding arbitration if all of the following requirements are met:
 
·      
The claim arises from or is related to an
alleged violation of any duty incident to or arising out of or relating to this
EOC or a Member Party’s relationship to Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
(Health Plan), including any claim for medical or hospital malpractice (a claim
that medical services were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly,
negligently, or incompetently rendered), for premises liability, or relating to
the coverage for, or delivery of, services or items, irrespective of the legal
theories upon which the claim is asserted
·      
The claim is asserted by one or more Member
Parties against one or more Kaiser Permanente Parties or by one or more Kaiser
Permanente Parties against one or more Member Parties
·      
Governing law does not prevent the use of
binding arbitration to resolve the claim
 
Members enrolled
under this EOC thus give up their right to a court or jury trial, and instead
accept the use of binding arbitration except that the following types of claims
are not subject to binding arbitration:
….
·      
Claims that cannot be subject to binding
arbitration under governing law
 
As referred to in
this “Binding Arbitration” section, “Member Parties” include:
·      
A Member
·      
A Member’s heir, relative, or personal
representative
….
 
“Kaiser Permanente
Parties” include:
·      
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
·      
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
….
 
“Claimant” refers to
a Member Party or a Kaiser Permanente Party who asserts a claim as described
above. “Respondent” refers to a Member Party or a Kaiser Permanente Party
against whom a claim is asserted.”
 
          (EOC at pp.
74-75.)
 
          On August 26,
2019, Michael enrolled in Kaiser’s health insurance under the EOC and signed a
California Subscriber Enrollment/Change Form (“Enrollment Form”) which contains
an arbitration agreement (the “Arbitration Agreement”). The Enrollment Form
states, in relevant part: 
 
“D. Signature
(please sign at the bottom of this page in the box below for subscriber
signature)
Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan Arbitration Agreement. I understand that (except for Small
Claims Court cases, claims subject to a Medicare appeals procedure or the ERISA
claims procedure regulation, and any other claims that cannot be subject to
binding arbitration under governing law) any dispute between myself, my heirs,
relatives, or other associated parties on the one hand and Health Plan, its
health care providers, or other associated parties on the other hand, for
alleged violation of any duty arising out of or related to membership in KFHP,
including any claim for medical or hospital malpractice (a claim that medical
services were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently, or
incompetently rendered), for premises liability, or relating to the coverage
for or delivery of services or items, irrespective of legal theory, must be decided
by binding arbitration under California law and not by lawsuit or resort to
court process, except as applicable law provides for judicial review of
arbitration proceedings. I agree to give up our right to a jury trial and
accept the use of binding arbitration. I understand that the full arbitration
provision is contained in the Evidence of Coverage.
Date
(mm/dd/yyyy)
X
Subscriber signature”
 
(Motion, Exhibit C
(“Enrollment Form”) at p. 1. [footnotes omitted].)
 
          By providing
proof of this agreement, Kaiser has met its initial burden to show the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate. The Court therefore turns to
considering Plaintiff’s responsive arguments.
 
Health & Safety Code Section 1363.1
 
Health & Safety Code Section 1363.1 mandates that:
  
“Any
health care service plan that includes terms that require binding arbitration
to settle disputes and that restrict, or provide for a waiver of, the right to
a jury trial shall include, in clear and understandable language, a disclosure
that meets all of the following conditions: 
 
(a) The disclosure
shall clearly state whether the plan uses binding arbitration to settle
disputes, including specifically whether the plan uses binding arbitration to
settle claims of medical malpractice. 
 
(b) The disclosure
shall appear as a separate article in the agreement issued to the employer
group or individual subscriber and shall be prominently displayed on the
enrollment form signed by each subscriber or enrollee. 
 
(c) The disclosure
shall clearly state whether the subscriber or enrollee is waiving his or her
right to a jury trial for medical malpractice, other disputes relating to the
delivery of service under the plan, or both, and shall be substantially
expressed in the wording provided in subdivision (a) of Section 1295 of the
Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
(d) In any contract
or enrollment agreement for a health care service plan, the disclosure required
by this section shall be displayed immediately before the signature line
provided for the representative of the group contracting with a health care
service plan and immediately before the signature line provided for the
individual enrolling in the health care service plan.” 
 
(Health & Safety Code Section
1363.1)
 
The law requires strict compliance
with section 1363.1 in order to enforce an agreement to arbitrate.  (Malek
v. Blue Cross of California (2004) 121 Cal. App. 4th 44, 50.) “[T]echnical
violations of the statute—such as the failure to prominently display an
arbitration provision immediately above the signature line on the enrollment
form—render [the] arbitration provision unenforceable regardless of whether the
person enrolling in the health plan received some notice of the arbitration
clause by reviewing the non-complying provision.” (Medeiros v. Superior Court (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1015
[internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
 
          Whether the disclosure
appears as a separate article
 
          Plaintiff
argues that the Arbitration Agreement does not appear in a separate article, as
required by Section 1363.1(b).
 
The Enrollment Form was divided up
into five alphabetically labeled sections: (A) Company Information; (B) What
are the changes requested?; (C) Subscriber/employee information; (D) Signature;
and (E) Dependents. (Enrollment Form at pp. 1-2.)
 
Here, the Arbitration Agreement was
not a separate article, but was a subset of the “Signature” article in the Enrollment
Form. The “Kaiser Foundation Health Plan Arbitration Agreement” label is in a
smaller font size than the “Signature” label immediately above it.
 
The requirement of Section
1363.1(d) that the arbitration notice appear directly above the signature line
does not eliminate the requirements of Section 1363.1(b). As discussed above,
arbitration agreements must strictly comply with Section 1361.1, and are
disqualified by even technical violations of the statute. Although the
“Signature” section of the enrollment form only contained an indication of
where to sign and date the form in addition to the Arbitration Agreement, the
Arbitration Agreement was nevertheless listed within the “Signature” article of
the Enrollment Form, rather than as a separate article. The disclosure thus did
not comply with the statute. The Court therefore finds that the Arbitration
Agreement is not enforceable.
 
 
          Whether
the disclosure is prominently displayed
 
Plaintiff argues that the
Arbitration Agreement in the Enrollment Form is not prominently displayed
because the Arbitration Agreement is in the same or smaller font as the rest of
the Enrollment Form and is not bolded, underline, or italicized other than the
words “Kaiser Foundation Health Plan Arbitration Agreement.”
 
Kaiser argues that the disclosure
is prominently displayed because it is preceded by the boldface words “Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan Arbitration Agreement”; it is in a separate paragraph;
there is a thick horizontal black line immediately above the disclosure; there
is separation between the Signature section and the “Subscriber/employee
information” section above; the disclosure is the only text to be read on the
page other than items to fill or boxes to check, and the font is plain and
legible.
 
For purposes of Health & Safety
Code § 1363.1(b), “prominent” or “prominently displayed” is defined as
“standing out from its surroundings” (Burks
v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th at
1028-1029), or as “readily noticeable.” (Imbler
v. PacifiCare of Cal. Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 567, 579)
 
          Kaiser
attaches as Exhibits A-C to its reply copies of the noncompliant enrollment
forms in Burks v. Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1021; Zembsch v. Superior Court (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 153, 165; and Robertson v. Health Net of California, Inc.
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1419; three of the cases cited by Plaintiff. These
exhibits show that those noncompliant disclosures used significantly smaller
text than Kaiser’s. The Burks
disclosure lacked any heading (Burks,
supra, 160 Cal.App.4th at 1029,
1031), Robertson disclosure used the
same font as the rest of the form and was separated from the signature line by
other text (Robertson v. Health Net, supra, 132 Cal.App.4th at 1426-27), and
the Zembsch disclosure was in the
same section box as unrelated information (Zembsch,
supra, 146 Cal.App.4th at 165). Kaiser
correctly points out that its disclosure is significantly more readable than
those in the Burks, Robertson, and Zembsch.
 
          However, more
prominent arbitration agreements have been found deficient. In Malek v. Blue Cross of California (2004)
121 Cal.App.4th 44, 51 n.2, 61, the arbitration disclosure constituted a
separate numbered paragraph and began with the bolded and capitalized words “ARBITRATION
AGREEMENT.”  The Court nevertheless
found that the disclosure did not stand out and was not readily noticeable from
other provisions because it was in the same type size and font as other
provisions in the agreement. (Id. at
p. 61.) The disclosure was also improperly separated from the signature line. (Id. at p. 62.)
 
          As discussed
above, the Arbitration Agreement is within the “Signature” section of the
document, and its boldface label is immediately below the “Signature” heading
and in a smaller font size. The words “Kaiser Foundation Health Plan
Arbitration Agreement” do not have their own line and are instead in-line with
the rest of the Arbitration Agreement’s text. The remaining text of the
arbitration agreement is in the same or smaller font size than the rest of the
text in the agreement. 
 
Although Kaiser is correct that
there is a thick black line immediately above the disclosure, that black line
is part of the beginning of the “Signature” section, similar to each of the
other alphabetized sections. If anything, the larger-sized text reading
“Signature” and the section-opening black line would make the disclosure less
readily noticeable and more likely to blend into its surroundings – after all,
most signature sections in documents do not contain additional major contract
provisions. 
 
Although the disclosure here,
unlike in Malek, is not improperly
separated from the signature line (a separate requirement from prominence), the
other facts relating to its placement all render it more obscure.
 
For these reasons, the Court finds
that the Arbitration Agreement did not comply with the prominence requirement. 
 
 
          Whether
the disclosure clearly states that the plan uses binding arbitration 
 
Plaintiff argues that the
Arbitration Agreement in the Enrollment Form did not clearly state that the
plan uses binding arbitration because it included a footnote that certain
Kaiser plans are not subject to binding arbitration, including (1) Preferred
Provider Organization (PPO) and the Out-of-Network portion of the
Point-of-Service (POS) plans; (2) Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) plans;
and (3) Out-of-Area Indemnity (OOA) plans.
 
          This argument
is unavailing. First, the Arbitration Agreement states that “any dispute
between myself, … and Health Plan, its health care providers, or other
associated parties … must be decided by binding arbitration under California
law and not by lawsuit or resort to court process.” The disclosure is clear on
the fact that the contract requires arbitration of disputes. The only ambiguity
that Plaintiffs attempt to argue is as to which plans are covered. However, the
contract similarly states with clarity which plans are and are not covered.
Furthermore, Michael did in fact know that he was signing up for an HMO plan,
which was not exempted. (Saltzman Decl., ¶¶ 3 & 4.) For these reasons, the
Court finds that the disclosure clearly stated that the plan uses binding
arbitration.
 
          Whether
the jury waiver is adequately expressed in the disclosure 
 
Subdivision (c) of Section 1363.1
requires that the waiver of the enrollee’s right to a jury trial “be
substantially expressed in the wording provided in subdivision (a) of Section
1295 of the Code of Civil Procedure.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section
1295(a) provides that any such contract must include the following language: “Both parties to this contract, by
entering into it, are giving up their
constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law before
a jury, and instead are accepting the use of arbitration.”
 
          Plaintiff
argues that the Arbitration Agreement does not comply with the wording of
Section 1295(a) because it says that “I agree to give up our right to a jury
trial and accept the use of binding arbitration” (emphasis added) and is
therefore ambiguous as to whether the jury waiver is unilateral. This argument
seems to run counter to the plain language of the disclosure. Plaintiff’s
argument would require the word “our” to refer only to the enrollee’s side of
the agreement, rather than both parties – even though the disclosure previously
states that any dispute between the
parties must be arbitrated, and the same sentence uses the word “I,” rather
than “we,” to refer to the enrollee. The Court therefore finds that the jury
waiver is adequately expressed.
 
          The other
deficiencies discussed above, however, render the arbitration agreement
unenforceable.