 Case Number:  23TRCV02389    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
EMICKO
  MOORE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02389




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GLOBAL
  TRANSPORT ENTERPRISE, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 18, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Avis Budget Car Rental LLC
Responding
Party:                  None
Application
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
 
            The court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The application for determination of
good faith settlement is GRANTED.  The
court ORDERS that in this action and all related actions, all present claims
and cross-complaints of any kind for implied indemnity, equitable comparative contribution
and apportionment or partial or comparative indemnity and apportionment based
on comparative negligence or comparative fault against Avis Budget Car Rental
LLC be and are dismissed with prejudice. 
Any and all present and future claims against it by or on behalf of
joint tortfeasors or co-obligors are barred.
BACKGROUND
On July 24, 2023, plaintiff Emicko
Moore filed a complaint against Global Transport Enterprise Inc., Avis Budget
Car Rental LLC, and Jose Fernando Castro for negligence.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
Under CCP §877.6(a)(2), “In the
alternative, a settling party may give notice of settlement to all parties and
to the court, together with an application for determination of good faith
settlement and a proposed order. The application shall indicate the settling
parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice,
application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with
the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and
proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may
file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of
the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice,
application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the
court may approve the settlement. The notice by a nonsettling party shall be
given in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. . . .”
            Under CCP §877.6(b), “The issue of
the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of
affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed
in response, or the court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the
hearing.”
Under CCP §877.6(c), “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”
“The party asserting the lack of
good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”  CCP § 877.6(d).
DISCUSSION
            Under CCP §877.6(a)(2), defendant Avis
Budget Rental Car LLC requests that the court determine that the settlement
entered into between moving defendant and plaintiff is in good faith. 
In City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal. App.
3d 1251, 1261, the court provided the following guidance regarding a motion for
a good faith settlement determination:
This court notes that of the
hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented for trial court
approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted
summarily by the trial court.  At the time
of filing in many cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will
develop.  If each motion required a full
recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response
to all of the Tech-Bilt factors,
literally thousands of attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions
would have to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would
waste valuable judicial and legal time and clients’ resources. . . . That is to
say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of
good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of
the case is sufficient.
 
If the good faith settlement is
contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable ground rule
for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good faith on the
contesting party.  Once there is a
showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue
of good faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not
made in good faith.  If contested,
declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases could
require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate the
lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.  
 
192 Cal. App. 3d 1251, 1260-1261
(citation omitted).
“[Code of Civil Procedure] Section
877.6 was enacted by the Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure
for determining if a settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered
into in good faith and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint
tortfeasors for equitable contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when
good faith is shown.”  IRM Corp. v. Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.
App. 3d 94, 104.
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, 499, the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive
factors courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith
under section 877.6:  “a rough
approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate
liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds
among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as
well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of nonsettling defendants.” 

The evaluation of whether a
settlement was made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.”  Tech-Bilt,
38 Cal.3d at 499.  “‘[A] defendant’s
settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable
person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s
liability to be.’ [Citation.]”  Id. at 499.  
“The party asserting the lack of
good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)),
should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far
‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with
the equitable objectives of the statute. 
Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was
not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.”  Tech-Bilt,
38 Cal.3d at 499-500.  
 “Thus, Tech-Bilt
held that in determining whether a settlement was made in good faith for
purposes of section 877.6, a key factor a trial court should consider is
whether the amount paid in settlement bears a reasonable relationship to the
settlor’s proportionate share of liability. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500 . . . .)  This is because one of the main goals of
section 877.6 is ‘allocating costs equitably among multiple tortfeasors.’  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 502 . . . .).”  TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.  “Accordingly, a court not only looks at the
alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it must also
consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to
be responsible for the same injury. 
Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor. 
[Citation.]”  Id. at 166.
Although unopposed, the court
considered the Tech-Bilt factors as
applied to the settlement between settling defendant Avis Budget Car Rental and
plaintiff.
The complaint alleges that on
August 2, 2021, plaintiff suffered severe injuries due to an automobile
collision caused by defendants. 
Complaint, ¶8.  Moving defendant explains
that this case stems from a two-vehicle collision that occurred on August 2,
2021 in Los Angeles but that the exact location of the incident is
unknown.  Plaintiff was driving a Toyota
Camry rented from defendant Avis and was rearended by defendant Jose Castro, an
employee of defendant Global Transport Enterprise in the course and scope of
his employment.  On January 29, 2024,
plaintiff issued a demand to defendant Avis for $11,000, which Avis accepted on
January 30, 2024.  See Ryan Gilbert decl.
First, as to a rough approximation
of plaintiff’s total recovery, defendant asserts that plaintiff’s past medical
damages, as evidenced by plaintiff’s medical billing and discovery responses, is
$97,291, and adjusted to $70,936.  
Second, as to settling defendant’s
proportionate liability, defendant asserts that it merely rented a vehicle to
plaintiff, and that Avis was not involved in the collision.  Defendant contends that it bears no liability
whatsoever for the incident. 
Third, as to the amount paid in
settlement, the parties settled for $11,000. 

Fourth, as to the allocation of
settlement proceeds, there is only one plaintiff.
Fifth, the court recognizes that
settling defendant should pay less in settlement than if it were found liable
after a trial.
Sixth, as to financial condition
and insurance policy limits, the settling defendant asserts that “this factor
is only relevant when an otherwise insolvent defendant settles for an amount
that is outside the ballpark of its proportionate share of a plaintiff’s
expected recovery,” which “is not the case here.”
Seventh, as to whether there is
evidence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests
of the other defendants or cross-defendants, settling defendant states that the
parties freely and voluntarily entered into a settlement, “which they felt was
in their own best interests based on the information available to them at the
time of the settlement.”
After considering the Tech-Bilt factors, the court finds and
determines that the settlement entered into between settling defendant Avis
Budget Car Rental and plaintiff was made in good faith within the meaning of
CCP §877.6.  Therefore, the application
is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
The application for determination
of good faith settlement is GRANTED.  The
court ORDERS that in this action and all related actions, all present claims
and cross-complaints of any kind for implied indemnity, equitable comparative
contribution and apportionment or partial or comparative indemnity and
apportionment based on comparative negligence or comparative fault against Avis
Budget Car Rental LLC be and are dismissed with prejudice.  Any and all present and future claims against
it by or on behalf of joint tortfeasors or co-obligors are barred.
Settling defendant Avis Budget Car
Rental is ordered to give notice of the ruling.