   [1] The Court acknowledges that it had not in making its  ruling realized that the punitive damages award as against SBZ and SIDMA was a  total of $7,000, not the $1,000 reflected in the remittitur, i.e., the amended  judgment against these defendants would be $4.501 million. Given the remittitur  for a total of 1,000, the Court has reduced that number as indicated below.     [2]  Lackey: 14.5%,  Camacho: 14.7%, Crosby: 16.6%, Pillarella: 17.9%, Yin: 12.1%, Ramirez: 10.6%  and Delp 13.6% (The Court added .3% to Delp to make up an even 100%, consistent  with Plaintiffs’ statement in the final filing.)      [3] 1,000 divided by fourteen (seven plaintiffs, two  defendants) is 71.428. The total amount awarded is 12 cents short of $1,000 as  this is the closest to 1,000 by dividing 1,000 equally between the seven  plaintiffs and in turn the two defendants. Consistent with Plaintiffs’  statement in their final papers that Delp should receive the uneven balance, Delp  is given below the extra 12 cents.            The amounts against SBZ and SIDMA are  included within the calculation of the total of $4.5 million in punitive  damages as opposed to creating a total amount of $4,501,000 in total punitive  damages. Zohoury and Rahmi will owe $4,499,000 when SBZ and SIDMA pay the $1,000.         LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT  WEST DISTRICT -  BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE   DEPT. 200   Lackey, et al. v.  Zohoury, et al., Case No. SC126845   TENTATIVE RULINGS  ON DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO TAX COSTS AND PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES  Hearing Date: January  17, 2025, 8:30 a.m.      BACKGROUND             On September 23,  2024, the Court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendants  in the total sum of $19,796,939.00. The judgment was based on a jury verdict on  causes of action for nuisance, premises liability, statutory violations, breach  of lease, tortious breach of warranty of habitability, intentional influence to  vacate and intentional infliction of emotional distress – in which Plaintiffs  prevailed on each cause of action. The judgment represented an award of  damages, penalties and punitive damages (after a finding of oppression, fraud  or malice).             On October 8,  2024, Plaintiffs filed a Memorandum of Costs.           On November 25,  2024, the Court filed its ruling denying Defendants’ motion for judgment  notwithstanding the verdict and conditionally granting the motion for new trial  on damages subject to a remittitur.            On December  11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their consent to the remittitur for an amended  judgment in the total amount of $9,000,000.[1] The  Court then denied the motion for new trial.    CONTENTIONS    Motion To Tax Costs            On October  23, 2024, Defendants filed the motion, seeking to tax costs of $15,777.09,  comprised of witness fees of $120.00, court reporter fees per statute in the sum  of $2,498.62, hotel and lodging in the sum of $6,582.13, subpoena fees of $4,003.28  and a trial database set up of $2,573.06. They argue that the memorandum of            On November  12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed Opposition to the motion, contending:   -           A verified memorandum of costs is sufficient  evidence without providing further evidence. They nonetheless provide reference  to the worksheets to the motion as well as exhibits to the accompanying  declaration of counsel.  -           Government Code sec. 68086(d) and Calif. Rules  of Court, Rule 2.956(c)(1) permit the prevailing party to recover court  reporter fees.  -           The lodging and trial database are not expressly  prohibited either and are for the Court’s discretion. Doe v. Los Angeles Co.  DCFS (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 675 permitted recovery of costs of  lodging for an out-of-town assistant during trial. The motion does not show either  the lodging or trial database costs were not reasonable under the  circumstances. Science Applications, et al. v. Sup. Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th  1095 – that Defendants rely on - is outdated and superseded by other  cases.               On November  18, 2024, Defendants filed a Reply in support of the motion. In summary: -           Filing the motion put the costs in issue,  requiring further production of evidence. (Ladas v. Calif. State Auto Ass’n  (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774)  -           They acknowledge permissibility of reporter fees  but for $23.62 that was unexplained.  -           Doe, supra, concerns costs for  depositions, not trial. -            The  subpoena fees were largely for document copying costs, not compelling the  attendance of witnesses. (Lowry v. Port San Luis Harbor Dist. (2020) 56  Cal.App.5th 211, 222)    Motion for Attorneys’ Fees            On November  22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the motion, seeking as statutory and contractual  fees, based upon a lodestar amount, of $2,377,156 and a multiplier of 1.75 for  total fees of $4,160,023. The motion was premised on CCP secs. 1032, 1033.5,  Santa Monica Municipal Code (“SMMC”) Ordinance sec. 56.040 (the “Tenant Harassment  Ordinance”) and sec. 4.36.090 (the “Relocation Ordinance”) and pursuant to the  lease agreements. Plaintiffs reference the contingent nature of the fee  agreement, the risk involved for counsel not recouping its costs or time spent,  curtailed ability to take on other work, the difficulty of the issues, the thirty-six  years of experience of counsel (including over forty jury trials), the result  obtained and the almost eight years it took (from filing of the complaint on  December 20, 2016) to recover a judgment.            This case  was on behalf of eight tenants of the property at issue, involved nine causes  of action against nine defendants and required a six-week jury trial. The  verdict was in favor of Plaintiffs on all claims and included punitive damages.  Counsel had to prepare for trial twice due to the re-assignment to a long-cause  courtroom. Counsel advanced over $140,000 in costs though a small firm. Plaintiffs  also recovered a settlement for one plaintiff pursuant to a 998 offer,  exclusive of fees.             Plaintiffs  seek recovery for their tort causes of action pursuant to the fee provisions  under the leases, consistent with Cruz v. Ayromloo (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th  1270, 1276-77 (in reliance on Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th  599, 608, permitting fee award to former tenants “in connection with” lease in  claims for forcible detainer, wrongful eviction and negligent infliction of  emotional distress against former landlord, including (as here) to some of  tenants without a lease agreement providing for fees where other tenants did  have such agreements as “incidental beneficiaries” and fees should not be  reduced as a result where same work was performed for all tenants who were in  substantially same situation regardless of whether there was agreement.)[2] (See  also Calvo Fisher v. Lujan (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 608,  621-626 (permitting fee awards as to tort claims where scope of agreement  permitted if success on noncontract claims contributes to success of contract  claims or claims are so intertwined so as to make it impracticable to separate  attorney time and apportionment is not possible))            Here,  Plaintiffs prevailed under their causes of action under the leases for violation  of the SMMC Relocation Ordinance, failure to provide habitable premises and for  intentional influence to vacate. Both the Relocation Ordinance and the Harassment  Ordinance have provisions for attorneys’ fees, “as may be determined by the  court.” (See Action Apt. Ass’n v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41  Cal.4th 1232, 1239 (concerning the Harassment Ordinance)             Plaintiffs  contend a reasonable hourly rate for their attorneys, Dennis Riley and Rena  Kreitenberg, would be $750 and for their associate, Mike Vo, $500, commensurate  with the reasonable hourly rate in the community for similar work. (PLCM  Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095) They cite various  cases where they have been awarded $500 - $650 per hour and in one case a  multiplier to make an effective rate of $750. In addition, they cite the DOJ  Laffey Matrix for 2020-2021 for attorneys with more than thirty-one  years-experience at $665 per hour.            Plaintiffs  seek a fee enhancement based on a 1.75 multiplier. (Ketchum v. Moses  (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1138) They reference published cases where  multipliers are awarded between 1.25 and 2.5, as well as where counsel for  Plaintiffs have received similar multipliers in other cases in the Los Angeles  Superior Court. They justify a multiplier here based on risk of loss to  counsel, skill of counsel, complexity of issues (including pertaining to the  applicability of a Santa Monica Rent Control Board decision), the length of  time this case was pending, and proportionality to results obtained. In addition,  the case was forcefully defended by numerous lawyers.            On January 6,  2025, Defendants filed Opposition to the motion. They make the following  principal points:            First, that  Defendants be permitted to conduct discovery concerning the fee requests and  redacted and incomplete billings.            Second,  there is no entitlement to fees under either the leases or by statute.            As concerns  a contractual basis for fees, they contend there is insufficient foundation for  any underlying agreements where they were not received into evidence at trial. Moreover,  as to the Trager lease, it concerns a different property. As to the Campbell  lease from 1987, it cannot be authenticated where Campbell has now passed away and  the lease was in any event not with Defendants but a prior owner. Similarly,  the Pillarella / Crosby lease from 2010 was not with Defendants but a prior  owner. Further, the agreement provides a $500 cap on fees. Likewise, the  Camacho lease was with an entity that is not a party to this case and is in  that part of the agreement concerning non-payment of rent and recovery of  possession – that are not at issue here. Finally, there are no lease agreements  (allowing fees) for the remaining plaintiffs, Lackey, Yin and Ramirez.            As concerns  a statutory basis, they contend that the Court found that recovery was not  proper under both statutes, which ruling Plaintiffs accepted by way of the  consent to remittitur, and therefore fees are not permitted pursuant to  statute.            Third, the  hourly rates are excessive. Defendants point to an alternative rate aggregator  as showing lower hourly rates for attorneys for civil litigation - $369 for  Riley, $344 for Kreitenberg and $350 for Vo – as contrasted to the requested  rates of $750 and $550. Defendants also contend that the hourly rates of  smaller law firms such as that of Plaintiffs’ counsel generally have lower  rates than those of larger firms which have greater overhead. Awarding high  rates would be an improper windfall to Plaintiffs’ counsel. Defendants argue  also that the case was not complex to justify a higher rate. The claims were  “straightforward.”            Fourth, a  positive multiplier is not warranted here. Defendants contend that the factors  Plaintiffs cite in support of a multiplier have already been factored into determination  of the hourly rate and therefore should not be factored in again. Further, they  contend that there was no uncertainty as to their recovery of fees if they  prevailed - given the leases and statutes - and hence contingent risk does not  justify a higher rate. In fact, a negative multiplier is justified given their  claim that the fees were excessive and comparing the amount of fees to the $9  million recovery.            Fifth, the  billing is excessive and should be reduced:  -           Billing for trial on three occasions for a total  of 760.2 hours (or 95 days.) This should be reduced by two thirds to 500 hours.    -           Billing 35.2 hours to draft the complaint.  Meetings and communications with clients amounting to 256 hours.  -           Block-billing, erroneous billing and redactions  making review impossible.  -           Kreitenberg billing some 600 hours is inconsistent  with her not participating for the most part at trial. -           Billing some 200 hours related to defendants as  to whom trial was severed and no judgment entered.   -           Billing 13.7 hours for the McGrowther plaintiffs  from whom Riley withdrew as counsel and against whom Defendants later obtained summary  judgment and dismissals.  -           Vo’s billing is vague and duplicative of Riley’s  work. His billing 465.4 hours should be reduced by half.  -           In total, Defendants seek a reduction of 1,638.7  hours.           In summary,  Defendants argue in the alternative either that no fees should be awarded or if  fees are awarded to those entitled to an award that the time be reduced by half  and that an hourly rate of $350 be applied.               On January  10, 2025, Plaintiffs filed their Reply in support of the motion, together with  declarations providing the foundation for the lease agreements in question. Plaintiffs  argue:           First, there  can be no question they are the prevailing parties, notwithstanding that the  Court has not yet entered the amended judgment pursuant to the agreed remittitur  – which is a formality at this point.              Second, under  Civil Code sec. 1717, Defendants cannot assert there is no contractual right to  fees where in their Answer to the complaint they themselves sought fees. (Santisas  v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 617) The accompanying declarations  supply the needed “authentication,” including providing the correct Trager  lease. Further, that certain Plaintffs did not have a written lease providing  for fees, and that one lease has a $500 cap, is immaterial where two of the  leases with predecessor landlords do have broad fee provisions.             The claims  of all seven plaintiffs here were essentially the same and cannot be  apportioned between them, entitling recovery of fees by all plaintiffs. (Reynolds  Metals v. Alperson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 124, 129-130), Calvo Fisher, supra, 234  Cal.App.4th at 625-626 and other cases cited regardless of whether certain  claims permitted fees and others did not) Hence, that there were severed  defendants and one plaintiff elected to change counsel and then did not prevail  does not take away from the work that was common to all plaintiffs and  defendants in one way or another.            In turn,  Defendants, as successors-in-interest to prior landlords, assume the benefits  as well as the obligations that come with those leases. (Kirk Corp. v. First  American Title Co. (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 785, 809, DLI Props. v. Hill  (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th Supp. 1, 8-9)           Third, Plaintiffs  are entitled to fees as prevailing parties pursuant to statute. Under the  judgment already entered, they prevailed under both the relocation and  harassment ordinances – each of which provides for fees. Where the Court denied  the JNOV and new trial motions, their having prevailed remains true. The Court  merely found, in conditionally granting a new trial as to damages, that recovery  under the relocation ordinance was “invalid.” However, the Court could not at  the same time grant JNOV as to this issue where the verdict did not make a  separate award for relocation damages, instead providing more generally for economic  and non-economic losses -that could have also comprised damages based on other  theories presented to the jury.            Fourth, Defendants’  contentions as to reasonable rates are unsupported where the databases they  reference were not attached nor shown to be ones a court could rely upon. Even  if they were considered, they do not differentiate between junior versus more  experienced lawyers like here, nor as between practice areas with more  complexity like here. By contrast, Plaintiffs cite to published decisions  applying the matrixes they use and argue that a determination of reasonable  rates can anyway be decided by the court itself based on its own knowledge and  experience in assessing counsel’s declarations. (Steiny & Co. v. Calif.  Electric Supply (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 285, 293) Further,  Defendants’ claims are belied by their not revealing what rates they were paid nor  what amount of time they spent on this case.             Fifth, Defendants’  claims that there was no contingency here as to Plaintiffs’ recovery of fees –  so as to preclude any multiplier - is incorrect in that there was no guarantee  they would prevail, let alone have to wait outcome of this case eight years  later – that it appears will also be the subject of appeal. Moreover, Defendants  cannot argue credibly that there was no risk that Plaintiffs would obtain their  fees if they prevailed but then also argue there is no statutory nor  contractual basis for fees. Similarly, Plaintiffs complain that Defendants may  not permissibly argue that the issues are complex when that helps them but then  argue now the case was simple where they perceive it helps them.             Sixth, the claims that the billing  was unsupported and or duplicative ring hollow: Defendants do not show how they  calculated 760 hours to prepare for trial or what that includes. That  block-billing was used on a few occasions does not mean the court could not  assess whether the time was reasonable – that is the issue, not block-billing  itself. In turn, that there were a few redactions does not preclude an award. (Rancho  Mirage Country Club HOA v. Hazelbaker (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 252,  263) That said, Plaintiffs acknowledge certain errors and agree to a reduction  in the lodestar amount of $23,625. That Kreitenberg did not appear at trial  does not mean she did not perform work away from trial and in fact thereby  shows what she did would not have duplicated what Riley and Vo did.     DISCUSSION            The Court  finds that Plaintiffs are “prevailing parties.” The only reason the amended  judgment in favor of Plaintiffs has not yet been entered is due to Defendants’  objections to its form – which issues will be decided concurrent with these  motions.[3]    Motion To Tax Costs            The parties  differ over who has the burden of proof where a party provides a verified  memorandum where the Opposition allegedly offers no rebuttal evidence. The  Court finds that the Opposition here shifted the burden to Plaintiffs such that  their verified Memorandum of Costs does not necessarily satisfy their burden.  However, as discussed below, the other evidence Plaintiffs presented in  opposition to the motion for the most part addresses the issues:            The  worksheets provide the necessary foundation for the total witness fees of $120  for five witnesses.            Defendants  acknowledge the court reporter fees except for $23.62 that was not explained. Ex.  1 to the declaration of counsel supports the amount requested. Further, the  above-referenced Gov’t Code sec. and Rule of Court permit Plaintiffs to recover  these.            The subpoena  fees were justified as far as both foundation and reasonableness, even if they  were for obtaining documents obtained pursuant to those subpoenas. (Naser v.  Lakeridge Athletic Club (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 571, 578) Lowry,  supra, does not hold otherwise.             The trial  database costs were “reasonably necessary” to the litigation and were reasonable  in amount. (Green v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th  1363, 1374, Bender v. County of Los Angeles (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th  968, 989-991) This trial involved considerable photo and video evidence requiring  the use of these programs to facilitate an efficient presentation.             Doe,  supra, permitted lodging costs for an out-of-town paralegal at trial under  CCP sec. 1033.5(c)(2) and citing to Chaaban v. Wet Seal (2012) 203  Cal.App.4th 49, 59 (permitting lodging costs for taking depositions under  CCP sec. 1033.5(a)(3)). CCP sec. 1033.5(b) does not list lodging costs at trial  as among the types of costs that are not permissible. The Court does not infer  that because the costs of taking depositions is permitted (including for  lodging) that the Legislature intended that the costs of attending trial was  necessarily precluded. Here, as in Doe, supra, the Court finds the costs  were reasonable in both amount and in terms of the need to avoid having to  otherwise go back and forth to Orange County, which would not have been tenable  given the conflicting obligations to prepare for the next day of trial.             Therefore,  the Court finds Plaintiffs met their burden, notwithstanding the motion.    Motion for Attorneys’ Fees            Initially,  the Court denies Defendants’ requests to continue this motion to allow them to  conduct discovery. As previously noted on the ex parte application, Defendants  do not show why they would be allowed to conduct discovery post-trial. Even if  legally permitted, they do not show good cause.            There are  several issues as to recovery of fees pursuant to the leases:            First, there  is no written lease for Lackey with a fee provision.            Second, the  written leases with Yin and Crosby and Pillarella were limited to $500. Hence,  even if Yin’s wife, Ramirez, is entitled to fees under the Yin lease (about  which there is a question when she did not reside with Yin when the lease was  executed), that would still be for solely $500.             Third, the  four plaintiffs who did have written leases with fee provisions (Pillarella,  Crosby, Camacho and Campbell) were leases with parties other than any of the  defendants.[4]  Though a purchaser of property ordinarily by operation of law takes over  existing leases (see DLI Properties and Kirk, supra),  here those leases had expired before the  building was purchased and Plaintiffs were presumably resident at the property thereafter  on a month-to-month basis when Defendants took the actions in question. There  was no evidence as to what leases were assumed and by whom when the building  was purchased. Further, neither of the cases Plaintiffs rely on concern  attorneys’ fees. Hence, even if Defendants were not able to charge rent more  than provided by the leases, or as permitted by law, it is not clear the terms  of the written leases were still in effect.[5]            Fourth,  neither Zohoury nor Rahimi were successor owners of the property that they  would be personally bound to the terms of these leases – even assuming still in  effect. SBZ was the owner of the property. Even if Zohoury and Rahimi may be  liable in tort or under the ordnances for the actions in question, they were  not parties or successor parties to these contracts.             For these  reasons, the Court denies fees based on the leases. Zohoury and Rahimi have no  responsibility at all. Liability of SBZ (and its general partner, SIDMA), if  any, would be based on the Campbell and Camacho leases, and for $500 (or  arguably $1,000 for the two plaintiffs) on the Crosby / Pillarella lease. Though  a court may award fees to co-plaintiffs without a contractual right to fees who  are in an identical position to those plaintiffs who have similar claims (as is  true here), and do have a right to fees, even where most of the plaintiffs had  a contractual right to fees (see Cruz, supra), there still remains  the lack of privity concern. That Defendants prayed for fees in their answer  does not change the foregoing.            On the other  hand, the foregoing becomes immaterial where in any event all plaintiffs have a  right to fees under the Santa Monica Harassment Ordinance as against all  defendants. Though the cause of action under this ordinance was just one of  many, the underlying facts that supported the verdict on this ordinance  permeated the entire case.  It would be  virtually impossible to determine apportionment of liability between the facts  underlying violation of this ordinance and the other facts with which they were  intertwined. (See Calvo, supra, and Hjelm, supra, 3  Cal.App.5thvat 1176-1178 (apportionment of fees not necessary where  contract and tort claims intertwined in constructive eviction and breach of  warranty of habitability claims)) Contrary to Defendants’ claim, though the  Court conditionally ordered a new trial for damages (based on this and other  causes of action), the Court did not find that there was no evidence to support  the jury’s verdict of liability based on this ordinance.             In deciding  that there is a statutory right to fees, the Court does so without relying on  the relocation ordinance (that provides for fees also) in view of the issues  the Court raised in its JNOV / new trial ruling concerning recovery under that  ordinance.            Turning to  the lodestar analysis, the Court finds first that the three hourly rates in  question are reasonable based on the experience of counsel, the quality of  advocacy and work product, the Court’s familiarity with rates locally through  sitting on the bench (including for smaller “boutique” firms), as well as based  on the type of case here and its complexities. These rates are consistent with  the matrices Plaintiffs reference. The Court is not familiar with the matrices  Defendants indicate. That insurance companies can secure discounted rates by  offering lawyers volume business – or factoring in what lower rates newer  lawyers might charge - does not apply to Plaintiffs’ counsel.            The Court  was also not persuaded by Defendants’ claim the number of hours was excessive.  Those examples Defendants suggested were not supported. While all parties may have  had to prepare for trial more than once due to the re-assignment of this case, that  was not the fault of Plaintiffs or their counsel. Further, the number of hours  Defendants suggested was incurred in trial preparation could not be assessed, nor  what else it might have likely included. Similarly, the Court could not assess  how Defendants concluded the number of hours spent on drafting the complaint. That  Kreitenberg did not participate in the trial itself does not mean she did not  do the work beforehand or while trial was ongoing. The latter point suggests  Defendants are simply finding any reason to seek a reduction, no matter its  validity, as with their unjustified claim there should be a negative  multiplier. That the Court did not proceed to trial as to parties who were not  part of the Rent Control Board decision does not mean that work involving those  parties was not necessary for determining the issues that did go to trial.  Defendants do not show how those fees would not have been justified given the  overlap. While the Court could not assess what precisely Vo’s role was – other  than handling the technology (which was very necessary), it is routine for  parties to have two lawyers attend trial so the case can be tried efficiently  (which it was here.) Defendants cannot complain about Plaintiffs having two  lawyers at trial when they did the same (and at times had three lawyers.)              All of that  said, the Court wishes to ensure that Defendants should not pay any more than is  required. Plaintiffs acknowledge some errors in the billing. Certain of  Defendants’ estimates of time spent appear to be high – even if trial was  continued. Where time keeping would not have to reflect a concern about client  payment, the time spent may not have been as precise or time-sensitive as it  would otherwise – that may also be hidden to a degree in block billing. In  turn, any duplication coming from having more than one lawyer involved should  be considered. The Court therefore exercises its discretion to impose a 10%  reduction in the total fees to address such concerns.  Base fees therefore would be $2,139,440.            Turning to a  multiplier, the Court rejects Defendants’ frivolous argument that Plaintiffs’  counsel did not take this case on contingency. A reasonable rate does not by  law factor in contingency – even if it factors in complexity. In addition, a reasonable  rate does not take account of the eight years this case has been pending to  determine whether Plaintiffs would prevail and there might be a recovery – an  exceptionally long time. The foregoing added significantly to the burden in  taking that risk. On the other hand, the Court has already in its base fee  provided for a not insignificant fee at reasonable but still high rates. Further,  at least for Vo’s work, these considerations are reduced. The Court wishes to  avoid any argument that a multiplier is already included within the rate - as  Defendants argue. For these reasons, a multiplier of 1.5 rather than 1.75 seems  more appropriate. Total fees awarded are therefore $3,209,160. This fee also  bears a reasonable relation to the recovery of $9 million, namely, just over  one-third.    CONCLUSION            For these  reasons, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to tax costs and grants  Plaintiffs’ motion for attorneys’ fees in the sum of $3,209,160.        