   [1] Concurrent with these motions, the Court will hold a  hearing on objections by Defendants to entry of that amended judgment.    [2] The Campbell lease provides in relevant part; “In any  legal action or proceeding be brought by either party to enforce any part of  this Agreement…” The Camacho and Trager leases provide a unilateral fee  provision for the landlord, and in the Camacho lease, including to “enforce any  provision of this lease, or to obtain damages…” – which would operate against Defendants  under Civil Code sec. 1717.      [3]      Moreover, as Plaintiffs note in  their Reply in support of the fee motion, the original judgment was in their  favor in a higher amount than the amended one will be and more significantly  for these purposes, the Court has now denied Defendants’ motion for new trial  that was based in part on the claim that the statutory relocation award was  invalid, which ordinance was one of the two statutory bases for fees. Hence,  though the Court ruled that recovery under that ordinance would have been a  basis for a new trial, ultimately the Court denied that motion. In any event, as  discussed below, even assuming recovery under the relocation ordinance was not  permissible here, Plaintiffs are still entitled to fees under the harassment  ordinance and under the leases.       [4] The supporting Camacho Decl. provided the lease for  this property and thereby cleared up the issue with the wrong lease submitted  before as to a different property. The Delp Declaration provides sufficient  foundation for admissibility of the Campbell lease where she is acting as his  executor and Defendants have offered no basis to suggest that lease is not  authentic. The Court will not presume that it is not authentic.    [5]  In making this  decision, the Court is not also finding that the subject matter of the case  would not be one that would fall under the broad terms of the fee provisions of  at least some of the leases if the leases were otherwise in play. See Hjelm  v. Prometheus Real Estate Group (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1155, 1169-1170  