 Case Number:  23STCV15978    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV15978




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY:


Claimant Peter Wada  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 10, 2023, Claimant Peter Wada (“Claimant”) filed a petition
against Liberty Mutual Auto and Home Services, LLC and Helmsman Insurance
Agency, LLC to bring an uninsured motorist arbitration matter within the
Court’s jurisdiction. 
 
On April 30, 2024, Claimant filed the instant motion against
Respondent James River Insurance Company pursuant to the California Personal
Auto Policy of Claimant’s Uber driver, Ahmad Taha Alshakarchi (“Alshakarchi”).
Claimant alleges he was injured as a passenger during an Uber drive by a
third-party underinsured driver. Claimant seeks to compel arbitration to
recover damages as a beneficiary of Alshakarchi’s underinsured motorist
coverage. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Insurance Code section 11580.2 requires insurers to
provide coverage for bodily injury or wrongful death caused by uninsured
motorists. Subdivision (f) of this statute provides that if the insurer and the
insured cannot agree whether the insured is legally entitled to recover damages
from an uninsured motorist and the amount of such damages, those issues shall
be determined by arbitration. (Ins. Code, § 11580.2, subd. (f).)” (Bouton v.
USAA Casualty Ins. Co. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 1190, 1193.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 permits a party to
file a petition to request that the Court order the parties to arbitrate a
controversy.¿ Under section 1281.2, a party is permitted to file a motion to
request an order directing the parties to arbitrate a controversy.¿ Section
1281.2 also states that the Court may grant the motion if the Court determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.¿ 
 
Under Insurance Code section 11580.2, subdivision (i)(2),
any arbitration instituted pursuant to an uninsured motorist policy shall be
concluded within five years from the institution of the arbitration proceeding.
(Ins. Code, § 11580.2 subd. (i)(2)(A).) Further, the provisions of Insurance
Code section 11580.2 are deemed to be a part of every uninsured motorist
policy. (See Quintano v. Mercury Casualty Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1049,
1053; Harford Fire Insurance Co. v. Macri (1992) 4 Cal.4th 318, 324; Travelers
Indemnity Co. v. Kowalski (1965) 233 Cal.App.2d 607, 609.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
According
to the Court’s docket, on November 8, 2023, Claimant filed an amendment to the
complaint substituting “Jame River Insurance Company” as Doe 1.[1] On
April 29, 2024, Claimant filed another amendment to the complaint, changing the
incorrect name of Doe 1 to “James River Insurance Company.” No proof of service
on James River Insurance Company (“Respondent”) has been filed and Respondent
has not appeared in this case. 
 
According
to the Declaration filed in support of this motion, Claimant learned that
Respondent was the proper insurer for arbitration in late October 2023. (Eaton
Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. I.) Until that point, Claimant had been corresponding with
counsel from Liberty Insurance Company and Helmsman Management Services LLC
(which were named in this action and subsequently dismissed). (See Eaton Decl.,
Exh. I.) 
 
The proof
of service for this motion shows it was served electronically on the same
counsel corresponding on behalf of Liberty Insurance Company and Helmsman
Management Services LLC. However, there is no indication that this same counsel
is representing James River Insurance Company. 
 
Therefore, the
proof of service on Respondent appears deficient. Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
requires “written notice” of a motion including the date, time and location of
the hearing on a motion. A moving party’s failure to serve the notice of motion
and moving papers on a non-moving party violates the basic principles of
procedural due process under the federal and state constitutions – notice and
an opportunity to be heard.¿ (Logan v. Zimmerman Brush Co. (1982) 455
U.S. 422, 428 [minimum due process requires notice and opportunity for hearing
appropriate to the nature of the case]; Horn v. County of Ventura (1979)
24 Cal.3d 605, 612 [due process principles require reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard].) 
 
Additionally, the
motion does not explain the Court’s ability to compel arbitration within the
context of this petition to open a Superior Court case to establish the Court’s
jurisdiction over an underinsured motorist arbitration matter. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Claimant Peter Wada’s motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.

 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a
proof of service of such. 
 


