 Case Number:  22STCV10266    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV10266




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Plaintiff’s Notice to Attend Trial




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Danilo Solis Trinidad and Lydia
  Flores Trinidad




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Ryan Pitcher 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants Danilo Solis Trinidad and Lydia Flores Trinidad move to
quash Plaintiff Ryan Pitcher’s Notice to Attend Trial directed to Defendant
Danilo Solis Trinidad (“Defendant”). Plaintiff’s counsel has filed a
declaration in opposition. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a) states:  
 
If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.  
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides
that “the court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable
attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith
or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of
the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).) 
 
“In the case of the production of a party to the record of any civil
action or proceeding or of a person for whose immediate benefit an action or
proceeding is prosecuted or defended or of anyone who is an officer, director,
or managing agent of any such party or person, the service of a subpoena upon
any such witness is not required if written notice requesting the witness to
attend before a court, or at a trial of an issue therein, with the time and
place thereof, is served upon the attorney of that party or person. The notice
shall be served at least 10 days before the time required for attendance unless
the court prescribes a shorter time.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987(b).) 
 
“A witness, including a witness specified in subdivision (b) of
Section 1987, is not obliged to attend as a witness before any court, judge,
justice or any other officer, unless the witness is a resident within the state
at the time of service.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1989.)
 
The geographical reach of a notice under section 1987(b) is explicitly
limited by section 1989. (See Amoco Chemical Co. v. Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd's of London (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 554, 559 [finding that a notice to
attend was void on its face, and no objection was required, where notice was
directed to out-of-state witness].) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff
served a Notice to Attend Trial on Defendant, through his attorney. Trial was
then-set for May 20, 2024. (Petrosyan Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. C.) Since then, trial has
been continued and is currently scheduled for July 15, 2024. There is no
evidence that Defendant has been served with a Notice to Attend the current
trial date. 
 
Defendant argues the Notice to
Attend Trial must be quashed because he has resided in the Philippines since
March 2023, is retired, and has no intention of returning to California.
(Trinidad Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, since Defendant does not reside in California,
the Court lacks authority to compel his attendance at trial through the Notice
to Attend under sections 1987(b) and 1989. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff’s
counsel declares he served a third Notice to Attend on Defendant for the
current trial date but does not include any exhibits in proof. (Bowman Decl. ¶
4.) Regardless, Plaintiff provides no evidence that Defendant was a resident of
California at the time counsel for Defendant was purportedly served. Rather,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s testimony is important for trial and there
are ways he could appear remotely. Plaintiff provides no authority for the
argument that the Court has the authority to compel Defendant to appear
remotely.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendants’ Motion to Quash Plaintiff’s Notice to Attend
Trial is GRANTED. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 