 Case Number:  23STCV02627    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV02627




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Ehud Levy, 1621 Westerly
  Terrace, LLC, and Alexander Henry Levin  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants Ehud Levy, 1621 Westerly
Terrace, LLC, and Alexander Henry Levin (“Defendants”) now move to compel
compliance with a deposition subpoena for medical records served on non-party
Kinetix Advanced PT. Defendants also seek sanctions. No opposition has been
filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so
specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session
if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A
deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt
without the necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the
witness.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance with a
deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the
deposition record, the date objections are served, or the date specified for
production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct.
(Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            The Declaration of Christopher Babadjanian, Defendants’ counsel, states the following: “On February 15,
2024, I sent a meet and confer letter to the COR for Kinetix Advanced PT
requesting compliance with the subpoena within 14 business days. I advised that
failure to comply with the subpoena by this deadline would force my office to
seek court intervention.” (Babadjanian Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. E.) “As of the date of
this declaration’s signing, I have not received a response to my February 15,
2024, meet and confer letter.” (Id. ¶ 11.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On September 29, 2023, Defendants personally
served a deposition subpoena on Kinetix Advances PT. (Babadjanian Decl. ¶ 8,
Exh. D.) The date of production was October 16, 2023. (Id.) Sixty days
after the date for production was December 15, 2023. 
 
“A nonparty must comply (or not)
with the subpoena on the date specified for production. If a party is not
satisfied with the nonparty's compliance, the party has 60 days in which to
meet and confer with the nonparty. These meet and confer efforts do not affect
the mandatory 60-day deadline. The meet and confer process is part of the
60-day period in which to file a motion; it does not extend it. If the party is
still unsatisfied with the nonparty's compliance with any portion of the
subpoena at the end of this period (because, for example, the nonparty still
has not produced the requested documents), the party may file a motion to
compel.” (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court
of Orange County (2021)
59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1034–35.) Therefore, the 60-day deadline started on March
1, 2022. (See id. at 1033 [“On [the date specified for production], the
subpoenaing party has all of the information it needs to meet and confer
regarding the nonparty's compliance and, if unsatisfied, prepare a motion to
compel.”.) 
 
 
Therefore, since Defendants filed
the instant motion on March 13, 2024, the motion is untimely. 
 
As a result, the motion to compel, and request for monetary
sanctions is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion to compel compliance with the
deposition subpoena.  
 
            Defendants shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.