 Case Number:  22STCV06348    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely (which is
highly encouraged).  Further, after the Court has posted/issued a tentative
ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the
subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


July 8, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV06348




MOTIONS


Motion for Order Setting Reasonable Expert Fee




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Albertsons Companies, Inc. and Lemmit Harbor




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed



 
MOTION
 
            Defendants Albertsons Companies,
Inc. and Lemmit Harbor (“Defendants”) move for an order setting a reasonable
rate for the expert witness fees of Plaintiffs Arutyun Karapetyan and Mary
Karapetyan’s (“Plaintiff”) retained orthopedic surgeon, Stepan Kasimian. No
opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2034.470, subdivision (a) provides that, “[i]f a party desiring to take the
deposition of an expert witness . . . deems that the hourly or daily fee of
that expert for providing deposition testimony is unreasonable, that party may
move for an order setting the compensation of that expert.  Notice of this motion shall also be given to
the expert.”  The motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (b).) 
 
“In addition to any other facts or
evidence, the expert or the party designating the expert shall provide, and the
court’s determination as to the reasonableness of the fee shall be based on,
proof of the ordinary and customary fee actually charged and received by that
expert for similar services provided outside the subject litigation.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.470, subd. (c).)  “[T]he expert or the party designating the
expert shall also provide, and the court’s determination as to the
reasonableness of the fee shall also be based on, both of the following:  [¶] 
(1) The total number of times the presently demanded fee has ever been
charged and received by that expert. 
[¶]  (2) The frequency and
regularity with which the presently demanded fee has been charged and received
by that expert within the two-year period preceding the hearing on the
motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470,
subd. (d).) 
 
“The court may also consider the
ordinary and customary fees charged by similar experts for similar services
within the relevant community and any other factors the court deems necessary
or appropriate to make its determination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (e).)
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Amy Lewis,
Defendants’ counsel, states that she emailed Plaintiff’s counsel about reducing
Dr. Kasimian’s hourly rate but was informed that Plaintiff’s counsel was in no
position to defend his rate. (Lewis Decl. ¶ 5–6, Exh. B, C.) It does not appear
that Defendants reached out to Dr. Kasimian regarding his hourly rate. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Here, Stepan
Kasimian,
M.D. is Plaintiffs’ retained expert and is charging Defendants the following
hourly rates to be deposed: $2,400 and $2,900 if videotaped, on weekdays; and
$2,900 and $3,400 if videotaped, on weekends. (Lewis Decl. ¶ 5.)   
 
As an initial matter, the amended
proof of service for this motion, filed on June 11, 2024, shows it was served
on Stepan Kasimian via mail. 
 
However, Defendants provide no
evidence in the form of a declaration showing that the expert fee is
unreasonable. Additionally, it does not appear that Defendants met and
conferred with Dr. Kasimian, even after being informed that Plaintiffs’ counsel
would not defend the matter. Therefore, it does not appear that Kasimian was
given the opportunity to provide Defendants with the information in section
2034.470(b)(1–3). 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for an order setting a
reasonable rate for expert fee.  
 
            Defendants shall provide notice of
the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 