 Case Number:  21STCV30906    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV30906




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Annette Dolores Kellam 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on February 6, 2024 by Petitioner Annette Dolores Kellam (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Joe Perry Kellam, age 16. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
This is a case that was originally filed by Plaintiff
Mitchell Kellam, an adult, for injuries related to a motor vehicle accident. After
Kellam passed away, his son, Claimant, was substituted into this case under
Code of Civil Procedure section 377.11. (Min. Order, 1/11/24.) Petitioner was
appointed guardian ad litem on May 6, 2024. 
 
Petitioner must complete items 7 and 8 in the petition. 
 
Petitioner must complete item 10c describing the terms of
the settlement. 
 
Petitioner must complete item 11.
 
Since it appears there are liens from medical providers,
Petitioner must check 12b(5)(a)(ii), instead and complete the values requested
therein. 
 
Petitioner must change the response in items 12a(2) and
12a(5) since it appears there are outstanding liens that were not paid. 
 
Petitioner requests $10,000 in attorney fees which represents
25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this to be reasonable. 
 
Petitioner must complete item 17a, 17b, and 17c. 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), Petitioner should mark 1b
in the future since this is not an expedited petition. Petitioner’s name must
be in item 2. Item 6 must contain the gross settlement amount. Item 8a(2) must
contain the $2,743.64 in non-medical expenses. Item 8a(3) (and the attachment)
must contain all information for the medical service providers that have liens
and will be reimbursed. This should match the information in item 12b5 in the
petition. 
Petitioner must complete item 9a. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 