 Case Number:  23STCV01213    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV01213




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Order Establishing Admissions




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Pink Sparrow Scenic Ltd.   




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Pink Sparrow Scenic
Ltd. (“Defendant”) moves to establish the truth of the admissions in Request
for Admissions, Set One, served on Plaintiff Amanda Pham (“Plaintiff”). Defendant
seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant served Request for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff’s
prior counsel on April 8, 2024. (Sicari Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) The responses were
due May 10, 2024. 
 
On May 8, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved,
effective upon filing proof of service of the order on Plaintiff. The proof of
service was filed on May 9, 2024. Plaintiff is currently self-represented. 
 
Here,
notice of the instant motion was served on Plaintiff via overnight delivery and
electronically, to the address indicated on the order to relieve counsel. Defendant
sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff on May 15, 2024, but there was no
response. (Sicari Decl. ¶ 7.) No opposition has been filed for this motion.
Therefore, since there was no response, the motion to deem admitted is granted.

 
Defendant also
requests $1,915 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff representing an hourly
rate of $265 and the $60 filing fee. (Sicari Decl. ¶ 14.) The Court finds sanctions
are warranted because Plaintiff has failed to respond. However, the amount
requested is excessive given the type of motion, lack of opposition, and the
fact counsel can appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the
Court awards sanctions in the total amount of $457.50 (1.5 hour of attorney
time and the filing fee). 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant Pink Sparrow Scenic Ltd.’s motion to establish
the truth of the admissions in Request for Admissions, Set One served on Plaintiff
Amanda Pham, is GRANTED. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $457.50. Said monetary
sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of
this order.
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 