 Case Number:  22STCV00474    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 11, 2023                                         TRIAL DATE:  December
12, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Windy Bailey v. All Locked Up Self Storage, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV00474
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES 
 
MOTION
TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Castaic All Locked Up
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On August 28, 2023, Defendant, Castaic All Locked Up, filed
these motions to compel Plaintiff, Windy Bailey, to
provide responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and to deem the Request for
Admissions, Set Two, admitted against Plaintiff.  Defendant seeks sanctions against Plaintiff.   Plaintiff is self-represented. 
 
The motions are unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
DISCOVERY
 
If a party to
whom interrogatories were directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order to compel responses without
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  If a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order that the truth of the matters specified
in the requests be deemed admitted.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ Failure to timely serve responses waives
objections to the requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd. (a).)   
 
Monetary Sanctions 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose
discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes
(without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification
making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.)  
 
If sanctions are
sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice
specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the
type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and
authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount
of any monetary sanction. 
 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made
or opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories, the court “shall
impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)  In the context
of a motion to deem requests for admission admitted, it is mandatory that the
court impose monetary sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose
failure to serve a timely response to the request necessitated the
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Defendant served
Plaintiff with the at-issue discovery requests on June 14, 2023. To date, Plaintiff
has not provided responses.  (See Walter Decls.) 
Therefore, all objections to the interrogatories and requests for admission are
waived.  
 
As Defendant
properly served the discovery requests and Plaintiff failed to serve responses,
the Court finds Defendant is entitled to an order directing Plaintiff to
provide responses to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories, Set Two.¿ In addition, Defendant is entitled to an order
deeming admitted Request for Admissions, Set Two, against Plaintiff.  Accordingly, the motions are
GRANTED.
 
Monetary
Sanctions
            Defendant requests sanctions against Plaintiff.  Given that the Court has granted these
motions, sanctions are warranted.  Indeed, in the context of requests for
admission, sanctions are mandatory.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  The Court notes the
brevity of Defendant’s motions. Accordingly, sanctions are
imposed against Plaintiff in the amount of $303.30 representing 1 hour at defense
counsel’s hourly rate and $123.30 in filing fees.
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motions are granted.  
 
Plaintiff Windy Bailey is ordered to provide verified, objection-free
responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set Two.  Defendant’s Requests for Admission, Set Two, are
deemed admitted against Plaintiff.
            
The request for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay, jointly and severally,
sanctions in the amount of $303.30, to be paid to Defendant, by and through its
counsel.
 
Discovery responses are to be provided and sanctions are to
be paid within 30 days of this order.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   October 11,
2023                                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 