 Case Number:  21STCV21970    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
11, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  February 5, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Zachary Birns v. Arakelian
Enterprises, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV21970
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED (PMQ) AND DOCUMENTS RELATED
TO THE PMQ CATEGORIES



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Zachary Birns
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Arakelian
Enterprises Inc. dba Athens Services
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On June 10, 2021, Plaintiff, Zachary Birns, initiated this action
against Defendant, Arakelian Enterprises Inc. dba Athens Services, for injuries
arising from a bicyclist versus motor vehicle accident.  Plaintiff alleges Jorge Martin Hernandez
(“Hernandez”) was driving a vehicle when he attempted a U-turn just as
Plaintiff passed on his bicycle. 
Hernandez was driving in the course and scope of his employment with
Defendant.
 
            On March 6,
2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with a deposition notice and request for
production of documents for Defendant’s person most qualified (PMQ).  The Notice sets forth eight (8) deposition
categories and eight (8) corresponding documents requests.  
 
            Defendants agreed
to produce a deponent for two deposition categories and interposed objections
for the remaining.  The parties
participated in an Informal Discovery Conference on July 17, 2023.  Plaintiff agreed to withdraw category no. 3 and
request no. 3.  However, the parties did
not resolve the renaming disputes.
 
            On August 22,
2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s
person most qualified for category nos. 1, 4, 6-8, and to produce at deposition
documents responsive to requests nos. 1, 2, 4-8.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant.  
 
            Defendant
opposes and Plaintiff replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Any party may obtain discovery by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.)  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action…without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)   
 
            Monetary
Sanctions¿ 
¿ 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court
to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
 
            “If
a motion under [Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450] subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            PMQ
Categories and Requests
 
            The deposition notice sets forth 8 PMQ categories and 8
mirroring production requests.  Defendant
objects to category nos. 1, 4, 6, 7, and 8, and request nos. 1, 2, and 4-8.  Category Nos. 2 and 5 are not at issue.  Category/Request Nos. 1, 2, and 4-8 seek the
following:
 
            No. 1: Personnel
file of Jorge Martin Hernandez
            No. 2:
Training documents related to Jorge Martin Hernandez
            No. 4:
Discipline documents related to Jorge Martin Hernandez 
            No. 5:
Written policies for safe operation of vehicles by Defendant Athens
            No. 6:
Accident history for Jorge Martin Hernandez
            No. 7:
Incident history for Jorge Martin Hernandez
            No. 8: Drug
and Alcohol screens for Jorge Martin Hernandez
 
            Defendant’s
Objections           
 
            Defendant interposes
five principal objections to the PMQ categories and requests.  The Court addresses each in turn. 
            
            Objection
no. 1: Not reasonably calculated to discovery of admissible evidence.
 
            Defendant argues the PMQ categories seek discovery to
bolster Plaintiff’s negligent entrustment claims. Further, because Defendant has
already admitted vicarious liability, pursuant to Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853 and Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51
Cal.4th 1148, the PMQ categories seek inadmissible evidence.  For this reason, Defendant argues the motion
should be denied.  
 
            This
objection lacks merit.  The PMQ
categories are relevant to Mr. Hernandez’s alleged negligent driving.  Simply because the discovery requests bear
upon claims that are no longer at issue (i.e., Defendant’s vicarious
liability), that does not preclude discovery of information bearing on Mr.
Hernandez’ negligence. 
 
            Objection
no. 2: Invasion of privacy.
 
            Defendant argues the discovery requests invade Mr.
Hernandez’s discovery.  This objection
also lacks merit.  Given Mr. Hernandez’s
fitness to drive to a motor vehicle is in controversy, the PMQ categories are
directly relevant to that issue.  Defendant
fails to carry its initial burden to show the seriousness of the prospective
invasion overcomes Plaintiff’s need for the discovery. 
                        
            Objection
no. 3: Character evidence.
            
            Defendant
argues the PMQ categories are objectionable based on character evidence.  Evidence of a person’s character or a trait of
his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation,
or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when
offered to prove his or her conduct on a specified occasion.  (Evid. Code, § 1101.)  However, “admissibility
is not a prerequisite to discovery.”  (Volkswagen of Am., Inc. v.
Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1491.)  As Plaintiff points out, the standard at the
discovery stage is whether the information sought is reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
The Court finds the PMQ categories and documents request are calculated
to that end.  Defendant can raise these
objections at trial.  
 
            Objection
No. 4: Work Product Doctrine and Attorney-Client Privilege. 
 
            Defendant
objected to the requests based on privilege. 
However, Defendant did not provide a privilege log.  Absent a privilege log, the Court cannot
assess the merits of Defendant’s assertion of privilege.  
 
            Objection
No. 5: Lack of particularity/Vague/Overbroad in time and scope.
 
            These objections are interrelated.  Defendant argues the PMQ categories and requests
lack reasonable particularity.  As to
particularity, the Court finds the PMQ categories and requests are sufficiently
clear.  The categories are not vague.  However, the Court agrees the categories and
requests are overbroad in time.  Indeed,
there are no limitations on the timeframe. 
As such, the Court modifies the deposition notice and limits the
timeframe of the categories and requests to the five years preceding the incident.

 
            Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
seeks sanctions against Defendant.  As Defendant
interposed meritorious and unmeritorious objections to Plaintiff’s deposition
notice, the Court finds reduced sanctions are warranted.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  Accordingly,
sanctions are imposed against Defendant in the total sum of $861.65.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion to compel is granted in part.  Defendant Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. dba
Athens Services is ordered to provide a person most qualified for the
categories and documents responsive to the production requests within 30 days
of this order.  
 
The categories and requests are limited to five years
preceding the incident.
 
The request for sanctions is granted.  Defendant is ordered to pay $861.65 in
sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through his counsel, within 30 days of this
order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 11,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 