 Case Number:  BC692559    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
11, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  Disposed
                                                           
CASE:                         Jaleel Melendez v. Pinetree Terrace Apartments, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC692559
 





















 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED OF DEEMED ADMISSIONS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Jaleel Melendez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On February 1, 2018, Plaintiff, Jaleel Melendez[1],
initiated this action against Defendants, Pinetree Terrace Apartments and Mabry
Management Co., Inc., for injuries arising from a slip and fall on the common
area staircase of Defendants’ premises.  Plaintiff
filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on April 17, 2018.  The FAC asserted causes of action for (1) General
Negligence and (2) Premises Liability.  
 
            Deemed
Admissions
 
            On August 24, 2022, Defendants filed a Motion to Have Requests
for Admissions Deemed Admitted against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff failed to file an opposition.  The Court granted the motion on December 20,
2022. 
 
            On March 7,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion to be Relieved from Deemed Admission.  The motion was heard on May 4, 2023.  At the hearing, Plaintiff represented he was
involved in an unrelated accident which resulted in temporary disability and
prevented him from responding to the Requests for Admissions.  However, for a variety of reasons, including Plaintiff’s
failure to provide any medical records or information that informed the
analysis regarding his injury, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion.
 
            Motion
for Summary Judgment
 
            On January
12, 2023, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition.  The motion was heard on May 5, 2023.  Plaintiff appeared at the hearing and
proceeded to recite portions of deposition testimony in an effort to raise triable
issues of material fact.  The Court
continued the hearing to consider the narrow question whether the oral presentation
of discovery excerpts recited at the hearing may be considered and defeat a
summary judgment motion when such information was not presented in any
opposition or separate statement of disputed facts.  Indeed, neither a separate statement nor an
opposition had been filed. The Court directed the parties to submit further
briefing.  The parties submitted
additional briefing.  On May 17, 2023,
after consideration of the briefing, the Court granted Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment.
 
            On August
7, 2023, judgment was entered in favor of Defendants.
 
            Motion
for a New Trial
 
            On July 27,
2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for a new trial. 
The Court denied the Motion on October 5, 2023.
 
            Plaintiff
now seeks once more to be relieved from the deemed admissions.[2]
 Plaintiff’s motion is a procedural
anomaly.  The Court previously heard and denied Plaintiff’s Motion to be
Relieved from Deemed Admissions on May 4, 2023.  If Plaintiff seeks an
order for reconsideration of the May 4, 2023 ruling, that time has
passed.  A motion for reconsideration must be brought within 10 days after
service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)  Here, Defendants served Plaintiff with
notice of the May 4, 2023 ruling on May 8, 2023.  The motion is untimely.
 
            Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED. 
 
            The Court
also notes Plaintiff has reserved a hearing date for a Motion to Set
Aside/Vacate Judgment (CCP 473) on October 18, 2023.  Plaintiff has yet to file any motion in
connection with this hearing.  Given the
Court’s previous rulings regarding relief from the deemed admissions,
Defendants’ summary judgment motion, and Plaintiff’s motion for a new trial, and
the absence of any filings, the hearing for the Motion to Set Aside/Vacate
Judgment (CCP 473) is taken off calendar. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 11,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


