 Case Number:  21STCV15414    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely (which is
highly encouraged).  Further, after the Court has posted/issued a tentative
ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the
subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  

 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September 26, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV15414




MOTION


Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Attorney Gary
  Dordick




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
            Attorneys Gary Dordick and Nicholas
Myers (Counsel) move to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Armando Granadero (Plaintiff).

 
ANALYSIS
 
            Counsel has
filed forms MC-051 and MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the
proposed order on form MC-053 as required. 
(Cal Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
Counsel states the instant motion is filed because there has been a
substantial and irreconcilable breakdown in communication, rendering it
unreasonably difficult for counsel to carry out the representation effectively.
(MC-052.)  The Court finds that this is a
valid reason for the withdrawal.  (See
Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16.)  
 
            The Court
GRANTS the motion to be relieved. Counsel must serve the signed order within 10
days of the date of the order and file a proof of service of such. Counsel will
remain the attorney of record for Plaintiff until Counsel serves the order and
files a proof of service.
 
            Counsel
shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 