 Case Number:  21STCV19810    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV19810




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Motion to Compel Responses to Special
  Interrogatories, Set Two[1]
(2)  
  Motion to Compel Responses to Special
  Interrogatories, Set Two[2]




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Karapet Talasyan




OPPOSING PARTY:


(1)  
  Defendant Wadie Simaan
(2)  
  Defendant Jouhaina Simaan



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
states that on May 31, 2023, Plaintiff served Special Interrogatories, Set Two
on Defendant Wadie Simaan, and on May 25, 2023, served Special Interrogatories,
Set Two on Defendant Jouhaina Simaan. On July 5, 2023, counsel for both
defendants served unverified responses consisting solely of objections. (Ter-ogaensyan
Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4.) Defendants oppose the motions to compel, arguing that
Defendants did respond to the discovery request by serving objections, and that
Plaintiffs’ motions therefore must be construed as motions to compel further responses.
Defendants further argue that as such, Plaintiffs’ motions are procedurally
improper because Plaintiff has not engaged in an informal discovery conference
and has not provided a separate statement. (Stein Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.220 requires that each answer to an
interrogatory must be as “complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220.)  Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.300(a) permits
a propounding party to move for an order compelling a further response to an
interrogatory if the propounding party deems that an answer is “evasive or
incomplete” or that an objection is “without merit or too general.”
 
Here, Defendants served objections without responses to Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set Two. Although Plaintiff argues that “unverified
responses are tantamount to no responses at all,” here there are no responses
to verify. (Compare Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d
632, 634 (party provided a single purported answer to the requests, which was
not verified).) While these objections lack a verification statement, Code of
Civil Procedure § 2030.250 states that “[t]he party to whom the interrogatories
are directed shall sign the response under oath unless the response contains
only objections” and “[t]he attorney for the responding party shall sign any
responses that contain an objection.” Accordingly, the documents that consist
solely of objections are “responses,” and Plaintiffs’ motions are not motions
to compel initial responses, but are motions to compel further responses.
 
The Court agrees with Defendants that the instant motions are
procedurally defective because Plaintiff failed to meet and confer and to participate
in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) as required by the Eighth Amended
Standing Order Re Procedures for the Personal Injury Hub. 
 
            Accordingly, the Court denies the
motions without prejudice. As such, the Court also denies the requests for
sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set One as to both defendants.
 
The hearing set for September 27, 2023 on the motion as to Defendant Jouhaina
Simaan is advanced to today’s date and vacated.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 


