 Case Number:  21STCV22840    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV22840




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Samuel Youngs Edgerton III




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Andrew Rosen and Julie Rosen 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion of Defendant
Samuel Youngs Edgerton III for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and
Authorities; 
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts
3.      Request for Judicial Notice;
4.      Evidence in Support including Lodged Video
Exhibits.
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment
2.      Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice
3.      Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed
Material Facts and Additional Undisputed Material Facts in Opposition
4.      Evidence in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
1.      Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Reply
to Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.      Response to Plaintiff’s Statement of
Additional Facts
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 20, 2021, Plaintiffs
Andrew Rosen and Julie Rosen (Plaintiffs) filed a first amended complaint
(FAC) against Defendants Sam Youngs Edgerton III, Stacey Carter, and Does 1 to
100 alleging three causes of action. Plaintiff Andrew Rosen asserted causes of
action against all defendants for general negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff
Julie Rosen asserted a cause of action against defendants for loss of
consortium. Plaintiffs lived on the second story unit of a duplex located at
509 N. Helberta Avenue, Redondo Beach, CA 90277. At the time of the incident,
Defendant Stacey Carter occupied the first story unit. On June 12, 2020,
Plaintiff Andrew Rosen slipped and fell down the steps leading from his
second-story residence, on property that was owned by Defendant Sam Youngs
Edgerton III (Edgerton). Plaintiff Andrew Rosen alleges that Edgerton breached
his duty of care in failing to keep the staircase in a safe condition. (FAC ¶
14, 15.) Andrew Rosen also alleges that Edgerton was negligent in failing to
take action against the alleged danger that Stacey Carter posed to Plaintiffs. 
 
Edgerton now moves for summary
judgment arguing that no triable issue of material fact exists, and that he did
not breach a duty of care to Andrew Rosen, and that as a result, Julie Rosen’s
loss of consortium cause of action, fails. Plaintiffs oppose. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            
Edgerton
requests the Court to take judicial notice of the following exhibits. The Court
rules as follows:
 
1.      Exhibit
1 – Plaintiffs First Amended Complaint filed on August 20, 2021 – GRANTED
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d). 
2.      Exhibit
2 – Defendant Edgerton’s Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint filed November 12,
2021 – GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d). 
 
Plaintiffs request the Court to take judicial notice of its exhibits numbered 1 through 9
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) and 452(h). The Court takes judicial
notice of Exhibit 8, Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. (Evid. Code §
452(d)). The remainder, consisting of a lease agreement, discovery responses, deposition
transcripts, a police report, and emails, are not matters of which the Court
may take judicial notice and therefore the requests are DENIED. (See,
e.g., Sosinky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565-1569 (a court cannot
take judicial notice of hearsay allegations just because they are part of a
court record or file, except under certain circumstances where there is no
genuine dispute).)
 
PROCEDURAL
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiffs first argue that Defendant’s motion is procedurally
defective because it fails to follow California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b).
Because the Court is granting summary judgment, as discussed below, the Court
excuses Defendant’s failure to separately set forth any grounds for summary
adjudication. As to Plaintiffs’ other objections, the Court finds Plaintiffs
had sufficient notice and excuses the procedural defects.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence­–Premises
Liability
 
A.     Duty
of Care
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) 
 
            “The owner
of premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such
premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619;
see Civil Code § 1714.) Stated differently, because a property owner is not the
insurer of the safety of its guests, the owner’s actual or constructive
knowledge of the dangerous condition is key to establishing liability. (Hall
v. Aurora Loan Servs., LLC (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1134, 1139-1140; Ortega
v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206 [“to impose liability for
injuries suffered by an invitee due to a defective condition of the premises,
the owner or occupier must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to
discover the condition, which if known to him, he should realize as involving
an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises”] [cleaned up].)
 
Landlords
owe a duty in common areas to “exercise due care for the residents’ safety in
those areas under their control.” (Ritter & Ritter, Inc. Pension &
Profit Plan v. The Churchill Condominium Assn. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
103, 119.) The duty to maintain common areas does not require that they be
maintained in an “absolutely perfect condition.” (Kasparian v. AvalonBay
Communities, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 11, 26.) A landowner “has an affirmative
duty to exercise ordinary care to keep the premises in a reasonably safe
condition, and therefore must inspect them or take other proper means
to ascertain their condition. And if, by the exercise of reasonable care, he
would have discovered the dangerous condition, he is liable.” (Swanberg v. O'Mectin (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 325, 330 (emphasis added).) “One who leases a part of the premises, retaining control
of other portions such as common walks or passages which the tenant is entitled
to use, is subject to liability to persons lawfully on the land with the consent
of the tenant for damages caused by a dangerous condition existing on the part
under the owner's control, if by reasonable care he could have discovered
the condition and made it safe.” (Johnston v. De La Guerra Properties
(1946) 28 Cal. 2d 394, 399 (emphasis added).) 
 
Whether an inspection is reasonable is based on the burden of
avoiding the risk and the likelihood of injury. “The landlord's obligation is
only to do what is reasonable under the circumstances. The landlord need not
take extraordinary measures or make unreasonable expenditures of time and
money in trying to discover hazards unless the circumstances so warrant. When
there is a potential serious danger, which is foreseeable, a landlord should
anticipate the danger and conduct a reasonable inspection before passing
possession to the tenant. However, if no such inspection is warranted, the
landlord has no such obligation.” (Mora
v. Baker Commodities, Inc. (1989)
210 Cal.App.3d 771, 782.) 
 
B.     Criminal Acts by Third Persons
 
            The key
issue when deciding a landlord’s liability for criminal acts by third persons
is the foreseeability of the harm.  “In
the case of a landlord, this general duty of maintenance, which is owed to
tenants and patrons, has been held to include the duty to take reasonable steps
to secure common areas against foreseeable criminal acts of third parties that
are likely to occur in the absence of such precautionary measures.” (Ann M.
v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674; Madhani v. Cooper (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 412, 415; Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 595.) Madhani
involved a physical battery between two tenants. There, the plaintiff had reported
to the building managers repeated acts of assault, battery, and threats,
including at least six reports of violent and threatening behavior. (Id.
at 416–17.) The court held there was a triable issue of material fact regarding
whether the landlord breached their duty. (Id.) (“[w]e do not believe a
reasonably thoughtful landlord would accept as commonplace the repeated verbal
and physical abuse of one tenant by another, but would act to put an end to
such occurrences.”)  
 
In contrast, Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578 involved a battery action against
two neighbors in a mobile home park. The neighbors had a history of animosity;
between February 2000 and August 2002, approximately fifty calls were made to
the police by either neighbor. (Id. at 584.) The park manager had
received several “resident objection forms” from the plaintiffs alleging that the
abusive neighbor had splashed mud on their cars and directed racial epithets
towards them. However, there, the court upheld summary judgment for the
defendant landlord because none of the incident reports involved an assault or
battery. Therefore, there was not enough evidence to put defendants on notice
of the perpetrator’s “propensity for violence.” (Id. at 596.) 
 
C.    
Analysis
 
            Edgerton argues that (1) he did not
owe a duty to protect Plaintiff from the unforeseeable intentional conduct of
Carter (which Edgerton separately argues there is no evidence regarding who
placed the slippery substance on the stairs), and (2) Defendant did not have
notice of any slippery substance on the staircase.
 
            Defendant sets forth the following
facts: 
 
-         
At the time of the subject incident, plaintiffs
Andrew Rosen and plaintiff JULIE ROSEN (Ms. Rosen) (collectively,
“plaintiffs”), a husband and wife, were tenants living in Unit A, the upstairs
unit at the subject property. (UMF 3.)
-         
Ms. Carter moved into Unit B, the downstairs
unit at the subject property, in or around May 2020. (UMF 15.)
-         
Prior to leasing the subject property to Ms.
Carter, defendant conducted a background check on Ms. Carter which returned a
clear result. (UMF 17.) 
-         
Prior to the subject incident, Ms. Carter
engaged in verbal confrontations with plaintiffs and their children, Sarah
Rosen and Joshua Rosen. (UMF 18.) 
-         
Ms. Carter did not make any physical threats
toward plaintiff. (UMF 19.) 
-         
Prior to the subject incident, Ms. Carter and
plaintiff never engaged in any type of physical altercation. (UMF 20.) 
-         
Prior to the subject incident, Ms. Carter never
physically harmed plaintiffs or their children, Sarah Rosen and Joshua Rosen.
(UMF 21.) 
-         
Prior to the subject incident, plaintiffs never
contacted the police to complain about Ms. Carter or out of fear for their own
safety regarding the conduct of Ms. Carter. (UMF 22.) 
-         
Prior to the subject incident, no one had fallen
on the staircase leading to Unit A at the subject property. (UMF 23.) 
-         
Prior to the subject incident, plaintiffs had
never complained to defendant about any condition on the staircase leading to
Unit A at the subject property. (UMF 24.) 
-         
Plaintiffs allege Ms. Carter poured a “slippery
substance” on the staircase leading to Unit A at the subject property which
caused plaintiff to fall. (UMF 25.)
-         
When Sarah Rosen took her dog out to use the
restroom at approximately 7:00 p.m. on the evening of the subject incident,
there was no substance on the staircase. (UMF 26.) 
-         
At the time of the subject incident at
approximately 10:00 p.m., plaintiffs contend a “slippery substance” had been
placed or applied on the subject staircase. (UMF 27.) 
-         
Prior to the subject incident, defendant had no
knowledge of a “slippery substance” on the staircase leading to Unit A at the
subject property. (UMF 31.) 
 
Defendant has established that there are no triable issues of
fact that he owed a duty to protect Plaintiff from the unforeseeable
intentional conduct of Carter and that he did not have actual or constructive
knowledge of the slippery substance.
 
As a preliminary matter, the parties dispute whether there is
sufficient evidence that Ms. Carter placed the slippery substance on the
stairs. There is no dispute that Defendant Edgerton did not put the substance
on the stairs. Whether Ms. Carter placed it is not dispositive, because even if
she placed the substance on the stairs, this does not automatically give rise
to a duty of care by Defendant. Rather, as discussed above, Edgerton’s
liability for Carter’s acts depends on the foreseeability of harm. The lack of
any physical threats, altercations, or harm to Plaintiff by Carter – as
reported to Defendant – gave insufficient notice to Defendant to give rise to a
duty with regard to the slippery substance. 
 
Although the arguments regarding Ms. Carter are the majority
of Defendant’s motion, Defendant also argues and presents evidence that he had
no actual or constructive notice of the slippery substance. The parties do not
appear to dispute that Defendant had no actual knowledge of the slippery
substance. (UMF 31.) With regard to constructive notice, Defendant argues that
he “did not have notice of a ‘slippery substance’ on the staircase in the
three-hour window of time it was purportedly placed there prior to the subject
incident.” (Motion at pg. 12; UMF 26-27.) Defendant further sets forth evidence
that Plaintiffs had never previously complained about any condition on the
staircase, and that no one had previously fallen on the staircase. (UMF 23-24.)
These facts are not disputed by Plaintiff. Defendant’s undisputed facts demonstrate
that he could not have discovered the slippery substance in the particular
window of time, even if he had exercised reasonable care. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has a
responsibility to maintain the staircase and failed to maintain it; in essence,
Plaintiff appears to argue that Defendant has an absolute duty and
responsibility over anything on the staircase, even if it involves a temporary
condition. This is not correct. The Court notes that many of Plaintiff’s
argument appear to sound in contract, however, no contract claims have been
pled. With regard to the negligence and premises liability claims that were
actually pled, Defendant is not the absolute insurer of each tenant’s safety,
as discussed above. Rather, a duty arises from actual or constructive knowledge
of the defective condition, or, more generally, from the foreseeability of
harm. 
 
Plaintiff devotes a great deal of attention to whether the
staircase is a common area. The Court assumes that there is sufficient evidence
that the staircase is a common area, but again, this is not dispositive. The
issue is Defendant’s actual or constructive knowledge of the slippery substance
on the stairs. As noted above, Plaintiff does not dispute that Defendant had no
actual knowledge. With regard to constructive knowledge, Plaintiff sets forth
the following facts:
 
-         
There are no maintenance protocols as regards
the stairs leading to Unit A. (PUMF 39.) 
-         
There are no operations manual regarding the
maintenance of the property. (PUMF 40.) 
-         
Defendant Edgerton III acknowledges that the
staircase has is supposed to be kept clean and mopped as necessary. (PUMF 42.) 
-         
The police report on Plaintiff Andrew Rosen’s
fall from the stairs confirmed that there was an unknown liquid substance all
over the staircase in that when the police officer placed his boot on the
staircase, it made the stairs extremely slippery. (PUMF 43.)
-         
The subject staircase does not have slip strips.
(PUMF 44.) 
-         
Defendant Edgerton’s designated Property
Manager, Paul Backes, inspected the stairs only once within a month prior to
the incident. (PUMF 45.) 
 
However, Plaintiff has set forth no evidence that Defendant
could have discovered the condition in the three-hour window of time if he had
taken some other measure, including any maintenance protocol or creating any
operations manual regarding maintenance, or that the circumstances warranted
any other expenditure or time or money. This is especially so given the
undisputed evidence that no one had previously complained about any condition
on the staircase and no one had previously fallen.
 
Regarding the foreseeability of harm caused by Ms. Carter,[1]
Plaintiff sets forth the following facts:
 
-         
Plaintiff
disputes Defendant’s facts regarding prior notice by arguing “[t]he term
‘verbal confrontation’ makes plaintiffs and their children active initiators of
the verbal confrontations with Defendant Carter when in truth and in fact,
Defendant Carter has been reported by Plaintiffs to Defendant Edgerton as
having hurled profanities toward them without provocation.” (See, e.g., PUMF
18.)
-         
Plaintiffs have separately reported Carter’s
disruptive behavior to Defendant Edgerton and Paul Backes. (PUMF 51.) 
-         
Defendant Edgerton III’s suggestion to
Plaintiffs on receipt of all the reports regarding Carter’s disruptive behavior
was “try to ignore as best as you can.” (PUMF 52.) 
-         
Paul Backes did not inform Defendant Edgerton
III that Plaintiffs already apprised him in writing that because of Carter’s
disruptive behavior, they have been contemplating to make a police report.
(PUMF 53.) 
-         
Defendant Edgerton only learned of Plaintiffs’
complaints that they sent to Paul Backes via email a year after it was sent to
Paul Backes. (PUMF 54.)
 
The emails relate to: “harassing our kids, asking when they
are leaving and what our lease terms are,” “today she was more confrontational
than yesterday,” “her dog is yapping continuously,” “she slams the doors,”
“demand that we open the door when we were talking through it,” “she makes a
lot of noise to display her displeasure, stomping around and slamming doors,”
“she raised her voice,” “she called Julie a bitch,” “she called him asshole,
"she appears to be unstable, and we are contemplating reaching out to the
police,” “ignoring her even when she shouts profanity at us does not seem to be
resolving the situation.” (Opp. at pgs. 20-22.)[2]
 
This case is closer to Andrews
v. Mobile Aire Estates[3] than Madhani
v. Cooper. Although
Plaintiff has presented evidence of animosity and loud and rude behavior, the
prior incidents are not sufficiently similar to make foreseeable the current
incident involving allegedly intentionally placing a slippery substance on the
stairs. Accordingly, viewing the evidence most favorably to Plaintiff,
Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden to establish a triable issue of
material fact as to whether Defendant owed a duty of care.
 
Loss of
Consortium 
 
Edgerton argues that, as a matter of law, Plaintiff Julie
Rosen’s loss of consortium claim cannot survive on its own without the
negligence and premises liability claims. A loss of consortium cause of action
requires a “tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse.” (Vanhooser v.
Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.)  The cases cited by Plaintiff involve a loss
of consortium claim that, as an independent tort, “does not rise or fall with
the procedural fate of the injured party’s personal injury claim.” (Leonard
v. John Crane, Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1280.) However, the
granting of summary judgment as to the negligence and premises liability claims
is not on procedural grounds, but rather because there are no triable issues of
fact that Defendant owed a duty to Plaintiff. 
 
For all of these reasons, Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment is granted.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant
Samuel Youngs Edgerton III’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV22840




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Smitty and Gentil, Inc., dba Smith Properties




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Andrew Rosen and Julie Rosen 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
Authorities; 
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts
3.      Request for Judicial Notice
4.      Declaration of Stuart T. Miller
5.      Declaration of Alex Smith 
6.      Compendium of Exhibits
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
5.      Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment
6.      Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice
7.      Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed
Material Facts and Additional Undisputed Material Facts in Opposition
8.      Evidence in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.     
Reply
2.     
Evidentiary
Objections  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 20, 2021, Plaintiffs
Andrew Rosen and Julie Rosen (Plaintiffs) filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) against Defendants Sam Youngs Edgerton III, Stacey Carter, and
Does 1 to 100 alleging three causes of action. On April 12, 2022, Moving
Defendant Smitty and Gentil, Inc. dba Smith Properties (Smith) was added as Doe
1. Plaintiff Andrew Rosen asserted causes of action against all defendants for
general negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff Julie Rosen asserted a
cause of action against defendants for loss of consortium. Plaintiffs lived on
the second story unit of a duplex located at 509 N. Helberta Avenue, Redondo
Beach, CA 90277 (Property). At the time of the incident, Defendant Stacey
Carter occupied the first story unit. On June 12, 2020, Plaintiff Andrew Rosen
slipped and fell down the steps leading from his second-story residence, on
property that was owned by Defendant Sam Youngs Edgerton III. Plaintiff Andrew
Rosen alleges that Edgerton breached his duty of care in failing to keep the staircase
in a safe condition. (FAC ¶ 14, 15.) Andrew also alleges that Edgerton was
negligent in failing to take action against the alleged danger that Stacey
Carter posed to Plaintiffs. 
 
Plaintiffs allege Smith is equally liable and was “the agent, partner,
co-joint venturer, associate, and/or employee of one or more of the other
Defendants, and was acting in the course and scope of such agency, partnership,
joint venture, association, and/or employment when the acts giving rise to the
causes of action occurred.” (FAC ¶ 6, 7.) 
 
Smith now moves for summary
judgment arguing that no triable issue of material fact exists. Plaintiffs
oppose and Smith replies. 
 
 LEGAL STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards
held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has
no discretion to exercise.  If a triable
issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion
must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be
granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Smith requests that the Court take judicial notice of Exhibit G and
Exhibit F which are Plaintiff’s first Amended Complaint and the Doe Amendment
listing Smith as Doe 1. The Court grants this request under Evidence Code
section 452(d). 
 
EVDIENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Smith objects to Plaintiffs’ Exhibit 10 on the basis that the
documents are not properly authenticated, are inadmissible hearsay, lacks
foundation, and are irrelevant. The Court declines to rule on the objections
because consideration of the documents does not change the ruling herein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The elements of a negligence cause of action are the existence of a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury. The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same
as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998, citation omitted.) “Those
who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise
ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an
unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) 
 
            The “crucial element for imposing a
duty in such circumstances is control,” “the rationale being that whoever has
the means to control the property can take steps to prevent the harm.” (Soto
v. Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 168, 177.) As a
result, premises liability is not limited to the person or entity that holds
title to the land. In Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14
Cal.4th 1149, the plaintiff was injured on a strip of land owned by the city
but sued the landlord of the adjacent property. Summary judgment for the
landlord was reversed because the court found there was a triable issue of fact
whether the landlord exercised control over the strip. (Id. at 1152,
1157.) “A defendant need not own, possess and control
property in order to be held liable; control alone is sufficient.” (Id.
at 1162.) 
 
“A defendant cannot be held liable for the defective or dangerous condition
of property which it did not own, possess, or control. Where the absence of
ownership, possession, or control has been unequivocally established, summary
judgment is proper.” (Isaacs v. Huntington Memorial
Hospital (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 134.) 
            
Plaintiffs entered into a lease agreement with co-defendant Samuel
Young Edgerton III (“Owner” or “Edgerton”). (UMF 2.) Smith is a real estate
licensee, representing Edgerton as a lease listing agent for the subject
property. (UMF 6.) Plaintiff acknowledges that Smith is an agent of Edgerton.
(PUMF 6.) Smith never had an ownership interest in the property and never
served as a property manager for the property. (UMF 9.) Plaintiff argues that
Smith facilitated the lease for both Ms. Carter and Plaintiffs. (Opp. at pg.
7.) Plaintiff further acknowledges that Ms. Carter’s behavior was reported to
Edgerton, not Smith. (Opp. at pgs. 7-8; UMF 17.) There was never an issue with
the stairs before June 13, 2020. (UMF 18.)
 
            Plaintiffs do not allege a separate
cause of action against Smith based on conduct that occurred during the lease
listing process. Rather, Plaintiffs allege the same causes of action against
Smith as Edgerton. 
 
            Smith argues that there is no
evidence of Smith’s ownership, possession, or control of the property, and
therefore Smith owed no duty to Plaintiffs. (Motion at pgs. 6-7.) Smith further
argues that its duties as the lease listing agent terminated once Plaintiffs
signed the lease and took occupancy of the property. (Motion at pgs. 8-9.)
 
            Smith has presented sufficient
evidence that there are no triable issues of fact that it owed a duty to
Plaintiffs, because Smith did not own, possess, or control the property.
Plaintiffs do not appear to dispute this. Rather, Plaintiffs argue that any
negligence by Edgerton – the principal – is imputed to Smith – the apparent or
actual agent. (Opposition at pg. 5.) 
 
Ostensible
Authority
 
“Ostensible
authority is authority that the
principal, either intentionally or by lack of ordinary care, causes or allows a
third party to believe the agent possesses.  (Civ. Code, § 2317.) 
Ostensible authority is based on the principle of estoppel,
and requires the essential elements of estoppel, i.e., representation,
justifiable reliance, and changed position as a result of the reliance. 
[Citation.]  Ostensible authority must be based
on the acts or declarations of the principal and not solely upon the agent’s
conduct. [Citation.]”  (Taylor v. Roseville Toyota, Inc. (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 994, 1005.) Under Civil Code section 2334, “A principal is bound by acts of his agent,
under a merely ostensible authority, to those persons only who have in good
faith, and without want of ordinary care, incurred a liability or parted with
value, upon the faith thereof.” 
 
            Plaintiffs argue that Smith was
the actual and apparent agent of Edgerton because Smith helped market and lease
the Property, and that Smith had some apparent connection to the management of
the property. (Opp. at pg. 12-13.) From there, Plaintiffs argue that Smith’s
duty as a property manager gives rise to a duty of care to Plaintiffs,
appearing to argue that a landlord and his agent are essentially one and the
same. (Opp. at pgs. 18-25.)[4]
 
            This is incorrect. Principals are
generally liable for the acts of their agents. (See Preis
v. American Indemnity Co. (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 752, 761.) Plaintiffs cite to no authority that agents are
broadly and generally liable for the acts of their principals. Moreover,
even if Smith had some apparent authority as a property manager, Plaintiffs
present no evidence or argument that Smith independently had actual or
constructive knowledge of the slippery substance or any knowledge of Ms.
Carter’s prior behavior toward Plaintiffs such that the placement of the
slippery substance would be foreseeable to Smith. Plaintiffs present no triable issue of material fact that
Smith owed a duty of care to Plaintiffs. Finally, to the extent that Plaintiffs
argue Smith’s duty is wholly derivative of Edgerton’s duty, the Court’s granting
of summary of judgment as to Edgerton also warrants summary judgment as to
Smith.
 
Loss
of Consortium 
 
Smith argues that, as a matter of law, Plaintiff Julie
Rosen’s loss of consortium claim cannot survive on its own without the
negligence and premises liability claims. A loss of consortium cause of action
requires a “tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse.” (Vanhooser v.
Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.)  The cases cited by Plaintiff involve a loss
of consortium claim that, as an independent tort, “does not rise or fall with
the procedural fate of the injured party’s personal injury claim.” (Leonard
v. John Crane, Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1280.) However, the
granting of summary judgment as to the negligence and premises liability claims
is not on procedural grounds, but rather because there are no triable issues of
fact that Defendant owed a duty to Plaintiff. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant Smitty and Gentil, Inc.’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


