  Case Number:  19STCV42599    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV42599




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition
Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Expert Witness Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant City of West Covina 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 3, 2023, Defendant City
of West Covina (“Defendant”) moved to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Layla
Tafoya, by and through her guardian ad litem Ashley Esquivel (“Plaintiff”). On
February 2, 2023, Defendant moved to compel Plaintiff’s expert witness
attendance. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. The motions are
unopposed.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Both motions were filed when
Plaintiff was represented by counsel, and were served on Plaintiff’s counsel of
record. (See Proof of Service, attached to motions.) On February 15, 2023,
counsel moved to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. The Court granted the
motion to be relieved on June 6, 2023. That order gave Plaintiff notice of the
hearings on the motions, which were at that time scheduled for July 21, 2023
(Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Attendance and Testimony at Deposition) and
September 26, 2023 (Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Expert Witness Attendance and
Testimony at Deposition). (See Order Granting Motion to be Relieved Dated June
6, 2023.) On July 6, 2023, the Court rescheduled the Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Deposition to September 26, 2023. However, there is no proof of
service on Plaintiff of rescheduling the motion.
 
In addition, the Court noted at the
hearing on the motion to be relieved as counsel, that Plaintiff is a minor, but
the guardian ad litem cannot appear on behalf of the minor (a self-represented
litigant once the motion to be relieved was granted), as that would constitute
the unauthorized practice of law. (See Minute Order Dated April 27, 2023
(citing J.W. v. Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 958, 964.) The
matter was set for a status conference re legal representation, but neither
Plaintiff nor her guardian ad litem appeared. The status conference was
therefore taken off calendar.
 
With regard to the Motion to Compel
Deposition, there is insufficient evidence that Plaintiff has notice of this
motion, and therefore the Court denies the motion without prejudice.
With regard to the Motion to Compel
Expert Deposition, it is not clear whether Plaintiff continues to designate
these experts, and therefore there is an insufficient basis to compel their
depositions. Plaintiff cannot appear at the depositions without counsel, even
if the depositions were compelled. Accordingly, without more information from
the parties about whether Plaintiff (through counsel) continues to retain these
experts, the Court will deny the motion without prejudice.
 
Defendant also seeks monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record. However, counsel was
relieved prior to the hearing on the motion. Plaintiff has not properly
appeared yet through counsel, and therefore the Court finds that the imposition
of sanctions would be unjust.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
The Court therefore denies the motions to compel without prejudice and
denies the request for sanctions.
 
Defendant shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 