 Case Number:  22STCV17909    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  

 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22STCV17909




MOTIONS


(1)  
  Motion for an Order Compelling Responses to Form
  Interrogatories;
(2)  
  Motion for an Order Compelling Responses to Special Interrogatories
(3)  
  Motion for Order Compelling Responses to Requests for
  Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Karen Sargsyan




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Nazario Mejia
Jimenez (“Plaintiff”) sued defendant Karen Sargsyan (“Defendant”) for motor
vehicle negligence in connection with an auto accident that occurred on May 28,
2020.
 
            On August 29, 2023, Defendant filed a
motion for an order compelling responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, a
motion for an order compelling responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One,
and a motion for order compelling responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. The motions are unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents,
the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections,
including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).)
Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from
waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is
no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond,
the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before
filing the motion.¿ 
 
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b),
(c).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and
work product, unless “[t]he party has subsequently served a response that is in
substantial compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit
for a motion to compel where no responses have been served and no meet and
confer is required when a party does not respond to discovery requests. All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
On October 24, 2022, Defendant served Form
Interrogatories, Set one, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for
Production of Records, Set One. (Katairaie Decl. ¶ 3.) Mutual extensions were
granted up to January 18, 2023. (Id. at ¶ 4.) No responses have been
provided. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Accordingly, the Court grants the motions to
compel.
 
Defendant seeks sanctions against Plaintiff.
Counsel for Plaintiff declares that since October 24, 2022, counsel has been
trying to get in touch with Plaintiff to obtain verifications, but has been
unable to reach Plaintiff. (Terzian Decl. ¶ 3.) Counsel has filed a motion to
be relieved as counsel. (Id. at ¶ 8.) Counsel requests that the Court not
impose an order of sanctions as to Plaintiff because Plaintiff is unaware of
pending discovery.[1] (Id.
at ¶ 10.)
 
 The
Court finds that sanctions are warranted for the discovery abuse. Counsel for
Plaintiff has not provided substantial justification for Plaintiff’s failure to
maintain contact with counsel with regard to the case or otherwise respond
regarding Plaintiff’s obligations. However, the amount requested is excessive
in light of the similarity and the type of motions at issue. Accordingly, the
Court awards sanctions in the total amount of $705 (three hours total of
attorney time plus $60 filing fee for each motion at $175 per hour).
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for an order compelling responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set One, motion for order compelling responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set One, motion for order compelling responses to
Requests for Production, Set One. Plaintiff shall provide responses, without
objection, within 30 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $705. Said monetary sanctions are to
be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant to provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such. 
 
 


