 Case Number:  22STCV13267    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO
DESIGNATE THE MATTER AS COMPLEX
Hearing Date: 5/21/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV13267 ERIK DENTON vs CITY
OF LOS ANGELES
Moving Party: Plaintiffs 
Responding Party: Defendants County of Los
Angeles and City of Los Angeles
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO DESIGNATE THE MATTER AS COMPLEX IS DENIED.
 
Background
On April 21, 2022,
Plaintiffs filed the present wrongful death action against the County of Los
Angeles and the City of Los Angeles for negligence. Plaintiff alleges that the
City of Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) and the Los Angeles County Department
of Children and Family Services (DCFS) were negligent in their response to
concerns and/or reports of the decedent’s mother’s mental health conditions,
and as a result, played a substantial factor in causing the decedent's death.
Legal Standard
California Rule of
Court 3.400 defines a “complex case” as “an action that requires exceptional
judicial management to avoid placing unnecessary burdens on the court or
litigants and to expedite the case, keep costs reasonable, and promote
effective decision making by the court, the parties, and counsel.” Cal. Rule of
Ct. 3.400(a).
In deciding whether an
action is complex, the Court must consider, among other things, whether the
action is likely to involve: (1) numerous pretrial motions raising difficult or
novel legal issues that will be time-consuming to resolve; (2) management of a
large number of witnesses or a substantial amount of documentary evidence; (3)
management of a large number of separately represented parties; (4)
coordination with related actions pending in one or more courts in other
counties, states, or countries, or in a federal court; or (5) substantial
post-judgment supervision. Cal. Rule of Ct. 3.400(b).
1.  Numerous
Pretrial Motions Raising Difficult or Novel Legal Issues that will be
Time-Consuming to Resolve
Plaintiff
claims that numerous pretrial motions raising novel legal issues will be likely
in this case. However, Plaintiff has failed to provide a detailed explanation
of what difficult or novel legal issues will be presented in the moving papers.
Although Plaintiff refers generally to issues of privilege and privacy, no
specific details are provided.
Plaintiff,
in the reply, introduced new supporting arguments and evidence on the issue of
novel legal issues. However, raising such arguments for the first time in the
reply deprives Defendant of the opportunity to oppose them. (Marriage of
Khera & Sameer (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1477.) Since one of the
first factors considered is whether the case involves novel legal issues, it
should be discussed in depth in the moving papers.
In
the reply, Plaintiff points to protective orders to safeguard the names of LAPD
officers, social workers, and Plaintiff’s family. However, the Court routinely
handles these issues and does not anticipate that they will require
extraordinary judicial management. The Court has experience dealing with
actions brought by successors in interest against governmental agencies, which
often involve numerous experts in different fields, from liability to damages.
The Court does not find that this aspect of the case would be unduly
burdensome.
Furthermore,
the Court frequently hears motions for summary adjudication. These types of
pretrial motions, especially those related to negligence claims against
governmental agencies, are standard and do not inherently raise novel legal
challenges. Plaintiff's argument lacks the specificity and evidence needed to
demonstrate that the pretrial motions in this case will be unusually complex or
time-consuming. As a result, Plaintiff has not persuaded the Court that this
case presents novel legal challenges that would necessitate exceptional
judicial management.
Given
the routine nature of handling such pretrial motions and the absence of
detailed evidence from Plaintiff, the Court concludes that the legal issues
anticipated in this case are not significantly different from those regularly
encountered in similar cases. Therefore, the Court does not see how this aspect
of the case justifies its classification as complex.
2.  Management
of a Large Number of Witnesses or a Substantial Amount of Documentary Evidence
Plaintiff alleges the
management of a large number of witnesses or a substantial amount of
documentary evidence will be required. However, Plaintiff has not provided any
evidence to support the claim that there will be witnesses in the triple digits
or an overwhelming amount of documentary evidence. Plaintiff has noticed 12
depositions, which is within the normal range for depositions in this Court.
The timeline of the
case spans primarily from March 2021 to April 2021 and involves two
governmental agencies: LAPD and DCFS. The Court routinely handles claims of
institutional governmental neglect over extended periods and against multiple
governmental agencies. For instance, the Court frequently deals with cases
involving defects in the construction and maintenance of public buildings and
does not find discovery (witness and documents) involved in these cases to
require exceptional judicial management.
In this instance, the
discovery process involving witnesses and documents does not appear to be any
more burdensome than what the Court typically encounters. The management of 12
depositions falls well within the standard practice and does not indicate a
need for extraordinary measures. The nature of the allegations and the entities
involved are analogous to those in many other cases that the Court handles
efficiently.
3.  Management
of a Large Number of Separately Represented Parties
Plaintiff acknowledges
that there are not a large number of separately represented parties in this
case but argues that the two Defendants are sprawling government entities with
numerous departments and divisions. Plaintiff contends that this complexity in
the organizational structure of the Defendants adds to the case's complexity.
However, this characteristic is not unique to the present case.
The Court routinely
handles cases involving dangerous conditions of public property, which often
implicate numerous departments and divisions within large governmental
entities. For example, cases involving the maintenance of public
infrastructure, such as roads, buildings, and parks, frequently require
coordination across various departments within city or county governments. 
4.  Fourth
and Fifth Factors
Plaintiff notes that
there is a related pending criminal action as well as various protective
orders.  The Court does not perceive that
any coordination needed will be problematic. 
Plaintiff does not address substantial post-judgment supervision. In any
event, the Court does not at this time perceive that there will be a need for
substantial post-judgment supervision given that Defendants are large
governmental agencies. 
5.  Case
as a Whole
The essence of this
case involves alleged negligence by the LAPD and DCFS within a short timeframe.
Plaintiff claims the LAPD was negligent in responding to calls on March 4,
2021, and March 12, 2021. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that DCFS was
negligent in a series of interactions from March 2021 to April 10, 2021. The
period in question is relatively short, from March 2021 to April 2021,
involving only two governmental entities: LAPD and DCFS.
Although
Plaintiff claims neglect on an institutional level, such claims are not
uncommon before the Court in other wrongful death cases against governmental
agencies. Based on the nature of the case and the evidence presented, the Court
finds the case analogous to other cases it handles and does not believe this
case requires exceptional judicial management that would place unnecessary
burdens on the Court or litigants. 
 
Furthermore,
as Plaintiff referenced, the Personal Injury Hub is being phased out.  While a timeline for the phase out of
Department 27 has not been established, the Court anticipates that during the
pendency of this case, Department 27 will morph into an Independent Civil
court, which is the alternative remedy Plaintiff has requested.  Moreover, as Plaintiff has also indicated,
this case involves various distinct areas of the law, including, family law,
criminal law and civil law.  The judicial
officer presiding over Department 27 has experience in all three of these
areas, which may assist in appropriate oversight of the case.  Accordingly, the motion to designate the case
complex and transfer it to a complex court or, alternatively, to an IC court is
denied.  
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.