 Case Number:  21STCV02938    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS; REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/21/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV02938 HEDYEH
HAMEDANIZADEH vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant County of Los
Angeles
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED
MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS IS
DENIED
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Background
On
December 15, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant County of Los Angeles with
Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable to
occur on January 2, 2024. On December 21, 2023, Defendant County of Los Angeles
served its objections. On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff then served the Third
Amended Notice of Deposition of Defendant County of Los Angeles’ Person Most
Knowledgeable to occur on February 27, 2024. On January 16, 2024, defense
counsel sent an email stating that there should not be a problem relating to
the deposition. No objection was served to the Third Amended Notice of
Deposition. On February 27, 2024, Defendant’s PMK did not appear for her
deposition, and Plaintiff took the Certificate of Non-Appearance for this
deposition and inquired into Defendant’s non-appearance and alternative dates,
to which she received no responses. Plaintiff now moves the Court to compel
Defendant County of Los Angeles’ PMK deposition.
Analysis 
 
Defendant failed to serve a written objection
to Plaintiff’s third notice of deposition and did not appear for the deposition
on the noticed date. (CCP §2025.450(a).) Plaintiff inquired into deponent’s
non-appearance and requested availability, but received no responses. Plaintiff
has fulfilled the meet and confer requirement under CCP §2025.450(b)(2). All
the requirements to compel Defendant’s PMQ deposition have been met, and the
present motion is GRANTED. Defendant’s PMQ is ordered to appear for deposition
within 20 days of today. The Court notes that Defendant, in the opposition, has
proposed several dates within this timeframe when the PMQ is available.
The Court notes that the notice of deposition
includes a demand for production of documents, and Plaintiff seeks an order
compelling Defendant to produce all identified documents at its deposition. The
moving papers fail to show good cause for the production of the documents
sought, as required by §2025.450(b)(1). There is no discussion of good cause,
and therefore, the Court declines to enter an order compelling Defendant to
produce documents, but urges the parties to work together to resolve any issues
concerning documents without court intervention.
Plaintiff seeks sanctions of $2709.25 based on the missed PMQ deposition
on February 27, 2025, and the cost of preparing its motion to compel.  Defendant contends it acted with substantial
justification.  Though on February 22,
2024, Defendant communicated to Plaintiff that its PMQ, Officer Michael Mendoza,
had been transferred to the jail system and was unavailable for the deposition on
February 27, 2024, it did so without any prior objection and also after
multiple efforts by Plaintiff to schedule and confirm the deposition.  Based on the fact that ultimately Plaintiff needed
to bring this motion and that the PMQ did not appear on February 27, 2024, the
Court orders sanctions in the amount of $1500 against Defendant and its
counsel, jointly and severally, to be paid within 30 days. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 