  Case Number:  20STCV21526    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
Claim of Exemption
Hearing Date: 5/21/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV21526 ADAM COULTER vs
STEFANIE AFTON WALL 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Judgment Creditor Melissa
Buchman
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: Claim of Exemption is Continued
 
Legal Standard 
 
At a hearing on a claim of exemption, “the
[judgment debtor] has the burden of proof” in demonstrating that the property
claimed exempt is indeed exempt. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 703.520, subd. (b),
703.580, subds. (b), (c).) In meeting this burden, the judgment debtor must
establish the right by evidence or facts; an affidavit which merely follows the
language of the statute and states nothing more than conclusions of law is
insufficient.¿(Le Font v.¿Rankin¿(1959)¿167¿Cal.App.2d 433, 435.¿Generally,
"common necessaries of life" means essentials commonly required by
all persons for the sustenance of life, whatever their employment status and
includes medical care. (J. J. MacIntyre Co. v. Duren (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d Supp. 16, 18-19).¿¿ 
 
“Within 10 days
after service of the notice of claim of exemption, a judgment creditor who
opposes the claim of exemption shall file with the court a notice of opposition
to the claim of exemption and a notice of motion for an order determining the
claim of exemption and shall file with the levying officer a copy of the notice
of opposition and a copy of the notice of motion. Upon the filing of the copies
of the notice of opposition and notice of motion, the levying officer shall
promptly file the claim of exemption with the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
703.550.)¿ 
¿ 
Discussion 
 
As a preliminary matter, the Judgment
Creditor’s proof of service for her opposition does not indicate that she
complied with Code of Civil Procedure section 703.550, which requires her to
file with the levying officer a copy of the notice of opposition and notice of
motion. There was no evidence the notice of motion and notice of opposition
were served on the levying officer. 
¿ 
Additionally, the Court does not have complete
information for the Court to rule on this hearing because the claim of
exemption itself is missing. The Court cannot rely on the Judgment Creditor’s
opposition alone. The Court cannot assess the claim without the actual claim.¿ 
¿ 
Finally, Judgment Creditor only filed a notice
of hearing and notice of opposition, but no supporting motion for an order determining the claim of
exemption was filed. 
 
Conclusion 
 
The Court continues the hearing so that the
Judgment Creditor can address these defects. 
 
Judgment Creditor is ordered to give notice.
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.