 Case Number:  21STCV36602    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
VAROUJ SHEKERDEMIAN,
                        Shekerdemian,
            v.
 
DESAI HOLDINGS USA, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV36602
  Hearing Date:  May 17, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Shekerdemian’s motion for sanctions  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 5, 2021, Varouj
Shekerdemian filed this action against Desai Holdings USA, LLC dba R Bar and
Rakesh David Desai, alleging the following causes of action: (1) failure to
provide accurate wage records; (2) unfair business practices; (3) constructive
discharge; and (4-5) intentional/negligent infliction of emotional distress. The
operative First Amended Complaint, filed May 27, 2022, adds causes of action
for discrimination, harassment, and violation of civil rights. 
            Shekerdemian alleges that Desai
hired him as the general manager at R Bar. Desai did not classify or pay Shekerdemian
as an employee but rather as an independent contractor. Desai initially ignored
Shekerdemian’s requests to be properly classified but eventually put Shekerdemian
on the payroll as a traditional exempt employee. During Shekerdemian’s
employment, Desai was allegedly abusive and racist towards Shekerdemian and R
Bar’s employees and patrons. This resulted in multiple altercations, causing Shekerdemian
to fear for his safety. Shekerdemian eventually resigned due to the hostile
work environment. After Shekerdemian quit, Desai allegedly continued harassing Shekerdemian
through racist and vulgar text messages and also visited Shekerdemian’s new
place of employment. 
            On June 13, 2023, R Bar and Desai
filed a complaint against Shekerdemian (23LBCV01084). The complaint asserts (1)
breach of fiduciary duty, (2) intentional interference with business relations,
(3) contractual interference, (4) conversion, and (5) unfair competition. The
complaint alleges that Shekerdemian appointed himself as head of R Bar,
harassed customers, stole restaurant property, and tried to poach R Bar
employees to Shekerdemian’s own business. The two cases have been deemed
related, with this case (21STCV36602) as the lead case. 
            On November 20, 2023, the Court
granted Shekerdemian’s motion to compel further responses from R Bar as to
requests for production, ordering responses within 15 days and imposing
sanctions. R Bar did not serve further responses until after the Court’s imposed
deadline, and then failed to produce any documents despite making statements of
compliance in the supplemental responses. As a result, Shekerdemian filed a
motion against R Bar to compel compliance and for monetary and nonmonetary
sanctions. The Court partially granted this motion on February 14, 2024,
ordering R Bar to produce responsive documents within 15 days and imposing
monetary sanctions. 
            On April 10, 2024, Shekerdemian
filed the instant motion for monetary, evidentiary, and terminating sanctions
against R Bar for failing to comply with the Court’s prior orders. R Bar filed
its opposition on May 6, 2024. Shekerdemian filed his reply on May 10, 2024.   
LEGAL STANDARD
            “If
a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling . . . thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling in accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding
party may move for an order compelling compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.320(a).) 
The Court may impose monetary or
nonmonetary sanctions against a party engaging in misuse of the discovery
process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) Misuse of the discovery process is
defined as, among other things, failing to respond to an authorized method of
discovery, making an evasive response to discovery, or disobeying a court order
for discovery. (Id., § 2023.010.) If a lesser sanction fails to curb
misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery
process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached
that will curb the abuse. (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “The penalty should be appropriate to the dereliction,
and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the
party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Wilson v. Jefferson (1985) 163
Cal.App.3d 952, 959.) Generally, two facts are prerequisite to the imposition
of nonmonetary sanctions: (1) there must be a failure to comply with a court
order; and (2) the failure must be willful. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp.
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) 
DISCUSSION
            R Bar substituted new counsel after
the February 14, 2024 hearing. (Tokar Decl. ¶ 17.) As a result, Shekerdemian
granted multiple extensions. (Ibid.) Eventually, R Bar’s counsel
promised responses by April 4, 2024. (Ibid.) At the time Shekerdemian
filed this motion, R Bar still had not provided any responses. (Ibid.) 
            R Bar’s opposition points and
authorities consists of three sentences accusing Shekerdemian of bringing the
motion in bad faith and without sufficiently meeting and conferring, and
stating that R Bar is serving code-compliant responses. However, R Bar’s
counsel concedes that Shekerdemian’s account of the parties’ correspondence is
accurate. (Harman-Holmes Decl. ¶ 3.) Shekerdemian’s account shows that he
granted an extension and then followed up with Ms. Harman-Holmes, to which Ms.
Harman-Holmes replied that R Bar would provide responses by “tomorrow,” as in
April 4, 2024. (Tokar Decl. ¶ 17, Ex. O.) R Bar did not provide responses by
April 4 nor further communicate with Shekerdemian. (Ibid.) 
R Bar cites no law imposing a meet and
confer requirement on a motion for sanctions, but Shekerdemian’s undisputed
account of the parties’ correspondence shows that he sufficiently met and
conferred nonetheless. It is R Bar’s burden to comply with its discovery
obligations and the Court’s orders, and Shekerdemian is not required to
continuously remind R Bar of its obligations until R Bar finally decides to comply.
The history of court orders and sanctions against R Bar makes clear that motion
practice has been necessary to compel R Bar to abide by its obligations. There
is no indication that Shekerdemian brought this latest motion in bad faith. R
Bar does not deny violating the Court’s February 14, 2024 order. The Court
notes that this is not the first time R Bar has failed to comply with a court
order.    
Nonetheless, the Court finds that
terminating sanctions would be disproportionate at this stage. The Court would
have considered evidence sanctions, but Shekerdemian’s request to preclude R
Bar from presenting any evidence at trial is not tailored to the discovery
being withheld and is tantamount to a terminating sanction. Monetary sanctions
are warranted. Shekerdemian reasonably requests $2,100. (See Tokar Decl. ¶ 19.)

CONCLUSION
            Shekerdemian’s motion for sanctions
is GRANTED in part. The Court sanctions R Bar in the total amount of $2,100, to
be paid within 30 days. Evidentiary and terminating sanctions are denied.   
 