  Case Number:  23STCV18472    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 29, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Robert Golightly v. Pacific Coast
Sustainable Assets, LLC. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV18472            
 
MOTION
TO DEEM TRUTH OF MATTERS IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Robert Golightly
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Pacific
Coast Sustainable Assets, LLC, and Yajac Agriculture, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
10/24/22: Complaint filed. 
·        
08/04/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiff contracted with
Defendants to manage and operate a farm owned by Defendants. Plaintiff alleges
that he was terminated in violation of the terms of his contract. 
 
Plaintiff moves to deem the truth
of matters in requests for admissions, and for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem the Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions is DENIED AS
MOOT.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on Defendants serving revised copies of the proposed
Responses to Requests for Admissions without objections within 10 days
of this order. If Defendants fail to serve these responses within the time
allotted, Plaintiff’s Motion will instead be GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to deem the truth
of matters in requests for admissions, and for sanctions. 
 
Multiple Motions
 
            Multiple
motions should not be combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§
70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests
ordinarily should be filed separately.”].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks in one motion
to deem the truth of matters in two sets of requests for admissions. Combining
multiple motions under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation
manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other
litigants. Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of separate filing fees
deprives the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect.
 
            The Court
therefore conditions its ruling on this motion on the payment of an additional
$60 in filing fees within 10 days of this order.
 
Legal
Standard
 
When a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to respond, the party
propounding the requests may move for an order that the truth of any matters specified
in the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).) “The court
shall make this order [deem the requests admitted], unless it finds that the
party to whom the request for admissions have been directed has served, before
the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission
that is in substantial compliance with section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.280(c).)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
served Requests for Admissions (Set One) on Defendants Pacific Coast
Sustainable Assets and Yajac Agriculture via email on December 7, 2023. (Plaintiffs’
Exhs. A-B.) As of the date this motion was served on Defendants, no responses
had been received. (Declaration of Miles Carlsen ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-3.).) Defendants
state in opposition that complete responses were served via email on February 7,
with respect to Defendant Yajac Agriculture, and on February 14, with respect
to Defendant Pacific Coast Sustainable Assets. (Declaration of Niki Kalantari
ISO Opp. Exh. 1.) However, these proposed responses are provided subject to
objections. (See Id.) As Defendants’ responses are untimely, all
objections have been waived by operation of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(a).)
Defendants contend that these responses are proper because Plaintiff
purportedly failed to properly serve the discovery requests, by serving them
only on Faryan Afifi, Defendants’ counsel of record, at a time when he was
hospitalized due to a motorcycle accident. (Declaration of Faryan Andrew Afifi
ISO Opp. ¶ 2.) Defendants cite no authority establishing that it is improper
service to serve counsel of record, even if the listed counsel is on medical
leave. Although that argument might constitute good cause for relief from
waiver of objections via a noticed motion, no such motion has been brought.
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(a).) Defendants are therefore not entitled to
assert objections in their Responses to Requests for Admissions. 
 
            That said, closer
review of Defendants’ responses reveals that, notwithstanding the invalid
objections, the proposed responses are identical denials of the requested
admissions supported by an explanation. Each Request seeks an admission that
the Defendant Pacific Coast Assets, LLC’s U.S. Return of Partnership Income
Form for tax years 2014 through 2017 listed Plaintiff as owning a 25%
partnership interest in Defendant Pacific Coast. (See Kalantari Decl. Exh. 1.)
To each request, the responding Defendant denied the statement on the basis
that Plaintiff owned a 25% profit share and not a partnership interest. (Id.)
Leaving aside the objections, these responses are otherwise code-compliant. Had
Defendants served these responses without objections, they would certainly have
been sufficiently code-compliant to moot this motion. 
 
            In light of
the substance of the proposed responses, the Court finds, conditioned on the
service of responses without objections within 10 days, that the Motion to Deem
the Truth of Matters Stated is moot. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions in the amount of $3,186.65 against Defendants and their
counsel for failing to respond to the Requests for Admissions. 
 
Failure to respond or submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process for which
sanctions may be imposed. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(d); 2023.030(a).)
Sanctions are mandatory on the party or attorney or both whose failure to serve
a timely response to requests for admission necessitated a motion to deem
requests for admissions as admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
            Plaintiff
requests $3,186.65 in sanctions against Defendant only, based on 2.25 hours
actually incurred at $500 per hour, plus an additional 4 anticipated hours,
plus $61.65 in filing fees. (Carlsen Decl. ¶ 4.)  This fee request is unreasonably inflated on
its face. It should not take six hours to prosecute a straightforward motion to
deem matters admitted. The Court
therefore exercises its discretion to deny this request as unreasonably
inflated. (Chavez
v. City of Los Angeles
(2010) 47 Cal. 4th 970, 989-991.) Moreover, even if Plaintiff’s fee request
were reasonable, the Court would not be inclined to award sanctions in view of
the totality of the circumstances, including the service of the discovery
requests on counsel at a time when counsel of record was hospitalized. 
 
//
 
//
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem the Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions is
DENIED AS MOOT.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on Defendants serving revised copies of the proposed
Responses to Requests for Admissions without objections within 10 days
of this order. If Defendants fail to serve these responses within the time
allotted, Plaintiff’s Motion will instead be GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  February 29,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 