 Case Number:  23STCV27202    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  47 23STCV27202Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 29, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Scot Jacoby v. Craig Davis, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV27202            
 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT 

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Craig Davis and Erica Fenwick
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 2/26/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
11/06/23: Complaint filed. 
·        
02/06/24: Default judgment entered.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an unlawful detainer action for nonpayment of rent. 
 
Defendants move to set aside the
default entered against them. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED.
 
            The
Motion to Quash Service of Summons originally filed February 2, 2024 is deemed
filed this date. 
 
            The
Court specially sets a Hearing on the Motion to Quash Service of Summons for
Tuesday, March 27, 2024, at 9:00 AM. Plaintiff’s opposition and Defendants’
reply papers shall be served pursuant to code. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Defendants
move to set aside the default entered against them under the discretionary
relief provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). 
 
            The
discretionary relief provision of section 473(b) states:
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).)
 
            On
February 13, 2024, Defendants applied for ex parte relief to stay
execution and shorten time for the hearing on this motion. The Court granted
the stay of execution, conditioned on the delivery of $5,000 to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s office, payable to Plaintiff, by way of cashier check or electronic
funds transfer, by no later than 4:00 PM on February 16. (February 14, 2024
Minute Order.) The Court, on its own motion, struck the Motion to Quash filed
February 2, 2024 as improperly filed, and deemed the motion as Defendants’
proposed pleading. (Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration on
February 22 that Defendants complied with the conditions set forth in the
Court’s order. (Declaration of Jason Stillman filed February 22, 2024.) All
conditions having been satisfied; the Court turns to the merits of Defendants’
motion.
 
            Defendants
move to set aside the default on the grounds that their failure to timely
respond to the Complaint was the result of inadvertence or excusable neglect.
Specifically, Defendants state that they provided an incorrect zip code in
their initial filing papers, causing Defendants not to receive notice of Court
orders or clerical actions. (Declaration of Craig Davis ISO Mot. p.1:7-9.) Defendants
state that they also inadvertently omitted the second page of their fee waiver
applications, leading to their rejection. (Id. p.1:10-16.) Consequently,
Defendants’ subsequent filings, including a Motion to Quash filed December 26,
2023, were rejected for failure to pay fees in the absence of a fee waiver,
without actual notice to Defendants. (Id. p.1:17-2:1.) Default judgment
was entered on February 6, 2024, and this motion followed exactly one week
later. 
 
            Defendants
have also provided a proposed pleading in the form of their Motion to Quash
Service of Summons originally filed February 2, 2024 which challenges the mode
of service of the Summons and Complaint. As that motion is not presently at
issue and has not been fully briefed by the parties, the Court declines to
address its merits here. 
 
            Defendants
have provided a valid reason for failing to oppose this action due to their
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect in that their errors in preparing
their initial filings precluded fair notice of the status of the case against
them. The Court therefore finds good cause to set aside the default and default
judgment and permit filing of the proposed motion to quash. 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED.
 
            The
Motion to Quash Service of Summons originally filed February 2, 2024 is deemed filed
this date. 
 
            The
Court specially sets a Hearing on the Motion to Quash Service of Summons for
Tuesday, March 27, 2024, at 9:00 AM. Plaintiff’s opposition and Defendants’
reply papers shall be served pursuant to code. 
 
            Moving
Party/ies to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  \February 29,
2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 