 Case Number:  22BBCV00512    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 8,
2023

MOTION
FOR ATTORNEYS FEES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00512

 



MP:  


GKGF, LLC A California Limited
  Liability Company (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Jojos California Family Restaurants,
  LLC



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On July
13, 2022 GKGF, LLC A California Limited
Liability Company (“Plaintiff”) filed an action against Jojos California Family
Restaurants, LLC (“Jojos”) and Coco’s Restaurants, LLC (“Cocos”) (collectively “Defendants”)
for alleged non-payment of commercial rent. The Complaint states a cause of
action against each Jojos and Cocos for (1) breach of contract guaranty and (2)
account stated. 
 
On September 18,
2023, judgment was entered against Defendants in the amount of $269,592.73.
Plaintiff now moves for an award of attorney’s fees based on contractual
provision. 
 
Plaintiff requests attorney’s fees and costs be granted in
the sum of $64,769.42. This amount is requested in connection with both
Plaintiff’s Unlawful Detainer action and Plaintiff’s action for Breach of
Contract. Plaintiff provides an accounting of the billable hours and costs
incurred as a result of maintaining these actions over the course of
approximately 14 months. Defendants oppose the motion, arguing that Plaintiff’s
statements of hourly rates and the hours worked are grossly inflated. Plaintiff
replies that the lion share of this work was necessitated by Defendant’s
failure to communicate with Plaintiff and refusal to participate in settlement
discussions. 
The Court notes that Defendants do not
contest that attorney’s fees are owed pursuant to the contract, only that the
amount is unreasonable. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The
prevailing party is entitled to recover costs as a matter of right. (C.C.P., §
1032 (a)(4)-(b).) Attorney’s fees are also recoverable as costs when authorized
by contract, statute, or law. (C.C.P., § 1033.5 (a)(10).) Attorney’s fees and
costs may be awarded where a contract between the parties at issue specifically
provides for such fees and costs and one party prevails over the other on the
contract. (See Civ. Code § 1717(a).)
 
The Court
begins this inquiry “with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (PLCM Group v. Drexler
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) From there, the “lodestar figure may then be
adjusted [according to a multiplier enhancement] based on consideration of
factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value
for the legal services provided.” (Id.) Relevant multiplier factors
include “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the
skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the
litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, [and] (4) the contingent
nature of the fee award.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1132.)
 
No
specific findings reflecting the court’s calculations for attorney’s fees are
required; the record need only show that the attorney’s fees were awarded
according to the “lodestar” or “touchstone” approach. (Rebney v. Wells Fargo
Bank (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1344, 1349.) The Court has broad discretion to
determine the amount of a reasonable attorney’s fee award, which will not be
overturned absent a “manifest abuse of discretion, a prejudicial error of law,
or necessary findings not supported by substantial evidence.” (Bernardi v.
County of Monterey (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1393-1394.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Reasonableness of Rate
 
Defendants argue that the rate claimed by
Plaintiff’s counsel is inflated and beyond reasonable bounds. Defendants cite
to PCLM for the contention that a reasonable hourly rate is one that is
prevailing in the community where the case is litigated for similar work. (PCLM
supra, 22 Cal.4th at 1095.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff has produced no
evidence of the complexity of the case and whether the litigation was unduly
time consuming. 
 
Plaintiff argues in reply that it has provided
sufficient evidence that its hourly rate was reasonable and within industry
standards. Plaintiff states that, according to the Wolters Kluwer 2022 Real
Rate Report, litigation partner median rates in Los Angeles were $725/hour in
2022, with the first quartile partner litigation rates at $516/hour. (Muse
Fischer Decl., Exh. 7.) Similarly, the first median litigation associate rates
in Los Angeles in 2022 were $615/hour in 2022, and the first quartile rates were
$400/hour. (Id.) Plaintiff argues the partner/shareholder rate of
$480/hour and the associate rate of $395/hour are well within this range. 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has adequately
evidenced the reasonableness of its counsel’s rates. Defendants present no
evidence in contravention of the industry standard rates during the litigation,
only presenting general arguments that the matter was relatively simple in a
legal sense. 
 
Reasonableness of Hours
 
Defendants first argue that the 22.5 hours and
$9,654.50 in the months of December 2022 and January 2023 related to the filing
of two motions to compel written discovery should be reduced. The Court notes
that Plaintiff filed a combined motion to compel discovery as to each Jojos and
Cocos. Defendants rendered no opposition to these motions, and they were
subsequently granted. Plaintiff contends that these motions were necessary
because Defendants did not respond to meet and confer efforts intended to prevent
their filing. 
 
The Court finds the number of hours billed for
the preparation and filing of these motions was reasonable given their
aggregate nature. Plaintiff’s motions combined what usually constitutes six
motions into two motions each accompanied by their own declarations and
requests for judicial notice, comprising a substantial amount of attorney work.
As such the Court declines to reduce the amount billed in reference to these
motions. 
 
Defendants next argue that 12.8 hours and
$5,440.00 in the month of February 2023 related to an un filed motion for
summary judgment should be stricken entirely. (See Norhadian Decl. Exh. 4H.) Defendants
argue the preparation of the motion for summary judgment was unnecessary as it
was never filed with the court and the parties eventually stipulated on the
Unlawful Detainer matter which the motion was in reference to. Plaintiff
replies that it was forced to prepare the summary judgment motion in regard to
its Unlawful Detainer complaint when Defendants repeatedly refused to respond
to attempts at settlement negotiations and failed to appear at a status
conference. (Muse Fischer Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) Plaintiff states that it was only
after the preparation of the motion that Defendant’s counsel reached out to
discuss the Unlawful Detainer matter. (Muse Fischer Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. C.) 
 
The Court finds the summary judgment was not
unnecessary simply by virtue of it never being field. Plaintiff was well within
its rights to prepare the motion for summary judgment given the unresponsive
nature of Defendant’s counsel. The billing statement shows the motion for
summary judgment was prepared on February 9, 2023, several days in advance of
counsel for Defendants engaging in settlement talks on the Unlawful Detainer
matter on February 14, 2023. (See Norhadian Decl. Exh. 4H; Muse Fischer Decl.
Exh. C.) Had counsel for Defendants never engaged in settlement negotiations,
as their behavior indicated was likely, Plaintiff would have filed the summary
judgment motion in the unlawful detainer action. Plaintiff was not required to
abstain from drafting the motion in hopes that counsel for Defendants would
eventually respond. 
 
Defendants also argue that 31.2 hours and
$14,121.00 in the months of May-July 2023 related to a motion for judgment on
the pleadings is unnecessary and should be reduced. Defendants argue the nature
of this motion was relatively simple given it was based on matters deemed
admitted. As with the previous items, Plaintiff replies that this motion was
necessitated by the failure of counsel to reply. Plaintiff states counsel for Defendants
repeatedly ignored their settlement demands from February 2023 to the end of
March 2023. (Muse-Fischer Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. D.) 
Plaintiff attaches an email exchange in which they requested the
proposed settlement from Defendant’s counsel four separate times, the final
time being on March 27, 2023. (Id.) 
On April 5, 2023, the parties finally met and conferred regarding the
motion for judgment on the pleadings, at which time counsel for Defendants
indicated another attorney would be substituting into the matter. (Muse Fischer
Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendant’s substitution of counsel was not filed until
November 27, 2023 and the motion for judgment on the pleadings was granted on
September 11, 2023. The Court finds the hours billed in connection with the
motion for judgment on the pleadings were reasonable. Plaintiff’s motion was
repeatedly delayed by the failure of counsel for Defendants to respond and
required revision to reflect the current state of the litigation.  
 
Lastly, Defendants argue the $7,500.00 for the
instant motion should be stricken as it is not accompanied by an assessment of
actual time spent preparing the motion. On this matter the Court agrees, as Plaintiff’s
submissions contain no accounting for the hours worked in preparing this
motion. Plaintiff’s billing submissions stop in August 2023 and do not reflect
any work on this motion. (See Norhadian Decl. Exh. 4N.) Nor do Plaintiff’s
declarations attest to the rates of the attorneys who worked on this motion and
the hours spent. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees shall be
reduced by the amount of $7,500. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the event a party requests a signed order or
the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form
will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into
the court’s records.
 
ORDER 
 
GKGF, LLC A California Limited Liability Company’s Motions
for Attorney’s Fees came on regularly for hearing on December 8, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, took the matter under submission
after argument.  The Court now rules as follows:
 
THE MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES IS GRANTED. 
 
ATTORNEYS FEES ARE AWARDED FOR PLAINTIFF IN THE
AMOUNT OF $57,269.42 AS AGAINST JOJOS AND COCOS JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
DATE: December
8, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 