 Case Number:  23BBCV02005    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 8,
2023

APPLICATION
FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02005

 



MP:  


Crossroads Equipment Lease and
  Finance, LLC (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Plaintiff Crossroads
Equipment Lease and Finance, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Shane Josef Weber, an
individual dba Weber Enterprises (“Defendant”) alleging Defendant entered a Master
Equipment Finance Agreement (“Agreement”) with
Plaintiff for the use of a 2021 Peterbilt 389 tractor truck, VIN
1XPXA48X8MD744303 (“Vehicle”),
but subsequently defaulted pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant remains in possession of the Vehicle.  
 
Plaintiff
now applies for a writ of possession to reclaim the Vehicle. Defendant has
rendered no opposition. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) § 512.010 requires that the application for writ of
possession be executed under oath and include affidavits showing the
following: 
 
(1) A
showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's
claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be
attached. 
 
(2) A
showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the
manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the reason for the detention. 
 
(3) A
particular description of the property and a statement of its value. 
 
(4) A
statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part
of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take
possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there. 
 
(5) A
statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine,
pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure. 
 
Before
the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the defendant must be served with (1) a
copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and
(3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (C.C.P. § 512.030.)
 
C.C.P. §
512.060 permits the Court to issue a writ of possession when the Court finds
the following: 
 
(1) the
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the plaintiff's claim to
possession of the property; and 
 
(2) the
undertaking requirements of C.C.P. § 515.010 are satisfied. 
 
C.C.P. §
515.010 provides: “The undertaking shall be in an amount not less than twice
the value of¿the¿defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount.”
 
“Before
issuance of a writ of attachment … the plaintiff shall file an undertaking to
pay the defendant any amount the defendant may recover for any wrongful
attachment by the plaintiff in the action.” (C.C.P. § 489.210.) But when a
defendant does not have any interest in the property, C.C.P. § 515.010(b)
permits the Court to waive the requirement of the plaintiff's undertaking and
set an undertaking for the defendant to keep possession or regain
possession. 
 
C.C.P.
§512.010(a)(4) requires a showing of probable cause to believe that the
property is located at a specific location, when such location is private
property.
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff submits proof service
of this motion was rendered on Defendant by mail on November 1, 2023 at 429 N
Lincoln Street Burbank, CA 91506-2113. Pursuant to C.C.P. § 512.030, personal
service of an application for writ of possession is only required in instances
where the defendant has not appeared in the action. As Defendant filed his
Answer in pro per on October 6, 2023, Plaintiff’s service of the motion by mail
is sufficient. 
 
Plaintiff provides the
declaration of Michael Cohen, its Chief Risk Officer, to establish the facts
relevant to the writ application. Plaintiff has demonstrated an entitlement to
possession of the property claimed due to Defendant’s default under the Agreement and the probable
validity of Plaintiff's claims for breach of contract. (Cohen Decl. ¶¶ 3-19.)
The evidence demonstrates the existence of the Agreement between Plaintiff and
Defendant. (Cohen
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Additionally, Plaintiff has shown it is the legal owner of
the Vehicle. (Cohen Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 2.)
 
Plaintiff attests it has
performed all the conditions, covenants, and promises required under the terms
of the Agreement and Defendant defaulted in the terms, conditions, and
covenants of the Agreement by failing to make payment. (Cohen Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)
Plaintiff demanded Defendant return the vehicle, however Defendant refused. (Cohen Decl. ¶ 14.)
Plaintiff believes the vehicle is in the control and possession of Defendant
at any of the following locations: 
 
1.      429 N. Lincoln Street, Burbank, CA 91506
 
2.      11475 Penrose Street, North Hollywood, CA 91605
 
3.      11501 Strathern Street, North Hollywood, CA
91605 
 
4.      9500 Foothill Boulevard, Los Angeles (Shadow
Hills), CA 91040
 
(Cohen Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
The Plaintiff has demonstrated
it has been damaged by being deprived of possession of the vehicle.
 
Plaintiff has also provided
a particular description of the property and the value of the property. (Cohen Decl.
¶ 22.) Plaintiff has provided that the Vehicle has not been taken for
a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution
against the property of the plaintiff. (App. ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiff has met its
burden in demonstrating their entitlement to a writ of possession. As a
result, Plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an amount not less than
twice the value of the defendant's interest in the property or in a greater
amount” unless the court finds the defendant has no interest in the property. (C.C.P.
§§ 515.010(a) & (b).) “The value of the defendant's interest in the
property is determined by the market value of the property less the amount due
and owing on any conditional sales contract or security agreement and all liens
and encumbrances on the property, and any other factors necessary to determine
the defendant's interest in the property.” (Id.)
 
The Court finds Plaintiff
has NOT made a showing mandated by C.C.P. §512.010(b)(4), which mandates “a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
[at a specific location.].  The only
supporting evidence to support probable cause is a conclusory statement that,
“Plaintiff is informed and believes that the Truck is currently located at [one
of four location.”  However, the basis
for that belief is not set forth in the Cohen’s declaration.  Before law enforcement enter upon and seize
property on private property, that entry and search for the property must be
supported by probable cause, and not conclusory statements.
 
The approximate wholesale value
of the Vehicle is $113,500.00 while the approximate retail value is $144,675.00.
(Cohen Decl. ¶ 22, Exh. 3.) Plaintiff contends Defendant owes $275,825.36. (Cohen
Decl. ¶ 8.) Since Defendant owes more than the market value of
the Vehicle, they have no interest in the Vehicle pursuant
to C.C.P. § 515.010. The Court thus waives the requirement to file an
undertaking for Defendant’s interest. 
 
In the event that a
defendant has no interest in the property, C.C.P. § 515.010(b) requires the
Court include in the writ the amount of defendant’s undertaking sufficient to
satisfy C.C.P. § 515.020(b). C.C.P. § 515.020(b) permits the Court to determine
the amount to be posted for re-delivery when defendant is found to have no
interest in the property. Here, the Court finds a re-delivery bond of $150,000
to be reasonable. 
 
III.             
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed
Application for Writ of Possession is DENIED. The Court finds that Plaintiff
has NOT established and set forth probable cause to believe property is located
at one of four addreses.
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Crossroads Equipment
Lease and Finance, LLC’s Application for Writ of Possession came on regularly for hearing on December 8, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE APPLICATION
FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 8, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 