  Case Number:  20BBCV00536    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 8,
2023

MOTION FOR
ASSIGNMENT ORDER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 20BBCV00536

 



MP:  


Melissa Person (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On
September 3, 2020 Melissa Person (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Kenneth D.
Mathis (“Mathis”) and Forward Studio City, Inc. dba
Keller Williams Realty Studio City (“Keller Williams”). On November 17,
2022, Plaintiff filed a notice of settlement. On April 14, 2023, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s motion to enforce the conditions of the settlement
agreement (“Agreement”) and for entry of judgment against Mathis and Keller
Williams. 
 
On May
15, 2023, judgment was entered against Mathis in the amount of $30,000 and
against Keller Williams in the amount of $137,500. Additionally, $1,685 in
attorney’s fees were awarded against Mathis and Keller Williams jointly and
severally. 
 
On June
30, 2023, the Court granted a writ of execution in the amount of $32,141.68 as
to Mathis. 
 
Plaintiff
now requests an order from this Court assigning the rights to payments of real
estate salespersons commissions or other payments due/to become due to Mathis
from The Passman Group, Inc., 145 S. Fairfax Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90036
(“Passman Group”). Mathis does not oppose the motion. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under C.C.P.
§ 708.510(a), the Court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment
creditor or to an appointed receiver all or part of a right to payment due or
to become due. The types of payments that can be assigned include rents,
commissions, royalties, patent or copyright payments, and insurance policy loan
value. (C.C.P., § 708.510(a).)
 
Relevant
factors the Court may take into consideration when making an assignment order
include the judgment debtor's reasonable requirements if they are a natural
person, payments the judgment debtor is required to make to satisfy other
judgments and wage assignments, the amount remaining due on the judgment, and
the amount to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be
assigned. (C.C.P., § 708.510(c).)
 
Under C.C.P.
§ 708.510(d), the Court may order the assignment of property only to the extent
necessary to satisfy the money judgment. The motion must include sufficient
facts to permit the Court to make a determination that the payment is
assignable to the judgment creditor. (Kracht v. Perrin (1990) 219
Cal.App.3d 1019, 1023.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff submits that no
payments from Mathis have been made to the outstanding balance of the judgment.
(Engelhardt Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff states
the current amount due and owing is $33,303.20. (Id.) Plaintiff states Mathis
works as a real estate salesperson for the Passman Group and will continue to receive
sales commissions and other compensation from them. (Engelhardt Decl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff
states, on information and belief, that the right to these payments has not
otherwise been assigned. (Engelhardt Decl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff believes there is a
need to restrain Mathis from otherwise encumbering or assigning these payments.
(Engelhardt Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to
establish that Mathis may be receiving commission payments from Passman Group
pursuant to his employment with them as a real estate sales person. Mathis has
not filed an opposition contending otherwise nor has Mathis filed any claim
that any portion of the proceeds receivable by him from Passman Group are
exempt from attachment.
 
Accordingly,
the motion for an assignment order is GRANTED. Plaintiff is to submit a Proposed
Order forthwith for the Court’s signature. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Melissa Person’s
Motion for Assignment Order came on regularly for
hearing on December 8, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR ASSIGNMENT ORDER IS GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFF IS TO SUBMIT A PROPOSED ORDER FOR THE
COURT’S SIGNATURE.  
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: December
8, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 