 Case Number:  23BBCV01670    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 8,
2023

MOTION
TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01670

 



MP:  


Cloud9 Hookah Lounge, Inc.
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Deijae Malik Johnson (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Deijae Malik Johnson
(“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Cloud 9 Hookah Lounge, Inc. (“Cloud9”),
Burbank Holdings 2000 LLC, 17 & Christian Doe (collectively “Defendants”).
Plaintiff alleges that he was assaulted on Cloud9’s premises by a club
promoter, Christian Doe. Plaintiff alleges he sustained serious injuries from
the altercation. 
 
Cloud9 now moves to
strike portions of the Complaint which request punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes
the motion and Cloud9 replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) 
 
In granting a motion to strike made under
C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435
[notice of motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).)
Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the
claim or those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim.
(C.C.P. § 431.10.) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
In ruling
on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.) To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff
must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code §
3294. (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)
Per Civil Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294 (a).) As set forth in
the Civil Code:
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
 
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
 
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, (c)(1)-(3).)
 
Further,
a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a
defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice as there is a heightened
pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages. (See Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Cloud9 moves to strike the following portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint, stating they are unsupported by facts. 
 
1.     
Page 7, paragraph 35 in its entirety. 
2.     
Page 10, Prayer, paragraph 26 of the
Complaint in its entirety. 
3.     
Page 11, Prayer, paragraph 33 of the
Complaint in its entirety. 
4.     
Page 11, Prayer, paragraph 40 of the
Complaint in its entirety.
 
Paragraph 35 of the complaint is as follows: 
 
“The acts of
Defendants, and each of them, were done with reckless disregard for Plaintiff’s
safety and well-being within the meaning of California Civil Code section 3294,
and warrant an award of punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial”
 
The remaining sections Cloud9 seeks to strike are the
requests for punitive damages levied at all Defendants in the prayer for
relief. 
 
Cloud9 states the allegations directed at them in the
Complaint do not support a claim for punitive damages. Specifically, Cloud9
argues Plaintiff’s allegations of reckless disregard for Plaintiff’s safety are
conclusory and impermissible. Cloud9 argues Plaintiff does not allege any
course of conduct taken by Cloud9 that constitutes reckless disregard. Further,
Cloud9 also argues that the Complaint contains no allegations of the actual
knowledge by any of their officers or employees of the company. Cloud9 argues
that Plaintiff’s general allegations that Cloud9, the corporate entity, was
aware of the altercation is insufficient. 
 
Plaintiff first argues that the contents of Cloud9’s
demurrer constitutes new matter, raised for the first time in their motion to
strike. Plaintiff argues that they were unaware of Cloud9’s grievances because
the meet and confer efforts of Cloud9 did not specify the paragraphs which
would be the subject of the motion to strike. The Court finds this argument
unpersuasive. A review of the meet and confer letter sent to Plaintiff states
explicitly: 
 
“Plaintiff’s
complaint contains claims for punitive damages for each of the causes of
actions asserted (including those directed at our client). With respect to
those causes of action against our client, we contend that there are no factual
allegations which support the punitive damages claims. There is considerable
case law which supports the requirement that punitive damage claims must be
alleged with specificity” 
 
(Oppo. Exh. A.) 
 
The Court finds the above portion of the meet and confer
letter to be unambiguous as to which sections Cloud9 would seek to strike. It
is clear that Cloud9 takes issue with any punitive damages allegations leveled
against them. The fact that Cloud9 subsequently filed a motion to strike
seeking to strike the punitive damages allegations does not appear surprising
or indicative of new matter. 
 
Plaintiff next argues that he has sufficiently alleged
facts to support punitive damages claims against Christian Doe. The Court notes
that this question is not the subject of this motion. Cloud9 moves to strike
punitive damages allegations as against themselves, not strike them in their
entirety. 
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues he has alleged sufficient facts
establishing malice by a conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s safety by Cloud9.
The Complaint alleges Cloud9 had knowledge of the altercation and did nothing
to help Plaintiff combat the attack. (Compl. ¶ 11.) The Complaint goes on to
allege that Cloud9 allowed Christian Doe to remain on the premises and failed
to provide security measures. (Compl. ¶ 12.) Plaintiff argues these allegations
are sufficient to show Cloud9 authorized the wrongful act that harmed
plaintiff, citing to O’Hara v. Western Seven Trees Corp. 
 
The Court finds the citation to O’Hara to be
inapposite to the circumstances of this case. O’Hara concerned a claim
for punitive damages in which plaintiff alleged the failure of her apartment
complex to safeguard tenants. (O’Hara v. Western Seven Trees Corp.
(1977) 75 Cal. App. 3d 798, 802.) Plaintiff alleged individuals from the
management corporation failed to warn of repeated assaults at the complex,
failed to provide adequate security in light of the assaults, and actively
misrepresented the security measures in force at the complex. (Id. at
804.) The O’Hara court held that plaintiff had stated a claim for
punitive damages, finding she had alleged the active misrepresentations of
safety measures by persons who acted with the permission and consent of the
management company. (Id. at 806.) The Court also found that the
management company had advanced knowledge of a potential serious danger to the
plaintiff. (Id.) 
 
The Court first notes that O’Hara holding was made
in the context of a landlord’s duty to a tenant, a standard which is not
applicable here. Further, Plaintiff makes no specific factual representations
as to Cloud9’s prior knowledge of potential harm. Plaintiff alleges in
conclusory fashion that Cloud9 had this knowledge without any reference to
prior incidents involving Christian Doe, or any safety related incidents in
general. Lastly, Civil Code § 3294(b) requires that claims against corporate
employers must allege advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation. Here, Plaintiff has identified
no officer, director, or managing agent which had prior knowledge or otherwise
acted in a manner consistent with the granting of punitive damages. In short,
Plaintiff has not alleged Cloud9 authorized the actions of Christian Doe. 
 
As such, the Court finds the Complaint lacks the factual
allegations required to support its claims for punitive damages against Cloud9.
The Court does find it possible that the Plaintiff could amend his Complaint to
add such facts. Accordingly, the motion to strike the punitive damages claims
against Cloud9 is GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Cloud9 Hookah Lounge,
Inc.’s Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing
on December 8, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order
for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then
and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
AMENDED PLEADINGS ARE DUE WITHIN 20 DAYS. 
 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE AND OSC RE PROOF
OF SERVICE SCHEDULED FOR 12/27/23 ARE ADVANCED AND CONTINUED TO FEBRUARY 20,
2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CLOUD9 TO PROVIDE
NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 8, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 