 Case Number:  23BBCV00407    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 8,
2023

MOTIONS
TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00407

 



MP:  


10415
  Commerce, LLC (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
10415 Commerce, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
brings this action against Hratchia Bardakjian (“Defendant”). Plaintiff claims
Defendant prevented entry to properties owned by Plaintiff at 703 and 707 E.
Angeleno Ave., Burbank, CA 91501 (the “Property”) thereby leading to waste. Plaintiff’s
principal is Arman Yegiyants (“Yegiyants”) with whom Defendant has had a long
running business dispute. This is one of many cases relating to the prior
business relationship of Defendant and Yegiyants. 
Before the Court is a motion
to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories. Plaintiff
seeks an order compelling further response to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1,
which reads as follows: 
Identify each denial of a material
allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your pleadings and for
each: 
(a) state all facts upon which you
base the denial or special or affirmative defense; 
(b) state the names, ADDRESSES,
and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and 
(c) identify all DOCUMENTS and
other tangible things that support your denial or special or affirmative
defense, and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who
has each DOCUMENT.
Defendant has rendered no opposition to
this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
  
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff states
they served their Form Interrogatories on Defendant on June 15, 2023. (Gamzo
Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff granted Defendant an extension to reply to these
requests to August 1, 2023. (Gamzo Decl. ¶ 3.) On August 15, 2023,
Defendant served their discovery responses on Plaintiff. (Gamzo Decl.
¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel thereafter attempted to meet and confer
regarding what Plaintiff perceived as a deficient response to Form
Interrogatory 15.1. (Gamzo Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant agreed to supplement the
responses thereafter, but no supplemental responses were ever received by
Plaintiff. (Gamzo Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
Plaintiff argues
that further production is required in response to Form Interrogatory 15.1
because Plaintiff’s response is incomplete. Defendant did not identify any
information responsive to the denial in his pleadings, only information
responsive to the affirmative defenses. (See Gamzo Decl., Exh. 5.)
 
The Court notes
that Defendant has rendered no opposition to this motion. A failure to oppose a
motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (California Rules
of Court, Rule 8.54(c).) 
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff has shown good cause of ordering further production. The information
concerning Defendant’s general denial in his Answer is most certainly relevant to
the prosecution of this action. The Court agrees that the current responses to
Form Interrogatory 15.1 are incomplete are require supplementing to be fully
responsive to the request. 
 
Accordingly, the
unopposed motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatory 15.1 is
GRANTED. 
 
As concerns motions to compel, the law only requires
sanctions in the event that a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response. (C.C.P. § 2033.290(d), C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) As such,
any monetary sanctions granted are within the discretionary power of the Court
as per C.C.P. § 2030.290. As per C.C.P. § 2023.010(d), failure to respond
constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. Additionally, it is customary to
grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel, and the other party
fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
The Court finds
sanctions would ordinarily be in order as a result of Defendant’s failure to
oppose this motion. Plaintiff’s counsel submits information regarding their
hourly rate, $325, but submits no information as to the amount of hours
expended in preparing the motion. Plaintiff’s counsel only attests that they “…have
incurred, and expect to incur, in excess of $1,000 of attorney time.” (Gamzo
Decl. ¶ 9.) The Court is unable to determine from this statement the
amount of work expended in preparing the unopposed motion and thus cannot determine
the amount of sanctions to issue.
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
10415 Commerce, LLC’s
Motion to Comple Further
Responses came on
regularly for hearing on December 8, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION IS GRANTED. 
 
FURTHER
PRODUCTION IS ORDERED TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
THE COURT
DECLINES TO ISSUE SANCTIONS. 
 
THE COURT
SCHEDULES A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE FOR MARCH 28, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO PROVIDE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.  
 
DATE: December
8, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 