 Case Number:  23BBCV01098    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 8,
2023

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01098

 



MP:  


Erika Gomez Sandoval (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
  (Defendant) 



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Erika Gomez Sandoval (“Plaintiff”) brings
this action against American Honda Motor
Co., Inc.  (“Honda”) for alleged violation of the Song
Beverly Act. Plaintiff alleges Honda sold her a defective 2018 Honda Odyssey
(“Subject Vehicle”). Specifically, Plaintiff alleges the Subject Vehicle hesitates
and jerks on acceleration. 
 
Plaintiff
now moves to compel further responses to her Request for the Production of
Documents (“RFPD”). Plaintiff requests that the Court
issue an order compelling Honda’s response to Plaintiff’s RFPD Nos. 1-32,
with the exception of request No. 10 which was withdrawn without prejudice.
Honda opposes the motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents
may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2)
inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
"The
court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden,
expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood
that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence." (C.C.P. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of
burden require the objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding
party's subjective intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort
it would take to respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)
However, no such evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad
on its face. (See Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424,
431.)  
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet
and Confer

 
Upon review,
the Court finds the meet and confer efforts sufficient. (Tran Decl. ¶ 9, Exhs.
C-D.)
 
RFPD
Nos. 1-5, 9-12, 14-15
 
In
response to these requests Honda provided the following documents: 
 
·        
The non-confidential portion of the service records received
from Galpin Honda and Ocean Honda of North Hollywood, business entities
separate from and independent of AHM, 
 
·        
The non-confidential Warranty History, a copy of the 2019
Honda Odyssey Warranty Booklet, 
 
·        
a copy of the 2019 Honda Consumer Information Booklet, 
 
·        
a copy of the 2019 Honda Odyssey Owner's Manual, and the
non-confidential portion of the ACS file. 
 
·        
The confidential portion of the service records received
from Galpin Honda and Ocean Honda of North Hollywood, 
 
·        
the confidential portion of the ACS file, 
 
·        
the Traffic Documents, 
 
·        
Warranty Registration, 
 
·        
confidential Warranty History, 
 
·        
CRRS Reports, which contain information that is
confidential, commercially sensitive, proprietary and/or trade secret, pursuant
to the entry of an appropriate protective order
 
In addition, Honda’s
production was accompanied by the assertion of various boilerplate objections
on grounds of being overbroad, ambiguous, and irrelevant. 
 
To determine whether further
responses can be compelled the Court must first determine if Plaintiff has
shown good cause. The Court notes Plaintiff’s argument in both their motion and
their separate statement does not address the production already made and why
this production is insufficient in response. Plaintiff’s argument on motion
with respect to each of these RFPD is the same, that the documents sought are
relevant to their case. Without further information from Plaintiff as to how
the current production is insufficient the Plaintiff has failed to meet the
statutory burden.  As such, the Court
finds Plaintiff has not shown good cause for further production. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel further responses to RFPD Nos. 1-5, 9-12, 14-15 is DENIED. 
 
RFPD Nos. 6-8, 13, 16-29,
30 and 32 

Honda responded to each of these
requests stating that they were unable to find responsive documents after
diligent search, most often accompanied by the statement that the responsive
documents were likely in possession of the dealership. In addition, Honda’s
statement of inability to comply was accompanied by the assertion of various
boilerplate objections on grounds of being overbroad, ambiguous, and
irrelevant. 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
motion similarly lacks any substantive argument as to Honda’s statement of
inability to comply. Plaintiff does not address Honda’s statement or provide
any argument as to why Honda would actually be in possession of these documents.
As such, the Court finds Plaintiff has not shown good cause for further
production. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel further responses to RFPD Nos. 6-8, 13, 16-29, 30 and 32 is DENIED. 
 
RFPD No. 31
 
RFPD No. 31 appears to be
the actual impetus for this motion. The request is as follows: 
 
All DOCUMENTS, in the form of a list or compilation, of other
Customer Complaints in YOUR electronically stored information of database(s)
that are SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR to complaints made by Plaintiffs with respect to
the SUBJECT VEHICLE in other 2018 Honda Odyssey vehicles.
 
Plaintiff states the
existence of potential complaints about vehicles of the same make, model, and
year to manufacturer are probative of whether Honda’s refusal to repurchase the
vehicle was “willful” as required by Song-Beverly. Plaintiff argues this
potential probative value creates good cause for her request. The Court agrees.
Plaintiff’s request relates directly to Honda’s investigation, analysis, and
communications regarding the same defects or same parts as the subject vehicle.

 
If good cause is shown by
the moving party, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any
objections made to disclosure of the documents.  Honda objects to the RFPD on various grounds.
The Court will address them in turn. 
 
Honda first objects to this
request on grounds the terms are vague and ambiguous. The Court finds
Plaintiff’s request is not vague and ambiguous as they contain clear parameters
as to the vehicles and defects the request concerns. The request defines
“Substantially Similar” as “similar customer complaint that would be the same
nature of the reported system, malfunction, trouble code, Technical Service
Bulletin Recommendation, dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a
repair problem, as description listed in any warranty summary or repair order
for the Subject Vehicle”. (RFPD No. 31.)  It also includes clarification that the request
is not seeking routine or scheduled maintenance items. (Id.) Honda
provides no substantive argument as to how this request does not adequately
describe the category of documents to be produced. 
 
Honda also objects on
grounds the request is overbroad and seek documents that are irrelevant and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence because
they are not limited to the vehicle at issue in this action. 
 
In the discovery context,
information is relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating
its case, preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement. Admissibility is
not the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might
reasonably lead to admissible evidence.” (Lipton
v. Superior Court (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611-1612 [citations omitted].) It
must be noted that discovery rules are to be applied liberally “and (contrary
to popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.” (Cruz
v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653-654.) 
 
Evidence regarding other
vehicles with similar defects as Plaintiff’s has been founds to potentially be
admissible at trial in a lemon law action. (Donlen v. Ford
Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154; see also Doppes v.
Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 971.) The Court disagrees
with Honda’s argument that Donlen is irrelevant to the issue of
discoverability. (Oppo. pg. 7.). While Donlen does not specifically
address the scope of discovery requests, it does concern the admissibility of
evidence of defects in similar vehicles. It follows that if evidence of a type
is admissible then it must also be discoverable.
 
Honda also objects on
grounds the request is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be
unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the
amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the
litigation. However, Honda fails to substantiate any objection based on undue
burden. Undue burden objections must be accompanied by a specific factual
showing setting forth the amount of work necessary to respond to the subject
discovery. (West Pico Furniture
Co. v. Superior Court supra, 56
Cal.2d 407, at 417-418.) Honda has made no such
showing. 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff
has shown good cause for further production in reference to RFPD No. 31. Further,
the Court finds Honda’s has not substantiated any of its objections to
production. Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses is GRANTED as
to RFPD No. 31. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Erika Gomez Sandoval’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses came on regularly
for hearing on December 8, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS
GRANTED IN PART, AS TO RFPD NO. 31 AND DENIED AS TO ALL OTHERS.
 
PRODUCTION IS TO BE MADE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: December
8, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 