  Case Number:  20STCV00805    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JNP ENTERPRISE, INC., a California corporation; EILEEN PANOSIAN,
  an individual ARMEN PANOSIAN, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
SUZANNE YEE, an individual; ELENA CHANG, an individual; ROBERT
  IP, an individual, RT PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SERVICES CORP., a California
  corporation; AM TRUST FINACIAL, INC. a New York corporation; SECRITY NATIONAL
  INSURANCE COMPANY, a Texas corporation, LEGACY REALTY ADVISORY, INC., a
  California Company, and DOES 3-20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 Case No.:          20STCV00805
 Hearing Date:   October
  4, 2024
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion Contesting
  Application for Good Faith Settlement



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs JNP Enterprise, Inc.,
Eileen Panosian, and Armen Panosian (Plaintiffs, also Cross-Defendants) sue
Defendants Suzanne Yee, Elena Chang, Robert Ip, RT Property Management Services
Corp., (Landlord Defendants) Am Trust Financial, Inc., Security National
Insurance Company, and Does 2 to 20 (Defendants) pursuant to a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of (1) Negligence – Premises Liability, (2)
Breach of Contract, (3) Negligent Misrepresentation, (4) Fraud in the
Inducement, (5) Nuisance, (6) Breach of Contract, and (7) Breach of Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing. 
The claims are grounded in
allegations that Plaintiffs rented from the Landlord Defendants commercial real
property located at 2498 Colorado Blvd., Pasadena, CA 91107 (Subject Property),
from which Plaintiffs operated a dry cleaning business, and that, due to the
Landlord Defendants’ negligent maintenance of the roof on the Subject Property,
during a time of heavy rains, the roof collected and pooled a heavy amount of
rainwater, later collapsing on January 17, 2019 and pouring rainwater into the
bathroom, attic, and other work areas of Plaintiffs’ business, destroying two
pressing machines and causing significant water damage that led to mold, as
well as a total loss of most of Plaintiffs’ equipment and loss of business.
Landlord Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Susanne Yee, Elena Chang, Robert Ip, and RT Property Management Services Corp.
in turn sue Plaintiffs JNP Enterprise and Eileen and Armen Panosian pursuant to
a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC) alleging claims of (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (3)
Loss Rents, (4) Negligence – Premises Liability, (5) Equitable Indemnity, (6)
Apportionment and Contribution, (7) Comparative Fault of Plaintiff, and (8)
Declaratory Relief. The claims are based, in part, on allegations that
Plaintiffs made structural alterations or utility installation to the Subject
Property—including roof penetrations, installation of equipment on the roof,
ceiling punctures, and removal of existing windows—as well as Plaintiffs’
failure to pay rent on the Subject Property between November 2019 and November
2020.
B. Motion Before the Court
On June 5, 2024, Defendant Security
National Insurance Company (Security National) filed an application for determination
of good faith of a settlement entered with Plaintiff. Security National agreed
to pay Plaintiffs $47,500 for a full and final settlement and a dismissal of
the action with prejudice. 
On June 25, 2024, Landlord Defendants
Suzanne Yee, Elena Chang, Robert Ip, RT Property Management Services Corp., and
Legacy Realty Advisory, Inc filed the instant motion to contest Security
National’s Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. 
Landlord Defendants contest Security
National’s Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement on the
grounds that the settlement entered between Security National and Plaintiffs was
not made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6 subd. (a)(2); Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assoc. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 (Tech-Bilt).)
The Landlord Defendants argue that the Plaintiffs are settling for a fraction
of their alleged damages and Security National’s liability is far greater than
the settlement amount.  
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
California Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6, subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion,
“[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are
joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall
be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors
. . . .” “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in good
faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).)
Although a determination that a settlement was in good faith does not discharge
any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others
in the amount stipulated” by the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877, subd.
(a).) 
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt,
Inc.), the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive
factors courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith
under section 877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and
the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a
settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable
after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions
and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants.” 
“The party asserting the lack of
good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)),
should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far
‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with
the equitable objectives of the statute. Such a demonstration would establish
that the proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within
the terms of section 877.6.” (Id. at pp. 499-500.) 
B. Analysis
The Landlord Defendants argue that
the Plaintiffs, as tenants, were obligated to maintain an insurance policy and
name the Landlord Defendants as an additional insured. They argue that
Plaintiffs’ failure to hold Security National accountable puts them at risk for
damages that are not their responsibility. (Mot. p. 8.) The Landlord Defendants
argue that the settlement is disproportionate to National Security’s potential
liability because the Plaintiffs allege damages exceeding $1,000,000.00 but
have agreed to settle with National Security for only $47,500.00. Further, the
Landlord Defendants argue that they are unable to fully evaluate all the Tech-Bilt
factors because Security National did not attach a copy of the settlement
agreement to the application. 
Security National argues that the Landlord
Defendants are included as additional insureds under a “Blanket Additional
Insured Endorsement” to the insurance policy, but that critically, the
insurance policy does not provide coverage for the claim at issue. (Garcia
Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1, National Security Policy) Under the insurance policy,
“managers, owners, or lessors of premises or land” are included as additional
insureds. (Garcia Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1, National Security
Policy, “Blanket Additional Insured Endorsement”.) The insurance policy
also does not cover loss or damage caused by or resulting from rain, a quality
in the property that causes it to damage itself, or negligent maintenance.
(Opp. pp. 3-4, Garcia Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 3, p. 2.) 
Security National argues that, with
respect to the first two Tech-Bilt factors, the settlement, the
Plaintiffs’ maximum potential recovery from Security National is the $300,000
policy limit. The $47,500 settlement agreement is reasonable considering the
coverage exclusions in the insurance policy. (Opp. p. 7; see also Garcia Decl.
¶ 2, Ex. 1, National Security Policy, “Property Coverage Limits of Insurance”
[stating that the limit of insurance is $300,000]; see also Garcia Decl. ¶ 3,
Ex. 3, p. 2 [relevant policy exclusions related to the claim].) 
Regarding the third Tech-Bilt
factor, as Plaintiff JNP Enterprise is a California corporation whose chief
executive is Plaintiff Eileen Panosian, the spouse of Plaintiff Armen Panosian,
there is no issue concerning allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs.
Security National argues that the
fourth Tech-Bilt factor, recognizing that a settlor should pay
less in settlement than it would if it were found liable after a trial, “militates
in favor of Security National in light of the fact that it has no liability in
this matter.” (Opp. p. 7:13-14.)  
As to the fifth and sixth Tech-Bilt
factors, financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants, Security National argues that these are non-issues “because its
liability is limited to the above-discussed $300,000 policy limit.” (Opp. p.
7:15-16.)  
            Finally,
Security National argues that there is no collusion intended to harm the Landlord
Defendants because the claim is not actually covered under the insurance
policy. 
            The Landlord
Defendants argue that there is evidence of collusion because Security National
did not notify them that the coverage had been denied. However, they do not
provide any authority that indicates that Security National was obligated to do
so simply because the Landlord Defendants owned the property, where Plaintiffs
were the policy holders and Plaintiffs submitted the insurance claim. Additionally,
Security National’s failure to provide the Landlord Defendants with notice of
the denial at the time the claim was denied in September 2019, does not
indicate that Security National and Plaintiffs colluded to injure the Landlord
Defendants interests. 
Accordingly, the Landlord
Defendants have failed
to meet their burden to provide enough evidence to show that the settlement was
not entered in good faith. 
III. Conclusion
Therefore, the motion to Contest Application for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement is DENIED. 