 Case Number:  22AHCV01410    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ZVI KRIPLE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HOLLY
   HAWK,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV01410
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   18, 2024



 
On April 5,
 2024, plaintiff Zvi Kriple (“Plaintiff”) filed this motion
for an order compelling defendant Holly Hawk (“Defendant”) to serve responses
to Form Interrogatories – General (Set One). The motion was originally
scheduled to be heard on July 25, 2024, and prior to this hearing, the Court
issued a tentative ruling denying the motion and the request for sanctions on
the grounds that the proof of service for the Form Interrogatories was
incomplete because it did not identify the date the Form Interrogatories were
served, despite the proof of service being executed on December 5, 2023. The
Court then continued the hearing to allow Plaintiff to file a response to the
tentative ruling.
On July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a response
as well as a declaration from Louis Francis explaining that a copy of the
motion was served by mail on April 5, 2024. 
The Court’s previous tentative ruling
denied Plaintiff’s motion because there was no evidence when the form
interrogatories were served. Item 3.c. in the proof of service signed by Louis
Francis on December 5, 2023, is blank. The affidavit signed by Plaintiff on
April 5, 2024, states that “[o]n date I served my Special/Form Interrogatories.”

The Court still has no evidence of when
the form interrogatories were actually served on Defendant. There was never an
issue with the service of the motion. Therefore, the recent filings from
Plaintiff and Mr. Francis attesting that the motion to compel was served on
April 5, 2024, and attaching the proof of service for the motion to compel, are
unavailing. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion and
request for sanctions are DENIED without prejudice. If Plaintiff can show that
the form interrogatories were served on Defendant and that Defendant failed to
respond within the timeframe to do so, Plaintiff may bring a renewed motion to
compel a response. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 18th
day of September 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as he final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 