 Case Number:  23AHCV02969    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YIHSUAN WU, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ZHUMING
   ZHANG,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02969
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT ZHUMING ZHANG’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE
   PLEADINGS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   18, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On December 22, 2023, plaintiff Yihsuan
Wu (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Zhuming Zhang
(“Defendant”). Defendant filed an answer on May 13, 2024, and subsequently
filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings on August 7, 2024. 
Plaintiff attempted to file an amended
complaint on August 15, 2024, which was rejected because she did not obtain
leave of court. Plaintiff did not oppose Defendant’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A defendant may move for judgment on
the pleadings on the grounds that the complaint “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) The grounds for motion provided for in this
section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
438, subd. (d).) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Form complaints must contain material
facts essential to state a cause of action and include the mandatory
attachments. (See People ex rel. Dept. of Transp. v. Superior Court
(1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1484.)
Plaintiff’s form complaint fails to
state a cause of action because the necessary attachment for the purported
cause of action, intentional tort, is not included and Plaintiff otherwise
pleads no facts in support of her complaint. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend.
 
Dated
this 18th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 