On May 31, 2022, Plaintiff Suny Khurana filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Guy Giat and S Visions Construction, Inc. for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of contract, (3) disgorgement, (4) common counts, and (5) conversion.  The allegations of the FAC are as follows.  Plaintiff entered into two contracts with Defendants, who were unlicensed contractors, for electrical work at Plaintiff’s residence.  For one contract (second cause of action), Defendants did not properly complete the work such that Plaintiff was forced to hire another contractor to remedy Defendants’ work.  For the other contract (first cause of action), Defendants took Plaintiff’s money, but refused to commence work.  Motion to Bifurcate Defendants Guy Giat and S Visions Construction, Inc. seek to bifurcate trial and have the following issues as initial phases to the trial: 1. Are Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants barred by the Settlement Agreement and General Release dated November 23, 2021; and 2. Are Defendants licensed contractors with the California State Contractor’s License Board.  Defendants also move for an order to bifurcate trial of punitive damages. “Whether separate actions shall be consolidated for trial, or whether there shall be a severance and separate trials of issues in a single action, is within the discretion of the trial court.”  (Mellone v. Lewis (1965) 233 Cal.App.2d 4, 7, quoting McArther v. Shaffer (1943) 59 Cal.App.2d 724, 727.)  The objectives of bifurcated trials are to “expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence” (Foreman & Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888), and “avoidance of the waste of time and money caused by the unnecessary trial of damage questions in cases where the liability issue was resolved against the plaintiff.”  (Plaza Tulare v. Tradewell Stores, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 522, 524.)The Motion is granted as to punitive damages.  (See Civil Code § 3295(d).)On the other hand, the Court, in the exercise of its discretion, denies the Motion with respect to the issues of the release and Defendants’ licensing status.Thus, the Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.Motion to Seal Defendants also seek to seal certain portions of the above motion to bifurcate.  They contend the sealing is directed at information derived from a settlement agreement between the parties that has a confidentiality provision.  Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to public review.  (Cal. Rules of Court 2.550(c); see also Cal. Const., art. I, § 3, subd. (b)(1) [“The people have the right of access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business”].)  “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)The Court finds that there is an overriding confidentiality interest with respect to the settlement agreement; if there is not a sealing order, the parties could be affected in detrimental fashion; the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored to the extent it only relates to portions of documents referencing the sensitive content at issue; and no less restrictive means exist to protect the confidentiality interests at issue.Thus, the Motion to Seal is granted.  For future hearings, all sealed documents in this matter are to be emailed to the Court’s research attorney at cmoslemi@lacourt.org.  Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.