 This is an action in which Plaintiff Hennig, Kramer, Ruiz & Singh, LLP, Defendant Wendy Seretan’s former attorney, claims that Defendant failed to compensate Plaintiff after Plaintiff was able to settle Defendant’s case.  On April 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Complaint asserting claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) conversion, (4) quantum meruit, and (5) unjust enrichment.MJOPDefendant now brings a motion for judgment on the pleadings with respect to the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts.  “A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings on the ground that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against that defendant. A motion for judgment on the pleadings ‘is equivalent to a demurrer . . . .’ Leave to amend ‘is properly denied if the facts and nature of plaintiffs’ claims are clear and under the substantive law, no liability exists.’ ”  (Templo v. State¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 730, 735.)   Defendant argues that the breach of contract claim fails because there was a contingency agreement between the parties; that agreement provides that the attorney obtains nothing if there is no recovery; and Plaintiff withdrew as counsel for Defendant before Defendant moved to enforce her settlement under Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6.  That is, Defendant contends that Plaintiff abandoned her before there was a recovery such that Plaintiff is entitled to nothing.  The subject agreement, however, does not specifically mention the result when the attorney withdraws.  Moreover, that Plaintiff filed a motion to be relieved as counsel is not determinative.  Indeed, the subject retainer agreement contemplates a recovery if “the client fails to cooperate” and, here, the Complaint alleges that there was an impasse with respect to negotiating a long-form settlement agreement, which caused Defendant to desire other counsel.   When the client “fails to cooperate”, there is a conversion clause that requires an hourly fee if there is any collection in the underlying matter.  Defendant contends this clause is void and ethically barred.  This determination, however, cannot be made at this time because the State Bar indicates that “whether a conversion clause is ethically permissible must be carefully evaluated on a case-by-case basis.”  This is a factual determination.    Further, the equitable claims merely serve as alternative theories should there be some invalidity with the retainer agreement, as Defendant seems to assert with respect to the conversion clause.The Complaint adequately alleges that Plaintiff is entitled to a reasonable fee—whether that is through contract or equity remains to be seen.  This negates Defendant’s unclean hands defense that also incorrectly asserts that Plaintiff forfeited all fees simply by withdrawing as counsel.   Finally, “a client may be liable to an attorney for conversion of attorney fees received as part of a settlement, where a lien established the attorney's ownership of the fees in question.”  (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1152; see also Weiss v. Marcus (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 590, 599.) Thus, the Motion is denied.Protective OrderDefendant also seeks a protective order requiring that her deposition be taken remotely because she fears Rob Hennig.  Defendant states, “The last time that I saw Mr. Hennig in person, was at the Mandatory Settlement Conference on March 4, 2020. At that meeting, Mr. Hennig lunged across the table at me and yelled into my face. I am in fear for my mental and physical health to appear in-person for my deposition. . . . Mr. Hennig has made several rude and threatening remarks to me since the time he represented me as counsel and through today, including direct attacks on the state of my mental health, which were extremely offensive and hurtful to me. . . . On September 28, 2020, Mr. Hennig sent me an email stating, ‘To the extent paranoia may be manifesting in your life, I also have a professional obligation to encourage you to seek help from a mental health professional.’ ” Hennig denies that he has ever acted in a threatening manner; claims a right to an in-person deposition; and asserts that Defendant merely suffers from ordinary anxiety associated with litigation.Good cause must be shown for the protective order, and the issuance and formulation of the protective order are within the Court’s discretion.  (See, e.g., Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 106-7; Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.) The Court has considered the matter and, in the exercise of its discretion, will require a remote deposition.  The deposition shall take place within 20 days.  The Motion is granted as set forth herein.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 