 Case Number:  23STCV24029    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-31-24
Case
#23STCV24029
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
PRO HAC VICE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Rosenthal & Rosenthal of California, Inc. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Limelight International, Ltd., et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Pro Hac Vice Admission
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Limelight International Ltd., (Limelight) a Hong Kong based company authorized
to conduct business in California alleges an unspecified, defaulted balance
owed by defendant RLoom LLC (RLoom) in 2022. On February 8, 2023, RLoom and
defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC (D. Masin), executed a “General Assignment
for the Benefit of All Creditors,” whereby all assets were subject to
liquidation for payment of outstanding debts. Limelight maintains an asset
value of at least $9,000,000. Concurrent with the General Assignment, D. Masin
entered into an “Asset Purchase Agreement,” whereby the assets were sold from
RLoom to RLoom Design Corp. for $365,000. 
 
On
March 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed its complaint for Malicious Prosecution,
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding
and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer
Property. Following certain defendants answer to the complaint, the parties
stipulated to the filing of a first amended complaint. The first amended
complaint filed on January 3, 2024 alleges Malicious Prosecution, Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding and Abetting
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property.
 
RULING: Granted
Defendant Rosenthal & Rosenthal of California, Inc.
(Rosenthal) moves for pro hac vice admission of attorneys Alexandra
Cosio-Marron and Adam Silverstein. The court jointly considers both
applications in a single order. Rosenthal is only named a defendant in the
Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary cause of action. 
 
Pro hac vice admission in California is governed by
California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40.  To
be admitted pro hac vice, one must be “a member in
good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any United States
court or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular possession of
the United States.”  (California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).)  However,
in no case shall an attorney appear pro hac vice if the attorney is a resident
of California, regularly employed in California, or “regularly
engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State
of California.”
 
An attorney seeking pro hac vice
admission must file a verified application in both court and the State Bar of
California establishing:
 
(1) [t]he applicant's residence and office address; (2)[t]he courts to which the applicant has been admitted to
practice and the dates of admission; (3)[t]hat the applicant is a member in good standing in those
courts; (4)[t]hat the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court; (5)[t]he title of court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the
date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6)[t]he name, address, and telephone number of the active
member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
 
(California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
The applications comply with California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40. Neither attorney previously applied for pro hac vice admission in the
state of California within the least the last two years.  Both attorneys also include copies of proof of
payment to the California State Bar on December 21, 2023.
 
The applications for pro hac vice admission is granted. 
 
Demurrers and Case Management Conference set for February 13
and 20, 2024, respectively. The court continues the demurrer of D. Masin
Consulting, LLC, scheduled for February 13, 2024, to be heard concurrently with
the demurrer of Rosenthal on February 20, 2024, as well as the Case Management
Conference. 
 
Rosenthal & Rosenthal of California, Inc. to give
notice.
 