This is a personal injury action.  Plaintiff Hyeonju Lee was a passenger in a car driven by Defendant David Floresmanzanares that collided with another vehicle driven by Defendant Joseph Reyes.  At the time of the incident, Plaintiff was using services provided by the Uber application.  Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) seeks to compel arbitration of this matter on the basis that Plaintiff accepted several iterations of Defendant’s terms of services that included an arbitration agreement.  Plaintiff argues that (1) the subject arbitration agreement is unconscionable and (2) the FAA does not apply.Reyes argues that Uber has failed to show an agreement to arbitrate with Reyes specifically.  The latest terms of service that Plaintiff allegedly accepted includes a delegation clause.  Parties to an arbitration agreement may agree to delegate to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding the enforceability of the agreement.”  (Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 239.)   “There are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable. [Citation.] Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.”  (Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891-892.)  Here, the language of the delegation clause is clear and unmistakable: “Only an arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local court or agency, shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute arising out of or relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability, or formation of this Arbitration Agreement, including without limitation any claim that all or any part of this Arbitration Agreement is void or voidable. An arbitrator shall also have exclusive authority to resolve all threshold arbitrability issues, including issues relating to whether these Terms are applicable, unconscionable, or illusory and any defense to arbitration, including without limitation waiver, delay, laches, or estoppel.”Further, Plaintiff has failed to establish the substantive unconscionability of the delegation clause itself.Reyes will not be subject to arbitration because no agreement to arbitrate would seem to encompass his dispute.  The Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.  The arbitrator is to determine arbitrability.  This action is stayed, including as to Reyes, pending the resolution of arbitration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.)    Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 