On May 5, 2022, Plaintiff Robert H. Feldman filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants 13012 Valleyheart Homeowners Association, Inc., Daryn Wood, Matthew Ferrone, and Millenium Air, Inc. for (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Injunctive Relief; (3) Breach of Contract; (4) Violation of Civil Code Section 4775; (5) Private Nuisance; (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”); (7) Trespass to Property; (8) Age Discrimination; (9) Discrimination based on Religious Status; (10) Discrimination based on Disability; (11) Battery; (12) Negligence; and (13) Negligence.  Plaintiff alleges that he owns a condominium unit and that Defendants, who are the HOA for Plaintiff’s property and its board members, failed to properly assess whether the property required repairs, failed to complete adequate repairs (for example, to gutters, water valves, garage lights, and security cameras), and retaliated against Plaintiff for his management complaints by, among other things, tampering with his air conditioning and exposing him to toxic chemicals.  Defendants 13012 Valleyheart Homeowners Association, Inc., Daryn Wood, and Matthew Ferrone now seek summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of all causes of action.  Plaintiff filed an Opposition on June 26, 2024.Defendants did not file a reply.The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Declaratory Relief; Injunctive Relief; Breach of Contract; & Violation of Civ. Code § 4775 Defendants argue that the declaratory relief, contract, injunction, and Civ. Code § 4775 claims fail for a multitude of reasons: “Plaintiff cannot establish that Valleyheart has not properly discharged its duties, pursuant to the CC&Rs and applicable statutes. For example, Plaintiff is seeking a mandatory injunction requiring Valleyheart to conduct an investigation to determine if the previously installed gutter system and lighting system are efficient. However, the gutter system is identical to the previous one, there have been no issues or flooding since it was replaced, and the Property has not diminished in value as a result of the gutter system. (UMF 14, 15, 16, 17.) Regardless, rainfall never even entered Plaintiff’s unit or damaged Plaintiff’s unit or the Property. (UMF 10, 11.) Furthermore, Plaintiff’s only complaint regarding the lighting is that they are on motion sensors. (UMF 34.) Plaintiff is also seeking a Court order for Valleyheart to provide instructions on how to access the security cameras, but he admits he was already told how to do so, and to inspect the Property’s water pressure, even though this was already done too. (UMF 23, 24, 32, 33.) Plaintiff’s water-shut off valve has also already been replaced. (UMF 23.) Pursuant to the CC&Rs and the By-Laws of Valleyheart, Wood and Valleyheart are allowed to perform construction at the Property. (UMF 6, 7.) Plaintiff is demanding that the Valleyheart investigate, to determine if Wood performed construction work during ‘quiet’ hours, without any basis whatsoever because plaintiff has never even witnessed Wood perform any construction work inside Wood’s unit and has never determined the source of any alleged noises at the Property. (UMF 35, 36, 37.) Nonetheless, Valleyheart has not permitted any homeowners to engage in construction activities during ‘quiet time’ hours, and Valleyheart has responded to and investigated any noise complaints. (UMF 39, 40.) Lastly, Plaintiff’s only complaint regarding the windows and skylights at the Property are that the windows are all not the same color and that the skylights at the Property are opaque, but Plaintiff cannot establish these windows or skylights violate the CC&Rs.” At the very least, there is a factual dispute on these claims to the extent that Defendants’ plumber found that the subject property’s water pressure was 85 psi while Plaintiff points to the Uniform Plumbing Code and the advice of his plumber that pressure above 80 psi will lead to plumbing system failure.  Again, no reply was filed.Private Nuisance & TrespassThe elements for a nuisance claim are as follows: “First, the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his property. [] Second, the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land [must be] substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage. [] Third, [t]he interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable’ [citation], i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.”  (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262–63 (internal quotation marks omitted).)“The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant's intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm.”  (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.)“Trespass may be ‘ “by personal intrusion of the wrongdoer or by his failure to leave; by throwing or placing something on the land; or by causing the entry of some other person.” ’ A trespass may be on the surface of the land, above it, or below it. The migration of pollutants from one property to another may constitute a trespass, a nuisance, or both.”  (Martin Marietta Corp. v. Insurance Co. of North America (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1132.)Defendants argue that “Plaintiff cannot establish any substantial or unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of his unit. For instance, Plaintiff complains of a neighbor performing construction, his balcony railing being repainted, an exterminator spraying pesticides, construction materials in his parking space for one night, a neighbor watering his plants, and rainwater falling on his window that never entered or damaged his unit. Plaintiff’s purported grievances are not substantial, as they are simply aspects of living in a community at worst. While Plaintiff may personally feel his gripes are insufferable, any normal, reasonable condominium owner would expect to encounter these common inconveniences.”There are factual disputes to the extent that Plaintiff indicates that “for a period of several years, Wood used hammers and power tools to create loud noise in the common wall he shares with Mr. Feldman, often during designated ‘quiet time;’ . . . Wood and Ferrone painted Mr. Feldman’s balcony against his express wishes and his exposure to the paint made his skin cancer worse; (5) Ferrone overwatered Mr. Feldman’s plants; (6) Wood and Ferrone hired Millennium to tamper with Mr. Feldman’s AC unit; and (7) Wood placed construction materials in Mr. Feldman’s parking space.”IIED Defendants argue that the IIED claim fails because Plaintiff does not allege extreme and outrageous conduct. The elements of the tort of IIED are: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. . . . Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal. 3d 868, 903, internal quotations omitted.)  Liability does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.  (Molko v. Holy Spirit Assn. (1986) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1122.) Here, the issue of extreme and outrageous conduct is factual, particularly as Plaintiff asserts that Defendants intentionally exposed Plaintiff to toxic chemicals and intentionally chose to delay repairs so as to vex and harass Plaintiff.  (See, e.g., Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 922.)  Discrimination Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claims for age, religious, and disability discrimination fail because “Plaintiff has no facts, only conclusory allegations, supporting any conceivable discriminatory motive for Defendants’ alleged conduct. On the contrary, Plaintiff alleges Wood retaliated against him because Wood was ‘sick’ of Plaintiff and his ‘complaints’ about the management of the Property. . . . Additionally, Ferrone and Wood did not even become aware that Plaintiff is Jewish until the filing of the instant action in 2021. (UMF 66.) Old age is not even specifically enumerated in the relevant statutes.”Plaintiff’s eighth through tenth causes of action for discrimination appear to be based on the FEHA and Unruh Civil Rights Act.   There is a factual dispute as to whether Wood knew Plaintiff is Jewish.  (Plaintiff Decl. ¶  50.)  There is also a dispute as to the propriety of Defendants’ repairs and their timeliness. Plaintiff further notes that a resident in her early 30’s had a complaint about stolen packages immediately addressed by Defendants with Defendants going as far as proposing the installation of a $10,000 fence.  Further, one board member stated in an email to another older resident that: “The world and the lives of the homeowners in this building don’t revolve around you and [Plaintiff]. You’re nothing but a paranoid grumpy old man who does nothing but manufacture problems to complain about. The work is done. So, shut the F up.”Plaintiff also asserts that Defendants painted Plaintiff’s balcony despite his request to the contrary and their knowledge of his cancer.  There is also the assertion that Defendants believe Plaintiff is mentally ill and, therefore, they refuse timely repairs.  One board member even stated, “Why someone who has made numerous attempts to commit suicide is so concerned about his health is beyond me.”  Defendants have otherwise failed to carry their burden on these claims.Battery“The elements of a civil battery are: ‘ “1. Defendant intentionally did an act which resulted in a harmful or offensive contact with the plaintiff's person; [¶] 2. Plaintiff did not consent to the contact; [and][¶] 3. The harmful or offensive contact caused injury, damage, loss or harm to the plaintiff.” ’ [Citation.]” (Fluharty v. Fluharty (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 484, 497.) Defendants argue that “Plaintiff alleges that Wood and Ferrone caused Plaintiff to come in contact with a harmful chemical with the intent to harm him. First, Plaintiff has zero admissible evidence that anyone put the alleged unknown substance on his balcony at the Property or that anyone was instructed to do so. (UMF 50, 51.) Plaintiff baselessly alleges that Wood and Ferrone had the intent to harm him, but he admits that all the owners at the Property had their balconies painted. (UMF 45.) Regardless, Plaintiff also admits he did not even come in contact with the alleged unknown substance. (UMF 52.) Lastly, Plaintiff cannot establish he was exposed to high levels of benzine and toluene from anything on his balcony, that he was even exposed to high levels at all, or that anything on his balcony worsened his pre-existing, untreated skin cancer. (UMF 49, 53, 54.)” Regardless of the unknown substance, again, there is an assertion that Plaintiff requested that his balcony (not a common area) not be painted and Defendants, regardless, painted the balcony, which exposed Plaintiff to chemicals that made him feel sick while having skin cancer.Negligence  Finally, the negligence claim survives as an alternative theory pertaining to the incident about the painting of Plaintiff’s balcony.  There are factual disputes as to causation/damages.  (See Hoang MD Decl. ¶ 8 [“In my professional medical opinion, the high levels of benzene and toluene in Mr. Feldman’s system was the result of the paint applied to Mr. Feldman’s balcony, as benzene and toluene are chemicals found in paint. Since Mr. Feldman was essentially homebound at this time, and since he reported becoming sick right after the painting occurred, I believe he was likely exposed to these chemicals because of his balcony being painted, as opposed to this exposure from any other source.”].)  Summary The Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is denied.Moving parties to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 