 Case Number:  23SMCV04430    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04430




MOTION


Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Cigna Health & Life Insurance Company and
  Cigna Healthcare of California




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Marks House LLC/Hillcrest Teen Treatment
  Center, Bailard House LLC/Beachside/Malibu Teen Center, and The Meadowglade
  LLC



 
MOTION
 
This case stems from a dispute over Defendants Cigna Health & Life
Insurance Company and Cigna Healthcare of California (collectively,
“Defendants” or “Cigna”) alleged failure to pay “non-contracted” or
“out-of-network” for psychological and/or psychiatric care, treatment, and
services provided to patients insured by Defendants.
 
Plaintiffs Marks House LLC/Hillcrest Teen Treatment Center; Bailard
House LLC/Beachside/Malibu Teen Center; and The Meadowglade (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
have alleged eight causes of action in the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
against Defendants for: (1) Recovery for Services Rendered; (2) Open Book
Account; (3) Quantum Meruit; (4) Breach of Implied Contract; (5) Breach of Oral
Contract; (6) Promissory Estoppel; (7) Intentional Misrepresentation of
Material Facts; and (8) Negligent Misrepresentation of Material Facts.
 
Defendants demur to the first six causes of action on the grounds that
they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer and Defendants
reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                      
i.         
First and
Third Causes of Action – Recovery for Services Rendered and Quantum Meruit
 
“The requisite elements of
quantum meruit are (1) the plaintiff acted pursuant to an explicit or implicit
request for the services by the defendant, and (2) the services conferred a
benefit on the defendant.”  (Port
Medical Wellness, Inc. v. Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 153, 180.)
 
The elements for “services
rendered” are “the services performed, an oral promise to compensate by will,
the failure to perform the promise, the reasonable value of the services, and
failure to pay.”  (Toney v. Security
First Nat. Bank of Los Angeles (1951) 108 Cal.App.2d 161, 167.)
 
“To recover in quantum meruit,
the plaintiff must establish both that he or she was acting pursuant to either
an express or implied request for such services from the defendant and that the
services rendered were intended to and did benefit the defendant; further, the
defendant must have retained the benefit with full appreciation of the facts.”  (Pacific Bay Recovery, Inc. v. California
Physicians' Services, Inc. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 200, 214–215 (hereafter “Pacific
Bay”).)
 
Defendants argue that the
first and third causes of action fail because although the patients received
the benefit of Plaintiff’s services, the SAC does not allege Plaintiffs
conferred any benefit on Cigna and Cigna made no request for
services.
 
Indeed, although the SAC
alleges, “the services furnished by Plaintiffs were furnished at the request
and/or insistence of the Defendants” (SAC ¶ 70), the SAC does not allege any
specific facts suggesting Cigna made a request for services, but rather, “Based
upon the Patients’ request that the Plaintiffs render treatment,” (SAC ¶ 72)
“Plaintiffs contacted Defendants, and each of them, to obtain permission,
authorization and consent to render care to the Patients […]”  (SAC ¶ 58.)
 
Similarly, although the SAC
concludes Defendants “were benefitted by the provision of those services to
Defendants’ insureds,” (SAC ¶ 72), there is no specific allegation that Cigna
received a benefit as a result of Plaintiffs’ provision of services to the
patients.  To the contrary, the SAC concedes,
“the services furnished by Plaintiffs were furnished […] for the benefit of
their Patients/Insureds.”  (SAC ¶
70.)  
 
Instead of providing
additional facts regarding any benefit conferred on Defendants, the SAC cites
to Earhart v. William Low Company (1979) 25 Cal.3d 503, 511 as standing
for the proposition that Defendants do not necessarily need to benefit in order
for Plaintiff to recover in quantum meruit. 
However, Earhart, which involved a landowner’s promise to pay a
contractor for improvements to his and an adjacent parcel of land owned by a
third party, held, “performance of services at another's behest may
itself constitute ‘benefit’ such that an obligation to make restitution may
arise.”  (Ibid.)  But as discussed above, the services were
rendered allegedly at the patients’ behest, not Defendants’.
 
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the first and third causes of action.
 
                                                    
ii.         
Second Cause
of Action – Open Book Account
 
The term
“book account” means a detailed statement which constitutes the principal
record of one or more transactions between a debtor and a creditor arising out
of a contract or some fiduciary relation, and shows the debits and credits in
connection therewith, and against whom and in favor of whom entries are made,
is entered in the regular course of business as conducted by such creditor or
fiduciary, and is kept in a reasonably permanent form and manner and is (1) in
a bound book, or (2) on a sheet or sheets fastened in a book or to backing but
detachable therefrom, or (3) on a card or cards of a permanent character, or is
kept in any other reasonably permanent form and manner.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 337a, subd. (a).)
 
            “A
book account is ‘open’ where a balance remains due on the account.”  (Eloquence Corporation v. Home Consignment
Center (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 655, 664–665.) 
However, “[t]he mere recording in a book of transactions or the
incidental keeping of accounts under an express contract does not of itself
create a book account.”  (Id. at
p. 666.)   
 
Further, “[a]n open account
results where the parties intend that the individual items of the account shall
not be considered independently, but as a connected series of transactions, and
that the account shall be kept open and subject to a shifting balance as additional
related entries of debits and credits are made, until it shall suit the
convenience of either party to settle and close the account, and where,
pursuant to the original express or implied intention, there is but one single
and indivisible liability arising from such series of related and reciprocal
debits and credits.”  (R.N.C. Inc. v.
Tsegeletos (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 967, 972.)
 
Defendants argue there is no
open book account alleged because Exhibit A to the SAC lists a random
assortment of charges for different patients, different treatments, different
CPT codes, different charges, different dates of service, and different
insurance plans, not a connected series of transactions.  Indeed, the SAC alleges that prior to treating
each patient, Plaintiffs contacted Defendants to verify insurance
coverage.  (SAC ¶ 13.)  Thus, on its face, Exhibit A represents a
series of unrelated purported agreements/transaction, not an open book of a
series of related transactions.
 
Plaintiffs do not address this
argument in opposition, instead arguing that they have met the elements of a
cause of action for account stated.  But
the SAC does not allege a cause of action for account stated.
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action.
 
                                                  
iii.         
Contract-Based
Causes of Action
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
“The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his reliance.”  (Jones
v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 935, 945.)
 
Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action for breach of implied
contract, breach of oral contract, and promissory estoppel, respectively
(“contract-based causes of action”) fail because (1) pre-authorization
verification phone calls, like those alleged, cannot form the basis of a “definite
promise” underlying a contract or promissory estoppel claim; and (2) there was
no “meeting of the minds;” and (3) Plaintiffs do not allege with specificity
the material terms of the alleged contracts/promises.
 
In Pacific Bay, the
appellate court affirmed the trial court’s sustaining of the demurrer to an
implied contract cause of action involving reimbursements to an out-of-network
provider.  Plaintiff had argued that (1)
defendant’s partial payments showed the existence of an implied contract; and
(2) a contract was formed by virtue of the prior authorization phone calls,
during which plaintiff was “led to believe” that it would be paid a percentage
of its total billed charges correlated with usual, reasonable, and customary
charges.  The appellate court rejected
both arguments, reasoning that (1) the defendant’s reimbursement of only six of
the thirty-one treatment days demonstrates there was no meeting of the minds to
form any implied contract, and (2) plaintiff’s allegations regarding the prior
authorization phone calls lacked “specific facts” demonstrating there had been
a meeting of the minds as to the amount of payment.  (Pacific Bay, supra, 12
Cal.App.5th at pp. 215-217.)
 
Similarly here, Plaintiffs
allege they were “led to believe,” during the prior authorization phone calls,
that it would be reimbursed for services rendered to the patients at
issue.  The specific facts the SAC alleges
regarding these purported promises/oral agreements are as follows:
 
18. At
all relevant times and for each individual Patient, representatives of
Plaintiffs
contacted Defendants to obtain pre-authorization, pre-certification and the
consent of Defendant to render treatment and/or related services upon each
Patient. Concurrently, Defendants agreed to pay for the services that would be
provided at the published rates Defendants stated they would pay pursuant to
the type of policy or plan held by the given Patient, which, in each category,
were at the eightieth percentile (80%) of the published FAIR Health provider
rates for such
services.
 
24. At
all relevant times, Plaintiffs were led to believe that they would be
paid a
percentage of total billed charges, which payment correlated with the MRC I Option,
is an election at 70th or 80th % of the FAIRHealth rate for a given CPT Code,
In each case where an MRC I is used the plan or policy chose the 80th percentile.
The MRC II Option is a set of rates that is a percentage of Medicare (150%,
200% etc). However, in the limited cases where Medicare has no figures for a particular
CPT code (as is the case for the psychiatric CPT codes used here) the MRC II
reverts to the lesser of the Providers’ normal charge, or the FAIRHealth 80th percentile.
Plaintiff also confirms that in none of the Patient matters at issue in this
case did the Plan or Policy choose the ACR Option for payment.
 
[…]
 
29. At
all times relevant hereto, the care, treatment and/or procedures
provided
by Plaintiffs to Defendants’ insureds were pre-authorized by the
Defendants,
and plaintiffs were informed at the time treatments were authorized what Option
from the published rates that the Patient’s policy or plan was to be used for
payment.
 
30. Three
types of service were carried out, as follows:
(a)
Intensive Out-Patient (IOP) – Three hours of care generally.
(b)
Partial Hospitalization (PHP) – Generally six hours of care; and
(c)
Residential Care (RTC) – Ongoing treatment.
 
31. The
FAIR Health 80th percentile rates for the codes associated with
each of
these treatment types is as follows:
(a) IOP –
H0015 - $1,845 and S9480 - $1,599
(b) PHP –
H0035 - $2,559 and S0201 - $3,202
(c) RTC –
H0018 - $4,365 and H2013 - $3,132
 
[…]
 
34. In agreeing to provide the necessary,
pre-authorized treatment to Defendants’ insureds, Plaintiffs relied upon
Defendants’ oral representations that they would pay for such services at the
amounts chosen by each plan or policy at their published reimbursement rates at
the time the services were authorized for the Patient. Those rates were at the
80th percentile of FAIRHealth, whether MRC I or MRC II as described supra.
 
[…]
 
58.  […] On
each such occasion and for each Patient, Defendants authorized, pre-certified
and consented to Plaintiffs’ provision of psychological and psychiatric
services and procedures, either orally or in writing, at the facilities
operated and owned by Plaintiffs and committed to pay, reimburse, indemnify,
cover or otherwise provide insurance benefits and payments, either orally or in
writing, to Plaintiffs at the lesser of their published reimbursement rates or at
Plaintiffs’ usual, customary and reasonable charges.
 
80.  […]  As
such, Defendants specifically authorized Plaintiffs to provide the course of
treatment and care recommended, and confirmed that Plaintiffs would be paid for
their provision of the care and/or treatment rendered by Plaintiffs by
Defendants at the published rates that Defendants had previously stated they
would pay non-participating providers or out-of-network providers for services
rendered to their insureds, members and subscribers.
 
81. Pursuant to the authorizations previously
received, Defendants, and each of them, entered into oral contracts with
Plaintiffs’ to pay Plaintiffs for the psychological and psychiatric services
and procedures provided to Defendants’ Patients at the published rates
Defendants stated they would pay to nonparticipating providers or
out-of-network providers for services rendered to their insureds, members and
subscribers.
 
[…]
 
86. For each Patient at issue herein, an oral
agreement was confirmed in telephone calls between a member of Plaintiffs’
staff and a representative of Defendants. Within such telephone conversations,
Defendants provided confirmation of coverage and benefits, authorized
treatment, confirmed the correct payment rate for each Patient, and agreed to
pay for the services provided at Defendants’ published rates.
 
(SAC
¶¶ 18, 24, 29-31, 34, 58, 80-81, 86.)
 
            The Court finds these allegations convoluted
and inconsistent, and finds they still shed no light on what the specific
agreements or promises supposedly were made. 
For example, it is unclear whether Defendants promised to pay based on
MRC I or MRC II.  Assuming MRC I, it is
unclear what the FAIRHealth rates are, and it is unclear whether Defendants
promised to pay 70% or 80% of the FAIRHealth rate.  Assuming MRC II, it is unclear what the
Medicare rate is and what percentage of that Medicare rate Defendants allegedly
promised to pay. Which psychiatric CPT codes at issue have no corresponding
Medicare rate?  For those CPT codes, did
Defendants promise to pay Providers’
normal charge, or the FAIRHealth 80th percentile?  How does “the type of policy or plan held by
the given Patient” affect the promises? 
(SAC ¶ 18.)
 
            As
such, Plaintiffs still fail to allege specific facts about what Defendants’
alleged promises or agreements actually were. 
Therefore, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth, fifth,
and sixth causes of action.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden as the
opposition merely states, “Should the Court sustain the Demurrer,
Plaintiffs respectfully request leave to amend.”  Therefore, the Court denies
leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Defendants’ Demurrer to the
First through Sixth causes of action without leave to amend.   
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  June 11, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court