  Case Number:  22SMCV01303    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
 RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  11 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01303




MOTION


Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories,
  Set 1




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Soraya Pourvasei




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Benjamin Mikhaelfard



 
Plaintiff Soraya Pourvasei (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Mikhael Metals LLC and Benjamin Mikhaelfard for Breach of Written Contract;
Breach of Written Guarantee; Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; Negligent Misrepresentation
of Material Facts; Common Count for Account Stated; and Common Count for Open
Book Account.    
 
Plaintiff moves the Court for orders compelling Benjamin Mikhaelfard
(“Defendant”) to serve further responses to the following discovery requests:  
 
1.     Form
Interrogatories (“FROG”), Set 1, Propounded to Defendant
·      
Propounded: 
                                      May 11, 2023
·      
Initial Responses:                               November
16, 2023
·      
Further Responses:                             February
20, 2024
·      
Further Supplemental Responses:       March
22, 2024
·      
Motion Filed: 
                                    April 22, 2024

 
            Defendant filed declarations of
himself and his counsel in response to the motion.  Plaintiff replies.  
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
1.    
Timeliness
of Motion 
 
            A notice of motion to compel further
responses must be “given within 45 days of the service of the verified response,
or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date
to which” the parties have agreed in writing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).)  Failure to file such a motion within this time
period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses.  (Ibid.)

 
Here, Plaintiff filed the motion on the date set forth above.  Defendant has not objected to the timeliness
of the motion.  
 
2.    
Separate
Statement 
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1345 requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a
separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement
of factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
 
            Here, Plaintiff filed a separate
statement related to the motion which complies with Rule 3.1345.
 
3.    
Meet and
Confer
 
            A motion to compel must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300,
subd. (b)(1), 2031.310, subd. (b)(2), 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).)  A meet and confer declaration must state
facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented in the motion.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
 
            “The Discovery Act requires that,
prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he
or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each
issue. This rule is designed to encourage the parties to work out their
differences informally so as to avoid the necessity of a formal order.  . . . 
This, in turn, will lessen the burden on the court and reduce the
unnecessary expenditure of resources by litigants through promotion of
informal, extrajudicial resolution of discovery disputes.”  (Townsend
v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1434-1435 [cleaned  up].)  To
comply, “a reasonable and good-faith attempt at informal resolution entails
something more than bickering with [opposing counsel].  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt
to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.”  (Id.
at p. 1439; see also Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294
[to satisfy the attempt at informal resolution required in section 2016.040
opposing parties must do more than try to persuade each other of their
errors].)  In short, the Discovery Act
“requires that there be a serious effort at negotiation and informal
resolution.”  (Townsend v. Superior Court, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.)
 
            To that end, trial courts are
entrusted with discretion and judgment to determine the necessary effort
required to satisfy the requirement of an informal resolution. (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 433.)  In determining if parties have satisfied Section
2016.040, judges may consider “the history of the litigation, the nature of the
interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of
discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be
relevant.” (Id. at pp. 431-432 [holding that the trial court was correct
in determining that sending a letter with oppositions was an insufficient
attempt at an informal resolution].)  In
sum, meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters to each
other stating each party’s respective positions. 
 
            Here, as set forth in the
Declaration of Brad A. Mokri (“Mokri”), counsel for Plaintiff, Plaintiff implies
she engaged in a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
the issues presented in the motion.  In
particular, after Defendant served the initial responses to the FROG on
November 16, 2023, Mokri  avers that he
sent three emails to counsel for Defendant, Behrouz Shafie (“Shafie”) on
November 28, 2023, December 6, 2023 and December 13, 2023 concerning
Defendant’s responses.  (Declaration of Brad
A. Mokri, ¶ 6, Exhibit D.)  
 
            In the November 28 email, Mokri
states:
 
·      
Response to Form Interrogatory 3.6, 3.7, and
14.1: The responses are incomplete. Further responses must be provided. 
·      
Response to Form Interrogatory 15.1: The
response is evasive, incomplete, and nonresponsive. Further responses stating
all facts, persons and documents supporting the affirmative defenses must be
provided.
·      
Response to Form Interrogatory 50.1 to 50.5:
These responses are evasive, incomplete and nonresponsive. Please provide
further responses.
 
The
December 6th email is a follow-up because Shafie did not respond to
the November 28th email.  Shafie
responded on December 8 stating that he had health issues and was willing to
extend the deadline for Plaintiff to file a motion to compel further discovery
responses.  In response, Mokri states in
the December 13th email in pertinent part:  
 
·      
Plaintiff’s simple Form Interrogatories were
served on May 11, 2023. After over five months, Defendant responded which were
evasive and incomplete. I have made several attempts to receive the proper
further responses to no avail. Please consider this email as my final attempt
to obtain the complete further responses prior to filing motion to compel.
Unless I receive proper further responses by no later than Monday December 18,
2023, in my office, I will proceed with filing a motion to compel and request
to recover all fees incurred.
 
(Declaration
of Brad A. Mokri, Exhibit D.)  
 
            Thereafter, on January 22, 2024, Mokri
left a message for Shafie inviting him to participate in an Informal Discovery
Conference; according to Mokri, Shafie did not cooperate.  (Declaration of Brad A. Mokri, ¶ 7.)  Then, on February 20, 2024, Defendant served
further responses to the FROG which was followed by an Informal Discovery
Conference on March 5, 2024.  (Id.
at ¶ 8.)  Subsequently, Defendant served
further supplemental responses to the FROG on March 22, 2024.  (Id. at ¶ 10.)
 
            In response to the motion, Shafie
filed a declaration indicating that Mokri did not meet and confer with him
after Defendant served the further supplemental responses on March 22, and argues
that the Court should deny the motion.  (Declaration of Behrouz Shafie, ¶ 5.)
 
            Apart from the emails, Mokri does
not set forth any other efforts to meet and confer with counsel for Defendant,
especially after the further supplemental responses were served on March 22.  The Court notes that Mokri does not telephone
counsel for Defendant to discuss the discovery responses, and does not attempt
to schedule a telephonic or remote conference with counsel for Defendant by
suggesting dates or times to confer.  
 
            Instead, Mokri demands that counsel
for Defendant serve further responses and to participate in an Informal
Discovery Conference which the Court notes is not part of the Discovery Act’s
meet and confer requirements.  Moreover,
in the only substantive meet and confer correspondence, the November 28th
email, Mokri does not explain with specificity how or why Defendant’s responses
are incomplete, except in reference to FROG 15.1 in which Mokri claims “Further
responses stating all facts, persons and documents supporting the affirmative
defenses must be provided.”  
 
            The procedural history related to
the FROG begs the question:  Does it
reflect a party interested and/or willing to “talk the matter over, compare
their views, consult, and deliberate” in an effort to avoid a court’s
intervention in a discovery dispute? 
Without more, the Court finds that the answer is No.  
 
            Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has failed to meet and confer with Defendant in a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of the issues presented in the motion for the
reasons stated.  The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
meet and confer efforts in advance of filing the subject motion was woefully
inadequate and certainly did not fulfill Plaintiff’s obligations under the
Discovery Act.  In other words, the Court
finds that there was no serious effort at negotiations and an informal
resolution by Plaintiff.          
 
4.     Monetary
Sanctions
            
A trial court may sanction a party for engaging in the misuse of
discovery, which includes:  failure to
respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery; making or opposing, unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery;
and failing to confer in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve
informally any dispute concerning discovery. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010, emphasis added.) 
 
            In addition, Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.300, subdivision (d) provides: “The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 

 
            Here, Plaintiff seek monetary
sanctions.  But with the Court finding
that Plaintiff failed to engage in a reasonable and good faith attempt to
informally resolve the discovery issues before filing the subject motion, the
Court concludes that Plaintiff engaged in the misuse of the discovery
process.  Consequently, the Court will
deny Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDERS
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set 1, for the
reasons stated above.  
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling
and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
DATED:
June 11, 2024                                              ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court