 Case Number:  23TRCV02595    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Plaintiff Pamela BazarganResponding Party: Defendant Alpha Beta Company d/b/a RalphsThe court considered the moving papers, opposition and reply.RULINGPlaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is DENIED.BACKGROUNDPlaintiff fell in the parking lot of Ralphs grocery store on May 31, 2023. On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint on August 9, 2023.On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint against Ralph’s Grocery Company, Todd I Schiffman, as trustee of Todd I Schiffman Living Trust dated December 23, 1999 and Xavier Hendrix alleging (1) negligence; (2) negligent hiring; and (3) premises liability.On December 7, 2023, Defendant Alpha Beta Company dba Ralphs filed an answer to the FAC. On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Todd I Schiffman. On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Xavier Hendrix. The only remaining defendant is Alpha Beta Company dba Ralphs.On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Motion for Trial Preference currently before the Court. On April 10, 2024, Defendant Ralphs filed an opposition. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.LEGAL AUTHORITYAccording to CCP §36(a), “[a] party to a civil action who is over the age of 70 years may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes all of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the litigation.” (CCP §36(a).)An attorney declaration for trial preference under CCP §36(a) is sufficient and may be made on information and belief. See CCP §36.5. If a motion for trial preference is granted, the court shall set the trial date not more than 120 days from granting of the motion. (CCP §36(f).)As the Court in Fox v. Supr. Ct. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529 explained, subsections (a) and (d) are entirely distinct in their requirements for trial preference: “The standard under subdivision (a), unlike under subdivision (d), which is more specific and more rigorous, includes no requirement of a doctor's declaration. To the contrary, a motion under subdivision (a) may be supported by nothing more than an attorney's declaration based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (Fox, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at 534.) Section 36(a) also does not require imminent death or incapacity for trial preference: “Section 36, subdivision (a), says nothing about death or incapacity. Whether there is ‘substantial medical doubt of survival ... beyond six months’ is, to be sure, a matter of specific concern under subdivision (d), but the relevant standard under subdivision (a) is more open-ended. The issue under subdivision (a) is not whether an elderly litigant might die before trial or become so disabled that she might as well be absent when trial is called. Provided there is evidence that the party involved is over 70, all subdivision (a) requires is a showing that that party's ‘health ... is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing [her] interest in the litigation.’” (Id.)In Fox, plaintiff sufficiently demonstrated grounds for trial preference under CCP §36(a) based on the declarations of plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel. “It is uncontroverted [plaintiff] suffers from stage IV lung cancer and severe coronary artery disease, among other ailments. She is undergoing chemotherapy treatments, but is in constant discomfort and has difficulty performing basic life functions. And critically, her mental state has deteriorated to a point whereshe becomes confused and forgetful. All told, the evidence shows that while Ms. Fox is currently able to participate in a trial, she has good reason for concern that will not be the case for much longer as her health deteriorates.” (Fox, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at 535.DISCUSSIONPlaintiff requests trial preference under CCP §36(a). Plaintiff is 74 years of age and is the sole plaintiff in this action. Plaintiff claims she has hypertension and is in constant discomfort due to a fall she experienced in June 2023. (Motion, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff maintains she underwent a procedure due to fractured femur and injury to her hip due to the fall. Taken together, plaintiff’s declaration suggests that there is a concern that her health may deteriorate in the future.Plaintiff showing is insufficient to justify trial preference. Plaintiff’s medical records are from June 2023. The Court cannot determine from those records whether Plaintiff is on hypertension medication as it is not familiar with the medications listed. (Motion, Ex. 1). However, the records indicate blood pressure of 127/65 on that date. There is also no indication that the injuries from Plaintiff’s fall would require trial preference. Plaintiff’s controlled hypertension and discomfort due to a fall from nearly a year ago are insufficient to establish prejudice if trial preference is not granted. Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is denied.ORDERFor the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is DENIED.