 Case Number:  23TRCV03153    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Defendant Murchison & Cumming, LLPResponding Party: N/A - UnopposedDEMURRERRULINGThe Court considered the moving papers. Murchison & Cumming, LLP’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.BACKGROUNDFactual BackgroundOn September 28, 2023, Ian Armstrong (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint in pro per against Murchison & Cumming, LLP (Defendant) for two causes of action: fraud and breach of contract. The Complaint stems from allegations that Defendant made misrepresentations in regard to an alleged contract that was formed between the two parties. The motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Demurrer. The Demurrer is unopposed.Meet and Confer“Before filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose ofdetermining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) Defendant provides the Declaration of Gina E. Och (Och Decl.) which states that the parties conferred telephonically on March 8, 2024, but were unable to reach an agreement. Nonetheless, the requirements of CCP § 430.41(a) are satisfied.DISCUSSIONLegal Standard for Demurrer“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Analysis for DemurrerDefendant demurs to the Complaint on two main grounds: (1) the Complaint fails to set forth sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action, and (2) the litigation privilege bars Plaintiff’s causes of action. The Court agrees and sustains the Demurrer without leave to amend.(1) Sufficiency of the ComplaintA Complaint must plead the facts necessary to acquaint a defendant with the nature, source, and extent of the claims in a manner sufficient to enable preparation of a defense. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-550.) Here, the Complaint fails to do so, therefore, the Court will sustain Defendant’s Demurrer in its entirety.a. Fraud“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the falserepresentations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)The Complaint fails to detail the exact misrepresentation made by Defendant. It is unclear from both the Complaint, and the exhibits attached, what statement was made by Defendant that was false and intended to induce reliance. Defendant is a law firm that was assisting its client, Integrated National Resources, Inc (INR). The communications Plaintiff attaches to the Complaint appear to be email communications regarding Defendant’s assistance in INR’s attempt to expand its business. (Complaint, Exh. FR-5.) The other communications appear to have come from INR themselves.The email communications from Defendant regard (1) a Subscription, Stockholders, and Investors Rights Agreement sent on behalf of INR, and (2) an email from Ryan Flanagan from Murchison & Cumming, LLP informing Plaintiff of INR’s attempts to expand its business. Nowhere in the Complaint does Plaintiff point to representations within these communications that were false. Without a false representation, a fraud claim cannot stand. Therefore, the Demurrer is sustained as to the first cause of action.b. Breach of ContractTo state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)Plaintiff must first establish the existence of a contract between the parties; however, no such attempt is made in the Complaint. It is clear that a contract between Plaintiff and INR is attempting to be made, however, no such contract exists between Plaintiff and Defendant. Therefore, the second cause of action must fall to Demurrer.(2) Litigation PrivilegeDefendant’s second argument is that the litigation privilege bars Plaintiff’s claims. The litigation privilege provides that a “publication or broadcast” made as part of a “judicial proceeding” is privileged. (Action Apartment Assn., Inc., v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241.) The privilege is not limited to statements made during trial but may extend to steps taken prior to trial. (Id.) “The principal purpose of [the litigation privilege] is to afford litigants and witnesses the utmost freedom of access to the courts without fear of being harassed subsequently by derivative tort actions.” (Id.) The litigation privilege is an absolute privilege thatbars all tort causes of action except malicious prosecution. (City of Colton v. Singletary (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 751, 771.)Defendant argues that the communications between Plaintiff and Defendant on behalf of Defendant’s client INR, are covered by this privilege. The Court agrees. All the communications were made in service to Defendant’s client, INR. The litigation privilege was created this exact situation. Consequently, the litigation privilege bars Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant.Legal Standard & Analysis for Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. The Complaint failed to allege any fraud on the part of Defendant and failed to allege a contract between the parties. Crucially, due to the voluminous emails attached to the complaint, it appears that there can be no claim of a contract between the parties. The fraud claim is based on the presence of a contract, as there is no contract, there is no possibility of successful amendment, therefore leave to amend is denied.CONCLUSIONAccordingly, Murchison & Cumming, LLP’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.