  Case Number:  23TRCV02343    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Defendant Philip GodlewskiResponding Party: Plaintiff Christine McCaslinMotion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §425.16The court considered the moving papers, opposition and reply.RULINGDefendant’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §425.16 is DENIED.BACKGROUNDPlaintiff Christine McCaslin is a hair stylist who owns a business in Los Angeles County known as Salon Touché. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Philip Godlewski posted her contact information and her business information to his over 300,000 Telegram social media followers and encouraged them to leave negative reviews about Salon Touché and harass Plaintiff personally. As a result of Defendant Godlewski’s Telegram posts, Plaintiff has received more than 1,000 negative reviews on Yelp! and Google. Plaintiff alleges Godlewski’s followers alsomade negative posts on her Facebook and Instagram business accounts. Plaintiff alleges her business phone number has become essentially unusable due to the number of non-customers using the number to harass her instead of booking an appointment. Plaintiff has also personally received handwritten threats to her person at her place of business.On July 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Godlewski alleging a single cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. On September 6, 2023, Godlewski filed the Special Motion to Strike (“anti-SLAPP motion”) currently before this Court. On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the anti-SLAPP motion. On April 16, 2024, Defendant filed a reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition.LEGAL AUTHORITY“A cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” (CCP §425.16(b)(1).“As used in this section, ‘act in furtherance of a person's right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.” (CCP §425.16(e).)“Litigation of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step process. First, the moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the challenged allegations or claims arise from protected activity in which the defendant has engaged. Second, for each claim that does arise from protected activity, the plaintiff must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal merit. If the plaintiff cannot make this showing, the court will strike the claim.” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009 (where moving party seeks to strike an entire cause of action alleging multiple factual bases, court does not determine whether 1st prong is met based on“gravamen” test but must determine whether each factual bases supplies the element of claim or merely provides context).) Bonni expressly rejected the “gravamen” test, which had been applied in the past. (Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 1009.)On the first step, “courts are to consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability. The defendant's burden is to identify what acts each challenged claim rests on and to show how those acts are protected under a statutorily defined category of protected activity.” (Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 1009.)Once defendant demonstrates that a cause of action arises from protected conduct, the burden shifts to plaintiff on the second step to demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited. (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88-89.) “The second prong of the statute deals with whether the plaintiff has “demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. Under section 425.16, subdivision (b)(2), the superior court, in making these determinations, considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ For purposes of an anti-SLAPP motion, the court considers the pleadings and evidence submitted by both sides, but does not weigh credibility or compare the weight of the evidence. Rather, the court's responsibility is to accept as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff. A plaintiff need only establish that his or her claim has minimal merit to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP. With these descriptions in mind, we will not strike a cause of action under the anti-SLAPP statute unless it lacks even minimal merit.” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261.)The “probability of prevailing” is tested by the same standard governing a motion for summary judgment, nonsuit, or directed verdict. Thus, in opposing a SLAPP motion, it is plaintiff's burden to make a prima facie showing of facts that would support a judgment in plaintiff's favor.” (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 714 (a “summary-judgment-like procedure”).)“Precisely because the statute (1) permits early intervention in lawsuits alleging unmeritorious causes of action that implicate free speech concerns, and (2) limits opportunity to conduct discovery, the plaintiff's burden of establishing a probability of prevailing is not high: We do not weigh credibility, nor do we evaluate the weight of the evidence. Instead, we acceptas true all evidence favorable to the plaintiff and assess the defendant's evidence only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff's submission as a matter of law. Only a cause of action that lacks ‘even minimal merit' constitutes SLAPP.” (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Gradient Analytics, Inc. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 688, 699.) “In order to establish a probability of prevailing on a cause of action in the context of an anti-SLAPP motion, a plaintiff must state and substantiate a legally sufficient claim.” (La Jolla Group II v. Bruce (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 461, 470.)DISCUSSIONI. First Prong—Defendant Godlewski fails to establish that the complaint arises from protected conduct under CCP §425.16(e)(3)A. Parties’ PositionsAccording to Godlewski, the complaint for IIED arises from protected conduct, because the conduct that supplies the “outrageous conduct” element of Plaintiff’s IIED claim are posts and statements he made on Telegram, a public forum and those statements were in connection with an issue of public interest.Godlewski maintains his statements were in connection with an issue of public interest for several reasons. Godlewski argues he is an issue of public interest, because he has 300,000 Telegram followers, multiple “hate groups” that formed against him and tens of millions of views on his content in any given month. Godlewski contends McCaslin attacked him prior to his “doxxing” her by claiming to have insider knowledge that Godlewski was a pedophile, committed tax fraud and other wrongful acts.Godlewski argues his statements were also in connection with an issue of public interest, because McCaslin’s statements attacked Godlewski and his followers. Finally, Godlewski argues there is a widespread interest in directing purchasing power to companies with shared values. Godlewski maintains his statements directed his followers to inform the public about what type of person McCaslin was and to discourage members of the public from patronizing her business.In response, McCaslin argues her complaint arises from a private dispute between herself and Godlewski. McCaslin argues Godlewski 300,000 Telegram followers and his status as a well-known “Q-Anon” conspiracy theorist does not establish that everything he says or does is a matter of public interest. McCaslin argues Godlewski cannot establish that the statement orconduct alleged against him could directly affect a large number of persons beyond the direct participants.McCaslin argues the statements were also not in connection with the topic of boycotting and patronizing business based on shared values. McCaslin argues any connection between Godlewski’s doxxing and the general public interest in boycotting or patronizing businesses as a reflection of personal values is remote.McCaslin argues the statements alleged against Godlewski are not tied to any issue of public interest. McCaslin maintains her action is based on a personal dispute between two individuals that is unrelated to any topic of public interest.On reply, Godlewski restates his position that McCaslin’s claim arises from protected conduct under the anti-SLAPP statute. Godlewski argues (1) McCaslin placed herself in the public eye by harassing Godlewski and his followers on Telegram; (2) by creating a nuisance in Godlewski’s online community, McCaslin made her dispute with Godlewski a matter of public interest; and (3) Godlewski’s statements were intended to direct people away from a business that did not share common values.B. Godlewski’s statements were not statements made in a public forum in connection with an issue of public interestAccording to Plaintiff’s complaint, Godlewski is “a Q-Anon conspiracy leader and online personality.” (Complaint, ¶10.) Godlewski has been written up in the Scranton-Times Tribune and other publications such as Rolling Stone and Daily Beast have covered Godlewski’s “notorious behavior.” (Complaint, ¶10.) Scranton-Times Tribune published a profile about Godlewski’s past criminal charges involving a sexual relationship with a minor. (Id. at ¶10.) Godlewski also has 300,000 Telegram social media followers. (Id. at ¶11.)Godlewski confirms these allegations in his declaration in support of the anti-SLAPP motion, including his community of 300,000 Telegram followers. Godlewski also testifies that his social media content garners tens of millions of views a month. (Godlewski Dec., ¶¶3-4.) Godlewski’s “online community” is a “place where people can connect, consider and debate ideas.” (Id. at ¶6.) Godlewski and his followers exchange messages amongst one another regarding topics of interest to their community. (Id. at ¶¶6-12.)Godlewski also provides context for his statements “doxxing” McCaslin and encouraging his followers to post negative reviews and harass her. (Godlewski Dec., ¶¶8-12.) McCaslininserted herself into Godlewski’s “community” to post negative statements regarding Godlewski to his followers, stating that he was as pedophile and a registered sex offender and admonishing his followers for subscribing to “this monster.” (Godlewksi Dec., ¶11.)In response to McCaslin’s posts, Godlewski (1) posted a picture of McCaslin’s salon business page; (2) posted an email McCaslin sent him privately with a picture of the salon’s information page on Google with the statement “I wouldn’t want to do business with this person. Would you?”; (3) posted a review of Touché salon based on the email exchange with McCaslin; and (4) posted a video jokingly stating that he would “own” the salon and turn it into a “taco stand.” (Godlewski, ¶18.) These are the precise statements that form the basis of Plaintiff’s complaint for IIED. (Complaint, ¶11.)i. Godlewski’s statements were made in a public forum“It is settled that Web sites accessible to the public ... are public forums for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Wong v. Tai Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1366.) “The California Supreme Court held that Web sites accessible to the public are ‘public forums’ for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute. Cases construing the term ‘public forum’ as used in section 425.16 have noted that the term is traditionally defined as a place that is open to the public where information is freely exchanged…Statements on [plaintiff’s] Web site are accessible to anyone who chooses to visit the site, and thus they hardly could be more public.” (Kronemyer v. Internet Movie Data Base, Inc. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 941, 950.)Plaintiff concedes that Godlewski’s statements were made in a public forum. (Opposition, 11:24-25.) The “public forum” element of (e)(3) is therefore satisfied.ii. Godlewski’s statements were not made in connection with an issue of public interestIn FilmOn.com Inc. v. Doubleverify Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 133, 139, the Supreme Court set forth a test to determine whether a statement was in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest under (e)(4). Because the “in connection with a public issue” language of (e)(4) is identical to that of (e)(3), FilmOn’s test to determine whether a statement was “in connection with a public issue” is applicable here. (Bernstein v. LeBouf (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 15, 23, fn 5(“While FilmOn addressed the meaning of the phrase ‘in connection with’ as it is used in subdivision (e)(4) of section 425.16, we see no reason why the same analysis should not apply when determining whether a statement was made ‘in connection with’ a public issue or a matter of public interest for purposes of subdivision (e)(3) of section 425.16.”).)“In articulating what constitutes a matter of public interest, courts look to certain specific considerations, such as whether the subject of the speech or activity was a person or entity in the public eye or could affect large numbers of people beyond the direct participants; and whether the activity occurred in the context of an ongoing controversy, dispute or discussion, or affect[ed] a community in a manner similar to that of a governmental entity.” (FilmOn.com Inc., supra, 7 Cal.5th at 145–146.)In determining whether conduct was “in connection with a public issue,” “a court must consider the context as well the content of a statement in determining whether that statement furthers the exercise of constitutional speech rights in connection with a matter of public interest.” (Id. at 149.) Whether conduct is commercial or noncommercial is one aspect of context that the court must examine in applying the catchall provision, but it is not determinative. (Id. at 148.)“[I]t is not enough that the statement refer to a subject of widespread public interest; the statement must in some manner itself contribute to the public debate.” (FilmOn.com Inc., supra, 7 Cal.5th at 150.) “We are not concerned with the social utility of the speech at issue, or the degree to which it propelled the conversation in any particular direction; rather, we examine whether a defendant—through public or private speech or conduct—participated in, or furthered, the discourse that makes an issue one of public interest.” (Id. at 151.) “But the inquiry of whether a statement contributes to the public debate is one a court can hardly undertake without incorporating considerations of context—including audience, speaker, and purpose.” (Id. at 151-152.)Thus, under FilmOn, the court first looks to the “content of the speech” to determine what public issue or issue of public interest the speech in question implicates. (FilmOn, supra, 7 Cal.5th at 149.) The court then examines the context or “functional relationship [] between the speech and the public conversation about some matter of public interest,” focusing on whether the speech in some way contributed to or further the discourse that makes the issue one of public interest.” (Id. at ¶¶149-150.)The “specific speech that is the subject of” the plaintiff's claims is “[c]ritical” to the public interest analysis. (Dual Diagnosis Treatment Center, Inc. v. Buschel (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1098, 1104 (Buschel); accord Consumer Justice Center v. Trimedica International, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 595, 601; Commonwealth Energy Corp. v. Investor Data Exchange, Inc. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 26, 34.) Thus, at this first step, “the focus of our inquiry must be on ‘the specific nature of the speech,’ rather than on any ‘generalities that might be abstracted from it.’ ” (FilmOn, supra, 7 Cal.5th at 152.)Later in Rand Resources, LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 621, the Supreme Court would identify the three categories of statements that qualify as “public interest”: (1) statements or conduct that concern a person or entity in the public eye; (2) statements or conduct that could directly affect a large number of persons beyond the direct participants; and (3) statements or conduct involving a topic of widespread interest. (Rand, supra, 6 Cal.5th at 631.)Here, Godlewski’s speech was (1) posting of McCaslin’s business information on Google with the words “Ready…set” and a string of emojis—a smiley face with sunglasses, a finger pointing at the reader and a lit bomb;1 (2) posting the private email he received from McCaslin, the same Google site regarding her business and the statement, “So this is how the owner of the Salon speaks to people she doesn’t know. I wouldn’t want to do business with this person. Would you?”; and (3) a video stating that Godlewski would own Plaintiff’s salon and turn it into a taco stand. (Godlewski Dec., ¶¶13, 15 and 18.)Godlewski asserts his statements relate to an issue of public interest based on the news articles reporting on his criminal record, as well as his 300,000 followers. However, although his statements were made in the context of an ongoing controversy or dispute over his criminal charges for sexual relations with a minor, none of Godlewski’s statements themselves were about himself or those charges. Godlewski’s statements all referred to McCaslin, her business, her statements to him and her moral character.Merely disclosing his private dispute with McCaslin over his moral character, her moral character and her business to his 300,000 followers did not make McCaslin a person in the public eye either. A “private dispute does not become a matter of public interest simply because it waswidely communicated to the public.” (Bernstein, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at 24.) “[A] matter of concern to the speaker and a relatively small, specific audience is not a matter of public interest,” and that “[a] person cannot turn otherwise private information into a matter of public interest simply by communicating it to a large number of people.” (Rand Resources, LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 621.) That is precisely what Godlewski attempted to do here.The case of Woodhill Ventures, LLC v. Yang (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 624 is analogous to the facts presented here. In Woodhill, the plaintiff made multiple statements in public forums disparaging a birthday cake he ordered from defendant. The Court of Appeals found that no protected conduct was at issue, because (1) the statements complaining about the cake were not related to a topic of widespread interest and any attempt to link plaintiff’s complaints with the general topic of public concerns over the dangers of “candy confusion” was remote and attenuated and (2) the statements by the plaintiff did not concern any person or entity in the public eye, despite the fact that the plaintiff had a social media following of 1.5 million and because the defendant bakery had achieved national notoriety. (Woodhill, supra, 68 Cal.App.5th at 632-633.) The Court of Appeals explained that Yang’s celebrity status did not make everything he said of public interest, nor did widespread communication of his private dispute render his statements in connection with a matter of public interest. (Id. at 633.) The Court of Appeals also found the bakery to be a small business with two shops in Los Angeles and therefore not a business in the public eye. (Id.)The reasoning of Woodhill applies with equal force here. Godlewski cites to Hall v. Time Warner, Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1347 in support of his claim that his statements were in connection with an issue of public interest because of his widespread renown and status as a figure in the public eye. Godlewski has 300,000 followers, was written up in several publications as having been charged with having a sexual relationship with a minor and his content receives tens of millions of views a month. However, these facts do not make him a public figure of such renown and repute that every aspect of his life and what he says is an issue of public interest, like Marlon Brando in Hall.Nor does the assertion that McCaslin created an online nuisance transform the dispute into one of public interest. The evidence as to the writings is fundamentally undisputed; therefore, the question of whether it concerned a “matter of public interest” is unaffected by who “started it.”Finally, Godlewski’s statements about McClain, questioning her moral character and implicitly inviting his followers to harass her were not statements that could directly affect a large number of people beyond the direct participants. (Rand Resources, LLC, supra, 6 Cal.5th at 621.) If anything, the statements could only have directly affected McCaslin, as they implicitly called for an action against her business.Godlewski therefore fails to satisfy the first prong of the anti-SLAPP statute. Godlewski fails to establish that Plaintiff’s intentional infliction of emotional distress causes of action arises from protected conduct as defined under CCP §425.16(e)(3). Godlewski’s anti-SLAPP motion is therefore denied for failure to satisfy the first prong.Having failed to establish the first prong of SLAPP, the Court need not reach the second prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis.ORDERFor the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §425.16 is DENIED.