  Case Number:  24STCV07196    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



APPRIZA PAY LLC, 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
SIGUE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV07196
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 16, 2024
 Calendar Number:  9



 
 
 
Defendants Guillermo de la Viña (“de la Viña) and Victor
Cohen Arazi (“Cohen”) (collectively, the “Individual Defendants”) demur to the
second, third, fourth, sixth, and seventh claims of the Complaint filed by
Plaintiff Appriza Pay LLC (“Appriza”).
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the second and sixth
claims WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  Appriza
shall amend within 20 days.
 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the third, fourth and
seventh claims.
 
Background
 
This is a commercial contract case. The following facts are
taken from the allegations of the Complaint, which the Court accepts as true
for the purposes of this demurrer.
 
Defendant Sigue Corporation (“Sigue”) (collectively with the
Individual Defendants, “Defendants”) is an international money transmitter. Its
business is to originate remittance transactions from customers who desire to
transfer funds internationally. In a remittance transaction, Sigue would
receive funds from its customers for remittance to specific beneficiaries.
Sigue would hold the funds in trust until the completion of the transaction.
Defendant de la Viña is Sigue’s CEO, board chair, and largest shareholder. Cohen
is the CFO of Sigue.
 
Appriza provides payment services for use in international
money transfers. Appriza and Sigue entered into an agreement whereby Appriza
would facilitate money transfers originated by Sigue (the “Agreement”).
 
The Agreement initially provided that Appriza would not make
the transfer until Sigue deposited the corresponding remittance funds into a
bank account controlled by Appriza. Appriza and Sigue agreed to several
amendments to the Agreement, whereby Appriza could advance funds to complete a
transaction before Sigue deposited the remittance funds in Appriza’s account. 
 
Appriza alleges that in 2023, Sigue continued requesting
advances, but stopped transferring remittance funds to Appriza, resulting in a
negative balance.
 
Appriza alleges that Cohen made misrepresentations to
Appriza regarding Sigue’s liquidity and intended repayment which induced
Appriza to keep the line of credit open past the point when Cohen knew that
Sigue lacked the ability to repay Appriza the advanced funds. Appriza alleges
that de la Viña is liable for Sigue’s conduct as an alter-ego of Sigue.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on March 31, 2024, raising
claims for (1) breach of contract (against Sigue); (2) fraud – intentional
misrepresentation (against Sigue and Cohen); (3) money had and received
(against Sigue and de la Viña); (4) conversion (against Sigue and de la Viña);
(5) unjust enrichment (against Sigue); (6) civil theft under Penal Code,
section 496 (against Sigue and de la Viña); and (7) fraudulent transfer under
Civil Code, sections 3439.01-3439.14 (against Sigue and de la Viña).
 
The Individual Defendants filed this demurrer on May 30,
2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition and the Individual Defendants filed a
reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
Alter Ego Theory
 
The Individual Defendants argue that Appriza has failed to
adequately plead that Sigue is de la Viña’s alter ego. While a demurrer cannot
be raised against parts of a cause of action, the Individual Defendants raise
this argument against each claim where de la Viña is named as a Defendant.
Because a failure to allege alter ego theory dispose of these claims against de
la Viña, the Individual Defendants’ argument is proper. The Court analyzes the
issue of alter ego here.
 
“In California, two conditions must be met before the alter
ego doctrine will be invoked. First, there must be such a unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.
Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated
as those of the corporation alone.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) When these conditions are met, courts
disregard the corporate structure and impute the actions of a corporation onto
its owner or parent. (McLaughlin v. L. Bloom Sons Co. (1962) 206
Cal.App.2d 848, 851-852.)
 
In determining whether to apply the doctrine, California
courts consider a number of factors which include but are not limited to (1)
inadequate capitalization, (2) commingling of funds, records, and other assets,
(3) disregard of corporate formalities (e.g., stock issuance, holding board
meetings, keeping of minutes, election of officers and directors, segregation
of corporate records), (4) the same equitable ownership in the two entities,
(5) the same directors and officers, (6) confusion about corporate identity,
(7) use of the same offices and employees, (8) use of subsidiary as a mere
shell or conduit for the affairs of the parent, and (9) lack of segregation of
corporate records. (Brooklyn Navy Yard Cogeneration Partners, L.P. v.
Superior Court (Parsons Corp.) (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 248, 258.) 
 
There is not a heightened pleading standard for alter ego
theory; it is adequate for a plaintiff to allege “ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) Moreover,
“less particularity [of pleading] is required where the defendant may be
assumed to possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to
that possessed by the plaintiff, which certainly is the case” when analyzing
alter ego theory at the pleading stage. (Ibid.)
 
Appriza alleges that de la Viña is largest shareholder of
Sigue. Appriza alleges that there is such a unity of interest between de la Viña
and Sigue that they have ceased to exist as separate entities, and that
injustice would result from adherence to the legal fiction of Sigue’s separate
existence. In particular, Appriza alleges that de la Viña uses Sigue’s assets
for his own purposes, dominates and controls Sigue’s finances, treats Sigue’s
accounts as his own personal accounts, comingles corporate and personal funds,
and has caused Sigue to become undercapitalized. (Complaint ¶ 8.)
 
As discussed above, Appriza need not plead evidentiary facts
supporting these allegations. That Appriza alleged these ultimate facts is
sufficient at the pleading stage to state the theory of alter-ego liability.
 
Fraud/Intentional Misrepresentation – Second Claim
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege
fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
The Individual Defendants argue that Appriza has not pled
Cohen’s representations with adequate specificity. Appriza alleges that on
January 25, 2023, “Cohen represented to Appriza that the funds Sigue owned to
Appriza were ‘cash in transit,’ meaning that Sigue would imminently have the
funds necessary to repay Appriza for all amounts owed.” (Complaint ¶¶ 25, 44.)
Appriza does not allege to whom Cohen made this representation. This allegation
is sufficiently specific to meet the other requirements.
 
Appriza in its opposition also refers to representations by
Cohen that Sigue was in the process of selling certain assets.  (See, e.g., Complaint ¶ 26.)  These alleged representations are general and
vague and do not meet the specificity requirement.
 
Appriza does not allege reliance or causation. The only
conduct Appriza alleges that it undertook in reliance on Cohen’s representation
is that it entered into the amendments to the agreement. (Complaint ¶ 49.)
However, the most recent amendment that Appriza alleges it entered into with
Sigue was entered into on December 7, 2022 – prior to Cohen’s January 25, 2023
representation. (Complaint ¶ 22.) Appriza could not have relied on Cohen’s
representation in agreeing to the amendments.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim with leave to
amend.
 
Money Had and Received – Third Claim
 
“The only essential allegations of a common count are
"(1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the
consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment.” (Farmers
Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460 [citation omitted].)
 
The Individual Defendants argue that this claim fails
against de la Viña because it was Sigue, and not de la Viña, that was indebted
to Appriza. However, because Appriza has adequately alleged that de la Viña is
Sigue’s alter ego, it has adequately alleged de la Viña’s indebtedness.
 
The Court overrules the demurrer to this claim.
 
Conversion – Fourth Claim
 
“Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) “It is not necessary
that there be a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an
assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter
has applied the property to [their] own use.” (Oakdale Village Group v. Fong
(1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 539, 544.)

 
The Individual Defendants argue that this claim fails
against de la Viña because it was Sigue, and not de la Viña, that allegedly
converted Appriza’s funds – albeit by transferring some or all of them to de la
Viña. Because Appriza has adequately alleged that de la Viña is Sigue’s alter
ego, it has adequately alleged that Sigue converted funds.
 
“Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for
conversion unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where
an agent accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails to make the
payment.” (Sanowicz v. Bacal (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1042 [citation
and quotation marks omitted].) Appriza has adequately identified the sum of
money at issue--$73,952,986.46 MXN (i.e., Mexican Pesos).  While Appriza alleges that Sigue transferred “some
or all” of these funds to de la Viña, it 
specifies the precise amount of the sums converted by Sigue.  Because de la Viña is alleged to be Sigue’s
alter ego, the claim stands against him as well.  
 
The Court overrules the demurrer to this claim.
 
Violation of Penal Code, section 496 – Sixth Claim
 
Penal Code, section 496 provides that to sustain a
conviction for receiving stolen property, the plaintiff must prove (1) the
property was stolen; (2) the defendant knew the property was stolen; and (3)
the defendant had possession of the stolen property. (People v. Land (1994)
30 Cal.App.4th 220, 223; Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (a).) “Any person who has been
injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three
times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs
of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.” (Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (c).)
 
“[N]ot all commercial or consumer disputes alleging that a
defendant obtained money or property through fraud, misrepresentation, or
breach of a contractual promise will amount to a theft. To prove theft, a
plaintiff must establish criminal intent on the part of the defendant beyond
mere proof of nonperformance or actual falsity. This requirement prevents
[o]rdinary commercial defaults from being transformed into a theft.” (Siry
Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 362 [citations
and quotation marks omitted].)
 
Based on the current pleading, this appears to be a garden
variety case of nonperformance on a contract or at worst fraud. Appriza has not
alleged facts showing criminal intent by either Sigue, Cohen, or de la Viña.
 
The Court sustains the demurer to this claim with leave to
amend.
 
Fraudulent Transfer – Seventh Claim
 
A creditor can void
a debtor’s transfer or obligation if the debtor made the transfer or incurred
the obligation:
 
“(1) With actual intent to hinder, delay, or
defraud any creditor of the debtor.
 
(2) Without receiving a reasonably
equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation, and the debtor
either:
 
(A) Was engaged or was about to engage in a
business or a transaction for which the remaining assets of the debtor were
unreasonably small in relation to the business or transaction.
 
(B) Intended to incur, or believed or
reasonably should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond the
debtor's ability to pay as they became due.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 3439.04, subd. (a).)
 
            The Individual Defendants assume in
their demurrer without citation that a claim for fraudulent transfer under
Civil Procedure Coe section 3439.04, subdivision (a), must be pleaded with
particularity.  It is not clear to the
Court that this assumption is correct.  The
Court notes that the statute requires in the disjunctive that the transfer be
to “hinder, delay or defraud.”  But
even assuming that some particularity is required, Appriza’s complaint provides
sufficient particularity.  The Court
agrees with Appriza that Aghaian v. Minassian (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 447,
456-57, supports denial of the demurrer on this cause of action.  In Aghaian, the Court of Appeal
reversed the trial court order sustaining a demurrer where there were various
“badges of fraud.” (Id. at pp. 456-457.) The Court of Appeal listed
these badges and made clear that no minimum number of badges are required.  (Id. at p. 456.)  
 
Here, in addition
to pleading that the transfer was for the purposes of frustrating Appriza’s
collection efforts (Complaint ¶ 83), Appriza pled various badges of fraud.  These include transfer to an insider, removal
or concealment of funds, insufficient consideration, and that the transfer occurred
shortly after the debt was incurred. 
(See Complaint ¶¶ 18, 31, 33-34, 82, 84-85.)  Appriza also alleged that the transfer
rendered Sigue insolvent. (Complaint ¶ 85.) 
This is sufficient on the facts of this case.  
 
The Court overrules
the demurrer to this claim.