 Case Number:  24CHCV02268    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿ 
Date: 12/20/24 
Case #24CHCV02268
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-51
 

DECEMBER 19, 2024
 

ANTI-SLAPP MOTIONS
TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 24CHCV02268

  
Motions Filed: 10/11/24, 10/15/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Maria Arrezola,
individually and as Trustee of the Arrezola Valtierra Trust; and Arrazola &
Valtierra, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Brenda Mena; Enrique
Mena; Fatima Salcedo Carrillo; Angel Ramirez; and Victor De Leon (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Orders striking Plaintiffs’ entire
complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motions are denied.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE: Defendant Maria
Arrezola’s request for judicial notice is granted as to the existence, but not
the contents, of Exhibits i–v and vii, and denied as to Exhibit vi. 
Defendant Arrazola &
Valtierra, LLC’s request for judicial notice is granted as to the
existence, but not the contents, of Exhibits i–iii.
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: Defendants’ evidentiary
objections[1] Nos. 1, 4, 6, and 12 are
overruled, and Nos. 24 and 31 are sustained. Defendants’ objection to Exhibit 4
to the Declaration of Brenda Mena is sustained.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a habitability action
brought by Plaintiffs, tenants residing at 14515 Tyler Street, Sylmar, CA 91342,
against Defendants, the owners and managers of the subject property. (Compl. ¶¶ 7–9.) Plaintiffs
allege that on 1/1/16, they entered into a lease agreement with Defendants for
a month-to-month tenancy of the subject property. (Id. at ¶ 17.) “Throughout Defendants’
ownership, management, and/or control of the premises, and throughout the
duration of Plaintiffs tenancy, Plaintiffs have suffered uninhabitable,
substandard, and defective housing conditions within the Subject Property.” (Id.
at ¶ 23.) “The defective conditions of the premises include, but are not
limited to, the following: a. Rodent, pest, and cockroach infestations; b. Mold
and/or Mildew; c. Ongoing Plumbing issues; d. Extensive water damage; e.
Missing or inadequate heating devices; f. Defective doors and windows; g.
Improper or faulty kitchen sink; h. Improper ventilation; i. Inadequate
electrical wiring; j. Missing, broken, or rotting roof coverings; k. Faulty or
inoperable pool; l. Outgrown or unkept vegetation; m. Ineffective waterproofing
and weather protection and n. Illegal unit.” (Id. at ¶ 23.)
 
On 6/20/24, Plaintiffs filed their
complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Statutory Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (3)
Violation of Civil Code §1942.4;
(4) Violation of Civil Code §
1942.5; (5) Tortious Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (6) Violation of
Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq.; (7) Private Nuisance; (8)
Negligence; (9) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (10) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; (11) Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (12) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing; (13)
Violation of LAMC § 151.10(a); and (14) Violation of LAMC 45.33. On 8/16/24,
Defendants filed their general denials.
 
On 10/11/24 and 10/15/24, Defendants
filed the instant special anti-SLAPP motions to strike. On 10/28/24 and 12/9/24,
Plaintiffs filed their oppositions. On 11/1/24 and 12/13/24, Moving Defendants
filed their replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A special motion to strike
strategic lawsuits against public participation (“SLAPP” actions) provides a
procedural remedy to dismiss at an early stage nonmeritorious litigation meant
to chill the valid exercise of the constitutional rights to petition or engage
in free speech. (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16; Newport Harbor Ventures, LLC v.
Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 4 Cal.5th 637, 642; Dziubla v.
Piazza (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 140, 148.) The anti-SLAPP statute is intended
to “encourage continued participation in matters of public significance;”
therefore, it is to be “construed broadly.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd.
(a).)¿ 
 
The anti-SLAPP statute sets forth a
two-step procedure for determining whether a cause of action is a SLAPP
action.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (b); Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009.) First, the court must determine
whether the defendant has made a prima facie showing that the defendant’s acts
of which plaintiff complains were taken in furtherance of the defendant’s
constitutional rights of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) If the court finds that the
defendant has met its threshold burden, the burden then shifts to the plaintiff
to show that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.¿(Ibid.; Governor Gray Davis Com. v. American Taxpayers
Alliance (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449, 456.) 
 
Under the statute, an “‘act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech’ includes: (1) any
written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or
judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (e).) 
 
A.   
Protected Speech Activity
 
A defendant has the initial burden
to show that a plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s
protected activity as defined by the anti-SLAPP statute. (Code Civ. Proc. §
425.16, subd. (b)(1).) “In deciding whether the initial ‘arising from’
requirement is met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and
opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is
based.’” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89.)
 
Here, Defendants argue that the
instant action is a “retaliatory lawsuit” brought by Plaintiffs in response to
the unlawful detainer judgment entered in favor of Defendants and against
Plaintiffs in Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 24CHUD00813. According to
Defendants, “Plaintiffs concede in their Complaint that the allegations in
their Complaint all relate to the termination of the tenancy, and the eviction
suit and Judgment entered against them.” (Defs.’ Mot. 11:9–10, citing Compl. ¶¶ 92–93, 97, 101–102.)
 
The cited provisions of the
complaint mainly allege that Defendants “retaliated against Plaintiffs against
their complaints of harassment by issuing a 60-day Notice of Termination of
Tenancy.” (Compl. ¶
93.) “Moreover, Defendants knowingly engaged in a pattern of threats and/or
intimidation towards the Plaintiffs. They have resorted to using verbal and
physical intimidation, making menacing threats, and employing abusive language
and behavior to instill fear in Plaintiffs. These acts of intimidation have created
an atmosphere of constant anxiety and have had a profound detrimental impact on
the Plaintiffs’ emotional well-being and their ability to peacefully enjoy
their rented premises.” (Id. at ¶
97.)
 
Essentially, Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs are collaterally estopped from bringing the instant action because it
contains “a number of ‘claims’ that actually should have been asserted in the
eviction proceeding, but were not, and was filed almost simultaneously with the
ongoing eviction proceeding, which Plaintiffs lost.” (Defs.’ Mot. 7:26–8:1.)
Res judicata, or claim preclusion, “applies when (1) the decision in the prior
proceeding is final and on the merits, (2) the present proceeding is on the
same cause of action as the prior proceeding, and (3) the parties in the
present proceeding or parties in privity with them were parties to the prior
proceeding. Upon satisfaction of these conditions, claim preclusion bars not
only issues that were actually litigated but also issues that could have been
litigated. (Planning & Conservation League v. Castaic Lake Water Agency
(2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 210, 226 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
 
The doctrine of collateral
estoppel, or issue preclusion, is narrower than that of res judicata, and
operates to bar the relitigation of issues previously litigated, applying only
“(1) after final adjudication (2) of an identical issue (3) actually litigated
and necessarily decided in the first suit and (4) asserted against one who was
a party in the first suit or one in privity with that party.” (Samara v.
Matar (2018) 5 Cal.5th 322, 327.)  
 
Here, Defendants contend that “A
number of the causes of action asserted in this lawsuit were defenses to the
eviction suit and had to be raised there: specifically, Cause of action Two,
Statutory Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; Cause of Action Three,
Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4; Cause of Action Four, Violation of Civil Code
§ 1942.4; and Cause of Action Nine, Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment.” (Defs.’
Mot. 10:7–11.)
 
Plaintiffs argue in opposition that
“virtually none of Plaintiffs’ causes of action are based on the termination
notice or the eviction proceeding.” (Pls.’ Opp. 2:6–7.) “Numerous anti-SLAPP
cases have discussed a landlord’s unlawful detainer action that is followed by
a tenant’s lawsuit. Unless the sole basis of liability asserted in the tenant’s
complaint is the filing and prosecution of the unlawful detainer action, the
tenant’s action will not be targeted at protected activity.” (Ben-Shahar v.
Pickart (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1051.) Where “the action is predicated
upon conduct distinct from the prosecution of unlawful detainer action—even
though the complaint is based upon the unlawful detainer action or arises from
it—the tenant’s action is not targeted at protected activity and thus does not
meet the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis.” (Id. at 1052.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs argue that “Defendants
offer contradictory arguments regarding Plaintiffs’ habitability claims. On one
hand, they assert that these claims ‘should have been asserted in the eviction
proceeding, but were not’ … implying that they were not adjudicated at that
time. On the other hand, they argue that these issues were ‘fully litigated and
each of these claims is barred by the doctrines of collateral estoppel and res
judicata’ … These conflicting assertions render Defendants’ argument both inconsistent
and unreliable.” (Pls.’ Opp. 8:13–19.) This Court agrees. Plaintiffs further
argue that the issue of habitability was not fully litigated in the prior
unlawful detainer action “since the termination was based on a 60-day notice
rather than nonpayment, [therefore] habitability does not serve as a direct
affirmative defense to the issue of possession, and Defendants’ argument fails
to recognize this critical distinction.” (Id. at 9:8–10.) 
 
Upon review of Plaintiffs’
complaint, the Court finds that the gravamen of Plaintiffs’ allegations concern
the allegedly substandard and defective housing conditions found at the subject
property. (Compl. ¶¶
23–88.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants “have intentionally responded
with outright aggression and hostility towards the Plaintiffs,” harassed
Plaintiffs, and initiated the unlawful detainer action in retaliation to
Plaintiffs’ complaints. (Id. at ¶¶
89–97.) Therefore, here, as in Ben-Shahar, the Court finds no protected
“speech” giving rise to Plaintiffs’ allegations in the instant action, and
further agrees with Plaintiffs that they are not collaterally estopped from
raising the issues of habitability in the instant action.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
claims in the instant action do not arise out of Defendants’ protected speech
activity. Therefore, the Court need not reach the second step of the anti-SLAPP
inquiry to determine whether Plaintiffs have made a prima facie factual showing
to sustain a favorable judgment. (Wilson v. Cable News Network, Inc.
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 891; Navellier, 29 Cal.4th at 88–89.) Accordingly, the motions are
denied.
//
//
//
CONCLUSION
 
The motions are denied.


