 Case Number:  24TRCV02725    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
ORION
  SERUP, on behalf of all other Aggrieved Employees,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02725




 
v.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Sustained
 




 
CANOO
  INC.; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             November 13, 2024
Moving
Parties:          Defendant Canoo Inc.
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Orion Serup
HEARING: SPECIAL DEMURRER/PLEA IN
ABATEMENT 
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  
 
RULING
The Court sustains the Plea in Abatement and
Stays the action pending disposition of MARQUISE LEWIS vs KELLY SERVICES
GLOBAL, LLC. (Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 24STCV16782.)
 
BACKGROUND
            On August
15, 2024, Plaintiff Orion Serup filed the Complaint against Defendant Canoo
INC. alleging a PAGA claim for Violation of California Labor Code § 2698
arising from Plaintiff's time as an employee of Defendant.
 
            On October 11, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant Special Demurrer to/Plea in Abatement of Plaintiffs
Complaint.
 
            On October 30, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Opposition.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code Civil Procedure section 430.10(c)
expressly provides that a party may demur where “there is another cause of
action pending between the same parties on the same cause of action.”  (See
People ex rel. Garamendi v. American Autoplan, Inc., (1993) 20 Cal. App.
4th 760, 770.)  The pendency of another action is classified as a plea in
abatement and, as such, is “not favored.”  This disfavor is expressed in a
number of rules: (1) The objection itself is strictly limited so that, whether
raised by demurrer or answer, the defendant must show that the parties, the
cause of action, and issues are identical and that the same evidence would
support the judgment in each case. . . (2) demurrer will not be sustained if
the complaint also shows that the former action is no longer pending. . . (3)
even if objection is good demurrer should not be sustained without leave to
amend and the action should not be dismissed.”  (California Union Ins.
Co. v Trinity River Land Co. (1980) 105 Cal App 3d 104, 108.)
 
In determining whether another action is
pending between the same parties on the same cause of action, the facts in the
two causes of action are compared to determine what primary right has been
invaded. California follows the "primary right theory," which holds
that every judicial action must involve the following elements: a primary right
possessed by the plaintiff, and a corresponding primary duty devolving upon the
defendant; a wrong done by the defendant that consisted of a breach of such
primary right and duty; a remedial right in favor of the plaintiff, and a
remedial duty resting on the defendant springing from this wrong; and the
remedy or relief itself. Of these elements, the combined primary right, duty,
and wrong constitute the cause of action. (Bush v Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal. App. 4th 1374, 1384.)
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The Court may take judicial notice of records
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States. (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (d).) The Court
may also take judicial notice of “Official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.” (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (c).)
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the version of California Labor
Code 2699 in effect immediately prior to its amendment in 2024, the Class
Action and PAGA Complaint filed by Marquise Lewis against defendants including
Canoo Inc., dated and file-stamped July 8, 2024 (Los Angeles Superior Court
Case No. 24STCV16782), the Minute Order dated August 9, 2024 (Los Angeles
Superior Court Case No. 24STCV16782), the Initial Status Conference Order
(Complex Cases/Class Actions) dated and file-stamped August 9, 2024 (Los
Angeles Superior Court Case No. 24STCV16782), the Notice of Removal (from Los
Angeles Superior Court Case No. 24STCV16782 to United States District Court,
Central District of California, Case No. 2:24-cv-06781) dated and file-stamped
August 9, 2024, the Order Setting Scheduling Conference, dated and file-stamped
August 15, 2024 (United States District Court, Central District of California,
Case No. 2:24-cv-06781), the Online Civil Docket for Case No. 2:24-cv-06781,
viewed as of October 10, 2024, and the Online Case Summary (Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24STCV16782), viewed as of October 10, 2024.
 
            The Court grants
Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice in full, pursuant to Evidence Code
sections 452(d) and (h). 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, “the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (emphasis added, CCP § 430.41(a).)
 
On October 7, 2024, the parties conferred over teams regarding
the Demurrer. The Court finds this sufficient to meet the meet and confer
requirements.
 
Cause of
Action 1 – Violation of California
Labor Code § 2698
 
            Marquise
Lewis filed a complaint, including a PAGA claim, in Los Angeles Superior Court
on July 8, 2024, against Canoo Inc., Canoo Sales, LLC, Canoo Technologies,
Inc., and Kelly Services. (Case No. 24STCV16782) Despite removal to federal
court, the state court has scheduled a non-appearance review for January 10,
2025. Lewis’s complaint alleges employment with all defendants, claiming Labor
Code violations, unfair competition, and a PAGA claim for civil penalties on
behalf of Canoo employees from May 2023 to judgment. Each cause of action
applies to all defendants.
 
            Plaintiff Orion Serup filed the
instant representative PAGA claim against Canoo Inc. in Los Angeles Superior
Court on August 15, 2024. The claim seeks civil penalties for Labor Code
violations on behalf of all Canoo employees from May 29, 2023, to the final
judgment. Plaintiff’s allegations largely mirror those in the Lewis Case.
 
Defendant
requests that the Court abate or stay all further proceedings in the instant
action pending the termination of the Lewis Case.
 
Abatement
 
            Defendant argues that the Court
should stay proceedings until the termination of the Lewis Case because the two
cases involve the same parties and the same claim.
 
            Defendant argues that both the Lewis
and instant PAGA cases involve the same essential parties, the State of
California and Defendant, as PAGA actions are brought on behalf of the state to
enforce labor law, regardless of the individual plaintiff. (Iskanian v. CLS
Transp. Los Angeles (2014) LLC, 59 Cal. 4th 348, 386.) As California
is the real party in interest, any PAGA case binds all affected employees and
serves to protect their rights under state labor law. Since the Lewis case
already represents all allegedly aggrieved employees, including those in the
instant case, covering violations from May 2023 onward, the instant case is
redundant.
Furthermore,
Defendant argues that the Lewis case and the instant case involve
identical representative PAGA claims, as both plaintiffs seek to enforce the
same primary right: California’s right to impose penalties on employers for
Labor Code violations. Since PAGA claims are brought on behalf of the state,
the rights asserted by each plaintiff are fundamentally the same. (See
Howitson v. EvansHotels, LLC (2022) 81 Cal. App. 5th 475, 488.)  The instant case, solely focused on a PAGA
claim, is thus entirely encompassed by the Lewis case, which also includes individual
and class claims but asserts the same representative right under PAGA.
Plaintiff
argues that the instant PAGA case should not be abated, as it seeks penalties
for Labor Code violations distinct from those in the Lewis case, which includes
both class action claims and additional defendants. Additionally, Lewis brings
claims against Defendant for wages while the instant case is seeking penalties
under PAGA.  Plaintiff asserts that
staying the instant case would unfairly delay its resolution due to procedural
requirements in the Lewis class action, such as class certification,
which are irrelevant to PAGA claims. Plaintiff further emphasizes that PAGA’s
purpose is to facilitate enforcement of labor laws, given limited state
resources, and that California law supports a liberal interpretation of PAGA to
ensure timely protection of employee rights. Consequently, Plaintiff requests
that the court deny the motion to abate the instant case to ensure efficient
enforcement of the California Labor Code.
 
The
Court finds that the parties in the instant case and the parties in the Lewis
Case are identical because both cases involve PAGA claims, and thus are brought
on behalf of the State of California against Defendant. (Iskanian,
supra, 59 Cal. 4th 348, 386.)
When
addressing whether two causes of action are identical, the Court compares the
facts alleged in the two actions. The causes of action are identical if both
causes of action allege invasion of the same primary right. (Bush, supra,
10 Cal. App. 4th 1374, 1384.) A
“primary right” is based on the harm suffered and not the particular theory of
recovery asserted by the Plaintiff. (Bay Cities Paving & Grading,
Inc. v. Lawyers' Mutual Ins. Co. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 854, 860.)
 The Lewis case asserts class action claims and
a representative PAGA claim arising out of Defendant’s failure to provide meal and
rest periods, failure to pay wages, failure to provide wage statements, failure
to indemnify, and unlawful business practices. (Los Angeles Superior Court Case
No. 24STCV16782 Complaint.) In the instant case, Plaintiff alleges a
representative PAGA claim arising out of Defendant’s failure to provide
employment records, failure to pay wages, failure to provide meal and rest
breaks, failure to provide wage statements, and failure to reimburse.
(Complaint p. 3.) Thus, both cases allege the same harm based on Defendant’s
failure to follow California labor law. While Plaintiff argues that the causes
of action are distinguishable because different claims and different remedies
are sought, the primary right of a cause of action is based on the harm
suffered and not the particular theory of recovery. (See, Bush,
supra, 10 Cal. App. 4th 1374,
1384.)
 
Therefore, the Court grants the Plea in
Abatement and Stays the action pending disposition of the Lewis Case. (Los
Angeles Superior Court Case No. 24STCV16782.)
 
Exclusive
Concurrent Jurisdiction
 
The
exclusive concurrent jurisdiction doctrine provides that a second-in-time
action should be stayed even in the absence of absolute identity of parties and
causes of action if doing so would avoid potentially conflicting results or a
waste of judicial resources. (See People ex rel. Garamendi v. Am. Autoplan,
Inc. (1993) 20 Cal. App. 4th 760, 769-70.)
 
Defendant
argues that the instant case should be stayed under the doctrine of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction, this doctrine prevents conflicting results and
judicial resource waste by giving priority to the first court to assume
jurisdiction. Here, the federal court handling the Lewis case has the authority
to resolve all PAGA-related claims and provide any relief that could be granted
in the instant case. (Huff v. Securitas Servs. USA, Inc. (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 745, 750.) Multiple courts addressing overlapping PAGA suits
against Canoo could duplicate efforts and lead to inconsistent outcomes.
Consequently, Defendant requests a stay of the instant case until the Lewis
case is resolved.
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s concerns about inconsistent rulings and judicial waste
are unfounded, as concurrent PAGA actions are commonly permitted. Plaintiff
asserts that there is no risk of conflicting outcomes regarding specific claims.
Under PAGA, separate actions by different employees against the same employer
are allowed (see Tan v. GrubHub, Inc. (N.D.Cal. 2016) 171 F.Supp.3d 998,
1012–1013.), and collateral estoppel would prevent any redundant suits if
an unfavorable judgment is reached first. California precedent also supports
parallel proceedings, as res judicata would address any future duplicative
judgments. Plaintiff urges the court to prioritize the legislative intent of
PAGA for prompt labor law enforcement, noting that distinct claims and parties,
in the instant case, minimize any potential duplication with Lewis.
 
The
Court denies Defendant’s request to Stay proceedings under the Exclusive
Concurrent Jurisdiction doctrine as moot.