 Case Number:  23TRCV01689    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
FADRIKO
  DILLON,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01689




 
v.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Sustained
 




 
PRIME
  HEALTHCARE CENTINELA, LLC., dba CENTINELA HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER; PRIME HEALTHCARE
  SERVICES, LLC; & VERITAS HEALTH SERVICES, INC; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             November 13, 2024    
 
Moving
Parties:          Defendants Prime
Healthcare Centinela, LLC., dba Centinela Hospital
Medical
Center; Prime Healthcare Services, LLC; and Veritas Health Services, Inc.
 
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Fadriko Dillon
 
HEARING: DEMURRER TO FIFTH
AMENDED COMPLAINT
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  
RULING
            The Court sustains the Demurer
without leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
            On May 26, 2023,
Plaintiff Fadriko Dillon filed the Complaint against Defendants Centinela
Hospital Medical Center, Prime Healthcare Services, LLC, and Veritas Health
Services, Inc.
 
            On June 23, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint.
 
            On December 21, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint.
 
            On March 8, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Third Amended Complaint.
 
            On June 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Fourth Amended Complaint.
 
            On September 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the operative Fifth Amended Complaint against Defendants,
alleging causes of action for premises liability and general negligence arising
from an alleged gunshot wound received while outside Defendant’s hospital.
 
            On October 11, 2024,
Defendants filed the instant Demurrer to the Fifth Amended Complaint.
 
            On October 31, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Declaration of Lisa Saperstein in lieu of an opposition.
 
            On November 5, 2024,
Defendant filed the Reply.
            
            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.)
 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            The
instant case involves an incident outside Centinela Hospital Medical Center on
May 27, 2021, where Plaintiff Fadriko Dillon was shot and injured by an
unidentified third party. Plaintiff claims that the security guards at the
hospital should have either thoroughly checked all entrants into the emergency
department or taken unspecified steps to prevent the attack.
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, “the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) 
 
Defendants emailed Plaintiff regarding the Demurrer on September
13, and Plaintiff responded on September 30. The Court finds this
correspondence satisfies the meet and confer requirement.
 
            Plaintiffs Declaration
 
            Plaintiff has filed the Declaration
of his attorney, Lisa Saperstein as his only defense to Defendant’s Demurrer.
However, a Demurrer only looks to the face of the pleadings and judicially
noticeable facts. (Blank, supra, 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) Therefore,
the Court cannot consider Saperstein’s Declaration while ruling on the instant
Demurrer. 
 
Cause of
Action 1 – Premises Liability 
 
            To
succeed on a case from premises liability, the plaintiff must prove that the
defendant was the owner, occupant, or lessor of the premises, was negligent in
its use, maintenance, or management, and such negligence caused injury, damage,
loss, or harm to the plaintiff. (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp.
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619.)
 Defendants argue that the Court should again
dismiss the Plaintiff’s premises liability claim, as it has done previously,
due to insufficient allegations showing a duty in the Fifth Amended Complaint. Defendants
contend that there is no legal duty to screen every person entering the
emergency department for weapons. Defendants argue that a duty to provide
specific security measures requires both a high degree of foreseeability of
danger and an assessment of the burden on the business. (See Ann M. v
Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 666, 678-679; Delgado v.
Target Corp. (2014) 59 Cal. 4th 312, 326.) Plaintiff's cited incidents, a
police shooting, and a suicide, are too distant in time and context to
establish the foreseeability of third-party gun violence in the hospital.
Additionally, Plaintiff’s reliance on general studies about workplace violence
does not show that gun violence was specifically foreseeable at the hospital,
nor does it establish a legally recognized duty to implement such extensive
security measures. Consequently, Defendants ask the Court to dismiss the
premises liability cause of action, as Plaintiff has not demonstrated the
foreseeability or the feasibility of the proposed duty.
             The existence of a legal duty is a question
for the court to determine, and “foreseeability is a ‘crucial factor’ in
determining the existence and scope of a legal duty.” (Delgado v. Trax Bar
& Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 237, citing Ann M., supra, 6
Cal.4th at pp. 674, 676.) However, a high degree of foreseeability is required
in order to find that the scope of a landlord’s duty of care includes the
hiring of security guards. . . . [T]he requisite degree of foreseeability
rarely, if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of
violent crime on the landowner’s premises. To hold otherwise would be to impose
an unfair burden upon landlords and, in effect, would force landlords to become
the insurers of public safety, contrary to well established policy in this
state.” (Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 679, footnote omitted.)
“Heightened foreseeability is satisfied by a showing of prior similar criminal
incidents (or other indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent
criminal assaults in that location) and does not require a showing of prior
nearly identical criminal incidents. (Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th
at p. 245.) 
            The
Court previously found that the Fourth Amended Complaint failed to state a
claim for premises liability because Plaintiff failed to plead facts that
showed Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty to check every entrant into the
emergency department for weapons. While the Fourth Amended Complaint stated
that two prior gun violence incidents had occurred at the hospital, Plaintiff
had not provided enough detail for the Court to compare how similar the events
were to the alleged incident. 
            The
Fifth Amended Complaint fails to go into further detail about the prior
incidents referenced in the Fourth Amended Complaint. Plaintiff does add facts
regarding the dangers of emergency rooms and litigation involving a mental
health facility across the street. However, none of these facts show “prior
similar criminal incidents,” which would lead to the heightened foreseeability
required to find a legal duty. (Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 237,
245.) Furthermore, Plaintiffs have now had six attempts to state a cause of
action and failed to cure the defects that plagued the Fourth Amended
Complaint. Thus, the Court finds that there is no reasonable probability the
defects can be cured by amendment. (Hebert v. Los Angeles Raiders, Ltd.
(1991) 23 Cal. App. 4th 414, 425-26.
            Therefore,
the Court sustains the Demurrer as to the first cause of action without leave
to amend.
Cause of
Action 2 – General Negligence
 
             To succeed in a claim for negligence, the
plaintiff must prove that the defendant owed a legal duty to the plaintiff,
that the defendant breached the duty, causation, and damages to the plaintiff.
(County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th
292, 318.)
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
general negligence claim lacks a clearly defined duty and is based on the same
grounds as the previously dismissed Complaints. They contend that the Fifth
Amended Complaint fails to establish a recognized legal duty and contains vague
allegations about security failures without specifying whether the issue was
due to inadequate training, insufficient staffing, or lack of access control.
Defendants argue that California law does not recognize a duty to screen all
entrants, nor does it impose heightened security requirements without prior
similar incidents. Because the Plaintiff’s negligence claim is based on an
unrecognized, vague duty, Defendants request that the Court dismiss it.
 
            The Court previously
found that the Fourth Amended Complaint failed to state a claim for negligence
because Plaintiff failed to plead facts that showed Defendants owed Plaintiff a
heightened duty of care to protect Plaintiff from the criminal acts of a third
party. While the Plaintiff pleaded facts to show that there were prior
incidents of violence and provided general statistics about hospital safety,
the Court found these facts insufficient to create a heightened legal duty
because they did not show a concrete connection between the prior incidents and
Plaintiff’s alleged incident.
The Fifth Amended
Complaint fails to go into further detail about the prior incidents referenced
in the Fourth Amended Complaint. Plaintiff does add facts regarding the dangers
of emergency rooms and litigation involving a mental health facility across the
street. However, none of these facts show “prior similar criminal incidents,”
which would lead to the heightened foreseeability required to find a legal
duty. (Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 237, 245.) Thus,
Plaintiff has failed to plead a cognizable duty Defendant owed Plaintiff.
Furthermore, Plaintiff has now had six attempts to state a cause of action and has
failed to cure the defects that plagued the Fourth Amended Complaint. Thus, the
Court finds that there is no reasonable probability the defects can be cured by
amendment. (Hebert, supra, 23 Cal. App. 4th 414, 425-26.)
            Therefore,
the Court sustains the Demurrer as to the second cause of action without leave
to amend.
 
 
            