  Case Number:  23SMCV03207    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  205 HEARING DATE:  June 25, 2024 JUDGE/DEPT:  Moreton/Beverly Hills, 205 CASE NAME: Firmetch Inc. v. Digital Mind State  CASE NUMBER:  23SMCV03207  COMP. FILED:  July 18, 2023    PROCEEDINGS:  REQUEST FOR ENTRY OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT MOVING PARTY:  Firmtech Inc.   RESPONDING PARTY: Digital Mind State   BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract case.  Plaintiff FirmTech Inc. is a start-up company specializing in “male sexual wellness” products.  Defendant Digital Mind State is a strategic agency that “ushers brands in web world, connecting people, brands and culture.”   Plaintiff entered into a consulting agreement (the “Agreement”) with Defendant, whereby Defendant was to perform social media management, procure speaking engagements, and assist with Plaintiff’s capitalization, growth and fundraising efforts.  The Agreement allows Plaintiff to terminate the contract immediately for cause and also contains a fee shifting provision that permits the payment of attorneys’ fees to the prevailing party in the event of any dispute.   Plaintiff paid $25,000 under the agreement.  Defendant failed to perform and breached its obligations under the Agreement.  Defendant only made two introductions to investors in the more than ninety days that it was engaged.  Neither introduction was a serious lead.  Defendant also only offered a few ideas as it related to the company’s social media, and only managed Plaintiff’s social media presence during the first two weeks of the engagement.  Defendant did not secure any speaking engagements, and it failed to provide bi-weekly reports required under the Agreement.    On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant.  The Complaint alleges three claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) promissory estoppel, and (3) unjust enrichment.  The Complaint seeks $25,000 with pre- and post-judgment interest and reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.   Plaintiff served Defendant by substitute service on August 10, 2023.  Defendant was obligated to respond.  Defendant did not do so.  Plaintiff successfully requested the entry of Defendant’s default, which was entered by the Clerk’s Office on February 23, 2024.  Plaintiff requested a default judgment on May 29, 2024.  Plaintiff served Defendant by mail with both the Request for Entry of Default and Request for Default Judgment.  Defendant has not appeared.  RELIEF REQUESTED  Default judgment against Defendant for a total of $27,208.20, which is comprised of: (1) $25,000, for damages, (2) $1,140 in attorneys’ fees and (3) $1,068.29, for costs.   ANALYSIS  Code Civ. Proc. § 585 sets forth the two options for obtaining a default judgment. First, where the plaintiff’s complaint¿seeks compensatory damages only, in a sum certain which is readily ascertainable from the allegations of the complaint or statement of damages, the clerk may enter the default judgment for that amount. However, if the relief requested in the complaint is more complicated, consisting of either nonmonetary relief, or monetary relief in amounts which require either an accounting, additional evidence, or the exercise of judgment to ascertain, the plaintiff must request entry of judgment by the court. In such cases, the plaintiff must affirmatively establish his entitlement to the specific judgment requested.¿ (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 287.) Section 585 also allows for interest, costs and attorney fees, where otherwise allowed by law. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 585(a).)  Multiple specific documents are required, such as: (1) form CIV 100, (2) a brief summary of the case; (3) declarations or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (4) interest computations as necessary; (5) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (6) a proposed form of judgment; (7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment under Code Civ. Proc. § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (CRC Rule 3.1800.)  Here, Plaintiff has properly complied with all the substantive and procedural requirements for a default judgment. Substantively, Plaintiff declares via declaration that there have been damages in the amount of $25,000 as amounts advanced under the Agreement.  A memorandum of costs in the amount of $1,068.29 is set forth in Item 10 of the CIV-100 form.  The evidence submitted (the Agreement) is authenticated by further declaration.  Plaintiff seeks $1,140 in attorneys’ fees, which is authorized under the Agreement and also supported by declaration.  Procedurally, Plaintiff properly served Defendant more than 30 days prior to requesting entry of default and default judgment, correctly completed JC Form CIV-100 in a manner that would not void or put at issue the entry of default, provided a declaration of non-military status, requested damages in amounts supported by the filings and not in excess of the amount stated in the Complaint, requested dismissal of doe defendants and filed a proposed judgment (JUD-100).  As default has already been entered and there has been no appearance or filing whatsoever from Defendant, default judgment is appropriate here.   CONCLUSION AND ORDER   For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff FirmTech, Inc.’s Request for Default Judgment is GRANTED as to Defendant Digital Mind State.  Judgment in the amount of $27,208.20 is awarded in favor of Plaintiff.  