 Case Number:  23STCV21795    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
JUAN
  ANTONIO ESPITIA, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
BROADWAY
  TYPEWRITER COMPANY, INC., etc., et al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  23STCV21795
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Complaint
  Filed: 9/11/23
Trial
  Date: N/A
 
 



 
Hearing date:              May 9, 2024 
Moving Party:             Defendants Broadway Typewriter
Company, Inc. and Arey Jones Company 
Responding Party:
     Plaintiff Juan Antonio Espitia  
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 
The motion is GRANTED.

Background
            This
is an action arising from an alleged wrongful termination and other wrongful
actions taken against Plaintiff Juan Antonio Espitia (“Plaintiff”). On
September 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendants Broadway
Typewriter Company, Inc. dba Arey Jones Educational Solutions (“Broadway”),
Arey Jones Company (“AJC”) (collectively “Defendants”), and DOES 1 through 20,
inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) discrimination in violation of
Gov. Code § 12940 et seq.; (2) retaliation in violation of Gov. Code §
12940 et seq.; (3) failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation in
violation of Gov. Code § 12940(k); (4) failure to provide reasonable
accommodations in violation of Gov. Code § 12940 et seq.; (5) failure to
engage in a good faith interactive process in violation of Gov. Code § 12940 et
seq.; (6) declaratory judgment; (7) wrongful termination in violation of
the public policy of the State of California; (8) failure to provide rest
breaks in violation of Lab. Code § 226.7; (9) failure to provide itemized wage
and hour statements in violation of Lab. Code § 226 et seq.; (10)
waiting time penalties pursuant to Lab. Code §§ 201-203; and (11) unfair
competition pursuant to Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq. 
            On
February 13, 2024, Defendants filed and served the instant Motion to Compel
Arbitration. Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion on April 26, 2024, to
which Defendants replied on May 2, 2024.  
Legal
Standard
            Parties
may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there
was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement
covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of valid arbitration
agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of
establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.) 
            The
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies to any contract evidencing a
transaction involving interstate commerce which contains an arbitration clause.
(Wolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of
the FAA provides that arbitration provisions shall be enforced, save upon
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.)
A state court may refuse to enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of
generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state court, however, may not defeat an
arbitration clause by applying state laws applicable only to arbitration
provisions. (Ibid.) 
For the
FAA to apply, a contract must involve interstate commerce. (Ibid.) When
it applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule that stands as an obstacle to
the accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to
present evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects
interstate commerce, and the failure to do so renders the FAA inapplicable. (Ibid.)
Evidence must be presented, in the form of declarations or other evidence, that
establishes that the contract affects interstate commerce.  (Ibid.)
“[S]ince arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so
stated in the agreement.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 956, 963.) 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party
thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines
that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).)
Thus, in assessing a motion to compel arbitration, the moving party “bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the [motion] bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284, citation omitted.) 
“If a
court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy
which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of
this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  
Evidentiary
Objections
            The Court OVERRULES Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections numbers 1, 2, and 3 to the declaration of Rudy Perez
submitted in support of the motion.
Discussion  
            The Existence of an Agreement to Arbitrate 
            The right to arbitration depends
upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity
seeking performance of that contract. (Engineers & Architects Assn. v.
Community Development Dept. (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.) There is no
public policy favoring arbitration of disputes which the parties have not
agreed to arbitrate. (Ibid.) The FAA does not force parties to arbitrate
when they have not agreed to do so. (Cronus Investments, Inc. v. Concierge
Services (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 385.) 
a.       Evidence in Support of the Motion
In support of the motion, Michael Scarpella (“Scarpella”), declares the
following: for the last 30 years, he has served as the President and Chief
Executive Officer of Defendant Broadway and Defendant Broadway provides
technology to school districts and that Defendant Broadway was Plaintiff’s
employer from approximately May 18, 2021 through December 17, 2021. (Scarpella
Decl., ¶ 3.) AJC is a non-public facing affiliate of Defendant Broadway.
(Scarpella Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendants are at the same business address, are solely
owned by Scarpella and his siblings as shareholders, have the same officers and
directors comprised of Scarpella and his siblings, and both entities are under
control with one another and have been operated in such way for at least 30
years. (Scarpella Decl., ¶ 5.) Scarpella states that the definition of “the
Company” in the arbitration agreement includes Defendant Broadway and its
affiliates and affiliated entities, agents, successors, and assigns. (Scarpella
Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Rudy Perez (“Perez”) also provides a declaration in support of the
motion. Mr. Perez sets forth his position at Defendant Broadway. (Perez Decl.,
¶ 3.) Mr. Perez states that he is personally familiar with Plaintiff because he
onboarded and supervised Plaintiff during his employment. (Perez Decl., ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff worked for Defendant Broadway for a very short time. (Perez Decl., ¶
5.) After hiring and consistent with Defendant Broadway’s onboarding practices,
he presented Plaintiff with a series of documents to complete the employment
onboarding process in person, including a copy of the “Agreement to Submit
Disputes to Binding Individual Arbitration” (the “Arbitration Agreement”).
(Perez Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. A.) Plaintiff signed the Arbitration Agreement in the
presence of Mr. Perez and he countersigned the Arbitration Agreement on behalf
of Defendant Broadway on May 18, 2021. (Perez Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. A.) At no point
during the onboarding did Plaintiff raise any disagreement to the Arbitration
Agreement or claim a lack of understanding of its contents. (Perez Decl., ¶ 8.)

b.      Evidence in Opposition to the Motion
In opposition to the motion, Plaintiff states the following: he
performed his job duties
entirely within
the State of California. (Espitia Decl., ¶ 3.) None of his work required him to
do anything outside the State of California. (Espitia Decl., ¶ 3.) As part of
the hiring process, Plaintiff was given around 15 pages of employment documents
and he was rushed to sign such documents without receiving any explanation and
was told just “sign here” in order to start working. (Espitia Decl., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff was never told by anyone that signing the “Agreement to Submit
Disputes to Individual Binding Arbitration” attached as Exhibit A to Rudy
Perez’s declaration was voluntary, that its terms were negotiable, or that he
could refuse to agree to the arbitration agreement to which it referred.
(Espitia Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff was never told by anyone that there was an
opt-out procedure to the arbitration provision. (Espitia Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff
was never told by anyone that he could refuse to sign any of the documents that
were given to him. (Espitia Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff states that he was not given
a copy of the Arbitration Agreement after he was forced to sign it to retain
for his records and he does not have a signed copy of Defendants’ arbitration
agreement. (Espitia Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff states that he did not understand
the legal significance of the document he was being forced to sign. (Espitia
Decl., ¶ 6.) 
c.       Analysis
The Court finds that Defendants have met their burden in showing the
existence of a
valid agreement
to arbitrate. Defendants have presented admissible evidence that Plaintiff
signed the Arbitration Agreement.  Defendants
have presented such an agreement to the Court through the declaration of Mr.
Perez. 
            Thus, under the FAA and California
law, Defendants have met their burden in showing the existence of a valid
agreement to arbitrate. Defendants have shown by a preponderance of the
evidence that an agreement to arbitrate exists.  
            Coverage of Claims Alleged
            The Court finds that the Arbitration
Agreement covers the claims alleged in the Complaint. The Arbitration Agreement
provides that it covers any and all disputes and claims arising out of
Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant Broadway and its affiliates and
affiliated entities. (Perez Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. A.) The Complaint arises from
Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant Broadway. Defendant AJC is also entitled
to compel arbitration under an equitable estoppel theory because—although not
being a signatory to the Arbitration Agreement— the claims against Defendant
AJC are intertwined with Plaintiff’s claims asserted against Defendant
Broadway. (Boucher
v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271.) 
            Applicability of the FAA
            The Court also finds that the FAA
applies to the Arbitration Agreement as the Arbitration Agreement specifically
provides that the FAA shall govern its interpretation and enforcement. (Perez
Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. A.)
 
 
            Fraud in the Execution and
Lack of Mutual Assent
            Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is
unenforceable because there was no mutual assent, and the Arbitration Agreement
is void due to fraud in the execution. 
            To establish a valid contract there
must be: (1) parties capable of contracting; (2) their consent; (3) a lawful
object; and (4) sufficient cause or consideration. (Civ. Code § 1550.)
“California law distinguishes between fraud in the execution or inception of a
contract and fraud in the inducement of a contract.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415.)  Fraud in the execution “goes to the inception
or execution of the agreement, so that the promisor is deceived as to the
nature of his act, and actually does not know what he is signing, or does not
intend to enter into a contract at all, mutual assent is lacking, and [the
contract] is void.” (Ibid., citation omitted.) “A misrepresentation as
to the character or essential terms of a proposed contract can render the
promisor’s assent ineffective.”  (Mt.
Holyoke Homes, L.P. v. Jeffer Mangels Butler & Mitchell, LLP (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 1299, 1308.)  The question of
fraud in the execution is for the trial court to decide.  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th 394, 416.) “[M]isrepresentation
does not render the contract void unless the misled party, before making
the agreement, lacked a reasonable opportunity to learn its terms.” (Id.
at p. 421.) 
“If a party, with such reasonable opportunity, fails to learn the
nature of the document he or she signs, such negligence precludes a finding the
contract is void for fraud in the execution.” (Id. at p. 423, citation
omitted.) “[O]ne party’s unreasonable reliance on the other’s
misrepresentations, resulting in a failure to read a written agreement before
signing it, is an insufficient basis, under the doctrine of fraud in the
execution, for permitting that party to avoid an arbitration agreement contained
in the contract.” (Ibid.) “[I]t is generally unreasonable, in reliance .
. . on assurances, to neglect to read a written agreement before signing it.” (Id.
at p. 424.) “California law . . . requires that the plaintiff, in failing to
acquaint himself or herself with the contents of a written agreement before
signing it, not have acted in an objectively unreasonable manner.” (Id. at
p. 423.) “One party’s
misrepresentations as to the nature or character of the writing do not negate
the other party’s apparent manifestation of assent, if the second party had a
reasonable opportunity to know the character or essential terms of the proposed
contract.” (Ibid, citation omitted.) 
Plaintiff has not met his burden in showing lack of consent and fraud
in the execution. The Court notes that Plaintiff did not set forth any efforts
to ascertain the nature or significance of the Arbitration Agreement.
Plaintiff’s declaration is void of any indication that he lacked the
opportunity to acquaint himself with the terms of the Arbitration Agreement. Also,
Defendants had no duty to explain the terms of the Arbitration Agreement
because “the [Arbitration Agreement] expressly and plainly provides for
arbitration of disputes arising out of the contractual relationship.” (Brookwood
v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1667, 1674.) Plaintiff could have
“ascertained the truth through the exercise of reasonable diligence.” (Ibid.)

In sum, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s lack of understanding as to
the Arbitration Agreement was due to Plaintiff’s negligence and lack of
diligence. Plaintiff could have, and in fact should have, requested that the Arbitration
Agreement be read or explained to him, or otherwise acquainted himself with the
Arbitration Agreement. 
Unconscionability
The inquiry into unconscionability consists of two prongs: A contract
will be revoked if it is both procedurally unconscionable and substantively
unconscionable. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.,
supra, 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) Procedural and substantive unconscionability
need not be present to the same degree, with the test operating on a “sliding
scale”: “[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) 
“‘Procedural unconscionability’ concerns the manner in which the
contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time.  It focuses on the factors of oppression and
surprise. The oppression component arises from an inequality of bargaining
power of the parties to the contract and an absence of real negotiation or a
meaningful choice on the part of the weaker party. The component of surprise
arises when the challenged terms are ‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted
by the party seeking to enforce them.’” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281, citations omitted.)        
Substantive unconscionability focuses on the terms of the agreement and
whether those terms are “so one sided as to “’shock the conscience.’” (Kinney
v. United Healthcare Services, Inc., supra, 70 Cal. App.4th 1329,
1330.)  The California Supreme Court in Armendariz set forth five
minimum requirements in requiring that arbitration agreements in the
employer-employee context must provide for: (1) neutral arbitrators; (2) more
than minimal discovery; (3) a written award; (4) all types of relief that would
otherwise be available in court; and (5) no additional costs for the employee
beyond what the employee would incur if he or she were bringing the claim in
court.  (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 712-713.)
The Court finds that the Arbitration Agreement contains some degree of
procedural unconscionability. Plaintiff has stated that he was forced to sign
the Arbitration Agreement without any opportunity for negotiation. (Espitia
Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) The Court acknowledges that the Arbitration Agreement states that
the arbitration will be governed by the then-current Employment Arbitration
Rules of JAMS. (Perez Decl. at Exh. A.) The Court, however, does not find that
the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it is not so
one-sided as to shock the conscience. 
Thus, the Court therefore GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration. The Court STAYS this action pending the completion of arbitration
pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement. (CCP § 1281.4.) 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
May 9, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court