 Case Number:  23STCV09467    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
DAVID
  H. KIM,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
DZLA,
  LLC, ET AL.
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV09467
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  April 28, 2023
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed:  May 23, 2023]
Trial
  Date:  June 24, 2024



 
Hearing
date:              May
9, 2024
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff
David H. Kim 
Responding
Party:      None
as of May 6, 2024 
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings      
 
The Court
considered the moving papers.  There was
no opposition filed.    
            Plaintiff’s
Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff
leased commercial property to Defendant DZLA, LLC.  Plaintiff served Defendant with three 10-day Notices
to Cure or Quit pursuant to CCP §1161(3) and on 30-day Notice to Cure or Quit for
violations under Lease §13.1(d) and (e). 
Plaintiff served three of the notices on March 17, 2023 in accordance
with CCP §1162, posting them at the property and mailing them to Defendant’s
address for service in the Lease Agreement. 
Plaintiff served the fourth notice on April 26, 2023, personally serving
the occupants at the premises and mailing the notice the Defendants.  Defendant did not cure the defaults set forth
in the four notices within the time to cure. 



            On
April 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant action for unlawful detainer.  On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint alleging unlawful detainer pursuant to CCP
§1161(3).  
 
Legal
Standard
 
            “Judgment
on the pleadings is akin to a demurrer and is properly granted only if the
complaint does not state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against
that defendant.  The grounds for the
motion must appear on the face of the complaint, and in any matters subject to
judicial notice. The court accepts as true all material factual allegations,
giving them a liberal construction, but it does not consider conclusions of
fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or
judicially noticed facts.  Appellate
courts review the record de novo to determine whether the complaint states a
cause of action as a matter of law.”  (Shea
Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246,
1254.)
 
            A
CCP §438 Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings “may only be made on one of the
following grounds:  (A) If the moving
party is a plaintiff, that the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute
a cause or causes of action against the defendant and the answer does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint.”  CCP §438(c)(1)(A).  However, a common law motion for judgment on
the pleadings without such restrictions is still recognized.  (Cordova v. 21st Century Ins. Co.
(2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 89, 109.) 
 
“A plaintiff’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is analogous to a plaintiff’s demurrer to
an answer and is evaluated by the same standards.  The motion should be denied if the
defendant’s pleadings raise a material issue or set up affirmative matter
constituting a defense; for purposes of ruling on the motion, the trial court
must treat all of the defendant’s allegations as being true.”  (People ex rel. Becerra v. Superior Court
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 486, 499.)  Demurrer
to an answer must be overruled if any defense to the complaint is properly
alleged.  (South Shore Land Co. v.
Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 733–734 (demurrer to answer properly
overruled based on sufficiently pled general denial)(“if one of the defenses or
counterclaims is free from the objections urged by demurrer, then a demurrer to
the entire answer must be overruled”).  
 
An answer fails
to raise any material issue or state a defense where it expressly or
substantially admits or does not sufficiently deny all the material allegations
of the complaint and sets up no new matter that is sufficient to bar or defeat
the action.  (Adjustment Corp. v.
Hollywood Hardware & Paint Co. (1939) 35 Cal.App.2d 566, 569-570.)  Thus, a general denial contained in the
answer requires that the entire demurrer be overruled.  (People ex rel. Becerra, supra,
29 Cal.App.5th at 499 (discussing MJP based on failure to state facts to
constitute a defense); Engine Manufacturers Assn. v. State Air Resources Bd.
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1022, 1034 (MJP must be denied if “defendant's pleadings
raise a material issue or set up affirmative matter constituting a defense”); Allstate
Ins. Co., supra, 160 Cal.App.3d at 331 (MJP should be denied if
answer either contains general denial or states facts in support of affirmative
defenses); Barasch v. Epstein (1957) 147 Cal.App.2d 439, 443 (“[w]here
the answer, fairly construed, suggests that the defendant may have a good
defense, a motion for judgment on the pleadings should not be granted”).
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
moves for judgment on the pleadings of Defendant’s answer.  Plaintiff argues Defendant’s 5th affirmative
defense for failure to mitigate, 7th affirmative defense for unclean
hands, 8th affirmative defense for good faith conduct, 9th
affirmative defense for remedies not recoverable, 13th affirmative
defense for unjust enrichment, 14th affirmative defense for no injury or harm,
16th affirmative defense for offset, 17th affirmative
defense for fraud, 18th affirmative defense for conduct not a
substantial factor, 19th affirmative defense for damages caused by
acts or omissions beyond defendant’s control, 22nd affirmative
defense for mistake of fact fail as a matter of law, because they do not apply
to unlawful detainer actions.  Plaintiff
argues these defenses would not, if proved, preserve the tenant’s possession of
the property or preclude the landlord from recovering possession.
 
            With
regard to the remaining defenses, Plaintiff moves for judgment on the pleadings
on grounds that none of them state sufficient facts to constitute a
defense.  Plaintiff argues these
affirmative defenses must be pled with the same specificity as a cause of
action.  Plaintiff argues the remaining
defenses merely state legal conclusions without supporting facts.
 
            A
plaintiff’s motion for judgment on the pleadings tests (1) whether the
plaintiff’s complaint states a cause of action and (2) whether the defendant’s
answer states sufficient facts to constitute a defense against the
complaint.  As to the first issue, the
Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint for
Unlawful Detainer based on failure to state a cause of action on November 1,
2023.  (Minute Order dated November 1,
2023.)  Plaintiff’s complaint therefore
states a cause of action.
 
            However,
Plaintiff fails to establish that Defendant’s answer fails to state any defense
against the complaint.  “Defenses
available in unlawful detainer are limited to those which, if proven, would
maintain the defendant's right to possession.” 
(North 7th Street Associates v. Constante (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th Supp.7, 10-11.)  
 
Moreover, the
MJP must be denied if the answer raises a material issue or sets up an affirmative
matter constituting a defense.  (People
ex rel. Becerra, supra, 29 Cal.App.5th at 499.)  Thus, a general denial would require denial
of the motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
(Id.)
 
Plaintiff’s UD
action is based on CCP §1161(3) for failure to cure a breach of a lease
obligation other than payment of rent. 
(CCP §1161(3).  Defendant’s
available defenses are therefore those that would address its alleged breaches
and its failure to cure those breaches within the applicable 10-day or 30-day
notice period to cure, i.e. Defendant’s failure to (1) comply with all
applicable building codes, laws, CC&Rs, regulation, and ordinances; (2)
refrain from making any alterations or utility installations to the premises
without Plaintiff’s consent; and (3) provide proof of insurance.
 
Defendant’s
answer denies “it was or is in default and denies violating the lease.”  (Answer filed on November 6, 2023, ¶22.)  The basis of Plaintiff’s UD action is
Defendant’s alleged defaults.  Defendant’s
general denial of these alleged defaults is sufficient to defeat Plaintiff’s
motion or judgment on the pleadings. 
Defendant has raised a material issue with its denials.  
 
Moreover,
because Plaintiff is alleging UD based on breach of obligations other than
payment of rent, Defendant’s 7th affirmative defense for unclean
hands, 17th affirmative defense for fraud and 22nd
affirmative defense for mistake of fact are not irrelevant.  If in fact Plaintiff committed some
wrongdoing that excused Defendant’s alleged breach, it would defeat Plaintiff’s
UD claim.  
 
Finally, the MJP
must be denied if any defense is raised. 
Based on a review of the answer, at the very least, Defendant states sufficient
facts in connection with its 6th affirmative defense for failure to provide
notice, 10th affirmative defense for waiver, 11th
affirmative defense for complete performance, 12th affirmative
defense for duties performed, 15th affirmative defense for consent,
17th affirmative defense for fraud and 23rd affirmative
defense for trivial or immaterial breach. 
Defendant was only required to state ultimate facts and given the nature
of these defenses, it did so.  
 
Plaintiff fails
to establish that Defendant’s answer does not state any defense to the
complaint.  For this reason, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
 
 
 
Conclusion
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 

 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: 
May 9, 2024
 
_______________________
Mel Red Recana
Judge of the
Superior Court
 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
DAVID
  H. KIM,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
DZLA,
  LLC, ET AL.
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV09467
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  April 28, 2023
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed:  May 23, 2023]
Trial
  Date:  June 24, 2024



 
Hearing
date:              May
9, 2024
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff
David H. Kim 
Responding
Party:      Defendant
DZLA, LLC 
 
Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication      
 
The Court
considered the moving papers, the opposition papers filed on April 25, 2024 and
May 6, 2024, including the Pincus Declaration, and the reply papers filed on
April 25, 2024. The Court also considered Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief filed
on April 19, 2024 and Sur-reply.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff
leased commercial property to Defendant DZLA, LLC.  Plaintiff served Defendant with three 10-day Notices
to Cure or Quit pursuant to CCP §1161(3) and on 30-day Notice to Cure or Quit for
violations under Lease §13.1(d) and (e). 
Plaintiff served three of the notices on March 17, 2023 in accordance
with CCP §1162, posting them at the property and mailing them to Defendant’s
address for service in the Lease Agreement. 
Plaintiff served the fourth notice on April 26, 2023, personally serving
the occupants at the premises and mailing the notice the Defendants.  Defendant did not cure the defaults set forth
in the four notices within the time to cure. 

 
            On
April 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant action for unlawful detainer.  On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint alleging unlawful detainer pursuant to CCP §1161(3).  
 
Legal
Standard
“A plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense
to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of
action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP
§437c(p)(1).)   
 
“A party is
entitled to summary judgment only if it meets its initial burden of showing
there are no triable issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if the opposing party fails to
file any opposition.  The court's
assessment of whether the moving party has carried its burden—and therefore
caused a shift—occurs before the court's evaluation of the opposing party's
papers.  Therefore, the burden on the
motion does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in
the opposing papers.”  (Mosley v.
Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435
(landlord’s failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their
tenant’s marijuana growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment
where moving party failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher
v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot
grant summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first
determine if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)
 
In addition, the
evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed strictly, while those
of the opponent are liberally read.  (Government
Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All doubts as to the propriety of granting
the motion (whether there is any issue of material fact [Code of Civil
Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing the motion
(i.e., a denial of summary judgment).”  (Hamburg
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)  
 
Evidentiary
Objections
            The Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to the declarations of Mitilian and Nodler as they are
immaterial to the Court’s ruling.  (CCP
§437c(q).)
 
Discussion
            Plaintiff
moves for summary judgment based on one of the four Notices to Cure or Quit
upon which he bases his First Amended Complaint for Unlawful Detainer.  Plaintiff served Defendant with four separate
notices detailing four separate breaches of the Lease Agreement under CCP
§1161(3).  Three of the Notices to Cure
or Quit set forth breaches of the §§6.3, 7.3(b) and 13.1(d) of the Lease
Agreement requiring that Defendant (1) comply with all applicable building
codes, laws, CC&Rs, regulation, and ordinances and (2) refrain from making
any alterations or utility installations to the premises without Plaintiff’s
consent.  (FAC, Exs. 2, 3 and 5.)  One of the Notices to Cure or Quit sets forth
breach of §8.5 of the Lease Agreement, which required Defendant to provide
Plaintiff with copies of required of endorsements evidencing the existence and
amounts of insurance mandated under §8.5 of the Lease Agreement.  (FAC, Ex. 4.) 
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment based solely on the 10-day Notice
to Cure or Quit based on Defendant’s failure to provide proof of insurance
prior to the Start Date under the Lease Agreement.  (FAC, Ex. 4.)
 
            Plaintiff
satisfies its burden as moving party
            “A
tenant of real property, for a term less than life, or the executor or
administrator of the tenant's estate heretofore qualified and now acting or
hereafter to be qualified and act, is guilty of unlawful detainer:…3.  When the tenant continues in possession, in
person or by subtenant, after a neglect or failure to perform other conditions
or covenants of the lease or agreement under which the property is held,
including any covenant not to assign or sublet, than the one for the payment of
rent, and three days' notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other
judicial holidays, in writing, requiring the performance of those conditions or
covenants, or the possession of the property, shall have been served upon the
tenant, and if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also,
upon the subtenant.”  (CCP §1161(3).)  
 
            Plaintiff
establishes that Defendant and Plaintiff entered into a lease agreement that
required Defendant to provide certain insurance documents to Plaintiff:  “Lessee shall, prior to the Start Date,
deliver to Lessor certified copies of policies of such insurance or
certificates with copies of the required endorsements evidencing the existence and
amounts of the required insurance.”  (Kim
Dec. ISO Motion for Summary Judgment, Ex. G, Lease Agreement, p. 6, §8.5.)  
 
            Plaintiff
submits evidence that Defendant took possession of the premises on March 1,
2022, the Start Date under the Lease Agreement. 
(Kim Dec., ¶11, Ex. G, Lease Agreement, ¶¶1 and 2.2.)  Plaintiff submits evidence that Defendant
failed to provide certified copies of the required insurance policies or
certificates with copies of the required endorsements prior to the Start Date
or after expiration of the 10-day Notice to Cure or Quit.  (Id. at ¶¶11, 12.)  
 
The Notice to
Cure or Quit was served personally on Defendant’s “owner” on April 26, 2023
with 10-days notice to cure, as required under §13.1(d) of the Lease Agreement.  (Kim Dec., ¶20.)  Defendant was required to submit proof that
it was maintaining the following types of insurance:  liability insurance carried by tenant,
property damage insurance, business interruption insurance, and worker’s compensation
insurance.  (Kim Dec., ¶12.)  Plaintiff establishes that Defendant had
until May 10, 2023 to respond to the Notice of Default and provide the
requisite proof of insurance under §8.5 of the Lease Agreement.  (Id.)
 
Plaintiff
submits evidence that he has never received the required proof of
insurance.  Plaintiff submits evidence
that he has never received a Certificate and Endorsement that show that DZLA,
LLC was covered for General Liability Insurance.  (Kim Dec., ¶12.)  Plaintiff submits evidence that he has only
received (1) a Certificate of Liability Insurance dated May 3, 2023 but no
Endorsement; (2) a General Liability Endorsement with the named insured being David
Zwirner, Inc., who is not Defendant; and (3) a Certificate of Liability
Insurance identical to the one dated May 3, 2023 but with the new date of
August 29, 2023.  (Kim Dec., Exs. H and
I.)  
 
Plaintiff
submits evidence that, on October 11, 2023, Defendant submitted a Certificate
of Commercial General Liability Insurance and an Endorsement listing Defendant
as an insured.  (Kim Dec., ¶19, Ex.
J.)  However, there were no certificates
of insurance and endorsements establishing the existence of any of the other
required types of insurance—Worker’s Compensation, Property Damage and Business
Interruption.  (Kim Dec., ¶19.)  The Certificate of Commercial General
Liability Insurance and Endorsement were also submitted after expiration of the
10-day Notice period to cure quit.  (Id.)  Despite failing to cure Defendant’s breach of
§8.5, Defendant remains in possession of the premises (Id. at ¶25.)
 
Based on this
evidence, Plaintiff establishes (1) the existence of a lease agreement with
Defendant; (2) Defendant’s obligation under §§8.2 and 8.4 of the lease
agreement to maintain commercial general liability insurance, property damage
insurance, business interruption insurance and worker’s compensation insurance;
(3) Defendant’s obligation under §8.5 of the Lease to provide Plaintiff with
copies of the policies or Certificates of Insurance with Endorsements as to
each type of required insurance “prior to the Start Date [March 1, 2022]; (4)
Defendant failed to comply with §8.5 of the Lease when it did not provide the
requisite proofs of insurance; (5) Plaintiff served Defendant with a 10-day Notice
to Cure or Quit Defendant’s breach of §8.5 on April 26, 2023; (6) Defendant did
not cure the breach by May 10, 2023, the date on which the 10-day period
expired; (7) Defendant has still not fully complied with its obligations under
§8.5; and (8) Defendant remains in possession of the premises.    
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence establishes Defendant’s unlawful detainer of the rental premises
pursuant to CCP §1161(3).  Plaintiff
satisfies its burden as moving party. 
The burden therefore shifts to Defendant to raise a triable issue of
material fact with admissible evidence.
 
Defendant raises
a triable issue of material fact
Defendant raises
a triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s unlawful detainer claim
pursuant to CCP §1161(3) based on failure to maintain insurance on the
property. First and foremost, Defendant submits evidence that it has maintained
the insurance required on the property since February 8, 2022, prior to the
start date of the Lease, and it is not in breach of §§8.2 and 8.4 of the
Lease.  (Pincus Dec. filed on May 6,
2024, ¶¶3-6).  Steven Pincus, the
insurance broker who obtained the insurance on Defendant’s behalf, also
explains the issues raised with the proof of insurance provided by Defendant to
Plaintiff, including the identification of David Zwirner, Inc. as a lead named
insured and the language excluding LLCs in general.  (Id. at ¶5.)  Because Defendant is an expressly named
insured, it is insured under the policy despite being an LLC.  (Id. at ¶¶5-6).  As such, triable issues of fact remain as to
whether Defendant breached ¶¶8.2 and 8.4 of the Lease.  
 
The Court notes
the Pincus declaration was submitted on May 6, 2024, only eight days before the
current hearing date of May 9, 2024.  The
original hearing date of April 26, 2024 was continued so that the Court could
consider the evidence submitted by Defendant on the evening of April 25, 2024,
just before the hearing date.  Although
not ideal, the Pincus declaration was timely submitted in opposition to
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment under CRC Rule 3.1351(c), which only
requires that a written opposition be filed and served the court day before the
hearing.  The Pincus declaration was timely
filed and served three court days before the hearing date.  
 
In addition to
raising a triable issue of fact regarding actual breach, Defendant also raises
an issue of fact as to whether failure to maintain insurance and the failure to
submit proper proof of insurance by the contractual deadline is a material
breach as a matter of law.  “Whether a
breach is so material as to constitute cause for the injured party to terminate
a contract is ordinarily a question for the trier of fact.”  (Whitney Investment Co. V. Westview Dev.
Co. (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 594, 601; Brown v. Grimes (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 265, 277-278; Nivo 1 LLC v. Anutnez (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th
Supp., 1, 4-5 (affirming trial court’s determination that renter’s failure to
maintain personal property insurance was not a material breach.)  
 
Defendant asserts
as its 23rd affirmative defense that any breach, which it denies,
was trivial and immaterial.  Plaintiff
did not present any evidence that the failure to provide insurance was a
material breach based on the parties’ intentions at the time of contracting.  On reply, Plaintiff argues this UD action is
based on Defendant’s failure to provide proof of service, not necessarily
failure to maintain insurance.  Again,
whether the failure to provide proof of service qualifies as a material breach
justifying termination of the agreement is a question of fact for the trier of
fact.  Defendant has presented evidence
that it has maintained the required insurance on the property at all relevant
times.  In the face of such evidence, the
Court cannot find as a matter of law that the failure to timely present
evidence of insurance alone is a material breach justifying termination of the
Lease.  
 
  Defendant also raises a triable issue of fact
as to whether Notice to Cure or Quit was properly served.  According to Plaintiff’s evidence, the Notice
to Cure or Quit was served personally on Defendant’s “owner” on April 26, 2023
with 10-days’ notice to cure, as required under §13.1(d) of the Lease
Agreement.  (Kim Dec., ¶¶5, 20; FAC, Ex.
7.)  
 
However,
personal service was on “Ben McMillan-Owner” at 612 N. Western Ave.,
90004.  (Id.)  Defendant argues David Zwirner is the
President and only representative of Defendant identified in the lease.  Defendant raises an issue of fact as to
whether service of the Notice to Cure or Quit was proper under §23 of the Lease
Agreement.  Defendant is an LLC and
therefore has members.  Triable issues of
fact remain as to whether service on McMillan was proper to notify
Defendant.  
 
In addition, §23
of the Lease Agreement states that the address next to the party’s signature
was to be the Party’s address for delivery or mailing of notices.  (FAC, Ex. 1, §23.)  The address listed next to Zwirner’s
signature as President of DZLA, LLC is 529 W. 19th St., New York
City, NY 10011, not the Los Angeles address where the Notice to Cure or Quit
was served on McMillan.  (FAC, Ex. 1, p.
16 of 17; Ex. 7.)  
 
On reply,
Plaintiff argues the Notice to Cure or Quit was mailed to Tracy Nolder at the
New York address and there is no dispute that Defendant received that
notice.  Plaintiff’s position in his
opening brief was that the Notice to Cure or Quit was properly served on Ben
McMillan by personal service on April 26, 2023 as evidenced by Exhibit 7 to the
FAC and Exhibit L to the Brackmann Dec. 
(FAC, Ex. 7; Brackmann Dec. ISO of MSJ, Ex. L.)  Defendant has sufficiently rebutted
Plaintiff’s claim of proper service based on Exhibit 7 to the FAC and Exhibit L
to the Brackmann Dec.  
 
Moreover,
Plaintiff relies on Exhibit O to the Brackman declaration submitted in support
of the reply to establish mail service to Nolder at the New York address.  Exhibit O is not a proof of service under
penalty of perjury by the person who mailed the document.  Exhibit O is an email to the process server
instructing mail service at the New York address, an invoice and a copy of the
front of an envelope.  (Reply, Brackmann
Dec., Ex. O.)  Given that Plaintiff’s
evidence must be construed strictly and Defendant’s liberally on summary
judgment, Exhibit O is insufficient to establish proper service as a matter of
law, nor does the claim that Nolder does not deny receipt establish proper
service as a matter of law given strict construction of notice provisions in
connection with UD matters. 
 
In a Notice of
Errata filed on May 1, 2024, Plaintiff adds another page to Exhibit 7 to the
FAC and Exhibit L to the Brackmann Dec. 
The additional page is a proof of service executed by the process server
indicating mail service on Nolder on April 26, 2023.  This is beyond a Notice of Errata.  Plaintiff’s Notice of Errata submits new
material evidence that was not submitted in support of the original motion and
substantially changes the showing and position adopted by Plaintiff at the
outset of the MSJ.  The Court will not
consider the Notice of Errata.  
 
Even if the
Court were to consider the Notice of Errata and found that proper service of
the Notice to Cure or Quit was rendered on Defendant at the New York address by
mail, triable issues of fact remain as to whether Defendant timely provided
proper proof of insurance, the motion would still be denied.  Triable issues of fact remain as to whether
Defendant maintained the required insurance during all relevant times and
whether Defendant’s failure to provide proof of insurance or to maintain
insurance was a material breach allowing Plaintiff to terminate the Lease.  
 
Conclusion
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.  
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
 
Dated: 
May 9, 2024
 
_______________________
Mel Red Recana
Judge of the
Superior Court
 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
DAVID
  H. KIM,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
DZLA,
  LLC, ET AL.
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV09467
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  April 28, 2023
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed:  May 23, 2023]
Trial
  Date:  June 24, 2024



 
Hearing
date:              May
9, 2024
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff
David H. Kim 
Responding
Party:      None
as of April 23, 2024 
(1)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
(2)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories-Unlawful Detainer
(Set One)
(3)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set One)
(4)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories-General (Set Two)
(5)
Motion to Compel Attendance and Testimony of David Zwirner  
The Court
considered the moving papers, the opposition papers and the omnibus separate
statements filed by Plaintiff.  
Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (Set One), Form
Interrogatories (Set One) and Form Interrogatories-Unlawful Detainer (Set One)
(Filed on December 6, 2023) are CONTINUED TO _________________________.  Parties are ordered to meet and confer
further.  A joint statement regarding the
outstanding discovery issues and disputed requests and responses should by
filed on ____________________ (one week before continued hearing date).  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories-General (Set Two) is MOOT. 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED given Plaintiff’s failure to
adequately meet and confer.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of David Zwirner, Managing Member
of Defendant DZLA, LLC is DENIED. 
Plaintiff’s deposition notice was invalid given the failure to adhere to
the geographical limitations of CCP §2025.250 or to obtain leave to depose
Defendant outside of those limits by noticed motion under CCP §2025.260.
 
Background
            Plaintiff
leased commercial property to Defendant DZLA, LLC.  Plaintiff served Defendant with three 10-day Notices
to Cure or Quit pursuant to CCP §1161(3) and on 30-day Notice to Cure or Quit for
violations under Lease §13.1(d) and (e). 
Plaintiff served three of the notices on March 17, 2023 in accordance
with CCP §1162, posting them at the property and mailing them to Defendant’s
address for service in the Lease Agreement. 
Plaintiff served the fourth notice on April 26, 2023, personally serving
the occupants at the premises and mailing the notice the Defendants.  Defendant did not cure the defaults set forth
in the four notices within the time to cure. 

 
            On
April 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant action for unlawful detainer.  On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint alleging unlawful detainer pursuant to CCP
§1161(3).  
 
Legal
Standard
            1.  Form
Interrogatories
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or
failure to fully answer the interrogatories and RFAs. (Coy v. Sup.Ct.
(Wolcher) (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221; Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct.
(Stendell) (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  
CCP §2030.300
(a) On receipt
of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply:
            (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
            (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate.
            (3) An objection to an interrogatory
is without merit or too general.
(b)(1) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.
(2) In lieu of a
separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court may
allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and
each response in dispute.
(c) Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response
to the interrogatories.
(d) The court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
(e) If a party
then fails to obey an order compelling further response to interrogatories, the
court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010). In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court
may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010).
 
            2.  Requests
for Production
            The burden is on the moving party to
show both relevance to the subject matter and specific facts justifying
discovery.  (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  Once good cause is established by the moving
party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure.  (Hartbrodt
v. Burke (1996, 2nd Dist.) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
CCP § 2031.310
(a) On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
            (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.
            (2) A representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
            (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:
            (1) The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.
            (2) The motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
            (3) In lieu of a separate statement
required under the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving
party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.
(c) Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to
the demand.
… (h) Except as
provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
            3.  Compel
Deposition
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  (CCP
§2025.450(a).)
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
(CCP §2025.450(b).)
 
Discussion
            1.  Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Further
Responses to RFPs (Set One), Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Form
Interrogatories-Unlawful Detainer (Set One) (Filed on December 6, 2023)
 
            Plaintiff filed separate motions to compel further
responses to (1) RFP Nos. 1-19, (2) Form Interrogatory 17.1 and (3) Unlawful
Detainer Form Interrogatory Nos. 71.1, 71.2, 71.3 and 76.1.  Plaintiff maintains the responses consist of
boilerplate objections and incomplete responses.  
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel submits a
declaration regarding the parties’ good faith meet and confer efforts.  Plaintiff’s counsel was unable to meet with
Defendant due to counsel’s unavailability. 
(Brackman Omnibus Dec., ¶3.)  
 
            Plaintiff has now cured the issue
previously raised by the Court regarding lack of a CRC Rule 3.1345 separate
statement.  Defendant’s opposition based
on lack of a separate statement is therefore overruled.  
 
However, the parties have still not met and conferred in person.  In light of Plaintiff’s failure to
successfully meet and confer in person with Defendant regarding these discovery
issues and the failure to submit a CRC Rule 3.1345 separate statement, the
parties are ordered to meet and confer further on the disputed discovery
responses and submit a joint statement detailing the outstanding discovery
requests and responses one week before the continued hearing date.  Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Further Responses
to RFPs (Set One), Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Form
Interrogatories-Unlawful Detainer (Set One) (Filed on December 6, 2023) are
continued to _____________________.  
            
            2. 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories-General (Set Two) (Filed on January 22, 2024)
            Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatory General (Set Two) No. 15.1. 
Defendant served responses pursuant to an extension on December 22, 2023
by mail.
 
Plaintiff submits a meet and confer declaration.  Plaintiff sent Defendant a meet-and-confer
letter on December 29, 2023 and never received any response.  Plaintiff filed this motion on January 22,
2024.  
 
The meet and confer requirement is not a mere formality.  “This rule is designed to encourage the
parties to work out their differences informally so as to avoid the necessity
for a formal order.  This, in turn, will
lessen the burden on the court and reduce the unnecessary expenditure of
resources by litigants through promotion of informal, extrajudicial resolution
of discovery disputes.”  (Stewart v.
Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.)
 
Inadequate efforts to informally resolve a discovery dispute may be
sufficient, by themselves, to support the denial of a motion to compel
discovery responses, depending upon the particular circumstances of the
case.  (Obregon v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 433, 435; Townsend v. Superior Court (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1433, 1438- 1439 (heated discussions during a deposition
did not constitute a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution;
informal resolution requirement was "not fulfilled when the proponent,
immediately following an objection, merely debates with the deponent's counsel
the propriety of the objection").) 
The question of whether a party engaged in sufficient meet and confer
efforts is left to the Court's wide discretion. 
(Obregon at 431.)
 
Plaintiff failed to adequately meet and confer prior to filing this
motion to compel further responses. 
Plaintiff filed the motion nearly a month after counsel’s first and only
meet and confer attempt.  The deadline to
file the motion to compel further responses was not imminent.  The deadline was February 12, 2024—45 days
plus 5 days for mailing after the allegedly defective responses were served on
December 22, 2023.  
 
Defendant has also served a supplemental response to the only
interrogatory in dispute, Form Interrogatory 15.1-General (Set Two), on April
23, 2024.  (Opposition to Motion to
Compel Further Responses to “Special Interrogatories” [sic], Mitilian Dec., Ex.
4.)  As discussed in Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, the Court has several options if untimely responses are served
once a motion to compel is filed.  “The
trial court might compel responses without objection if it finds no legally
valid responses have been provided to one or more interrogatories; it might
deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in
part, and just impose sanctions; it might treat the motion as one under section
2030.300 and either determine that further answers are required, or order the
propounding party to “meet and confer” (§ 2030.300, subd. (b)) and file a
separate statement (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1020(a)(2), (c)); or it might
take the motion off calendar, thereby requiring the propounding party to file a
motion under section 2030.300 [statute governing motions to compel further
responses to interrogatories].”  (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 409.) 
 
Thus, in order to determine the proper course of action, the Court should
review the responses served to assess whether the untimely responses
satisfactorily resolve the issues raised by the motion.  (Id.) 
For example, untimely responses that assert objections do not fully
resolve a motion to compel initial responses pursuant to CCP §2031.300, because
the moving party is entitled to responses without objection.  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at 408.)  
 
The Court finds the motion moot.  Defendant’s
supplemental responses to Form Rog 15.1 are substantive.  Because Plaintiff did not sufficiently meet
and confer in good faith, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions.  
 
3.  Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of David Zwirner, Managing Member of Defendant
DZLA, LLC (Filed on January 19, 2024)
Plaintiff served David Zwirner with a Notice of Deposition on November 2,
2023 in his capacity as the Managing Member of Defendant DZLA, LLC for
deposition in Los Angeles, CA.  (Davidson
Dec., ¶3, Ex. 1.)  In response, Defendant
objected to the Notice of Deposition on grounds that it was unilaterally set
and was served on Zwirner, who is not a party to the action and therefore may
not be compelled to attend the deposition by a Notice of Deposition.  (Davidson Dec., Ex. 3.)  Defendant did not appear at the
deposition.  (Davidson Dec., Ex. 4.)  
 
Plaintiff sent emails to Defendant before and after the failure to attend
regarding the failure to appear. 
(Davidson Dec., Ex. 5.)  Plaintiff
also offered alternative dates but has not received any response from
Defendant.  (Id.)  Plaintiff therefore satisfies the meet and
confer requirement under CCP §2025.450(b).
 
Defendant argues that Zwirner cannot be deposed in California, because he
is a nonresident.  Defendant argues that
pursuant to CCP §2025.250, the deposition of a natural person must be taken at
a place that is either within 75 miles of the deponent’s residence, or within
the county where the action is pending and within 150 miles of the deponent’s
residence.  Defendant argues there is no
order pursuant to CCP §2025.260 allowing the deposition of Zwirner to take
place outside of these limits.  
 
Defendant’s objection based on Zwirner’s status as a non-party is
overruled.  Based on the Statement of
Information for Defendant DZLA, LLC, Zwirner is the sole managing member of
DZLA, LLC and may therefore be compelled to attend deposition by way of a
Notice of Deposition.  (Davidson Dec.,
¶4, Ex. 2.)  Whether he is technically a
party or a non-party is irrelevant to the issue of whether a Notice of
Deposition was sufficient to compel his deposition or if a subpoena was
required.  “The service of a deposition
notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (CCP §2025.380(a).)   
 
However, Defendant’s objection to the location of the deposition is
sustained.  Although Zwirner is the
managing member of Defendant, he is a natural persona and the geographical
limitations under CCP §2025.250(a) apply to him.  Plaintiff did not seek an order pursuant to
CCP §2025.260 permitting deposition of Zwirner outside the geographical limits
of CCP §2025.250(a):  “A party desiring
to take the deposition of a natural person who is a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party may make a motion for
an order that the deponent attend for deposition at a place that is more
distant than that permitted under Section 2025.250. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (CCP §2025.260.)  While Plaintiff’s Notice of Motion to Compel lists
CCP §2025.260 as grounds to compel attendance, Plaintiff never filed a motion
seeking leave to depose Zwirner outside of the geographical limits set forth
under CCP §2025.250.
 
The Court overrules Defendant’s objection based on the Notice’s statement
that the deposition would be held on November 13, 2023 at 9 am and “continuing
from day to day…until completed, or until any time limitation imposed by
statute or agreed upon by the parties is reached.”  (Davidson Dec., Ex. 1, Notice of
Deposition.)  The statement states that
the deposition will take place until any time limitation imposed by
statute.  The statement therefore
incorporates the seven-hour limitation imposed under CCP §2025.290.  The statement also provides the deposition
can also continue in accordance with parties’ agreement.  The statement is therefore not fatally
defective to render the notice invalid.  
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Zwirner’s attendance at deposition is
denied. Plaintiff has not served Zwirner with a valid deposition notice in
conformity with the requirements of CCP §2025.250, nor has he obtained leave to
depose Zwirner outside the limits of CCP §2025.250 under CCP §2025.260.  
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (Set One), Form
Interrogatories (Set One) and Form Interrogatories-Unlawful Detainer (Set One)
(Filed on December 6, 2023) are CONTINUED TO _________________________.  Parties are ordered to meet and confer
further.  A joint statement regarding the
outstanding discovery issues and disputed requests and responses should by
filed on ____________________ (one week before continued hearing date).  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories-General (Set Two) is MOOT. 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied given Plaintiff’s failure to
adequately meet and confer.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of David Zwirner, Managing Member
of Defendant DZLA, LLC is DENIED.  Plaintiff’s
deposition notice was invalid given the failure to adhere to the geographical
limitations of CCP §2025.250 or to obtain leave to depose Defendant outside of
those limits by noticed motion under CCP §2025.260.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: 
May 9, 2024
 
_______________________
Mel Red Recana
Judge of the
Superior Court
 