 Case Number:  23STCV08570    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Tracy Hark, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV08570 (Related to 23STCV14540)




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Pacific Maritime Association, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 19, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Consolidate
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Tracy Hark, Al Waller and
Patrome Collins
Responding Party: Defendants Pacific Maritime
Association and SSA Terminals, LLC
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE IS
DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and reply.
 
“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending
before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the
matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and
it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.”  (CCP §
1048(a).) 
 
Plaintiffs move to consolidate (1)
Hark et al. v. Pacific Maritime Association et al., LASC Case No.
23STCV08570; and (2) Collins v. Pacific Maritime Association et al.,
LASC Case No. 23STCV14540.
 
Plaintiffs argue the cases
should be consolidated because they involve common questions of law and fact.
Plaintiffs assert both actions involve incidents of racial harassment by
Defendant Lomeli against Plaintiffs while they were employed by Defendants and
include the same causes of action and parties. Plaintiffs contend that the
common issue in both cases is whether Defendants continued to employ Lomeli
despite notice of his alleged acts of racial harassment and/or discrimination. 
 
In opposition, Defendants
assert the actions do not involve common facts. Defendants emphasize that each
Plaintiff’s claims arise from distinct events and that each Plaintiff had
distinct employers. Defendants argue that consolidation would confuse the jury and
would not result in efficiencies of discovery or at trial.
 
The Court declines to
consolidate the actions. The actions involve distinct incidents and the parties
have distinct employment relationships. They do not arise from the same
transaction or series of events.
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to consolidate is DENIED.


 