  Case Number:  20STCV48450    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Lucky International Technology, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV48450




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Angelina Leo, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 19, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended
Cross-Complaint and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Cross-Defendants Haifeng Wu, Honchen
Capital and Lucky International CBD Technology, Inc.
Responding Party: Cross-Complainants Angelina Leo,
Steven Nia, and W1, Inc. 
 
T/R:     CROSS-DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS
OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO THE SECOND
AMENDED CROSS COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF
RULING.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
 On December 18, 2020, Plaintiff Lucky
International Technology, Inc. filed a Complaint alleging causes of action for
(1) conversion, (2) trespass to chattels, (3) claim and delivery, and (4)
injunctive relief against Defendants Angelina Leo, Steven Nia, and W1,
Inc.  The action arises from a joint
business venture to sell cannabis products. 

 
On November 27, 2023, Leo, Nia and W1
filed the operative second amended cross-complaint against Wu, Honchen and
Lucky International CBD Technology Inc., asserting causes of action for breach
of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, promissory estoppel, conversion,
and declaratory relief. Cross-Complainants allege Cross-Defendants
misrepresented various facts regarding the business and Cross-Complainants'
access to CBD chemicals to induce Cross-Complainants into investing in the
company.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Cross-Defendants' request for judicial
notice is DENIED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First Cause
of Action for Breach of Contract
 
“The standard
elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
Cross-Defendants demur to the first cause of action on the grounds that
Cross-Complainants fail to allege the elements of breach of contract and the
claim is barred by the subsequent Stock Purchase Agreement. 
 
Cross-Complainants allege the parties entered into a Shareholder
Agreement in which Cross-Defendants would provide hemp and CBD products for
Cross-Complainants to sell. Cross-Complainants allege they performed their
obligations under the contract, but Cross-Defendants failed to provide the hemp
and CBD products. Cross-Complainants were damaged as a result. This is
sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
Whether the Stock Purchase Agreement affects the Shareholder agreement
is not suitable for determination on demurrer. The Court cannot consider
extrinsic evidence not provided in the pleading or subject to judicial notice. 
 
The demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Second Cause
of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
The elements for a breach of fiduciary duty
cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and
damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)
Cross-Defendants demur to the second cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty on the ground that Cross-Defendants did not owe
Cross-Complainants a fiduciary duty. Cross-Defendants assert that they and
Cross-Complainants were not “joint venturers” as alleged in the
cross-complaint, but rather Cross-Complainants were shareholders and officers.
This is not grounds for demurrer. The Court must take the allegations of the
cross-complaint as true. Cross-Complainants allege they were joint venturers.
Joint venturers owe fiduciary duties to each other.
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
C. Third Cause
of Action for Unpaid Wages
 
Cross-Defendants assert the third cause of action fails because
Cross-Complainants were not employees of Lucky. Cross-Complainants allege
Cross-Defendants agreed to pay Cross-Complainants monthly wages but failed to
do so. This is sufficient on demurrer to state a claim for unpaid wages.
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
D. Fourth and
Fifth Causes of Action for Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Cross-Defendants demur to the fourth and
fifth causes of action on the ground that they are not pleaded with the
requisite specificity. Cross-Complainants allege Cross-Defendant Wu misrepresented
several specific material facts in 2020, including Cross-Defendants' access to
the products they were contracted to provide. Cross-Complainants allege
Cross-Defendants knew the representations were false and made them to induce
Cross-Complainants to enter the joint venture. This is sufficient to allege
causes of action for fraud.
The demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes
of action is OVERRULED.
 
E. Sixth Cause
of Action for Promissory Estoppel
 
“The elements of promissory estoppel are (1) a promise, (2) the promisor
should reasonably expect the promise to induce action or forbearance on the
part of the promisee or a third person, (3) the promise induces action or
forbearance by the promisee or a third person (which we refer to as detrimental
reliance), and (4) injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of the
promise.”  (West v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 803, reh’g denied (Apr. 11, 2013),
review denied (July 10, 2013).)
 
Cross-Defendants demur to the sixth cause of action on the ground that
Cross-Complainants do not allege a clear promise to transfer title to the
Jaguar vehicle. This is contrary to the pleading. The demurrer cannot be
sustained on this basis.
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
F. Seventh
Cause of Action for Conversion
 
To plead a cause of action for conversion, one must allege (1) the
plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2)
defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights;
and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
Cross-Defendants assert Cross-Complainants fail to allege
Cross-Defendants interfered with the ownership of the Jaguar vehicle. Cross-Complainants
allege Cross-Defendants refused to transfer title of the vehicle despite
Cross-Complainants’ right to it. This is sufficient to state a claim for
conversion.
 
The demurrer to the seventh cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
G. Eighth Cause
of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
Cross-Defendants assert Cross-Complainants fail to state a claim for
declaratory relief but do not provide analysis supporting this assertion. 
 
The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
H. Motion to
Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Cross-Defendants move to strike the
prayer for punitive damages on the ground that Cross-Complainants fail to
allege malice, oppression, or fraud. As stated, Cross-Complainants have
sufficiently alleged causes of action for fraud. This is sufficient to support
a claim for punitive damages.
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
 