 Case Number:  23TRCV00654    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ESTHER
  BARBARA BATINDIRA KIBAZZE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00654




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
24
  HOUR FITNESS USA, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 2, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
The
motion to compel deposition is GRANTED.  
Plaintiff
Esther Barbara Batindira Kibazze is ordered to appear for deposition within
twenty days either remotely or in person at a mutually agreeable date and time.
Plaintiff
is ordered to pay sanctions to defendant in the amount of $487.50, within
thirty days.
BACKGROUND
            On March 6, 2023, plaintiff Esther
Barbara Batindira Kibazze filed a complaint against 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc.
for general negligence and premises liability based on an incident that
occurred on October 17, 2022.  She
alleges that while she was exercising at the gym, she was seriously injured
while using the arm and shoulder press machine when the 100 lb plate tumbled
down and injured her. 
On June 23, 2023, defendant filed
an answer.
On June 28, 2023, the parties
stipulated, and the court ordered that the prayer for punitive damages be
stricken.
On March 28, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” 
CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)        The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)        The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
CCP
§2025.230 states:  “If the deponent named
is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event,
the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its
officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
DISCUSSION
Defendant
requests that the Court compel plaintiff to appear for her deposition. 
            Defendant
explains that on November 29, 2023, defendant served a notice of taking
plaintiff’s deposition and demand for production of documents and things for
January 9, 2024.  The deposition was
continued to March 5, 2024, at the request of plaintiff’s counsel.  The deposition was then taken off calendar
because plaintiff’s counsel was purportedly having difficulties with his
client.  On April 4, 2024, defendant served
another notice of taking deposition for April 22, 2024.  Plaintiff failed to appear for her deposition
and a certificate of non-appearance was taken. 
On April 29, 2024, defense counsel emailed and called plaintiff in an
effort to meet and confer and requested a response by May 3, 2024.  Defense counsel states that they have not
received any communication from plaintiff.
            There
is no opposition.
            The
Court finds that the notice of deposition was properly served, and that
plaintiff failed to appear.  Plaintiff
did not serve objections.  
            The
motion is thus GRANTED.
            As
for sanctions, defendant requests $1,365. 
The request assumed that there was time devoted to preparing a
reply.  There was no need for that.  The Court finds that $487.50 ($195/hr. x 2.5
hrs.) is a reasonable amount to be imposed against plaintiff.
ORDER
The
motion is GRANTED.  
Plaintiff
is ordered to appear for her deposition within twenty days either remotely or
in person at a mutually agreeable date and time.
Plaintiff
is ordered to pay sanctions to defendant’s attorney in the amount of $487.50,
within thirty days.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.