 Case Number:  24TRCV00784    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
RAFAEL
  ORTEGA, ind. and as successor in interest for NADIA MONIQUE ORTEGA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00784




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DEL
  AMO BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SYSTEM,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 2,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Del Amo Behavioral Health System
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Rafael Ortega
Demurrer to Complaint
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND to allege two separate causes of action, one based
on medical malpractice and one for wrongful death.
BACKGROUND
            On March 5, 2024, plaintiff Rafael
Ortega, individually and as successor in interest for Nadia Monique Ortega,
filed a complaint against Del Amo Behavioral Health System for a single cause
of action.  The caption to the Complaint
reads “Complaint for Damages for Medical Malpractice Wrongful Death/Successor
in Interest.”  In the body of the
Complaint it is labeled “First Cause of Action for Medical Negligence by Plaintiff.”

LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant demurs to the sole cause
of action for medical negligence/wrongful death on the grounds that it is
uncertain and does not comply with Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.112.
The complaint alleges that decedent
Nadia Ortega was an involuntary in-patient at Del Amo Hospital beginning on
December 5, 2022, after she was transferred from another hospital for a Welf.
& Inst. §5150 hold because she was in danger to herself and or others and
or was gravely disabled; to wit, could not provide her own food, shelter, or
clothing.  Complaint, ¶9.  From the time of admission on December 5,
2022 to the time of her death on December 10, 2022, plaintiff was under the
custody and care of defendant pursuant to an involuntary hold under Welf. &
Inst. Code §5150 extended by Welf. & Inst. Code §5250.  Decedent was diagnosed as bipolar and
exhibited manic episodes.  Medications
were provided to plaintiff’s decedent including Haldol, Ativan, and Benadryl.  Id., ¶10. 
On December 10, 2022, at 06:45 hrs., decedent was found unresponsive;
attempts at resuscitation were unsuccessful. 
She was pronounced deceased at 07:07 hrs.  Id., ¶11. 
The medical, nursing, and ancillary health care providers, all agents
and employees of defendants, fell below the standard of practice in the
community for similar health care providers under similar circumstances.  Defendants inappropriately and negligently
provided care and treatment and monitored her welfare, which resulted in her
death.  Id., ¶12.
Defendant argues that the cause of
action is uncertain “as to what is alleged by each plaintiff and the claims
asserted by the two plaintiffs.” 
Defendant contends that although plaintiff is asserting a single cause of
action, it “appears to encompass two causes of action and includes allegations
of medical negligence/survivor action as well as wrongful death.”  
In opposition, plaintiff contends
that he clearly set forth his standing as heir and successor in interest, the
theory of recovery, and the damages claimed, and thus, plaintiff argues, he has
provided sufficient notice to defendant of plaintiff’s claim, which is for medical
malpractice.
In reply, defendant reiterates its
argument that “each cause of action should be separately stated” and “must
identify the parties asserting the claim” in compliance with Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 2.112, contending that “plaintiff must either omit one of the
plaintiffs, or clarify that there are two causes of action.”
Although the Defendant’s challenge
is a demurrer for uncertainty, Defendant argues that the pleading is defective
as it fails to comply with California Rule of Court 2.112.  This argument perhaps should have been
presented by way of a Motion to Strike pursuant to C.C.P. §
436(b) as the pleading was not “drawn in conformity with the laws of this
state, a rule of court, ….”  However, the
Court is granted its own authority to strike pleadings on its own motion.  The result is the same, whether the attack is
by way of demurrer or motion to strike. 
The Pleading is defective.
The Court notes the benefit to not
only the Defendant, but to the Plaintiff and the Court of addressing at this
point in time the deficiency in the cause(s) of action asserted.  Clarity as to the potential claim or claims
that are being asserted is of value for all, and particularly for Plaintiff.  Different claims require different elements
and different jury instructions.  Different
claims may give rise to different defenses. 
Having clarity from the beginning of the case, so that the parties may properly
research the claims, conduct discovery on the relevant factual issues raised by
the claims and defenses, and, if ultimately necessary, propose jury instructions
on each of the distinct legal claims asserted is valuable.  Hence the Court is rather surprised that
Plaintiff has not chosen to take advantage of the demurrer in order to prepare
a First Amended Complaint that clearly identifies the claim or claims that he
is attempting to set forth.
Because the Complaint fails to set
forth the cause or causes of action sufficiently and separately the Court shall
sustain the demurrer both for uncertainty and because it does not plead the
claim or claims sufficiently to alert the Defendant to the claim that must be
defended.
The demurrer is thus SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
ORDER

            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND to separately allege each cause of action that the
Plaintiff desires to assert, whether one (as presently identified) or two or
more.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.