 Case Number:  24TRCV00674    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to StrikeThe court considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.RULINGDefendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend.BACKGROUNDOn February 27, 2024, Plaintiff Client Dennis filed a complaint against Defendant El Dorado LF, LLC, alleging causes of action for (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) negligence; (4) negligent hiring, supervision and training; (5) Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act; and (6) premises liability.The complaint alleges that on June 7, 2023, Plaintiff Dennis, along with his spouse were on the premises at the Hustler Casino located at 1000 W Redondo Beach Boulevard, in the city of Gardena. (Complaint ¶ 11.)Plaintiff alleges that a dispute arose between another patron and Plaintiff, and escalated when the other patron made gestures with his hands indicating he was going to shoot Plaintiff.(Complaint ¶ 12.) The complaint further alleges that Hustler Casino’s security guards proceeded to confront Plaintiff about the incident but not the patron who caused the initial disruption, showing clear preference to the other patron, who was allowed to leave the Premises. (Id.)Thereafter, Hustler Casino’s security refused both requests and called over at least three large security guards who circled Plaintiff, and swiftly moved in without warning and proceeded to forcefully handcuff him, escorted him to a separate room, falsely imprisoned him, and left him sitting in an uncomfortable handcuffed position for approximately 20 minutes. (Id.) Plaintiff was forced to sit in a contorted position that he was unable to correct on his own because of his current and prior injuries. (Id.) When he vocalized his pain and pleaded with security for assistance, they ignored his pleas for help. (Id.)On March 22, 2024, Defendant El Dorado LF, LLC filed a motion to strike the demand for punitive damages. On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On June 10, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.LEGAL AUTHORITYAny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)DISCUSSIONi. Meet and Confer RequirementsDefendant submits the Declaration of Greg Ryan, which adequately shows Counsel met and conferred prior to bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5.)ii. MeritsTo state a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)“Malice” is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.)To prove that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)“An employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages ..., based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification, or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civil Code § 3294.) The California Supreme Court interpreted the “latter statement as requiring the officer, director, or managing agent to besomeone who ‘exercise[s] substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.’” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 577.) Furthermore, there must be allegations that the managing agent was acting as a corporate representative or in a professional capacity. (College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at 724.)Here, the complaint does not set forth any allegations that the pit boss exercised substantial control over Hustler’s corporate policy such that the store manager was a managing agent of Hustler. (See, e.g., Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 168 (finding that a supervisor who did not manage numerous stores, supervised only a few employees, and had authority over only one narrow area of the single store’s multifaceted operations did not exercise authority over corporate principles such that he was a managing agent for purposes of section 3294.) Further, Plaintiff does not allege that the pit boss was acting as a corporate representative or in a professional capacity. (College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at 724.)Moreover, the court finds there are no allegations in the complaint to hold a corporate defendant liable for punitive damages. Plaintiff does not allege personal act of malice on the part of a managing agent. Plaintiff alleges “security guards” detained him. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Those are not managing agents. Managing agents must “exercise substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 573.)Plaintiff also alleges Defendant “authorized or ratified their security guard’s wrongful acts.” (Complaint, ¶ 57.) This allegation contains no facts and is conclusory. The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Smith, supra, 10 Cal. App. 4th at 1042.) In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the title “Pit Boss” confers sufficient authority to bind the corporate entity, but that assertion is absent from the pleading. Indeed, as Defendant points out, the Complaint states that the pit boss asked why the security guards handcuffed plaintiff, but they “provided no answer.” (Complaint ¶ 13.) This act is wholly inconsistent with either ratification of conduct or the act of a managing agent. Even if the pit boss was aware of the altercation and acting as a managing agent, her instruction was that Plaintiff be removed from the premises. Simply removing a patron from the premises when they are involved in an altercation can hardly be considered malicious conduct.Plaintiff also alleges that the pit boss was aware of the altercation, and she wrongfully ordered Plaintiff’s removal from the premises based on his race, color, or ancestry, failed to monitor the actions of the security guards, disregarding a clear risk of safety by permitting the security guards to detain Plaintiff, and their failure to remove him from the premises safely and without incident. (Complaint ¶¶ 12-13, 35-36.) However, again, Plaintiff alleges in a conclusory fashion that Hustler and its agents, employees, officers denied him full and equal accommodations or services based on his race. (Id., ¶ 36.) There are no facts to support this allegation. Moreover, the allegations relating to failing to monitor can only amount to negligence, which is not sufficient for punitive damages.Based on the foregoing, the motion to strike punitive damages is granted. As this is the first motion to strike, the court will allow 20 days leave to amend.Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.