  Case Number:  22STCV06421    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SKYLER WELLS 
 
        
  vs.
 
STRATEGIC
  ACQUISITIONS, INC. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV06421  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: September 13, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
On 2/22/2022,
Plaintiff Skyler Wells (Plaintiff) filed suit against Strategic Acquisitions,
Inc., BDR, Inc., Open House Realty & Investments, LLC, and Peter Baer. 
 
On 2/5/2024
Plaintiff filed a fifth amended complaint (5AC) alleging: (1) breach of
contract; and (2) construction defects.  
 
            On
4/23/2024, Defendant Christina Baer (Defendant) moved for summary judgment or,
in the alternative, summary adjudication, of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot disclose a triable claim as to either cause of
action, and thus as a result cannot show entitlement to either punitive damages
or general damages against her. 
 
Plaintiff’s
claims arise out of the development of the real property located at 3345 ½
Rowena Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90027 (Subject Property), and Plaintiff’s
purchase of the Subject Property. (SS 2.) Plaintiff’s purchase occurred via a
Joint Purchase Agreement and Escrow Instructions” dated October 25, 2012 (Purchase
Agreement) between Plaintiff as buyer and Open House Realty and Investments,
LLC (Open House), as seller. (SS 3.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges C. Baer is liable under three theories: (1) Defendant is
retroactively liable for the acts of Open House, Strategic Acquisitions, and
BDR, because her name was placed on Statements of Information as an officer and
director of Strategic Acquisitions and BDR in 2020 and 2021, respectively,
after her husband fell ill with Covid-19, and later died; (2) Defendant is
liable for the acts of Open House and Strategic Acquisitions as a “successor
and assigns [sic]” of her deceased husband and thus his alleged conduct in 2012
should be imputed to C. Baer upon P. Baer’s death on April 4, 2021; and (3)
Defendant became an “equitable owner” of the corporate defendants and is thus
liable for the corporate defendants’ alleged acts under an alter-ego theory.
(SS 4.) Plaintiff’s complaint seeks punitive damages for breach of contract
against C. Baer and general damages as to both causes of action against C.
Baer. (SS 5.) 
 
As for the
first contention, an officer or director of a corporation cannot be personally
liable for the actions of a corporation unless she participates in the
wrongdoing or authorizes or directs that it be done. (See MC, Inc. v.
Kadisha (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1368, 1378, 1381.) More specifically the PMC,
Inc. Court explained this in more detail by citing to a California Supreme
Court case as follows:
 
‘Directors or
officers of a corporation do not incur personal liability for torts of the
corporation merely by reason of their official position unless they participate
in the wrong or authorize or direct that it be done. They may be liable, under
the rules of tort and agency, for tortious acts committed on behalf of the
corporation. [Citations.] … It is well settled that corporate directors cannot
be held vicariously liable for the corporation's torts in which they do not
participate. Their liability, if any, stems from their own tortious conduct,
not from their status as directors or officers of the enterprise. [Citation.]
'[A]n officer or director will not be liable for torts in which he does not
personally participate, of which he has no knowledge, or to which he has not
consented.... While the corporation itself may be liable for such acts, the
individual officer or director will be immune unless he authorizes, directs, or
in some meaningful sense actively participates in the wrongful conduct.'
[Citation.]’ ” Id. at 1379 (quoting Frances T. v. Village Green
Owners Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 503-504.) 
 
As to limited
liability companies, the rules are similar. The debts, obligations, or other
liabilities of a limited liability company, whether arising in contract, tort,
or otherwise, are solely the debts, obligations, or other liabilities of the
limited liability company to which the debts, obligations, or other liabilities
relate. (Corp. Code § 17703.04(a)(1).) They do not become the debts,
obligations, or other liabilities of a member or manager solely by reason of
the member acting as a member or manager acting as a manger for a limited
liability company. (Corp. Code § 17703.04(a)(2).)
 
“Members in
an LLC have limited liability for the company's debts and obligations (Kwok
v. Transnation Title Ins. Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1562, 1571), and
members hold no direct ownership interest in the company's specific property.
(Corp. Code, former § 17300.)” (Swart Enterprises, Inc. v. Franchise Tax Bd.
(2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 497, 510.)
 
Corporations
Code section 17300 provides: “A membership interest and an economic interest in
a limited liability company constitute personal property of the member or
assignee. A member or assignee has no interest in specific limited liability
company property.” (Denevi v. LGCC, LLC (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1211,
1214, fn. 1, [“Like corporate shareholders, members of a limited liability
company hold no direct ownership interest in the company's assets”].
 
As with
officers and directors of corporations, members of limited liability companies,
are not relieved “from liability arising from (1) the members tortious conduct,
or (2) the terms of a members written guarantee or contractual obligation.” (Id.
(citing 9 Witkin, Partnership, § 140, p. 329, citing [Corp. Code] § 17101(c).)
            
            Here,
to show that there is no evidence Defendant participated in any wrongdoing, or
authorized that it be done, Defendant submitted evidence that:
 
-        
Defendant never signed any documents
related to the sale of the Subject Property, including the Purchase Agreement.
(SS 6.)
 
-        
Defendant never participated in any
negotiations, orally, or in writing for the sale of the Subject Property. (SS
7.) 
 
-        
Defendant’s name and/or signature do
not appear on any of the transactional documents for the sale including, in
particular, Exhibit G to the Fifth AC – “Joint Purchase Agreement and Escrow
Instructions” dated October 25, 2012. (SS 8.) 
 
-        
Defendant was not involved in the
drafting, reviewing, editing, or finalizing of the Purchase Agreement. (SS 9.) 
 
-        
Defendant was not involved in the
showing or advertising of the Subject Property. (SS 10.) 
 
-        
Defendant had no knowledge of the
existence or sale of the Subject Property until she was sued by Plaintiff in
this action. (SS 11.) 
 
-        
Defendant never worked for any entity
involved in the development or sale of the Subject Property. (SS 13.) 
 
-        
Defendant’s sole connection to any of
the individuals or entities involved in the development, marketing and sale of
the Subject Property is the fact that she was married to Peter Baer (P. Baer)
at the time of the sale. (SS 14.) 
 
-        
P. Baer was the president of Strategic
Acquisitions, Inc., which was a manager of Open House at the time of the sale.
(SS 16.) Only upon P. Baer’s Covid-19 illness, was C. Baer’s name placed on any
document linked to Strategic Acquisitions or BDR, and only then, to enable her
to sign documents for the companies while her husband was incapacitated (in
2020), and after he died (in 2021). (SS 17.) 
 
-        
At no point in time did Defendant have
any involvement or oversight with any day-to-day activities of the corporate
defendants. (SS 18.) 
 
-        
Defendant has never worked in the real
estate industry as a real estate agent or real estate broker, or in any
capacity. Defendant does not have and never has had a real estate agent license
or brokerage license. (SS 19-20.) 
 
-        
During the time of the alleged breaches
in Plaintiff’s Complaint, Defendant was a homemaker and mother to her young son
Asher. (SS 26.) 
 
Moreover,
Defendant submitted evidence that the Purchase Agreement contains the following
provisions: 
 
Y) INTENT TO
OCCUPY AND NON-ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS: Buyer warrants that the purchase this
property is for the intent of occupying the property as buyer's primary
residence. This agreement and the escrow established pursuant hereto may
not be assigned or transferred voluntarily or by operation by law by Buyer
without written consent of Seller and any attempt to do so shall be void and of
no effect. Escrow Holder is hereby instructed by Seller not to assist
in any way in such assignment or transfer including without limitation, the
consummation of so-called "double escrows". This agreement
shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successor and
assigns of the Seller and of the Buyer and each of them, and as to the Buyer,
the Agreement herein shall be joint and several if more than one Buyer.

 
Z) BUYER'S
PERFORMANCE: At any time following opening of Escrow, this agreement can be
unilaterally terminated by Seller upon notice to Buyer of the occurrence of any
of the following: 
 
1. Buyer
defaults in any payment required hereunder or in the timely performance or
otherwise. 
 
2. Buyer's
failure to execute or deliver any escrow instructions and any other documents
in accordance with this Agreement and/or any Lender's Loan Documents. 
 
3. If in the
reasonable good faith judgment of Seller, Buyer has violated any
representations or warranties contained herein, or any addendum of this
Agreement, including, but not limited to Buyer's representation that Buyer has
a bona fide intention to reside in the property as Buyer's principal place of
residence. 
 
4. Neither
this Agreement nor any of the Buyer's rights hereunder may be assigned by
Buyer. Any such purported assignment shall be governed by INTENT TO OCCUPY AND
NON-ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS above. 
 
(Purchase
Agreement, p. 12, emphasis added.) 
 
Defendant
argues that “[t]he only plausible interpretation of Sections Y and Z is the
Seller wanted to prevent the Buyer from assigning the Purchase Agreement. It
would be a quantum leap to employ Section Y to bind unknow future heirs of the
Seller to the entire Purchase Agreement. Taken to its illogical conclusion,
such a strained interpretation could be used to bind the unborn or unknowing to
decade-old contractual obligations—as Plaintiff attempts here.” (Motion, 16:
25-2.) 
 
However, the
Court need not even determine whether or not the Purchase Agreement intended to
bind Defendant here as a successor because, as noted by Defendant, Plaintiff
would still need to show that Defendant participated in, or authorized, the
alleged wrongdoing here. 
 
Defendant’s
evidence readily supports a reasonable inference that she did not. Accordingly,
the burden shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue as to whether
Defendant participated in, or authorized, the alleged wrongdoing here.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff did not submit any evidence which could support a
reasonable inference that Defendant here participated in any wrongdoing. 
 
Plaintiff
also alleges that Defendant is liable as the “assign” of P. Baer, and that the
Purchase Agreement between Open House and Plaintiff was assigned to Defendant. 
 
"To
'assign' ordinarily means to transfer title or ownership of property". (McCown
v. Spencer (1970) 8 Cal.App.3d 216, 225, (internal citation omitted).)
 
While no
particular form of assignment is required, it is essential to the assignment of
a right that the assignor manifest an intention to transfer the right.” (Sunburst
Bank v. Executive Life Insurance Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th1156, 1164,
(internal citations omitted.)
 
Here,
Defendant submitted evidence that Plaintiff has not produced any evidence
manifesting an intent to assign, and that the Purchase Agreement expressly
barred assignment. This evidence supports a reasonable inference that Plaintiff
cannot show that P. Baer assigned his rights under the Agreement to Defendant.
Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue of
fact.  
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “the buyer (Plaintiff) did not assign the
Contract, and the seller did assign the Contract to C. Baer, therefore the
blanket seller assignment clause in Section Y of the Contract is relevant.”
(Opp., 17: 7-8.) However, Plaintiff did not submit any evidence which could
actually support a reasonable inference that Peter Baer assigned the Contract
to Defendant here. Rather, Plaintiff advances arguments like:
 
Prior to the
death of P. Baer on April 4, 2021, P. Baer assigned the Contract to C. Baer
(“Subject Property Contract Assignment”) orally with his intention to assign
the Contract to C. Baer manifested through and evidenced by P. Baer, an alter
ego of Open House (Seller), seller assignment intention in the Contract, seller
assignment intention in the CC&Rs, and the Subject Property Entities
Transfer entire transaction and surrounding circumstances. Accordingly, the
Contract is binding upon C. Baer
 
(Opp., 19:
3-8.)
 
Plaintiff
does not submit any evidence to support his speculative contention that Peter
Baer orally assigned his interest to Defendant, nor does Plaintiff adequately
explain how the “entire transaction and surrounding circumstances” evidence an
intent to assign. As such, Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence which could
support a reasonable inference of assignment, beyond his conclusory assertion
that it is so. 
 
As for the
second cause of action for construction defects, this claim applies to builders
as defined by California Civil Code section 911(b). Civil Code section 911(b)
provides that:
 
“[B]uilder"
means any entity or individual, including, but not limited to a builder,
developer, general contractor, contractor, or original seller, who, at the time
of sale, was also in the business of selling residential units to the public
for the property that is the subject of the homeowner's claim or was in the
business of building, developing, or constructing residential units for public
purchase for the property that is the subject of the homeowner's claim.
 
Here,
Defendant submitted evidence that:
 
- Defendant
has never worked in the construction business or as a real estate investor. (SS
22.) 
 
- Defendant
has never worked in the construction business as a contractor. (SS 23.) 
 
- Defendant
has never held any contractor license. (SS 24.) 
 
- Defendant
has never worked in the construction business as a builder or developer. (SS
25.) 
 
- During the
time of the alleged breaches in Plaintiff’s Complaint, C. Baer was a homemaker
and mother to her young son Asher. (SS 26.) 
 
- Defendant
was not involved in any way with the business dealings of Plaintiff Skyler
Wells. (SS 27.) 
 
            Defendant’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that she is not a builder within the
meaning of Civil Code sections 895, et seq.) Accordingly, the burden
shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff did not submit any evidence which could support a
reasonable inference that Defendant was a builder within the meaning Civil Code
sections 895, et seq.
 
            This
leaves Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant is liable under the theory of
alter-ego liability. 
 
To invoke the alter ego doctrine, the plaintiff
establish plead unity of interest and ownership and that an inequity will
result if the corporate entity is treated as the sole actor. (See Vasey v.
California Dance Co. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 742, 749.) Factors to consider in
applying the doctrine include the commingling of funds and other assets, the
holding out by one entity that it is liable for the debts of the other,
identical equitable ownership in the two entities, inadequate capitalization,
and disregard of corporate formalities. (Sonora Diamond Corp. v Superior
Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538-39.)   
 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s opposition makes conclusory statements as to unity of interest, but
does not cite any supporting evidence. For example, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has disregarded legal requirements for a business entity, or has
diverted assets from a business entity to an owner to the detriment of credits,
but does not cite or provide any supporting evidence. 
 
            After
review, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s evidence fails to support a reasonable
inference as to alter-ego liability.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
 
            
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SKYLER WELLS 
 
        
  vs.
 
STRATEGIC
  ACQUISITIONS, INC. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV06421  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: September 13, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion for sanctions is GRANTED. Given that the Court has granted her
concurrent motion for summary judgment, the request for dismissal here is moot.
However, the Court grants the request for attorney fees. However, Defendant’s
counsel must fill supplemental billing records to allow the Court to confirm
the reasonableness of the fees sought.  
 
On 2/22/2022,
Plaintiff Skyler Wells (Plaintiff) filed suit against Strategic Acquisitions,
Inc., BDR, Inc., Open House Realty & Investments, LLC, and Peter Baer. 
 
On 2/5/2024
Plaintiff filed a fifth amended complaint (5AC) alleging: (1) breach of
contract; and (2) construction defects.  
 
            On
6/20/2024, Defendant Christina Baer (Defendant) moved for sanctions against
Plaintiff and his counsel of record James C. Diefenbach.
 
Procedural Defect 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s motion is defective
because the initial notice of the motion did not include the hearing date. A
failure to provide notice of the hearing date is a fatal defect. (See
Galleria Plus, Inc. v. Hanmi Bank (2009) 179 Cal. App. 4th 535, 538.)
 
            However,
here, Defendant re-served the instant Motion on 6/20/2024. This filing included
notice of the hearing date. This motion is now being heard on 9/13/2024, and
thus there is no procedural defect with this motion, or prejudice that could
result.    
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
seeks an order (1) imposing monetary sanctions representing the reasonable
attorney fees and costs incurred in making this motion, as well as the sums
incurred by Defendant in defending this action, a total to date of $67,919.00,
against both Plaintiff and/or his counsel, James C. Diefenbach and Diefenbach
Law Group, jointly and severally, to be paid to Baer, and (2) dismissing the
presently operative Fifth Amended Complaint, as to Baer.
 
            Defendant
moves pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 128.7, on the grounds
that Plaintiff’s Complaint against Baer is without factual or legal merit and
lacks any evidentiary support for naming Baer as an individual defendant in
this action, and California Rule of Court, Rule 2.30; CCP § 128.7(b)(2)-(3);
CRC Rule 2.30 (b)-(d).
 
            After
review, the Court agrees.  
 
            CCP
§ 128.7(b) provides in pertinent part:
 
By presenting
to the court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a
pleading, petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an
attorney or unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person's
knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under
the circumstances, all of the following conditions are met:
 
(1)  It
is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or
to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
 
(2)  The
claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing
law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal
of existing law or the establishment of new law.
 
(3)  The
allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if
specifically, so identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a
reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery. CCP § 128.7(b)
(emphasis added).
 
Here, as
revealed more thoroughly in its ruling on Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment, Plaintiff relies on conclusory arguments which are not reasonably
supported by evidence. 
 
As for
Plaintiff’s contention that the Contract is binding upon Defendant pursuant to
the Contract Section Y assignment clause, Plaintiff argues that there was an
“oral” assignment without any evidence which could show such an
assignment (or which could show how Plaintiff could be aware of such an
assignment). Moreover, even assuming there was an assignment, Plaintiff would
still need to show that Defendant participated in, or authorized, the alleged
wrongdoing to show liability. Plaintiff did not point to any evidence which
could even suggest Defendant’s involvement with any of the events alleged in
Plaintiff’s 5AC. 
 
As for
alter-ego liability, Plaintiff has not produced any evidence to indicate that
Baer influenced and controlled Open House at all or that she controlled any of
the other Defendants to the extent that the separate personalities of Christina
Baer and those entities do not exist, or that Christina Baer controlled those
entities in such a way as to commit fraud or other misdeeds against Plaintiff.
 
Moreover,
there is evidence that Plaintiff and his counsel added frivolous allegations to
avoid dismissal of claims against Defendant at the pleading stage. For example,
Plaintiff added allegations for the first time to the Third Amended Complaint
(TAC) that Plaintiff recalled someone on the phone stating that they would talk
to “Christina” regarding Plaintiff’s construction defect claims. Plaintiff has
not provided any specific facts regarding the phone calls or the person he
allegedly spoke to, and he never stated that Christina called him back or ever
spoke with him. Plaintiff’s opposition makes no mention of these allegations. Moreover,
Defendant submitted extensive evidence to show that she had nothing to do with
Open House or the sale or development of Plaintiff’s property. (Baer Decl., ¶¶
4-11; Declarations Supporting Baer’s MSJ). 
 
Accordingly,
the Court must conclude that when the original Complaint and each of its
amendments were filed, Plaintiff and its counsel did not have any information
that would cause them to reasonably conclude that an individual claim against
Baer was warranted by facts or existing law.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for sanctions is granted. Given that the Court
has granted her concurrent motion for summary judgment, the request for
dismissal here is moot. However, the Court grants the request for attorney
fees. However, Defendant’s counsel must fill supplemental billing records to
allow the Court to confirm the reasonableness of the fees sought.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 