  Case Number:  21GDCV00974    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER ON PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR
ADMISSION, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONSThe motion is granted in its
entirety, and sanctions imposed in the amount of $1,710.00.
I.        INTRODUCTION
          Plaintiffs Futang Ji, Fan-Ling Wen, Yi-Ching Wu, Mingde
Zheng, and Yong Zong sued defendants Punta Gorda Acquisitions, LLC and various
affiliated entities on July 27, 2021. Plaintiffs filed their operative third
amended complaint (TAC) on April 20, 2023, against Punta Gorda Acquisitions (PG
Acquisitions), Punta Gorda Senior Living, LP dba The Palms of Punta Gorda
Assisted Living (PG Senior Living), Madison Realty Equities, LLC (MR Equities),
GR Madison Realty, LLC (GR Madison), Gary Langendoen (Langendoen), and Does
1-50. 
The
TAC alleged nine causes of action. On August 9, 2023, the Court sustained a
demurrer to the fourth and ninth causes of action without leave to amend. The
following claims remain:
1.       Breach
of Third-Party Beneficiary Contract (v. PG Acquisitions and 
PG Senior Living);
2.       Intentional
Misrepresentation (v. Langendoen, PG Acquisitions, and 
MR Equities);
3.       Negligent
Misrepresentation (v. same);
5.       Breach
of Fiduciary Duty (v. same);
6.       Unfair
Business Practices (v. same);
7.       Unjust
Enrichment (v. all defendants); and
8.       Conspiracy
to Commit Fraud (v. all defendants).
          Plaintiffs allege, in brief, that they are Chinese
nationals who invested in a purported real estate development project as a
means of obtaining permanent U.S. residency. They provided what they believed
was a construction loan to Defendants for use building an assisting living
facility in Florida. Defendants allegedly absconded with the money.
          As relevant here, Plaintiffs served requests for admission,
special interrogatories, and requests for production of documents on defendant
PG Senior Living on November 16, 2024. On January 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
motions to compel further responses to each. 
          The first motion, directed to Plaintiffs’ request for
admissions, now comes before the Court. The motion is unopposed.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          The party to whom requests for admission have been directed
shall respond in writing, under oath, separately to each request. (§
2033.210(a).) The response must either admit or deny the matter, or state that
a reasonable inquiry was made and the party lacks sufficient information to
admit the matter. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220.) If the response is an
admission, the admission may “[a]dmit so much of the matter involved in the
request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably
and clearly qualified by the responding party.” (Id., § 2033.220(b)(1).)
If the responding party makes an objection that the
propounding party considers to be “without merit or too general,” or an answer
which the propounding party finds evasive or incomplete, the propounding party
may move for an order compelling further response. (Id., § 2033.290
(a)(2).) The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration and a
separate statement or concise outline. (Id., § 2033.290(b).)
          III. ANALYSIS
          A. Procedural Considerations
          A party receiving requests for admission has thirty (30)
days to respond. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250(a).) If they do not timely
respond, the propounding party may move to have the matters referred to in its
requests admitted. (Id., § 2033.280.) If – as here – a party responds,
but the propounding party contends the responses are insufficient, then the
propounding party must move to compel further responses within forty-five (45)
days of the most recent response.
          Plaintiffs received their most recent response on November
16, 2024. (Gesund Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs’ last day to move to compel was
January 30, 2024. They filed their motions on January 26, 2024. The motion is
timely.
          Counsel also met and conferred regarding the deficient
responses, as required; in fact, Plaintiffs provided several extensions for PG
Senior Living to provide supplemental responses. It did not do so. (Id.,
¶¶ 7-4 and Exhs. 4-6.)
          Plaintiffs satisfy all procedural requirements.
          B. Further Responses
          PG Senior Living provided the same boilerplate objections
to all of Plaintiffs’ RFAs. It “incorporate[d] a Preliminary Statement”
reserving its right to supplement, then objected and refused to respond,
claiming (1) the RFAs were all defective because they contained definitions in
a preface, (2) each RFA was compound, and (3) each was vague and ambiguous.
          As to the latter two objections: contrary to PG Senior
Living’s contentions, Plaintiffs’ RFAs are uniformly straightforward and
direct. The objections are meritless.
As
for PG Senior Living’s “definitions in a preface” objection based on Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.060: inclusion of a definitional preface is
standard practice in written discovery. It conserves time and resources for the
parties and the Court. The objection relies on form, rather than substance.
Moreover,
PG Senior Living cites no law to establish that failure to comply with section 2033.260(d)
justifies a total refusal to respond to RFAs when the responding party is
capable of providing a complete and straightforward response based on available
information. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220 [response to be “as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available ... permits”].) Perhaps
there is some remedy for a propounding party’s failure to comply with section
2033.260(d). The remedy is not a waiver of the propounding party’s right to
responses.
          PG Senior Living’s objections are overruled, and
Plaintiffs’ motion is granted in its entirety.
          C. Sanctions
          “The court shall impose a monetary sanction ... against any
party, person or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290(c).)
          PG Senior Living filed no opposition demonstrating
substantial justification or other circumstances relevant to its failure to
respond.
          Plaintiffs are entitled to sanctions.
          Plaintiffs’ counsel attests to a reasonably hourly billing
rate of $275. (Gesund Decl., § 15.) 
However,
Counsel seeks excessive hours. She attests to “20 hours in pursuit of this
matter” and “another 10 hours drafting a Reply ... and preparing for and
appearing at the hearing”. (Ibid.) Counsel does not clarify whether
“pursuit of this matter” means the entire discovery dispute or only the RFAs.
Certainly twenty hours devoted to this straightforward motion is excessive. The
Court awards four (4) hours for drafting and one (1) hour for meet-and-confer
efforts. There was no opposition, so the Court declines to award hours for
drafting a Reply, but awards one (1) hour to prepare for and attend the
hearing.
The
Court awards six (6) billable hours at a rate of $275.00, plus $60.00 in filing
fees, for a total of $1,710.00.
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The motion is granted in its entirety. Defendant PG Senior
Living is ordered to provide complete, Code-compliant responses within twenty
(20) days of this order. PG Senior Living is ordered to pay sanctions of
$1,710.00 to Plaintiffs and/or their counsel of record within twenty (20) days.
          
Dated: June 12, 2024                                _______________________________
                                                                            JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT