 Case Number:  23STCV30713	    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Kia America, Inc. 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Anthony Camacho 
 
 
The Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.  
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On December 15,
2023, Plaintiff Anthony Camacho filed his Complaint against Defendant Kia
America, Inc. on causes of action arising from the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act. 
 
On January
22, 2024, Defendant filed its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On March 11,
2024, Defendant filed its Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. 
 
On March 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to the Motion. Plaintiff concurrently
filed his Request for Judicial Notice. 
 
On March 26,
2024, Defendant filed its Reply in support of the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial notice of the
Complaint filed in this matter. 
 
The Court DENIES as superfluous judicial
notice of this item. Any party that wishes to draw the Court’s attention to an
item filed in this action may simply cite directly to the document by execution
and filing date. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(d).)
 
II.      
Legal Standard
 
“A party may move for judgment on the pleadings.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (b)(1).)
 
The motion provided for in this section may only be
made on one of the following grounds: . . . (B) If the moving party is a
defendant, that either of the following conditions exist: (i) The court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint.
(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B).)
 
“A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999, citations omitted.) 
 
“In deciding
or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts
are deemed to be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred
from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Super. Ct. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)
 
III.     Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to grant judgment on pleadings regarding
the third cause of action (violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3)) in the Complaint, without leave to amend the Complaint. (Motion, p.
4:19–23.) Defendant argues that this would be appropriate because Plaintiff did
not allege any facts in support of this cause of action. (Id. at p.
3:18–19.)
 
        The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
        “Every manufacturer of consumer goods
sold in this state and for which the manufacturer has made an express warranty
shall: . . . Make available to authorized service and repair facilities
sufficient service literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during
the express warranty period.” (Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd. (a)(3).)
 
        Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that Defendant did not make available to the privately-owned service and repair
shops sufficient service literature and replacement parts to effect repairs
during the express warranty period. (Complaint, ¶ 30.)
 
        This allegation is sufficiently specific
for the third cause of action to withstand a motion for judgment on the
pleadings. 
 
IV.      Conclusion
 
The Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.  
 