 Case Number:  24TRCV00199    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANDREW
  GOOSBY JR., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00199




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
KENNETH
  CAMPOS, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 13, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants City of Inglewood and Kenneth Campos
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Andrew Goosby Jr.
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
RULING
The demurrer to the complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to prayer for punitive damages.         
BACKGROUND
            On January 24, 2024, plaintiff
Andrew Goosby Jr. (self-represented) filed a complaint against Kenneth Campos
and City of Inglewood for unfair business practice. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendants City of Inglewood and
City Attorney Kenneth Campos demur to the complaint on the grounds that it
fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and is
uncertain.
From what the Court can ascertain,
the complaint alleges that attorney Campos (along with another attorney)
violated certain statutes, including Bus. and Prof. Code §6068, which states
that it is the duty of an attorney to . . . “(g) Not to encourage either the
commencement or the continuance of an action or proceeding from any corrupt
motive of passion or interest.” 
Plaintiff has not alleged any facts as to how the statutes were
violated.
Also, the Court notes, plaintiff
did not mark whether he complied with a claims statute.  Further, under para. 10(f) he marked the box
that he was asserting a cause of action for “unfair business practice” but did
not attach the cause of action to the complaint.  He also did not mark any box under para. 11,
which addresses damages that a plaintiff has suffered.  He notes “civil right violation” but did not
check the box. 
Defendants argue that a cause of
action for unfair business practices may not be maintained against a public
entity.  Defendants contend that a public
entity is not a person within the meaning of the unfair business practices act
and such a claim is barred as a matter of law against defendants.  
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of action for unfair
business practices under Bus. and Prof. Code §17200, et seq.  This section prohibits “any unlawful, unfair
or fraudulent business act or practice.” 
Defendants do not fall under the definition of “person” as defined under
Bus. and Prof. Code §17201, which states, “As used in this chapter, the term
person shall mean and include natural persons, corporations, firms,
partnerships, joint stock companies, associations and other organizations of
persons.”  See also Vernon v. State of
California (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 114 (“Governmental entities
such as the State ‘are not included in this definition of person.’”) (citation
omitted).  As plaintiff alleged,
defendant City is a public entity and defendant Campos is the City Attorney.  The complaint is also uncertain and
unintelligible. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as the complaint is barred against defendants.
 
Strike  
Defendants request that the Court
strike plaintiff’s request for punitive damages at para. 14.
            As argued by defendants, the City
cannot be liable for punitive damages. 
Gov. Code §818 states, “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, a
public entity is not liable for damages awarded under Section 3294 of the Civil
Code or other damages imposed primarily for the sake of example and by way of
punishing the defendant.”  The City is a
public entity.  See Gov. Code §811.2.  Defendant Campos is the City Attorney for the
City of Inglewood.
The motion to strike is thus
GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ORDER
The demurrer to the complaint is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to prayer for punitive damages. 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling and to submit a form of judgment.