 Case Number:  22STCV16359    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




MEIR LEVY,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
TOVA FAGAN,
  et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV16359




Hearing
  Date:


January
   31, 2024




Hearing
  Time:   2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
SPECIALLY
  APPEARING DEFENDANT PINCHAS (PAUL) WINTNER’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF
  SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT 




 
Background 
Plaintiff Meir Levy (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action on May 17, 2022 against Defendants Tova Fagan, Yael Sima Wintner, and
Does 1-20. 
On July 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1)
extortion, (2) conspiracy to commit fraud, (3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and (4) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
On July 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment
to Complaint naming Pinchas (Paul) Wintner in place of Doe 1. 
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that he and the
defendants’ mother
Sarah Wintner were married on December 25, 1983. (FAC, ¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges
that “[d]efendants Tova Fagan, Yael Wintner and Paul Wintner are the
stepchildren of Plaintiff Meir Levy and the biological children of Decedent,
Sarah Wintner.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about July 2,
2019, Plaintiff and Decedent Sarah Wintner executed The Meir Levy and Sarah C.
Wintner 2019 Trust (‘2019 Trust.’).” (FAC, ¶ 18.) Plaintiff alleges that “[w]hen
the Defendants discovered the contents of the 2019 Trust, they became irate,
irrational, volatile and angry. They began to harass Plaintiff and their dying
mother Sarah.” (FAC, ¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n or around December,
2019, after discovering the distribution of assets per the 2019 Trust, the
Wintner Defendants threatened Plaintiff Meir Levy with criminal accusations of
childhood rape if Plaintiff Levy did not change the 2019 Trust to give the Wintner
Defendants more assets.” (FAC, ¶ 23.) 
Defendant Pinchas (Paul) Wintner (“Paul Wintner”)
now “specially appears to move to quash service of [Plaintiff’s] summons and
complaint.” Plaintiff opposes.  
Discussion 
“When the plaintiff is ignorant of the
name of a defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint . . . and such
defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when
his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended
accordingly[.]” ((Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 474.) 
“When a defendant is properly
named under section 474, the amendment relates back
to the filing date of the original complaint. Section
474 provides a method for adding defendants after the statute of
limitations has expired, but this procedure is available only when the
plaintiff is actually ignorant of the facts establishing a cause of action
against the party to be substituted for a Doe defendant. The question is
whether [the plaintiff] knew or reasonably should have known that he had a
cause of action against [the defendant]. Ignorance of
the facts giving rise to a cause of action is the ignorance required
by section 474, and the pivotal question is, did
plaintiff know facts? not did plaintiff know or believe that [he] had
a cause of action based on those facts? Although it is true that a plaintiff’s
ignorance of the defendant’s name must be genuine (in good faith) and not
feigned…and that a plaintiff need not be aware of each and every detail
concerning a person’s involvement before the plaintiff loses his ignorance…it
is equally true that the plaintiff does not relinquish [his] rights under section 474 simply because [he] has a suspicion
of wrongdoing arising from one or more facts [he] does know.” ((McClatchy v.
Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass, LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 368, 371-372 [internal quotations, citations, and
emphasis omitted].) 
“[S]ection
474 includes an implicit requirement that a plaintiff may not unreasonably
delay his or her filing of a Doe amendment
after learning a defendant’s identity.” ((A.N. v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1066-1067
[internal quotations omitted].) “[A] defendant named in an
action by a Doe amendment under section 474 may
challenge the amendment by way of an
evidence-based motion, which argues that the plaintiff unreasonable [sic] delayed
his or her filing of the challenged amendment.” (Id. at p. 1067 [internal
quotations omitted].) “[U]nreasonable delay within the meaning of [Barrows v. Am.
Motors Corp. (1983)
144 Cal.App.3d 1]
includes a prejudice element, which requires a showing by the defendant that he
or she would suffer prejudice from plaintiff’s delay in filing the Doe
amendment.” ((Ibid.
[internal quotations omitted].) 
            In addition, “[i]f the terms of Code of Civil
Procedure section 474 have not been complied with, the purported defendant
has not been named as such in the complaint. A service upon one
not named in a complaint does not confer jurisdiction to proceed upon the
complaint against him, and a motion to quash is proper.” ((Maier Brewing Co. v.
Flora Crane Service, Inc. (1969)
270 Cal.App.2d 873, 875.) 
            In
the instant motion, Paul
Wintner asserts that “Plaintiff cannot refute that he has known PAUL’s identity
and facts sufficient to support a cause of action against PAUL before filing
the original Complaint.” (Mot. at p. 7:16-17.) In his declaration in support of
the motion, Paul Wintner states that “Plaintiff MEIR LEVY is my step-father,”
and that “I’ve known him my entire life…” (Paul Wintner Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that “[t]here is no argument that Plaintiff knew his stepson’s identity when
the initial Complaint was filed but he was unaware of his involvement until
much later. Therefore, the FAC was filed on July 11, 2023, along with a DOE
Amendment that same day naming Pinchas (Paul) Wintner as the DOE defendant.”
(Opp’n at p. 3:11-15.) 
In his declaration in support of the
opposition, Plaintiff states that “[a]t the time the original complaint was
filed, I was unaware of any involvement by Paul. Shortly thereafter, my son
David and I started reviewing e-mails and texts on my deceased wife’s phone. We
determined that Paul was also putting pressure on my wife as to her assets and
communicating to her regarding the alleged acts complained of by Tova and
Yael.” (Levy Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff also states in his declaration, “attached
hereto as Exhibit ‘2’ is text message between Paul and my son Gal Levy that was
apparently sent in 2021 but I didn’t become aware of it until late 2022.” (Levy
Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff asserts that “[t]his text demonstrates that Paul was
aware of what his sisters were planning, and he was acting on their behalf and
in concert with them. Based on these texts and e-mails, I now believe that he
was working in concert with Tova and Yael to extort me and cause me emotional
distress to force me to amend the 2019 Trust/Will and give him and his sisters
a larger piece of inheritance, than originally planned by their deceased
Mother.” (Levy Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s Exhibit “2” includes a message stating,
inter alia, “[i]t’s ok it’s a mess i tried to reach out to David and
said let’s figure something out so my sisters won’t sue. He says i was bad for
even talking about it really? I’m trying to prevent a war that’s gonna get very
dirty when they both start bringing up how they were abused and molested and
how they made my mom live in fear to get everything. I told David he can even
keep my portion just let them get the third…” (Levy Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2.)
Plaintiff notes that “[i]f the identity of the Doe defendant is known but, at the time
of the filing of the complaint the plaintiff did not know facts that would
cause a reasonable person to believe that liability is probable, the
requirements of section 474 are met. Section 474 allows a plaintiff in good faith to delay
suing particular persons as named defendants until he has knowledge of
sufficient facts to cause a reasonable person to believe liability is probable.
The fact that the plaintiff had the means to obtain knowledge is irrelevant. In
short, section 474 does not impose upon the
plaintiff a duty to go in search of facts she does not actually have at the
time she files her original pleading.” ((McOwen v. Grossman (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 937, 943-944
[internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has sufficiently demonstrated that “the
identity of the Doe defendant is known but, at the time of the filing of the
complaint [Plaintiff] did not know facts that would cause a reasonable person
to believe that liability is probable…” ((Id. at p. 943.) As set forth above, in such circumstances, “the requirements of section 474
are met.” (Ibid.) 
In the reply, Paul Wintner appears
to assert that Plaintiff’s claims against him are without merit. Paul Wintner
asserts, inter alia, that “PAUL’s awareness of sexual abuse and
molestation suffered by his sisters, and his attempt to resolve a family issue
with Plaintiff’s son, does not make PAUL liable for any cause of action. Not
for extortion, not for negligence/NEID, not for intentional infliction of
emotional distress—Plaintiff is stringently arguing that it does.” (Reply at p.
7:9-12.) But the relevant inquiry on the instant motion is whether “the terms of Code of Civil
Procedure section 474 have…been complied with…” ((Maier Brewing Co. v. Flora Crane Service, Inc., supra, 270 Cal.App.2d at p. 875.)

Based on the
foregoing, the Court denies Paul Wintner’s motion
to quash.   
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Paul Wintner’s
motion to quash. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  

      
DATED: 
January 31, 2024                                        
___________________________
                                                                                          Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
                                                                                          Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court