 Case Number:  22CHCV01269    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
1-24-24
Case
#22CHCV01269 
Trial
Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Melissa Chavez
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Further
Responses to Defendant’s Answers to Plaintiff’s First Set of Requests for
Production of Documents (RFP Nos. 22-23, 26-29, 32, 45-46)
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On December 1, 2022, Plaintiff Melissa Chavez
(Plaintiff) filed this lemon law case against Defendant American Honda Motor
Co., Inc. (Defendant). Plaintiff’s complaint alleges causes of action against
Defendant for violations of the Song-Beverly Act.
 
As
part of Plaintiff’s case against Defendant, Plaintiff has propounded discovery
on Defendant. Defendant answered Plaintiff’s discovery requests. On May 1,
2023, Defendant served responses to Plaintiff’s requests for production. On October
27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses to the requests
for production. Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s responses on the basis that Defendant
failed to properly object, and Plaintiff objects because Defendant’s objections
were too general and without merit. Plaintiff also indicates that the parties
only met and conferred in writing.
 
Defendant
claims in its opposition that responsive documents do not exist to some of the
requests. Defendant also argues that the Song-Beverly Act does not include or
require other information which Plaintiff seeks. Defendant further claims that
it has produced all responsive documents to Plaintiff’s claim.
 
In
her reply, Plaintiff reiterates her argument that Defendant’s responses are
insufficient and that the information she seeks is relevant and discoverable.
 
RULING: Parties are
ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer, followed by an Informal
Discovery Conference before the Court
 
The only meet and confer demonstrated by the parties
were meet and confer letters sent by Plaintiff. Defendant claims in its
opposition that Plaintiff’s first meet and confer letter was boilerplate and
did not provide any specific information regarding how each response was
deficient. Plaintiff then sent a second, similar letter before Defendant had a
chance to respond to the first.
 
The
Court has reviewed the documents related to these motions and will not decide
the motions on the merits at this time. The Court orders an Informal Discovery
Conference. At least 10 days prior to the IDC, the parties must conduct a
meaningful meet and confer to resolve as much as they can. Additionally, the
parties are ordered to file a joint statement of remaining issues prior to the
IDC. The joint statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute,
followed by Plaintiff’s arguments, then Defendant’s arguments. 
 
ORDER

1.
The parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer at least 10
court days prior to the Informal Discovery Conference. 
 
2.
At least 3 court days prior to the Informal Discovery Conference, the parties
shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described above. The
format should be as follows: the parties should recite the specific discovery
request at issue, followed by the moving party’s statement of why it should be
compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of why it should not be
compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for a subsequent request,
the party shall simply refer to the section where the argument was previously
made.
 
3.
The date for the IDC will be set at the hearing on this motion.
 
4.
Moving party to provide notice.
 