 Case Number:  23CHCV00101    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F49
Date: 1-24-24
Case # 23CHCV00101
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiffs Manuel Rangel Quintero and
Miriam Mayoral Hernandez
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint (FAC)
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment
 
Motion to Strike
·        
Entire 2nd Cause of Action for
Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment [FAC ¶¶
83-101]
·        
Prayer for Punitive Damages [FAC, p. 21, line 9,
subpart 6]
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On August 30, 2021, Plaintiffs Manuel Rangel Quintero and
Miriam Mayoral Hernandez (Plaintiffs) purchased a 2018 Honda Odyssey. (FAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs received
a New Vehicle Limited Warranty in connection with the purchase of the vehicle manufactured
by Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (Defendant). (FAC, ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant was deceptive in its marketing of the vehicle because Defendant
and its representatives did not inform Plaintiffs that the vehicle suffered
from the Transmission Defect. (FAC, ¶
60.) Plaintiffs claim that they would not have purchased the subject vehicle
had they known about the Transmission Defect. (FAC, ¶¶ 93, 99.)
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant knew of the Transmission
Defect since at least 2014. (FAC, ¶
21.) Plaintiffs allege
that the Transmission Defect makes the vehicle dangerous (FAC, ¶ 13.) Further,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants knew about the Transmission Defect because of
pre-market testing; consumer complaint; testing conducted in response to the
complaints; high failure rates and replacement part sales date; and other
sources. (FAC, ¶ 15.) From September 2014 to at least February 2019, Defendant
issued service bulletins acknowledging the Transmission Defect. (FAC, ¶ 15.)
 
On January 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their original complaint
with two causes of action for (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty; and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. 
 
On June 29, 2023, this Court sustained Defendant’s
demurrer with leave to amend to Plaintiffs’ original complaint. Defendant
demurred to Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of Action for Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment. The Court sustained the demurrer on the basis that Plaintiff has
not articulated any damages for the concealment that are separate and
independent from the warranty claim. Plaintiffs were given 30 days leave to
amend their complaint.
 
Plaintiffs filed their untimely FAC on August 10, 2023.
In their FAC, Plaintiffs added the following to their Second Cause of Action:
            
“Plaintiffs purchase of the
Subject Vehicle was induced by Defendant’s concealment of the 9-Speed
Transmission Defect. The purchase price Plaintiffs paid for the Subject Vehicle
--which Plaintiffs would not have purchased but-for Defendant’s concealment –
represents separate and distinct damages from Defendant’s liability for its
violation of the Song-Beverly Act.” (FAC, ¶¶ 98-99)
 
Defendant filed its demurer with motion to strike on September
14, 2023. Plaintiffs oppose Defendant’s demurer and motion to strike
 
RULING
 
Demurrer: Sustained without leave to amend
 
Defendant brings a demurrer to the Second Cause of Action
for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. Defendant contends the challenged
cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a fraud cause of
action against Defendant. Pursuant to CCP § 581(f)(2), Defendant also argues
that the Court should dismiss Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of Action due to
Plaintiffs’ failure to amend their complaint within the time allowed by the
Court.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
On the issue of separate and distinct damages, Civ. Code § 1794
of the Song-Beverly Act states in part: 
(a) Any buyer of consumer goods who
is damaged by a failure to comply with any obligation under this chapter or
under an implied or express warranty or service contract may bring an action
for the recovery of damages and other legal and equitable relief. (b) The
measure of the buyer's damages in an action under this section shall include
the rights of replacement or reimbursement as set forth in subdivision (d) of
Section 1793.2, and the following…
 
Civil Code §1793.2 states in pertinent part:
 
(d) (1) Except as provided in
paragraph (2), if the manufacturer or its representative in this state does not
service or repair the goods to conform to the applicable express warranties
after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either replace
the goods or reimburse the buyer in an amount equal to the purchase price paid
by the buyer, less that amount directly attributable to use by the buyer prior
to the discovery of the nonconformity.
 
Reimbursement of
the purchase price of the vehicle, less the amount directly attributable to use
by the buyer prior to the discovery of the nonconformity, is already included
as a remedy under the Song-Beverly Act. Plaintiffs argue in their opposition that
Bowser v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 587 stands for the
proposition that they could obtain separate and distinct damages because they
could recover the entire purchase price under their cause of action for fraud,
while they could only recover the purchase price less the amount directly
attributable to Plaintiffs’ use of the vehicle prior to discovery of the
nonconformity under the Song-Beverly Act. Defendant argues in its reply that Bowser
dealt with election of remedies and the rule against a double recovery rather
than the sufficiency of the pleadings. (Id. at 623.)
 
While Plaintiffs’
FAC has pled that the purchase price is separate and distinct from the
Song-Beverly Act damages, Plaintiffs’ FAC has not pled how they are distinct.
(FAC, ¶ 99.) The Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second
Cause of Action.
 
As for the
untimely filing of Plaintiffs’ FAC, CCP § 581(f)(2) states that “The court may
dismiss the complaint as to that defendant when: … (2) Except where Section 597
applies, after a demurrer to the complaint is sustained with leave to amend,
the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court and either
party moves for dismissal.”
 
The Court gave
Plaintiffs 30 days from June 29, 2023, to file their amended complaint.
Plaintiffs did not file their amended complaint until August 10, 2023.
Defendant has moved for the dismissal of Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of Action as
part of its demurrer, due to Plaintiffs’ late filing. The only argument against
this that Plaintiffs have offered is that their counsel had a scheduling failure.
Plaintiffs have not offered any authority that would support an attorney’s
mistake being an exception to CCP § 581(f)(2).
 
Due to
Plaintiffs’ late filing of their FAC, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint without leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike: Granted
 
Defendant has moved to strike Plaintiffs’ request for
punitive damages on the basis that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently pled that
Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.
 
This Court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
 
Punitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
No punitive damages are available under the Song-Beverly
Act. Recovery under that statute is limited to a refund of the purchase price
paid and payable (or replacement of the subject vehicle), plus a civil penalty,
where applicable, not to exceed two times a plaintiff’s actual damages (Civ.
Code § 1794.)
 
The Court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’
fraud cause of action. Because punitive damages are not allowable under the
Song-Beverly Act, punitive damages are not available for Plaintiffs’ other
cause of action. Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages is granted.
 
Defendant has also requested that the Court strike
Plaintiffs’ entire Second Cause of Action due to Plaintiffs’ late filing of
their FAC. Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action is
granted.
 
Defendant is given 30 days to file its answer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 