  Case Number:  21STCV09278    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
1-24-24
Case
# 21STCV09278
Trial
Date: 3-18-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San Francisco
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, R.W.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
In
1981-1982, Plaintiff R.W. was a 14-15 year old member of the Greek Orthodox
Church, when was allegedly sexually assaulted by Father Stanley Adamakis, an
ordained priest assigned to a location in Northridge. Plaintiff alleges the
church organization was aware of Father Adamakis’s pedophile activities.
 
On
March 9, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Negligence (three causes of
action) and Negligent Supervision, Negligent Hiring and/or Retention (three
causes of action). On April 7, 2021, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint
Negligence (three causes of action against three different entities within the
Greek Orthodox organization) and Negligent Supervision, Negligent Hiring and/or
Retention (three causes of action against three different entities within the
Greek Orthodox organization). On April 7, 2021, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint Negligence (three causes of action against three different entities
within the Greek Orthodox organization) and three causes of action for
Negligent Supervision, Negligent Hiring and Retention.
 
On
June 22, 2021, the action was transferred from Department 31 to Department 47. On
July 2, 2021, Defendants filed a 170.6 challenge to Department 47, thereby
leading to reassignment to Department 49. On September 27, 2021, the court
overruled the demurrer to the complaint and denied the motion to strike.
Defendants answered on October 6, 2021.
 
On
July 27, 2022, the court denied Defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to
the statute of limitations, but granted the motion for summary adjudication as
to the recovery of treble damages. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Requests
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The
court takes judicial notice of the filing of the pleadings, but not the content
of the pleadings for the truth of the matter asserted. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Paul Nicks and Plaintiff’s evidence:
Overruled.
 
Defendant
Greek Orthodox Metropolis of San Francisco (Metropolis) moves for summary
judgment, and alternatively summary adjudication, on grounds that Plaintiff
cannot state a basis of duty against the church: Father Adamakis was never an
employee or agent of the church; even if he was an employee, said conduct was
outside the course and scope of employment; and, Plaintiff lacks evidence of
any “special relationship” establishing a basis for a duty of care.
 
Plaintiff
in opposition challenges Defendant’s showing of sufficient grounds to shift the
burden. Plaintiff next contends that triable issues of material fact exist on
grounds of agency, thereby rendering the church defendant liable for the action
of its ordained priest. Plaintiff maintains that a special relationship was in
fact created through the invitation of Father Adamakis to the classroom on
church premises where Father Adamakis undertook a duty of care for the welfare
of Plaintiff on behalf of the church. 
 
Defendant
in its reply challenges the existence of any triable issues of material fact
regarding special relationship between Adamakis and Plaintiff. Defendant next
denies any agency relationship. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff failed to
establish that Defendant had actual knowledge of the acts of Adamakis. Finally,
Defendant describes the testimony from the witnesses relied upon in opposition
as unreliable and inadmissible (though Defendant only challenges the
declaration of Nicks).
 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon
Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inference that may be drawn
form that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at
467; see also CCP § 437c(c).) “An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
The
argument regarding the lack of a formal employment relationship/assignment
relies on factual denial of any such relationship. Metropolis concedes Father
Adamakis was assigned to various parishes, but presented employment records
showing the last assignment ended in 1979, prior to any alleged incident(s).
Adamakis obtained “secular” employment at the time of his presence at the
Northridge parish with a clinic providing public health services. [Ex. 4: March
31, 1981 Letter to George Bacopulous, Chancellor of the Greek Orthodox
Archdiocese of America.] Metropolis also cites to prior deposition from Bishop
Anthony Gergiannnakis of the Metropolis of San Francisco, whereby the Bishop
admits to the presence of Father Adamakis in the state of California from the
Diocese of Pittsburgh, but denial of any assignment. Father Adamakis was under
suspension, but not defrocked. Father Adamakis was denied permission to perform
any services or celebrate Sacraments with any other parish.  [Ex. 6: Deposition of Anthony Gergiannnakis,
September 30, 2004, Case No. BC307171.]
 
Plaintiff
in opposition to the motion relies on a general finding of foreseeability
founded by prior knowledge by the Church of the alleged predilections of Father
Adamakis. Father Adamakis remained a priest in the order until he was later
defrocked years after the alleged incidents. Although certain exhibits were
submitted under seal, Plaintiff cites to the deposition testimony of Bishop
Anthony regarding a basis of knowledge of prior incidents involving Father
Adamakis in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Notwithstanding the purported ban from
participating in church sanctioned services, Plaintiff cites to the deposition
testimony and declarations of witnesses regarding the presence of Father
Adamakis performing the liturgy and presiding over the congregation contrary to
the denials of Bishop Spyridon. [Deposition of Timothy Mullen; Declaration of
Paul Nicks.] Candace Andreno denied seeing Father Adamakis ever performing the
liturgy, but specifically recalls seeing him present on church grounds without
his priest “habit.”
 
In
the Timothy Mullen deposition, the deponent specifically testifies to informing
Father Thanos of how Adamakis inappropriately touched him, while Mullen was
suffering from a seizure. [Mullen Depo.] Mullen proceeds to explicitly describe
efforts to report the activity of Adamakis, to which Father Thanos purportedly
countered that any claims from a neurologically impacted teenage parishioner
lacked credibility against the word of a college educated priest with a degree
in psychology. [Ibid.] The alleged molesting activities by Adamakis
continued following seizures by Mullen. [Ibid.]
 
The
court finds both Father Adamakis was present and associated with church
activities in some capacity, regardless of whether Adamakis was authorized or
unauthorized from conducting any form of religious services at the subject
church. Thus, Plaintiff establishes the presence of Adamakis at all relevant
times. [Depositions of Mullen and Andreno, Declaration of Nicks.] The evidence
also establishes that Father Adamakis was at a minimum somehow associated with
the Metropolis under the San Francisco diocese during the relevant time frame,
albeit “suspended” from priestly duties, but not defrocked or excommunicated. 
 
The
motion offers limited legal address of the employment criteria regarding the
difference between an employee versus independent contractor, but otherwise
lacks specific discussion regarding a “suspended” priest still vaguely
associated with the Pittsburgh and San Francisco Diocese. (See S. G. Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Department
of Industrial Relations
(1989) 48 Cal.3d 341, 349-350.) The court finds no sufficient basis of
support for a finding of a lack of any employment relationship for purposes of
ruling on the motion for summary judgment simply based on the denial of any
employment relationship with the Metropolis entity. The court therefore denies
the motion for summary judgment, and summary adjudication as to the second
cause of action for negligent hiring on grounds of a failure to establish the
lack of a legal or factual basis for summary judgment.
 
Assuming
Father Adamakis was some form of “employee” as a suspended priest affiliated
with Metropolis, even if via Pittsburgh, without any specifically assigned
priestly duties, Defendant frames the conduct of the priest as outside the
scope of conduct of a priest, and therefore not rendering the church liable.
Additionally, Defendant denies any “ratification” of said conduct, even if
sexual misfeasance was occurring. Plaintiff alternatively relies on a claim
that the presence of Adamakis with access to the facilities created an agency
relationship thereby establishing a basis of liability. Plaintiff relies on the
presence of Father Adamakis and access to non-public portions of the premises
following the alleged prior reports, as the basis of liability. Said presence
and access are established in the deposition testimony and declaration,
including the deposition of Plaintiff. [Deposition of R.W.] Plaintiff’s
deposition also establishes that Adamakis had access, outside of normal church
hours, to a Sunday school classroom in St. Nicholas, which is the location on
church grounds where Plaintiff remembers being assaulted. [Deposition of R.W.,
pp. 34-36 and 42.] The access to church grounds that Adamakis had could be
demonstrative of a possible agency relationship between him and the church.
 
“A
principal is responsible for no other wrongs committed by his agent … unless he
has authorized or ratified them, even though they are committed while the agent
is engaged in his service.” (Civ.
Code § 2339.) “[A]n employer may be liable for
an employee’s act where the employer either authorized the tortious act or
subsequently ratified an originally unauthorized tort. (Citations.) The failure
to discharge an employee who has committed misconduct may be evidence of
ratification. (Citation.) The theory
of ratification is generally applied where an employer fails to investigate or
respond to charges that an employee committed an intentional tort, such as
assault or battery. (Citations.) Whether an employer has ratified an employee’s
conduct is generally a factual question. (Baptist v. Robinson (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 151,
169–170; Delfino v. Agilent
Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 810.) “[R]atification [generally] relates back to the time
the tortious act occurred.” (C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169
Cal.App.4th 1094, 1111.)
 
Defendant cites to the
leading case on vicarious liability involving an accused molesting priest. “It would defy
every notion of logic and fairness to say that sexual activity between a priest
and a parishioner is characteristic of the Archbishop of the Roman Catholic
Church. There is simply no basis for imputing liability for the alleged conduct
of the individual defendant-priests in this instance to the respondent
Archbishop. Similarly, appellant has not pointed out any fact which could lead
this court to a conclusion that the Archbishop ratified the concupiscent acts
of the priests.” (Rita M. v. Roman Catholic Archbishop (1986) 187
Cal.App.3d 1453, 1461.) The court finds the case definitive in terms of
discharging any intentional tort liability claims against Defendant.
Nevertheless, as Plaintiff seeks to distinguish the impact of the case, the issue
naturally dovetails into consideration of a special relationship established
between the parties, thereby imposing an alternative basis of negligence
liability.
 
“A defendant cannot be held liable
in negligence for harms it did not cause unless there are special
circumstances — such as a special relationship to the parties — that give the
defendant a special obligation to offer protection or assistance. This rule
reflects a long-standing balance between several competing interests. It avoids
difficult questions about how to measure the legal liability of the stranger
who fails to take affirmative steps to prevent foreseeable harm, instead
leaving the stranger to make his or her own choices about what assistance to
offer. (Citation.) At the same time, it extends a
right of recovery to individuals in relationships involving dependence or
control, and who by virtue of those relationships have reason to expect the
defendant’s protection. (Citation.) [¶] Where such a special
relationship exists between the defendant and a minor, the obligation to
provide such protection and assistance may include a duty to protect the minor
from third party abuse.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 220
“Brown.”)
 
Defendant anticipates
this argument and denies any such basis of liability. In denying the lack of
any special relationship, Defendant relies on Plaintiff’s admission that he was
not a parishioner, and never otherwise enrolled or participated in any church
organized activities, such as Sunday school or other educational programs,
altar boy duties, or youth programs. Of the multiple incidents, only one
occurred on church premises. [Deposition of RW.]
 
Again,
the existence of an employment relationship or not in no way impacts
consideration for the determination of a special duty. The existence of a
special duty can present a separate and independent basis of liability against
moving Defendant. The testimony of RW clearly places RW and Father Adamakis on
church premises, when Father Adamakis allegedly engaged in sexual misconduct
with minor Plaintiff. [RW Depo.] The court also cites back to the testimony of
Mullen regarding reports to Father Thanos regarding prior incidents involving
Father Adamakis. The San Francisco diocese was also admittedly aware of
Adamakis’s presence at the Northridge parish, and only disallowed any priestly
duties, but otherwise failed to warn or seek to limit the conduct of Father
Adamakis on the parish premises. 
 
The
court therefore finds moving Defendant was at least potentially aware of
potentially wrongful activity on the premises, and chose to allow Adamakis to
both remain associated with the Northridge parish and at a minimum implicitly
consent to unfettered access to private portions of the facility. Even without
accessibility to private premises, and the reliance on claims of activity
occurring off-site, Adamakis was still present around minor parishioners at all
relevant times, thereby imposing a special duty of care on the church as an
umbrella organization to protect minor invitees on the premises. 
 
Public policy articulated in the Brown case
imposes a special duty of care on the managing entity to protect underage/minor
congregants and guests alike from a known threat of a pedophile priest with
access to non-public portions of church premises. (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 220.) Nothing
in this situation requires further consideration for determination of a duty of
care under Rowland. “[T]here may be other
circumstances that give rise to a comparable affirmative duty to protect.
(Citation.) But where no such circumstances exist, the Rowland
factors do not serve as an alternative basis for imposing duties to protect.
The purpose of the Rowland factors is to determine whether the relevant
circumstances warrant limiting a duty already established, not to recognize
legal duties in new contexts.” (Id. at p. 221.) The court therefore
finds triable issues of material fact regarding the basis of a special duty of
care as a matter of law based on deposition testimony, declarations, and
evidence submitted.
 
The motion is denied in its entirety. 
 
Trial remains set for March 18, 2024. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.