 Case Number:  23STCV25542    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Bridgeland
  Resources, LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCV25542




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Pacific Coast
  Energy Company, LP


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September
5, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Motion: Demurrer
Moving Party:
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Bridgeland Resources, LLC 
Responding Party:
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Pacific Coast Energy Company
 
The Court considers
the moving papers, opposition and reply. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Bridgeland
Resources, LLC’s demurrer to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Pacific Coast Energy
Company, LP’s Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the
sixth cause of action and SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the eighth cause
of action. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented
party) before 8:30 am on the day of the hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
 On October 18, 2023 Bridgeland
Resources, LLC filed a Complaint against Pacific Coast Energy Company. Bridgeland and PCEC are
parties to two joint operating agreements that govern the operation of two oil
fields. The first agreement is the East Coyote Operating Agreement; the second
is the Sawtelle Operating Agreement. The SAC alleges PCEC breached its
obligation to pay its proportionate share of expenses under the JOAs. 
 
On June 17, 2024, PCEC
filed a Cross-Complaint (“XC”) alleging ten causes of action:
1.   
Breach
of Contract;
2.   
Breach
of Contract;
3.   
Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
4.   
Interference
with Contract;
5.   
Interference
with Prospective Business Advantage;
6.   
Foreclosure
on Liens;
7.   
Cancellation
of Instruments;
8.   
Unfair
Business Practices;
9.   
Unjust
Enrichment;
10.
Declaratory
Relief.
 
PCEC alleges that
Bridgeland breached the JOAs by failing to timely provide joint interest
billing statements, and breached a separate settlement agreement. Before the
Court is Bridgeland’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action for foreclosure on
liens and the eighth cause of action for unfair business practices in the cross
complaint. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“[A] demurrer tests the
legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court
may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or
documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of
ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true,
but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
1.   
Sixth Cause of Action: Foreclosure of Liens
 
Bridgeland contends the sixth cause of action should be dismissed because
the XC was filed after the statutory 180-day cutoff of Code Civ. Proc. §1203.61.
That section provides: “Any
lien provided for by this chapter shall be enforced in the same manner as
provided in Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 8400) of Title 2 of Part 6 of
Division 4 of the Civil Code. The action shall be filed within 180 days from
the time of the recording of the lien.” 
 
The liens at issue were
recorded on December 5, 2023. The XC was not brought until June 17, 2024, 15
days after the 180-day deadline. PCEC reads this as a statute of limitations.
Bridgeland contends that Code Civ. Proc. §1203.61 is a procedural requirement, relying
on Automatic Sprinkler Corp. v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 627.  
 
In Automatic a
subcontractor sued to foreclose a mechanic’s lien. The Court of Appeal ruled
that failing to bring the foreclosure action within the statutorily defined
commencement deadline barred the suit. (Automatic, supra, at 633-635.)
PCEC argues that Automatic is inapplicable because it did not involve a
cross-complaint, but this distinction is immaterial. The Automatic Court
stated that “failure to timely commence the action terminates the substantive
right to a lien.” (Id. at fn.4.)[1]
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained without leave to
amend.                    
 
2.   
Eighth Cause of Action: Unfair Business Practices
 
Bridgeland contends the eighth cause of action
fails to provide sufficient facts because it does not allege any unlawful
practices. Under Business and
Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must prove Defendant was engaged in
an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair,
deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.” 
 
            The XC fails to plead any unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business practice. In opposition, PCEC simply reiterates
that invoices were not billed in a timely manner. Without more, the eighth
cause of action falls to state a claim. The demurrer to this cause of action is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


