 Case Number:  23STCV02475    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant EAN Holdings,
LLC’s Four Motions to Compel Further Responses to Form and Special
Interrogatories
            Defendant
EAN Holdings, LLC filed four motions to compel further responses to
interrogatories.  It moves to compel each
plaintiff, Rebecca Eliav and Aitan Eliav, to provide further responses to
special interrogatories Nos. 2-4, 6-8, 10-12, 14-16, 18-20, 22-24, 26-28, 30-32,
34-36, 38-40, 42-44, 46-48, 50-52, 54-56, 58-60, 62-64, 66-68, 70-72, 74-76, 78-80,
82-84, and 86-88.  Defendant further
moves to compel each plaintiff to provide further responses to form
interrogatory – general, No. 17.1.  
Separate Statement
Defendant’s motions are procedurally defective
because their separate statements are incomplete.  “A separate statement is a separate document
filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all the information
necessary to understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that
are at issue.  The separate statement
must be full and complete so that no person is required to review any other
document in order to determine the full request and the full response.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).)  “If the response to a particular discovery
request is dependent on the response given to another discovery request, or if
the reasons a further response to a particular discovery request is deemed
necessary are based on the response to some other discovery request, the other
request and the response to it must be set forth.”  (Rule 3.1345(c)(5).)  
Defendant’s motions regarding special
interrogatories concerns 22 sets of three follow-up questions to prior
interrogatories.  Each trio of questions
asks: (1) “If YOUR answer to interrogatory number [1, 5, 9, etc.] is in the
affirmative, please identify all facts which support YOUR contention”; (2) “If
YOUR answer to interrogatory number [1, 5, 9, etc.] is in the affirmative,
please IDENTIFY all witnesses who support YOUR contention”; and (3) “If YOUR
answer to interrogatory number [1, 5, 9, etc.] is in the affirmative, please
IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS which support YOUR contention.” 
The responses to each trio of interrogatories depend
on the prior interrogatory.  Defendant
did not include those as required under California Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(c)(5).  Defendant’s reply argues
those requests are “not necessary to evaluate the propriety of the at-issue
requests.”  (Reply, p. 1.)  But its separate statement argues plaintiffs’
responses are incomplete or evasive in part because “Plaintiff merely cut and
pasted his/her answers regardless of the call of the question.”  To evaluate this argument, the court would be
required to review the special interrogatories themselves.  
Defendant’s motions regarding form interrogatory No.
17.1 have the same defect.  No. 17.1
asks, “Is your response to each request for admission served with these
interrogatories an unqualified admission? 
If not, for each response that is not an unqualified admission,” provide
four categories of information: (a) identify the request number, (b) state
supporting facts, (c) identify all supporting witnesses, and (d) identify all
supporting documents or tangible things. 

The responses to this interrogatory depend on each
request for admission.  The separate
statement indicates defendant disputes the responses as to requests for
admission Nos. 1-22—but does not set forth those requests for admission.  Again, defendant’s separate statement argues,
“Here, Plaintiff merely cut and pasted his/her answers to Defendant’s supporting
facts, witnesses and documents special interrogatories regardless of the call
of the question.”  
Substance of Responses
The court also rejects defendant’s motion on the
merits.  A party propounding
interrogatories may move to compel further responses when an answer “is evasive
or incomplete.”  (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1).)  
Plaintiffs’ responses are not incomplete or
evasive.  Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.220 provides, “Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as
complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.  (b) If an
interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent
possible.  (c) If the responding
party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an
interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good
faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.”
Defendant argues the responses are evasive or
incomplete for four reasons.  First, as
discussed above, it argues the responses are the same “regardless of the call
of the question.”  The court cannot
evaluate that argument without knowing the questions, which were not in the
separate statement.  Moreover, there is
nothing necessarily wrong with providing the same answers to these
interrogatories.  The same facts,
witnesses, and documents may support numerous contentions.  
Second, defendant argues plaintiffs summarized
possible contentions or legal conclusions instead of stating facts.  Speculating or making up facts does not make
the answers legally insufficient.  Being speculative
or false does not make the responses “evasive or incomplete.”  (See Saxena v. Goffney (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 316, 333 [“serving a willfully false answer to an interrogatory” is
“not specifically covered by the Civil Discovery Act”].)  That the responses may be speculative or
untrue goes to their credibility, not whether they comply with the Civil
Discovery Act.  
Third, defendant argues plaintiffs’ responses
regarding witnesses did not state contact information or names for “Defendant’s
agents and affiliated companies (and these companies’ agents), Enterprise Rent-A-Car
Company of Los Angeles, LLC and its agents, California Department of Motor Vehicles
and Los Angeles Police Department.”  But
the responses indicate that each plaintiff “does not know the business
addresses, telephone numbers, or residence addresses of these witnesses” and that
defendant, the DMV, and LAPD will know more information.  These answers adequately state plaintiffs
have no personal knowledge and the information is equally available to
defendant.  
Finally, defendant argues plaintiffs’ responses
regarding documents speculate about documents that may exist and do not
identify who possesses each document.  As
discussed above, speculating does not make the responses invalid.  Identifying documents plaintiffs
believe exist constitutes a good-faith effort to answer the questions.  As for failing to identify who has each
document, plaintiffs’ responses adequately indicate they do not know.      
Sanctions
Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions against
defendant.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.300(d) provides, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction …
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Though its motions were unsuccessful, defendant
made reasonable supporting arguments.  Defendant
acted with substantial justification in filing these motions.  
Disposition
            Defendant
EAN Holdings, LLC’s four motions to compel further responses to interrogatories
are denied.