 Case Number:  23CMCV01806    Hearing Date:   February 27, 2024    Dept:  A 

23CMCV01806 Jose Flores-Mendez v. Oscar
 Flores, et al.

Tuesday,
 February 27, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING
 DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The
complaint alleges that Plaintiff suffered injury on October 10, 2017, while
employed with Defendant, Plentitude Transportation, Inc. Plaintiff continued to
work until he was terminated as he was unaware of his rights as an injured
worker. Plaintiff alleges claims for fraud, intentional tort, and emotional
distress.
      Defendants,
Oscar Flores and Plentitude Transportation, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”) argue
that the complaint is defective as it is uncertain. Plaintiff failed to allege
the claims with required specificity, and the claims are barred by the statute
of limitations. 
      Defendants
timely served the demurrer on Plaintiff by mail. Plaintiff did not file an
opposition.
II.     
LEGAL STANDARDS
      The
bases for demurrer are limited by statute and may be sustained for reasons
including failure to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and
uncertainty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) A demurrer “tests the sufficiency
of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.” (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)
The court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638.) 
      Defense
counsel attempted to meet and confer in good faith with Plaintiff, who did not
respond. (Matthew Huzanich decl.)
III.   
DISCUSSION
A.      Demurrer to the
first cause of action for fraudulent concealment is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.
      To establish that a claim is barred by
the statute of limitations, “the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear
on the face of the complaint. A demurrer will not lie where the action may be
but is not necessarily barred.” (Citizens for a Responsible Caltrans
Decision v. Department of Transportation (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 1103, 1117.) An
action for relief based on fraud or mistake is three years, and "is not
deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the
facts constituting the fraud or mistake." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 338.)
      The
complaint alleges that Defendants terminated Plaintiff in February 2019 and
“immediately and fraudulently” closed the company, continuing to operate under
a different name. (Complaint, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
intentionally suppressed from Plaintiff the true facts, to hide their unlawful
scheme. (Complaint, ¶ 19.)
      As
Plaintiff did not allege when he discovered the “true facts,” the complaint is
not clearly barred by the statute of limitations. The claim, however, is not
alleged with required specificity. 
      A
claim for fraudulent concealment must be supported by facts showing “(1) the
defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant was under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he
had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff sustained damage.” Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276,
310–311.)
      There
are “four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Id. at 311.) If a fiduciary relationship does
not exist, then the three other circumstances apply, however, the plaintiff
must establish “the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff
and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311.) 
      Plaintiff
has not alleged what particular facts Defendants allegedly suppressed or that
Defendants intended to defraud. The alleged “scheme” is not factually or
specifically described. Plaintiff does not allege what he would have done
differently had he known of the true facts. The only fraud referred to is the
“fraudulent closing” of the company. Without more, the claim is fatally
uncertain. 
      Leave
to amend is ordinarily granted where the complaint is capable of amendment,
even if the plaintiff does not ask for leave to amend. (Tarrar Enterprises, Inc. v. Associated
Indemnity Corp.
(2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 685, 689.)
 
B.      Demurrer to the second
cause of action for intentional tort is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
      This claim is based on the allegation that
Defendants “maliciously and with intent, taunted him and belittled him in front
of his coworkers on a daily basis.” (Complaint, ¶26.) The claim appears to state
a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
      Claims arising from personal injury,
including mental suffering and emotional distress, must be filed within two
years from the date of injury. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1; Wassmann v. South Orange County
Community College District
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 825, 853 ["A
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress accrues, and
the statute of limitations begins to run, once the plaintiff suffers severe
emotional distress as a result of outrageous conduct on the part of the
defendant.”
      The complaint alleges that Defendants
terminated his employment in February 2019. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) The complaint implies
that intentional conduct occurred during his employment. (Complaint, ¶ 14.) Therefore,
the intentional tort accrued, at the latest, by February 2019. Plaintiff filed
this action on November 9, 2023. Accordingly, this claim is barred by the
two-year statute of limitations. The court may deny leave to amend where the
claim is clearly barred. (Murphy v. Twitter, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 12, 35; Tarrar Enterprises, Inc. v. Associated
Indemnity Corp.
(2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 685, 689 ["Denial
of leave to amend is appropriate only when it conclusively appears that there
is no possibility of alleging facts under which recovery can be obtained."].)
 
C.      Demurrer to third
cause of action for emotional distress is SUSTAINED with leave to amend to the
extent it arises from the first cause of action for fraud.
 
      This claim is based on the first and
second causes of action and because Defendants defrauded Plaintiff of “his loss
of earnings and by not taking responsibility for his injuries and medical bills
incurred and failure to pay money that is rightfully owed to Plaintiff.
(Complaint, ¶ 29.)  To the degree this
claim is derived from the first cause of action for fraudulent concealment, it
is defective for the reasons previously stated. Insofar as this claim arises
from the second cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress, it is barred by the statute of limitations.  
 

IV.  CONCLUSION
      Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to
the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Where the third
cause of action for emotional distress arises from the fraud claim, demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT leave to amend. 
      Plaintiff has 10 days to file an amended
pleading that cures the defects noted above. 