 Case Number:  23SMCV03744    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiff Baker sues for breach of fiduciary duty against
Millennium Dance Studios (various entities), Ann Marie Hudson, and David
Kingsdale.  Plaintiff alleges that he and
Hudson, then his wife, founded Millennium in 1992.  He states that he and Hudson divorced in 2013
and they split ownership of Millennium 50/50. 
However, plaintiff states that he was mistreated thereafter and in
December 2016 he was effectively forced to sign a stock redemption
agreement.  While he claims he was
harassed into signing the document, the document’s validity does not appear to
be challenged here.  The agreement
resulted in plaintiff giving up his 50% ownership in Millennium in return for
guaranteed monthly payments and the right to receive 50% of the profits from
Millennium.
 
Even so, signing the agreement allegedly did not end the
harassment.  That led plaintiff to file
an earlier case alleging a breach of the agreement.  Defendants cross-complained.  Plaintiff contends that he had a bad lawyer
who essentially neglected the case leading him to be in an impossible
situation.  Ultimately, the court in the
other case granted terminating sanctions. 
Plaintiff’s complaint was dismissed for failure to prosecute and for bad
conduct.  Further, his answer to the
cross-complaint was stricken and his default was entered.  Ultimately, there was a judgment reflecting
the default.
 
Plaintiff contends that, even so, Millennium, Hudson, and
Kingsdale have breached the redemption agreement by not paying him the sums
owed or distributing profits.  He has
sued again.  Defendants have demurred,
contending primarily that plaintiff’s causes of action are barred by res
judicata and collateral estoppel. 
Plaintiff opposes.
 
Res judicata applies where a prior action has resulted in a
final judgment on the merits and the new action seeks to enforce the same
primary right.  Any such action that
could have been brought in the earlier case is merged into the prior judgment
or barred by it.  This is “claim
preclusion.”  Collateral estoppel, which
is also a part of res judicata writ broadly, bars re-litigating an issue that
was decided on its merits as reflected in a final judgment.  The two are different.  The former bars splitting claims.  A claim that should have been brought in the
earlier action cannot be brought later even if the claim has merit and even if
the claim was determined to have merit in the earlier case.  Issue preclusion bars litigating the same
factual issue whether or not it relates to the same primary right.  Together, these two doctrines support the
public policy that there is an end to all things—even litigation.
 
Plaintiff’s prior action has two aspects that are pertinent
here.  The first is his prior complaint
that was dismissed due to a lack of prosecution and as a sanction for bad
litigation conduct.  Plaintiff contends
that such a dismissal is not “on the merits” and thus does not trigger res
judicata in any form.  The court tends to
agree.  Judgments of dismissal for
failure to prosecute are typically not on the merits.  The trial court did not adjudicate that
plaintiff was right or plaintiff was wrong; the court merely dismissed the case
without reaching the merits.  (Hardy
v. America’s Best Home Loans (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 795.)  The court acknowledges that the engine
driving the decision was apparently discovery abuse—a failure by plaintiff to
provide Instagram log-in information. 
However, that does not seem to the court like an adjudication on the
merits.  Further, even were res judicata
to apply, it would not necessarily bar claims that arose after the
dismissal.  
 
The other aspect of the prior case is that plaintiff’s
answer to the cross complaint was stricken and a default taken (and later a
default judgment entered).  Unlike a
dismissal, a default judgment does operate as a judgment on the merits.  (People v. Sims (1982) 32 Cal.3d 468,
superseded by statute on another point as stated in Gikas v. Zolin
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 841.)  But it only so
operates for the causes of action in the complaint (or cross-complaint).  The court has reviewed the cross-complaint
(which is attached to the operative pleading here).  That action was based on conversion of social
media and an overpayment on the buy-out contract.  Neither of those rights or issues is a part
of the instant case.
 
Because there is no final judgment on the merits as to
plaintiff’s earlier complaint and the judgment on the cross-complaint does not
implicate the causes of action now asserted, res judicata is no bar.  The demurrer on that ground is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of action, which is for
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  This cause of action is almost always pled
and is almost never of any moment.  That
is because if the contract addresses the implied covenant, the implied covenant
will not apply (because the actual contract applies).  But it does not mischief now, and every now
and again the doctrine does come into play.  
The demurrer on that ground is OVERRULED.
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action, which is for
interference with contract, is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  The problem is that both Hudson and Kingsdale
were acting in their capacities as corporate agents in causing Millennium
allegedly to breach the contract.  But a
party cannot interfere with its own contract and an agent cannot conspire with
a principal to do so either.  (Shoemaker
v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1; Mintz v. Blue Cross of California (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1594.)  Although the court
is inclined not to allow leave to amend, the court urges plaintiff not to do so
unless a good faith amendment can cure this problem.  The court warns that leave will likely not be
granted again.
 
Finally, defendant demurs to the declaratory relief cause of
action.  The court agrees with the
defense that there is no basis for such relief. 
If plaintiff prevails, plaintiff will be made whole; if plaintiff loses,
then there is nothing for plaintiff. 
Even so, the cause of action does no mischief and it could be that the
way the dominos fall there remains some part of the contract that needs to be
interpreted on a going forward basis. 
The demurrer is OVERRULED on this point.
 
There is no demurrer to the fourth of fifth causes of
action.
 
The motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED.  The fourth cause of action is sufficiently
pled to defeat that motion.
 
Plaintiff has 30 days’ leave to amend if leave to amend is
granted.