 Case Number:  24SMCV00386    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, eleventh, eighteenth
affirmative defenses.
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
first, seventh, thirteenth, nineteenth affirmative defenses and the
“Additional” defenses.
 
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the tenth, twelfth,
fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth (first), seventeenth (second)
affirmative defenses and the demurrer to the answer.
 
This is an ADA case. 
Plaintiff sued and defendant answered. 
Plaintiff demurs to the answer and the affirmative defenses.  As to the answer itself, plaintiff asserts
that the answer is not verified and that it ought to admit more.  Turning to the verification, Code of Civil
Procedure section 446 allows an attorney to verify a pleading where the client
is out of the county (that’s “county,” not “country”).  This relic of a bygone era made a lot of
sense when one had to rely on Pony Express to get a signed verification across
county lines.  That might have been tough
in some of the larger counties.  It makes
no sense today.  But having said that, it
remains the law.  Therefore, the
verification complies with the code.  As
to whether the denials are true, that is not the office of a demurrer.  Plaintiff might later have some fun with
denials that turn out to be false, but at this stage the court is not going to
adjudicate the merits of a denial.
 
Plaintiff also asserts that the affirmative defenses are not
well pled.  Most litigators do not know
one even can demur to an answer, let alone that some facts must be alleged for
the affirmative defenses.  But that is in
fact the law; it is often not enough to state the affirmative defense and
stop.  Further, an affirmative defense is
one that admits the truth of the complaint’s allegations and admits that
plaintiff has made out its case in chief but asserts that the defendant should
prevail even so.  The statute of
limitations is a good example.  Even if
everything plaintiff says is true, plaintiff still loses because plaintiff
waited too long.  Failure to plead facts
sufficient to state a cause of action is not an affirmative defense technically
because the assertion is that plaintiff has not made out its case in chief.
 
The first affirmative defense is failure to state a claim,
which is not an affirmative defense.  The
second affirmative defense is unclean hands. 
However, there are no facts alleged that would establish the
defense.  Thus, it fails for lack of
alleging sufficient facts.  The third
affirmative defense is laches.  This is
an equitable defense stating that the plaintiff waited too long to sue and that
the delay caused prejudice.  It is
different than the statute of limitations, which requires no showing of prejudice.  To establish laches, defendant needs to state
why plaintiff waited too long and how defendant was prejudiced.  No facts are alleged.  The fourth affirmative defense is
offset.  That is a defense that reduces
plaintiff’s judgment by an amount plaintiff owes to the defendant.  However, there is nothing that suggests that
plaintiff owes defendant anything. 
Defendant must set forth the nature of the offset.  The fifth affirmative defense is privilege.  The court has no idea what that could
mean.  The claim is that the cause of
action is barred by privilege, which is the litigation privilege.  That would suggest that defendant claims that
plaintiff is suing based on some litigation conduct.  The court cannot fathom how that could be and
there is nothing in the complaint that would suggest an answer.  The sixth affirmative defense is excuse.  The court has no idea what defendant is
claiming here.  The seventh affirmative
defense is lack of standing.  But that is
not an affirmative defense.  Plaintiff
must establish standing as part of the case in chief.  The eighth affirmative defense is failure to
mitigate.  This is sufficient to the
extent that plaintiff seeks actual damages, but it is no defense to statutory
damages.  In its papers, plaintiff
suggests that no actual damages are sought and therefore the defense is
inapplicable.  Were it applicable, defendant
must at least hint at how plaintiff failed to mitigate.  The ninth affirmative defense is
estoppel.  That is an affirmative
defense, but it requires defendant to allege the conduct in which plaintiff
engaged that led defendant to act or refrain from acting in a way that has
caused prejudice.  The tenth affirmative
defense is release and waiver.  That is
probably adequately alleged.   The
eleventh affirmative defense is judicial estoppel.  That requires some additional detail.  The twelfth affirmative defense is
preemption.  The court is not sure that
is an affirmative defense, but it might be, and it is adequately alleged.  The thirteenth affirmative defense is CCP
128.5 and 128.7.  Those are not
affirmative defenses.  The fourteenth
affirmative defense is illegality.  The
argument is that to perform the improvements plaintiff demands is illegal under
City law.  That is adequately alleged.
The fifteenth affirmative defense is ready achievability.  The claim is that compliance is not readily
achievable.  The court is not sure this
is an affirmative defense, but it might be. 
The sixteenth affirmative defense is “De Minimis Violations.”  The theory is that the violations do not
materially impair plaintiff’s use.  That
does not strike the court as an affirmative defense, but it might be.  The seventeenth affirmative defense is “Not
Alterations,” in which defendant asserts that plaintiff is not seeking
alterations.  That might or might not be
an affirmative defense.  The second
seventeenth affirmative defense is “To the Maximum Extent Feasible.”   The thrust of this is that the claims are
barred because this is the best that can be done.  Again, that might or might not be an
affirmative defense.  The eighteenth
affirmative defense is “Good Faith Access,” which alleges that defendant has
acted in good faith.  That requires more
facts.  The nineteenth affirmative
defense is “Not Readily Achievable,” which is the same as the fifteenth
affirmative defense.  The “Additional
Affirmative Defenses” is improper.
 
Defendant has 10 court days leave to amend.
 
The court suggests that the parties do a better job of
meeting and conferring and filing motions that might matter more than this
one.  The court has lots to do every day.