 Case Number:  SC127208    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  I This is a request for provisional approval of a
settlement.  The underlying case involves
insurance.  Suit was originally brought
by plaintiff, but later a different guardian ad litem was named.  Defendant would like to settle and has
offered a sum certain in return for a release. 
However, those claiming an interest of the proceeds have not agreed to a
particular division.  All agree that the
total is adequate and appropriate, though. 
The problem is that defendant wants to buy peace; it does not want to
pay in money only to be brought back into litigation.  That is, of course, a reasonable position to
take.  The parties claiming an interest
are willing to give that assurance—that is, they will discuss how to divide the
proceeds and litigate the question if necessary but will agree that under no
circumstances will they ask defendant for more money.  The snag is that the court, and only the
court, can approve a minor’s compromise. 
But because the parties have not agreed on the division, a specific
compromise cannot be presented to the court, meaning that the parties cannot
give defendant the sign off defendant wants. 
To get around that problem, the thought is that the court will agree
that the total is appropriate without confirming any particular division.  The parties understand that the court could,
at least in theory, award 100% to the minor, leaving nothing for anyone else,
and all are willing to take that chance. 
(More likely, of course, is that even if there is no agreement, the
court will arrive at some division of the money that the court believes is
appropriate and that protects the minor.) 
That will allow defendant to buy peace and the parties to have the money
in hand, or at least on account, thereby avoiding the risk of an adverse
judgment and the cost of litigation.
 
The court has reviewed the settlement offer, which is
confidential.  The court is convinced
based on the papers previously filed in this case concerning ongoing treatment
for the minor child, that the total sum is enough to warrant this conditional
approval.  In making its decision, the
court is aware that defendant is likely paying less than it would pay if it
litigated and lost.  That is the point of
settlement: one buys peace at a sum less than what would be paid if the
settling defendant lost, but more than the settling defendant would pay if it
won.  And here, defendant has not
conceded liability, so whether defendant would pay anything at the end of the
day is an open question.  The court also
notes that this case has been pending for a very long time.  An earlier court issued a ruling on forum non
conveniens only to have the Court of Appeal reverse.  But issues of convenience remain.  Were the case to be litigated, it could still
be years away from a final, collectable judgment (which would have to be collected
from a foreign entity).  And the court
believes that the settlement was negotiated at arms’ length.  Applying the Tech-Bilt factors, the
overall settlement seems to be appropriate and sufficient to protect the minor
child under the circumstances if allocated properly.
 
On the whole, the court is convinced that the settlement is
one made in good faith and at arms’ length by the parties.  The court agrees that it is in everyone’s
interest to end the underlying litigation now and get the money paid right
away.  And the amount is “in the
ballpark” of reasonableness.  While the
court is not opining on the ultimate division, and reserves the right to rule
in a way that does not satisfy everyone, the court believes that the settlement
should be conditionally APPROVED.  
 
Defendant will submit an order, approved as to form by all
parties, within 20 court days.
 