  Case Number:  22SMCV02268    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  I The unopposed motion for terminating sanctions is
CONTINUED.  Plaintiff seeks terminating
sanctions against defendant.  Oddly, on
May 1, 2024, the parties were before the court on an order to show cause for a
failure to participate in an MSC.  The
court discharged the OSC against counsel, but noted that this motion was coming
up.  Even so, defendant, whose counsel
was made aware of the motion for terminating sanctions by the court and
acknowledged the awareness, has not opposed the motion.
 
An unopposed motion is not a concession that the motion
should be granted.  The court must look
at the papers.  There seems to be another
motion for terminating sanctions on calendar for June 18.  (There is another motion against another
defendant also on calendar.)
 
Plaintiff served discovery on October 20, 2023, by
email.  Extensions were given through
February 5, 2024, but no responses were provided.  That led plaintiff to file a motion to compel
as to the form interrogatories.  The
court granted the motion on March 22, 2024, and ordered verified responses
within 10 court days.  Defendant (on the
last day) provided what plaintiff calls “skeletal” responses.  The court also granted a motion to compel
initial responses to a request for production on April 5, 2024.  Defense counsel was at the hearing, but no
responses have been provided to the court’s knowledge.
 
The court issued an MSC order and the matter was set for
February 13, 2024.  Defendants did not
appear, although counsel did.  That was a
violation of the court’s MSC order, which required the parties to participate
directly and not just through counsel. 
The court set an OSC re: Sanctions against the defendants for that
failure.  The court discharged the OSC as
against counsel, but imposed them against defendants.
 
It is clear to the court that defendant here, Evyatar Hajaj,
has no intention of participating in the case or obeying court orders.  Not only have multiple orders been ignored,
or close to it, but defendant did not even bother to oppose the motion.  While, as said before, the failure to oppose
is not a concession of merit, the court does read it as a shot across the bow
that defendant has no interest in obeying court orders or litigating the
case.  The problem is that defendant did
eventually provide responses, but they were (according to plaintiff)
insufficient and obviously so.
 
The court does not have those responses and the court notes
that the motion on June 18 seems to have a more complete record generally.  So far, the court is far from satisfied that
defendants have any interest in doing anything but delay, but the court is not
prepared to say so with enough certainty to strike the answer.  Rather, the court will CONTINUE this matter
to June 18, 2024, at 9:00 am to be heard with the other motion. 