 Case Number:  23SMCV02552    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiff sues defendant for bad faith denial of insurance
benefits.  Defendant has demurred,
asserting that the issues raised in the complaint have been resolved through an
arbitration already held.
 
The underlying complaint alleges that defendant issued an
insurance policy that covered an incident. 
Plaintiff was a passenger in a Lyft ride and defendant was the
carrier.  Plaintiff submitted the claim
to defendant but defendant took the position that causation and damages were
disputed and did not meet the policy limits. 
Plaintiff states that the carrier did not make a good faith effort to
resolve the claims and that he has received no money from the carrier.  Ultimately, the parties arbitrated.  Although the arbitrator was not overly
impressed with plaintiff, the arbitrator did find plaintiff had suffered
$200,000 in damages.  Because the policy
did not kick in until after $100,000, the arbitrator issued an award against
the carrier in the amount of $100,000. 
Defendant requests the court to take judicial notice of the underlying
policy and the arbitration decision.  The
request is GRANTED.
 
The second cause of action is for breach of the insurance
contract.  The court agrees with the
defense that the matter is barred by res judicata because that is exactly what
the arbitration was all about.  Plaintiff
has no right to sue for breach of contract, but can recover the $100,000 the
arbitrator awarded pursuant to that award. 
The court can see no basis for defendant to withhold that payment.  The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
The first cause of action is for breach of the implied
covenant.  Plaintiff’s theory is that
liability and damages were plain enough that the carrier acted in bad faith
forcing the matter to arbitration.  Given
the very limited scope of the arbitration, this issue does not seem to have
been before the arbitrator.  As such, it
is not precluded.  While the arbitrator
did say that plaintiff seems to have suffered only a “sprain,” the arbitrator
also found that the sprain gave rise to $200,000 in total injury.  Because the arbitrator did not decide the bad
faith issue in the arbitration and it is not clear to the court that the
arbitrator even could have done so, res judicata has not been shown to apply
and the demurrer as to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
The third cause of action is for fraud.  The court does not know enough about the
specific fraud because it is not pled with the requisite particularity.  The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 30 DAYS’ LEAVE
TO AMEND as to that cause of action.  
 
The fourth cause of action is for conspiracy to commit
fraud.  Civil conspiracy is not a cause
of action, so the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to that cause
of action.  
 
The fifth cause of action is for negligent infliction of
emotional distress.  The court notes that
this is an unusually narrow tort and the elements of it have not been pled, nor
are they likely to be pled.  Even so, if
plaintiff believes the elements can be alleged, the court will allow the
attempt.  The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
30 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
The remaining causes of action are not alleged against the
demurring defendant.