  Case Number:  23BBCV01985    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 31, 2024

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE/VACATE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01985

 



MP:  


Leon Krous Drilling, Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


Creditors Adjustment Bureau
  (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Creditors Adjustment
Bureau (Plaintiff) brings this action against Leon Krous Drilling, Inc.
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant owes sums of $30,853.51 and $42,093.65
in connection with an alleged breach of an insurance agreement with Plaintiff’s
Assignor. 
 
On December 1, 2023,
default was entered against Defendant. On January 19, 2024, the Court entered a
default judgment in favor of Plaintiff. 
 
Before the Court is a
renewed Motion to Vacate Default Judgment/Set Aside Default brought by
Defendant. This motion results from the Court’s previous denial of Defendant’s
Motion to Vacate without prejudice on March 29, 2024. Plaintiff opposes the renewed
motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Plaintiff
seeks relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b). Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory
relief provision. (Jackson supra, 32 Cal. App. 5th 166, at 173.)  The discretionary provision of Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b), in pertinent part, reads as follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) reads, in pertinent
part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) is to
promote the determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no
more than six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit
of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the
moving party or its attorney. (C.C.P., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Reconsideration

 
The Court
first addresses Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant’s motion is an improper
motion for reconsideration under C.C.P. § 1008. The Court notes that
Defendant’s prior motion was denied without prejudice. “Denial of a motion
without prejudice impliedly invites the moving party to renew the motion at a
later date, when he can correct the deficiency that led to the denial.” (Farber
v. Bay View Terrace Homeowners Assn. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1007.) A
trial court might alternatively continue the motion to allow further
submissions. (Id.) The route chosen is often a reflection of calendar
management. (Id.) Where a trial court elects to deny without prejudice and
invite renewal, it essentially reconsiders the matter on its own motion such
that the requirements of C.C.P. § 1008 are inapplicable. 
 
Here, it
was within the Court’s discretion to deny Defendant’s motion without prejudice
and invite renewal. The Court could have alternatively chosen to continue the
motion to allow Defendant the opportunity to submit additional documents in
support. The choice of this Court to invite renewal does not bar Defendant from
bringing this motion despite any alleged failure to adhere to C.C.P. § 1008. 
 
Excusable
Neglect Under C.C.P. § 473(b) 
 
The Court
previously indicated that it was inclined to grant Defendant’s motion should
they provide additional evidence of excusable neglect in responding to
Plaintiff’s suit. Having reviewed the renewed submissions of Defendant, the
Court finds they are entitled to relief under C.C.P. § 473(b) by virtue of
excusable neglect. 
 
“The
definition of excusable neglect is defined as neglect that might have been the
act or omission of a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances.” (Department of Water & Power v. Superior Court (2000)
82 Cal.App.4th 1288, 1293 [internal citation and quotation marks omitted].)
“There must be more than the mere failure to discover a fact; the party seeking
relief must establish the failure to discover the fact in the exercise of
reasonable diligence.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant’s
initial motion stated that Wayne Francis (Francis), Defendant’s Responsible
Managing Officer (RMO), received the Summons and Complaint in the matter. The
initial motion did not state what Fracis did with the Summons and Complaint and
made no representations as to what his position with the company was. It was
only through Plaintiff’s opposition that the Court was made aware of Francis’
position as RMO for Defendant. The Court found that the moving papers contained
no showing of excusable neglect because it simply did not provide sufficient
evidence as to Francis’ involvement with the service of the lawsuit. However,
the Court found it likely that Defendant could make the required showing of
relief and thus denied the motion without prejudice.
 
Upon
renewal, Defendant includes a declaration from Francis attesting to his role at
the company and his receipt of service. Francis confirms that he is the RMO for
Defendant. (Francis Decl. ¶ 2.) Francis states that he is not, and never
has been, authorized to accept service on behalf of Defendant. (Francis Decl.
¶ 4.) 
 
Francis further
states that he personally received the Summons and Complaint in Defendant’s
offices on October 17, 2023. (Francis Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Francis states the
person serving the papers did not inquire as to who Francis was or if Francis
was authorized to accept service. (Francis Decl. ¶ 5.) Francis then put
the Summons and Complaint in a stack of bills and assumed it would be taken
care of. (Francis Decl. ¶ 6.) Francis then completely forgot about
receiving the papers until late January 2024, when he received a call from
someone claiming a judgment had been issued against Defendant. (Francis Decl.
¶ 7.) 
 
The Court
notes that very slight evidence is required to justify a court in setting aside
a default. (McCormick v. Board of Supervisors (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 352,
359-360.) This is because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the
merits. (Id.) Any doubts in applying C.C.P. § 473 must be resolved in
favor of the party seeking relief from default. (Id.) 
 
In light
of this liberal standard, the Court finds that the declaration of Francis is
sufficient to demonstrate excusable neglect on Defendant’s behalf. Plaintiff’s
argument that Francis’ action of ignoring the Summons and Complaint are grossly
negligent are unpersuasive. Francis is not the Defendant in this matter.
Francis has submitted a declaration indicating that he does not handle such
matters, as they are outside the scope of his employment. Whether Francis was
reasonable to believe that the matter would be handled without his notifying
anyone does not speak to the excusable neglect of Defendant at large. As a
corporation, it is reasonable to believe that one’s employees would draw
attention to a Summons and Complaint served upon them. Defendant’s reliance on
Francis and other employees to draw attention to any lawsuit served on them,
even if they were not authorized to accept such service, was reasonable. 
 
Further,
Defendant has demonstrated that they exercised due diligence with respect to
receiving notice of lawsuits against them. Defendant submits that Marcus Kraus
designated himself as the agent for service of process for Defendant. (Kraus
Decl. ¶ 3.) Such designation is indicative of Defendant’s reasonable
diligence in discovering lawsuits filed against them. 
 
The Court
also finds that Defendant promptly moved to set aside the default judgment once
they were made aware of it. Plaintiff argues that Defendant assumed itself to
be judgment proof and only responded when they thought their licenses would be
revoked. This argument is unpersuasive. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that a delay of two months indicates a lack of reasonable diligence.
This argument does not comport with the temporal restraints of C.C.P. § 473(b).
C.C.P. § 473(b) states that a moving party has six months in which to timely
file their motion to vacate. If two months passing between the judgment and the
motion were sufficient to bar relief, it stands to reason the statute would not
provide a longer time frame in which such a motion could be brought. In short,
if two months is enough to show lack of diligence then the six-month provision
in the statute is meaningless. 
 
Further,
the Court finds there was only a period of one month between entry of the
judgment and the motion to vacate. Defendant states that they did not become
aware of the lawsuit until January 29, 2024, at which time default judgment had
already been entered. (Kraus Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant filed their motion on
February 16, 2024, a little under a month after the judgment was entered.  Considering the time required in procuring
counsel and drafting a motion to vacate, along with a proposed Answer, the
Court finds this delay does not evidence Defendant’s lack of diligence. 
C.C.P. §
473.5 
 
Accordingly,
the Motion to Vacate Default Judgment/Set Aside Default is GRANTED. 
 
The
Court’s initial ruling contained an analysis of C.C.P. § 473.5, which governs
motions to vacate based on service that did not result in actual notice to the
moving party. Given the Court has granted relief on the basis of C.C.P. §
473(b), further discussion of potential relief under C.C.P. § 473.5 is not
necessary. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Leon Krous Drilling,
Inc.’s Motion to Vacate and Motion to Quash came on
regularly for hearing on May 31, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in
the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises,
did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT/SET ASIDE
DEFAULT IS GRANTED. 
 
DEFENDANT IS TO FILE THEIR RESPONSIVE PLEADING
WITHIN 10 CALENDAR DAYS.
 
A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS SCHEDULED FOR SEPTEMBER
26, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
May 31, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 