  Case Number:  21STCV35596    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  74 Ernest J. Franceschi, Jr. v.
Christopher Baldwin, et al.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Quash and Stay
Deposition or, in the alternative, for a Protective Order and Request for
Sanctions
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a dispute
between an attorney and his former client.
            On September 28, 2021, Plaintiff
Ernest J. Franceschi Jr. filed a complaint against Christopher Baldwin and
others.
            On
June 13, 2023, Plaintiff served a notice of taking the deposition of Defendant
Ross B. Perkal (Defendant). The deposition was set to take place in-person on
July 17, 2023.
            On
July 12, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to stay and quash deposition or, in
the alternative, for a protective order.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant first seeks to stay the
taking of the deposition and to quash the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.410, subd. (c).) To that end, Defendant argues the deposition notice is
defective because it does not expressly permit Defendant to choose to appear
remotely. In support, Defendant cites Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.310,
subdivision (a), which allows the deposition officer to attend the deposition
at a different location than the deponent by remote means at the election of
the deponent. Moreover, any party or attorney may, but is not required to, be
physically present at the deposition at the location of the deponent. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.310, subd. (b).) But Defendant has not demonstrated how the
deposition notice is defective because it does not acknowledge his rights under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.310. Moreover, the case Defendant cites in
support is not binding on this court. 
            Alternatively,
Defendant seeks a protective order allowing him to be deposed remotely. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).) The court may make a protective order to
protect the deponent from oppression or undue burden. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.420, subd. (b).) Such an order may provide that the deposition be taken
only on certain specified terms and conditions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subd. (b)(5).) Defendant has persuaded the court that, due to his health, an
in-person deposition would be an undue burden on him. (Perkal Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)
Plaintiff, for his part, has not shown how a remote deposition would compromise
his right to take the deposition at all. Thus, the parties shall conduct the
deposition remotely. 
            Last,
Defendant argues monetary sanctions are warranted. Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (h), the court must impose monetary
sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully opposes a
motion for a protective order, unless the court finds the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification. Here, Plaintiff’s refusal to
accommodate Defendant’s health with a remote deposition lacks substantial
justification. As noted above, Plaintiff has not persuaded the court that a
remote deposition would prevent him from taking a deposition at all and relying
on it for his opposition to Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. The court
finds Defendant’s counsel’s hourly rate reasonable and she has substantiated her
request with a breakdown of performed on this motion. (Chmura Decl., ¶¶ 10,
11.) Thus, the court will award Defendant’s counsel $2,450 in attorney fees
($350 x (3 hours (motion) + 4 hours (reviewing opposition, drafting reply, and
attending hearing).). 
CONCLUSION
                The court denies Defendant’s motion
to quash the deposition. The court grants Defendant’s motion for a protective
order. The noticed deposition shall take place remotely. The court grants
Defendant’s request for $2,450 in discovery sanctions payable to Defendant’s
counsel later than February 23, 2024.
            Defendant shall give notice.