 Case Number:  21STCV35243    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  September 23, 2021, Plaintiff Nancy Stewart (“Nancy Stewart”) filed this action  against Defendants Audrey Forte (“Forte”) and Does 1-50 for wrongful  death-negligence.  On  November 3, 2021, Forte filed an answer.  On  October 11, 2022, Forte filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Estate  of Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, Nancy Stewart, as an individual and as  successor in interest to Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, and Roes 1 through 100  for negligence, negligence per se, equitable indemnity, contribution, and  declaratory relief.  On June 30, 2023,  the Estate of Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, and Nancy  Stewart (“Cross-Defendants”) filed an answer.  On  January 4, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a motion for terminating sanctions, to  be heard on March 6, 2024.  On March 5,  2024, Forte filed an untimely opposition.  The  trial is currently set for October 7, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Cross-Defendants  ask the Court to impose terminating sanctions against Forte or, in the alternative,  impose issue or evidentiary sanctions.   Cross-Defendants also request monetary sanctions.  Forte asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD             Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part:  “To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any  particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,  after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity  for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in  conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: “(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering  that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney  advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including  attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may  also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has  engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised  that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision  of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the  one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. “(b) The court may impose an issue sanction ordering  that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance  with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery  process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting  any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or  opposing designated claims or defenses. “(c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an  order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process  from introducing designated matters in evidence. “(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by  one of the following orders: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of  the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. “(2) An order staying further proceedings by that  party until an order for discovery is obeyed. “(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of  the action, of that party. “(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against  that party. . . ."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subds. (a), (b), (c), (d).)            A violation of a discovery order supports the imposition of  terminating sanctions. (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21  Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party  persists in disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84  Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796 (Deyo).)            A terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which  should be employed with caution." (Deyo, supra, 84  Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A decision to order terminating sanctions should  not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of  abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce  compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing  the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  DISCUSSION            On  November 28, 2023, the Court granted Cross-Defendants’ motion to compel Forte  to respond to requests for production of documents and ordered Forte to provide  verified, code-compliant responses and to produce the documents, electronically  stored information, and/or other things requested without objections by  December 20, 2023.  The Court also  granted Cross-Defendants’ motion to compel Forte to respond to special  interrogatories and form interrogatories and ordered Forte to provide verified,  code-compliant responses to the interrogatories without objections by December  20, 2023.  In addition, the Court imposed  monetary sanctions on Forte.            Forte did not fully comply with the Court’s November 28,  2023 order.  Forte had not provided  responses to Cross-Defendants’ requests for production of documents or paid the monetary sanctions by the time Cross-Defendants  filed this motion for terminating sanctions on January 4, 2024.  Forte’s  untimely opposition to Cross-Defendants’ motion states that Forte’s counsel served  the responses to special interrogatories on January 2, 2024 and counsel mistakenly believed he had served the responses to the requests for production of documents the same  day.  The opposition states that Forte’s counsel has now served the responses to the requests for  production of documents.  It does not address the payment of monetary sanctions.  The  Court denies Cross-Defendants’ request for terminating sanctions.  However, the Court awards additional monetary  sanctions for Forte’s delay in complying with the Court’s November 28, 2023  order.  Cross-Defendants  request monetary sanctions of $800.00 based on 6.5 hours of attorney time at a  rate of $185.00 per hour and one $60.00 filing fee.  Counsel spent 5.5 hours drafting the motion  and supporting papers anticipated spending one hour to attend the hearing.  The  Court awards sanctions of $430.00 based on two hours of attorney time and one  filing fee.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES the motion for terminating sanctions filed by Cross-Defendants Estate of Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, and  Nancy Stewart.  The  Court GRANTS the request for monetary sanctions of Cross-Defendants Estate of  Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, and Nancy Stewart and orders Cross-Complainant Audrey Forte and her counsel to pay Cross-Defendants  Estate of Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, and Nancy Stewart $430.00 in sanctions by  April 5, 2024.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.