 Case Number:  21STCV23098    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On June
22, 2021, Plaintiff John Erickson (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Executive Car Leasing Company (“Executive”),
Blusky Restoration Contractors, LLC (“Blusky”), and Does 1-50 for general
negligence and premises liability. 
On
July 23, 2021, Executive filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Blusky and Roes 1-20 for indemnity, contribution, apportionment,
breach of express indemnity, breach of contract, and declaratory relief. 
On
February 8, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
Southwest Group USA, Inc. (“Southwest”) as Doe 1.  Plaintiff also filed a first amended complaint
against Defendants Executive, Blusky, Southwest, and Does 2-50 for general
negligence and premises liability. 
On March
15, 2022, the Court dismissed Executive’s cross-complaint without prejudice at Executive’s
request. 
On
March 30, 2022, Blusky filed an answer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
and filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Southwest and Roes 1-50
for express contractual indemnity, implied contractual indemnity, equitable
indemnity, contribution, breach of contract, declaratory relief—duty to defend,
declaratory relief—duty to indemnify, and duty to defend—duty to name as
additional insured. 
On
April 7, 2022, Executive filed an answer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
and filed a cross-complaint against Southwest and Roes 1-20 for indemnity,
contribution, apportionment, and declaratory relief. 
On
June 30, 2022, the clerk entered Southwest’s default on Blusky’s
cross-complaint.  On July 24, 2023, the
Court set aside the default based on the stipulation of Southwest and Blusky.  On August 10, 2023, Southwest filed an answer
to Blusky’s cross-complaint. 
On
October 31, 2022, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application for a stay
of proceedings and continued the trial, final status conference, and related dates. 
On
December 15, 2023, Blusky filed motions to compel Southwest’s response to
requests for production of documents, set one, special interrogatories, set
one, form interrogatories, set one, and requests for admission, set one.  Blusky also requested sanctions.  The hearings were set for January 22, 2024.  The Court continued the hearings to March 6,
2024.  Southwest has not filed
oppositions.  On January 12, 2024, Blusky
filed notices of non-opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 22, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Blusky
asks the Court to compel Southwest to provide verified code-compliant
responses, without objections, to requests for production of documents, set
one, special interrogatories, set one, form interrogatories, set one, and
requests for admission, set one.  Blusky also
requests sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Inspection demand 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides: 
“If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent exceptional
circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney
of a party for failure to provide electronically stored information that has
been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of the routine, good
faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300.) 
B.   Interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides: 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) 
C.      Requests for admission 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.280 provides: 
“If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the requests for admission are
directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The requesting party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(c) The court shall make this order, unless it finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280.) 
DISCUSSION 
On September
27, 2023, Blusky served requests for production of documents, set one, special
interrogatories, set one, form interrogatories, set one, and requests for
admission, set one, on Southwest. 
Southwest
did not provide timely responses and had not provided responses by the time Blusky
filed these motions to compel. 
The
Court grants the motions to compel responses to the requests for production of
documents, set one, special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories,
set one, and orders Southwest to serve verified code-compliant responses,
without objections, and to produce the documents,
electronically stored information, and/or other things requested without
objections by April 5, 2024. 
Blusky’s
motion regarding the requests for admission is titled “Motion to Compel
Cross-Defendant’s Request for Admission, Set One.”  The motion initially asks the Court “for an
order compelling [Southwest] to serve verified responses to [Blusky’s] Request
for Admissions (Set One) . . . .” 
(Motion pp. 1-2.)  On the next
page, the motion asks the Court to deem admitted matters specified in the
requests for admission.  (Motion pp. 3-4.)  The next few pages of the motion ask the
Court for “a court order compelling [Southwest] to respond to Requests for
Admission, Set One” with “full and complete [responses], without objections . .
. .”  (Motion pp. 4-5; see Motion p. 5 [“Thus,
[Blusky] has no choice but to ask the Court for assistance and an order
compelling [Southwest] to respond to [Blusky’s] Request for Admission, Set One”];
Motion p. 5 [“Accordingly, [Blusky is] entitled to an order compelling
[Southwest] to respond to its Request for Admission, Set One, without objection”].)  In the motion’s conclusion, Blusky asks the
Court to order Southwest “to provide verified responses to Requests for
Admission, Set One.”  (Motion p. 7.) 
The
Court construes Blusky’s motion as a request to compel Southwest to provide
responses to the requests for admission and not as a motion to deem admitted
matters specified in the requests for admission. 
Because the motion mostly requests an order compelling responses,
Southwest might not have understood that Blusky was also requesting an order
deeming admitted the matters specified in the requests for admission.  As a result, it would be unfair to Southwest
to deem the matters admitted. 
The
Court grants Blusky’s motion to compel Southwest to provide responses to the
requests for admission and orders Southwest to provide code-compliant verified
responses to the requests for admission, without objections, by April 5, 2024. 
Blusky requests sanctions on each motion.  However, Southwest has not made or opposed a
motion to compel responses to requests for production or a motion to compel responses to interrogatories.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)  Therefore, sanctions are not available under these statutes.
Blusky also relies on the statutory definition of
misuse of the discovery process.  (Code
Civ. Proc, § 2023.010.)  But “[Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 is] ‘definitional’ and monetary sanctions
may not be imposed based solely on [the statute].  Monetary sanctions may be imposed only if
authorized by some other provision of the Discovery Act.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:1900, p. 8M-2; see Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 [court may impose sanctions for misuse of the discovery
process “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular
discovery method or other provision of this title”].) 
Because Blusky has not identified a statutory basis
for sanctions on its motions to compel, the Court denies the requests for
monetary sanctions. 
Blusky
should have filed its motion to compel responses to the special and form
interrogatories as two motions, one for each type of discovery.  The Court orders Blusky to pay the Court one
additional filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Cross-Complainant Blusky
Restoration Contractors, LLC’s motion to compel Cross-Defendant Southwest
Group
USA, Inc.’s responses to requests for production of documents, set one, and
orders Cross-Defendant Southwest Group USA, Inc. to serve
verified code-compliant responses, without objections, and to produce the
documents, electronically stored information, and/or other things requested
without objections by April 5, 2024. 
The Court GRANTS Cross-Complainant Blusky Restoration
Contractors, LLC’s motion to compel Cross-Defendant Southwest Group USA, Inc.’s
responses to special interrogatories, set one, and orders Cross-Defendant
Southwest Group USA, Inc. to serve verified code-compliant responses, without
objections, to the special interrogatories by April 5, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS Cross-Complainant Blusky Restoration Contractors, LLC’s motion to
compel Cross-Defendant Southwest Group USA, Inc.’s responses to form
interrogatories, set one, and orders Cross-Defendant Southwest Group USA, Inc.
to serve verified code-compliant responses, without objections, to the form
interrogatories by April 5, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS Cross-Complainant Blusky Restoration Contractors, LLC’s motion to
compel Cross-Defendant Southwest Group USA, Inc.’s responses to requests for
admission, set one, and orders Cross-Defendant Southwest Group USA, Inc. to
serve verified code-compliant responses, without objections, to the requests
for admission by April 5, 2024. 
The
Court DENIES Cross-Complainant Blusky Restoration
Contractors, LLC’s requests for sanctions. 
The
Court ORDERS Cross-Complainant Blusky Restoration Contractors, LLC, to pay the
Court an additional $60.00 filing fee by April 5, 2024. 
Moving
party is to give notice of the Court’s ruling. 
Moving
party is to file proof of service of the Court’s ruling within five days.