 Case Number:  23STCV01323    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
reviewed the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 20, 2023, Plaintiffs Yoana Noemi Chicas
(“Chicas”) and Andrew Hernandez (“Hernandez”), by and through his guardian
ad litem Chicas, filed this action against Defendants Latura Jenkins, City of
Los Angeles Department of Transportation, MV Transportation, Inc., and Does
1-50 for motor vehicle negligence, general negligence, violation of Civil Code
section 2104, violation of Civil Code section 2100, violation of Civil Code
section 2101, negligent entrustment, respondeat superior, and negligent
hiring/retention. 
On
March 1, 2023, the Court appointed Chicas to serve as Hernandez’s guardian ad
litem. 
On
April 4, 2023, Defendants Latura Jenkins, City of Los Angeles Department of
Transportation, and MV Transportation, Inc. filed an answer. 
On
January 5 and 12, 2024, Chicas and Hernandez (“Plaintiffs”) filed motions to compel
Defendants Latura Jenkins (“Jenkins”) and City of Los Angeles Department of
Transportation (“City”) to provide further responses to Plaintiffs’ request for
production of documents, set one, special interrogatories, set one, and form
interrogatories, set one.  Plaintiffs
also requested sanctions. The motions were set to be heard on February 8 and 9,
2024. The Court continued the hearings to March 6, 2024.  On January 26, 2024 and February 22, 2024, Jenkins
filed oppositions.  On February 8, 2024,
the City filed an opposition.  On
February 1 and 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed replies. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 19, 2024. 
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Discovery.” 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs, Jenkins, and the City participated in an IDC on February 6, 2024. 
B.       Timeliness
of motions 
A
notice of motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of
the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses, or on or before
any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (c) [demand for inspection], 2030.300, subd. (c) [interrogatories].)  Failure to file a motion within this time
period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses. 
Jenkins
and the City do not dispute the timeliness of Plaintiffs’ motions. 
C.   Meet and
confer 
A
motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2) [demand for inspection]; 2030.300, subd. (b)(1) [interrogatories].)  “A meet and confer declaration in support of
a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) 
Plaintiffs have provided meet and confer declarations. 
D.      Separate statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is warranted.  
Plaintiffs have provided separate statements. 
APPLICABLE LAW 
A.   Demand for inspection 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 provides in part: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: 
“(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. 
“(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
“(3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
each of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(3) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand. 
* * *
 “(h) Except as provided in
subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subds. (a), (b), (c), (h).) 
B.   Interrogatories 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 provides: 
“(a) On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: 
“(1) An
answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. 
“(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. 
“(3) An
objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
“(b) (1) A
motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(2) In lieu
of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court
may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request
and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response
to the interrogatories. 
“(d) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(e) If a
party then fails to obey an order compelling further response to
interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of, or in
addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 

(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Attorney-client privilege 
“In
response to a motion to compel answers [citation], the burden is on the party
claiming a privilege to establish whatever preliminary facts are essential to
the claim.” (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:192, p. 8C-61.) “For example, upon asserting the
attorney-client privilege, the client, or the attorney in the client’s absence,
must prove that the attorney-client relationship existed when the communication
was made. Once this showing is made (typically through declarations), the
communications between the lawyer and client are presumed to have been made in
confidence. [Citations.] [¶] Upon such showing, the burden shifts to the party
seeking discovery to disprove those facts or to prove some applicable statutory
exception (e.g., that the privilege has been waived [citation]). [Citations.]” (Ibid.) 
Jenkins and the City have not carried their initial burden of establishing the preliminary facts
showing that the attorney-client privilege allows them to withhold documents
and information responsive to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests (except as
specified below). 
B.   Work product doctrine 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2018.030 provides: 
“(a) A writing that reflects an attorney’s
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances. 
“(b) The work product of an attorney, other than a
writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court
determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking
discovery in preparing that party’s claim or defense or will result in an
injustice.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2018.030.) 
“There
is no dispute that a statement independently prepared by a witness does not
become protected work product simply upon its transmission to an attorney.” (Coito
v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 494 (Coito).) “An attorney
resisting discovery of a witness statement based on absolute [work product
protection] must make a preliminary or foundational showing that disclosure
would reveal his or her ‘impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research
or theories.’ ” [Citation.] Upon an adequate showing, the trial court should
determine, by making an in camera inspection if necessary, whether absolute
work product protection applies to some or all of the material.” (Coito,
supra, 54 Cal.4th at pp. 495-496, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030,
subd. (a).) 
Jenkins and the City have not made a preliminary showing that either the qualified or absolute work
product doctrine allows them to withhold documents and information
responsive to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests. 
C.   Motions 
1.    Surveillance/subrosa issue 
At
the January 6, 2024 IDC, counsel informed the Court that the parties had resolved
the discovery issues involving surveillance and subrosa evidence and the Court
did not need to address these issues when ruling on the motions to compel
further discovery responses.  Therefore,
the Court does not address request for production numbers 12 (directed at the City)
and 14 (directed at Jenkins). 
2.    Plaintiffs’ motions to compel Jenkins’s further
responses 
a.    Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Jenkins’s further responses
to request for production, set one 
Propounded:
         March 27, 2023                               
Responses:             [date not provided]           
Motion filed:         January 5 and 14, 2024              
          Granted:       15-16, 19, 21, 23, 26 (the order granting further responses to
number 26 is limited to documents reflecting any violations of MV
Transportation’s employment policies, any write ups by MV Transportation, or
any complaints from passengers),
28, 39-41 
          The Court excludes from its order granting further responses
to these requests (1) any communications between a party and the party’s lawyer
and (2) any documents that contain absolute work product. 
          If Jenkins withholds any documents based on an assertion of
privilege or work product protection, Jenkins must provide a privilege log to
Plaintiffs. 
          The parties may submit a proposed protective order for the
Court’s review to address concerns about disclosure of proprietary information. 
          Denied:        25, 27,
29, 45-49 
b.    Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Jenkins’s further
responses to special interrogatories, set one 
Propounded:          March 27, 2023
Responses:             [date
not provided]          
Motion filed:         January 5 and
14, 2024                                  

 Granted:
      1, 4, 32 
The
Court excludes from its order granting further responses to these requests any
communications between a party and the party’s lawyer. 
Denied:        39 
c.     Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Jenkins’s further
responses to form interrogatories, set one 
Propounded:           March
27, 2023
Responses:             [date
not provided]
Motion filed:          January 5 and 14, 2024              
 Granted: 12.6 (excluding communications between
a party and the party’s lawyer) 
3.    Plaintiffs’ motions to compel the City’s further
responses 
 a.    Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the City’s further
responses to request for production, set one 
Propounded:           March
27, 2023
Responses:             [date not provided]
Motion filed:           January
5 and 14, 2024    
          Granted:       13-14,
18-19, 22 (the order granting further responses to number 22 is limited to
documents reflecting any violations of MV Transportation’s employment policies,
any write ups by MV Transportation, or any complaints from passengers), 24,
35-37 
          Denied:        21, 23 , 41-45                   
The
Court excludes from its order granting further responses to these requests (1)
any communications between a party and the party’s lawyer and (2) any documents
that contain absolute work product. 
          If the City withholds any documents based on an assertion
of privilege or work product protection, the City must provide a privilege log
to Plaintiffs. 
          The parties may submit a proposed protective order for the
Court’s review to address concerns about disclosure of proprietary information. 
b.    Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the City’s further
responses to special interrogatories, set one 
Propounded:          March 27, 2023
Responses:             [date not provided]
Motion filed:           January
5 and 14, 2024
          Granted:       11
          Denied:        37-38 
          The Court excludes from its order granting further
responses to these requests any communications between a party and the party’s
lawyer.                             
c.     Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the City’s further
responses to form interrogatories, set one 
Propounded:           March
27, 2023
Responses:             [date not provided]
Motion filed:          January 5 and 14, 2024                                  
Granted:
12.6 (excluding communications between a party and the party’s lawyer) 
4.    Improper bundling of motions 
Plaintiffs
should have filed each of these motions as three separate motions, one for each
type of discovery the motion addressed.  Improper bundling of motions affects the Court’s
ability to handle its caseload and has other effects addressed in Jenkins’s
opposition filed on February 22, 2024. 
The Court orders Plaintiffs to pay the Court four additional filing fees,
totaling $240.00, to account for their failure to file separate motions. 
5.    Sanctions 
Plaintiffs
request $1,810.00 in sanctions for each motion based on seven hours of attorney
time at a rate of $250.00 per hour plus one $60.00 filing fee. Counsel spent
three hours to prepare each motion and anticipated spending one hour to review
the opposition, two hours to prepare a reply, and one hour to appear at the
hearing. 
Plaintiffs
did not prevail on all their requests. The Court awards $740.00 in sanctions for both motions based on two hours of attorney time and six filing fees. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS IN PART the motion of Plaintiffs
Yoana Noemi Chicas and Andrew Hernandez to compel Defendant Latura Jenkins’s further
responses to request for production of documents, set one, and orders Defendant
Latura Jenkins to provide further verified code-compliant responses to request
for production of documents, set one, numbers 15-16, 19, 21, 23, 26, 28, and 39-41
and to produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other
things requested by April 5, 2024, subject to the limitations set forth above.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the
motion. 
The Court GRANTS IN PART the motion of Plaintiffs
Yoana Noemi Chicas and Andrew Hernandez to compel Defendant Latura Jenkins’s further
responses to special interrogatories, set one, and orders Defendant Latura
Jenkins to provide further verified code-compliant responses to special interrogatories,
set one, numbers 1, 4, 32 by April 5, 2024, subject to the limitations set
forth above.  In all other respects, the
Court DENIES the motion. 
The Court
GRANTS the motion of Plaintiffs Yoana Noemi Chicas and Andrew Hernandez
to compel Defendant Latura Jenkins’s further responses to form interrogatories,
set one, and orders Defendant Latura Jenkins to provide further verified
code-compliant responses to form interrogatory, set one, number 12.6, by April
5, 2024, subject to the limitations set forth above. 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART the motion of Plaintiffs Yoana Noemi Chicas and Andrew
Hernandez to compel Defendant City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation’s
further responses to request for production of documents, set one, and orders
Defendant City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation to provide further
verified code-compliant responses to request for production of documents, set
one, numbers 13-14, 18-19, 22, 24, and 35-37 and to produce the documents,
electronically stored information, and/or other things requested by April 5,
2024, subject to the limitations set forth above.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the
motion. 
The Court GRANTS IN PART the motion of Plaintiffs
Yoana Noemi Chicas and Andrew Hernandez to compel Defendant City of Los Angeles
Department of Transportation’s further responses to special interrogatories,
set one, and orders Defendant City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation
to provide further verified code-compliant responses to special interrogatories,
set one, number 11 by April 5, 2024, subject to the limitations set forth
above.  In all other respects, the Court
DENIES the motion. 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Plaintiffs Yoana
Noemi Chicas and Andrew Hernandez to compel Defendant City of Los Angeles
Department of Transportation’s further responses to form interrogatories, set
one, and orders Defendant City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation to
provide further verified code-compliant responses to form interrogatories, set
one, number 12.6 by April 5, 2024, subject to the limitations set forth above. 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART the request for sanctions of Plaintiffs
Yoana Noemi Chicas and Andrew Hernandez and orders Defendants Latura Jenkins and City of Los Angeles Department of
Transportation and their counsel to pay Plaintiffs Yoana Noemi Chicas and
Andrew Hernandez $740.00 by April 5, 2024. 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiffs Yoana Noemi
Chicas and Andrew Hernandez to pay the Court $240.00 in filing fees by April 5,
2024. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.