 Case Number:  22STCV05079    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Plaintiffs’ Motion
to Exonerate Undertaking
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion
to Exonerate Undertaking is denied. 
                                                                                                                                        
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Niki Alexander Shetty and Adina Zaharescu brought
this case against Thomas Block and Sue Emrek (Defendants) related to
Defendants’ involvement with a loan and deed of trust for the property at 4351
La Barca Drive, Tarzana, California (the “Property“). 
On March 22, 2022, the Court granted Plaintiffs a preliminary
injunction enjoining the foreclosure sale of the deed of trust. In connection
with the preliminary injunction, Plaintiffs were required to post an undertaking
(the bond).
On February 20, 2024, the Court granted motions for summary
judgment filed by Defendants Block and Emrek based on its determination that
one or more elements of each of Plaintiffs’ claims failed as a matter of law. 
Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Exonerate Undertaking. Defendant
Block opposed the motion. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTION
Defendant Block’s evidentiary objection is overruled. 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
A court may require a plaintiff to post a bond or
undertaking when granting a plaintiff’s request for a preliminary injunction. Dickey
v. Rosso (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 493, 496. Code of Civil Procedure[1] section 529, subdivision
(a) provides in pertinent part that “[o]n granting an injunction, the court or
judge must require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the effect
that the applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an
amount to be specified, the party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if
the court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the
injunction.” The purpose of the undertaking “‘is to afford compensation to the
party wrongly enjoined or restrained . . . .’” Top Cat Productions, Inc. v.
Michael’s Los Feliz (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 474, 478 (quoting City of
South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal. App. 4th
916, 922). 
Section 996.440 sets forth a streamlined procedure through
which a party may enforce the undertaking by providing in pertinent part: “(a)
If a bond is given in an action or proceeding, the liability on the bond may be
enforced on motion made in the court without the necessity of an independent
action. “(b) The motion shall not be made until after entry of the final
judgment in the action or proceeding in which the bond is given and the time
for appeal has expired or, if an appeal is taken, until the appeal is finally
determined.”
                                                                                                              
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs argue that the Court should exonerate the bond
because the preliminary injunction was automatically lifted upon adjudication
in favor of the defendants, and there is no longer any basis to maintain the
litigation bond. 
The Court disagrees. Plaintiffs’ appeal of this Court’s judgment
is still pending in the Court of Appeal, as Case No. B338097. Because Defendants
cannot move to recover damages caused by the preliminary injunction until the
appeal is finally determined, the bond remains necessary. See Nuclear
Electronic Laboratories, Inc. v. William C. Cornell Co. (1965) 239
Cal.App.2d 8, 12 (holding “[because] the preliminary ruling, subject of this
appeal, cannot be deemed a final decision creating a cause of action upon the
bond given in support of the temporary restraining order. It would seem
axiomatic that the ruling similarly cannot be deemed a final decision
abolishing a cause of action upon the bond.”). Plaintiffs cite no authority authorizing
the exoneration of an undertaking while the action in which the bond is given
is on appeal. Accordingly, the motion is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Exonerate Undertaking is denied. 
 



 


