 Case Number:  23STCV25862    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  73 9/17/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
PRIMARKET, LLC v. RN WELLNESS, LLC, et al. (23STCV25862)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Valerie Horn (Valerie
F. Horn & Associates)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party: Maurice Pessah (Pessah Law Group, PC)
 
DEFENDANT rn wellness, llc’s motion FOR
RELIEF FROM ENTRY OF DEFAULT (filed on 08/16/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant RN
Wellness, LLC’s motion for relief from entry of default is DENIED.
Moving party
is ordered to give notice. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff Primarket, LLC
filed this action against Defendants RN Wellness, LLC (“RN”) and Jacob Perler
(“Perler”). 
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action:
1.     
Breach of Contract;
2.     
False Designation of Origin;
3.     
Trafficking of Counterfeit Goods;
4.     
Violation of California Business and Professions Code section
17200 et seq.;
5.     
Intentional Misrepresentation;
6.     
Negligent Misrepresentation; and
7.     
Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability.
 
The FAC alleges the following. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant RN is a merchant and wholesaler of personal protective equipment
(“PPE”) and COVID-19 testing kits. Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant Perler
is the sole member and/or manager of RN and responsible for RN. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants purchased, promoted, distributed, advertised, sold
and/or offered to sell counterfeit COVID-19 testing kits. 
 
On August 8, 2024, the Court denied Defendants RN Wellness,
LLC and Jacob Perler’s motions for relief from entry of default.
 
On
August 16, 2024, Defendant RN filed a renewed Motion for relief from entry of
default, arguing:
·      
Defendant requests that the court set aside the default entered by
Plaintiff and grant leave to file a responsive pleading. Defendant attaches an
Answer to the instant Motion.
·      
Defendant brings this motion for relief from default on the
grounds that mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) has resulted in a default being
entered.
·      
Defendants have moved quickly to correct this mistake,
after first reaching out to Plaintiff’s counsel who refuses to stipulate to set
aside the defaults.
·      
The mistake made by Defense counsel was to not
calendar March 13, 2024, Case Management Conference or the filing deadline for
a responsive pleading to the First Amended Complaint. Defendants had initially
anticipated filing a Notice of Removal, based upon the diversity of the
parties, but have since abandoned that and will file an Answer instead. (Greene Decl. ¶22.)
·      
The other mistake by Defendants’ counsel was to
belatedly schedule the filing of its responsive pleading for in advance of the
April 30, 2024, Case Management Conference, but failing to anticipate that
Plaintiff’s counsel would rush to get the Request for Entry of Default on file
well in advance of that hearing. (Greene Decl. ¶18.)
·      
No prejudice will be suffered by Plaintiff if the defaults
are set aside.
 
Plaintiff
filed a combined opposition to both Defendants’ motions for relief, arguing:
·      
This is an Improper Motion for Reconsideration
pursuant to CCP §1008 and the Court Lacks Jurisdiction To Hear this Renewed
Application.
o  
The party must show the renewed motion is based on
“new or different facts, circumstances, or law” and must provide an explanation
for not having presented the new or different information earlier. [Even
Zohar Const. & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61
C4th 830, 833 —where court denied first motion because attorney affidavit of
fault not credible, second motion based on new attorney affidavit of fault properly
denied because it failed to meet CCP § 1008 requirements].
o  
Mr. Greene’s current affidavit fails to show “new or
different facts, circumstances, or law,” that were not available at the time of
filing the first and second motions, and fails to “provide an explanation for
not having presented the new or different information earlier.” In fact, the
renewed motion is based upon the exact same facts as the prior motion.
·      
Defendants, and their counsel, had
received actual notice of the filing of the first amended complaint in February
2024, and after Defendants were duly served with the amended Summons and first
amended complaint (“FAC”), they did nothing to respond to the FAC.
·      
Defendants have not met the legal standard for setting aside
default pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 473(b).
·      
Defendants have not established that default was entered against
it due to mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
·      
Even Though Defendants’ Motion Should Be Denied, If Granted Under
the Attorney Fault Provision, The Recovery of Fees and Costs to Plaintiff Are
Mandatory.
 
Defendants
filed a reply, maintaining that it is entitled to have the default against it set aside, and to
pursue a defense on the merits. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Evidentiary Objections
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections to Defendants’ evidence in
support of the motion as follows:
 
Scott Greene Declaration 
·      
Nos. 1-16: Overruled. 
 
B.     
Discussion
 
First, Plaintiff argues Defendant RN Wellness, LLC’s motion should be denied pursuant to CCP §1008.
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008 imposes special requirements on renewed
applications for orders a court has previously refused. A party filing a
renewed application must, among other things, submit an affidavit showing what
“new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed.” (Id., subd.
(b)) to justify the renewed application, and show diligence with a satisfactory
explanation for not presenting the new or different information earlier (California
Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. Virga (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 30, 45–46
& fns. 14–15; see Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674,
688–690.) Section 1008 by its terms “applies to all applications ... for the
renewal of a previous motion” and “specifies the court's jurisdiction with
regard to [such] applications.” (§ 1008, subd. (e).) In Even Zohar Constr.
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC, 61 Cal. 4th 830, 833,
the court found section 1008 governs renewed applications under section 473,
subdivision (b) for relief from default based on an attorney's “sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”
On
June 13, 2024, Defendants filed motions for relief from entry of default under
section 473(b). Section 473(b) requires a court to grant relief when the application is
“accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, ... unless the court finds that the default
... was not in fact [so] caused....” The same provision authorizes
discretionary relief when “a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding”
is taken against a party or a party's legal representative “through his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Ibid.)
Accompanying
the motions was an affidavit by Defendants’ counsel attesting that: (1) the
“mistake made by Defense counsel was to delay filing the Notice of Removal,
after receiving the Notice of Ruling regarding the March 13, 2024, Case
Management Conference, mailed by Plaintiff’s counsel to Mr. Perler’s father. I
did not anticipate that Plaintiff’s counsel, aware that Defendants were
represented by the same counsel since the first correspondence from Plaintiff’s
predecessor counsel, would file Request for Entry of Default before contacting
our office” and (2) the “other mistake was to schedule the filing of Notice of
Removal for in advance of the April 30, 2024, Case Management Conference,
failing to anticipate that Plaintiff’s counsel would rush to get the Request
for Entry of Default on file before that hearing.” (Motion, Greene Decl. ¶¶
10-11).
On
August 8, 2024, the Court denied Defendants’ motion for relief because the
Court did not find that the entry of default occurred because of Defendants’
counsel’s purported mistakes. The Court stated: 
“Defendants’ counsel’s mistakes were not the cause of the entry of
default because the Notice of Removal had to be filed by March 6, 2024, (30
days from the date of Defendants’ receipt of the initial pleading in the civil
action through their counsel) or at the very latest March 10, 2024, (30 days
from the date that Plaintiff’s counsel emailed the amended summons and first
amended complaint directly to Perler and RN Wellness.) (28 USC 1446 (b).) By
the time Defendants’ counsel claims to have received the Notice of Ruling
regarding the March 13, 2024, Case Management Conference, the deadline to file
Defendants’ Notice of Removal had already passed.” 
(Court’s
9/16/24 Minute Order, p. 6.) The Court found that Defendants had not
established a basis to set aside the default under section 473(b).
On
August 16, 2024, Defendant RN Wellness,
LLC filed the instant renewed Motion for Relief from Entry of Default. Accompanying
the renewed motion is a second affidavit by Defendants’ counsel. Defendants’
counsel states:
 
“I made the mistake of not initially recognizing the FAC was for a
new matter concerning RN Wellness and not calendaring the March 13, 2024, Case
Management Conference. I also made the mistake of not calendaring the deadline
to file a responsive pleading to the First Amended Complaint. The other mistake
I made was to belatedly schedule the filing of its responsive pleading for in
advance of the April 30, 2024, Case Management Conference, but failing to
anticipate that Plaintiff’s counsel would rush to get the Request for Entry of
Default on file well in advance of that hearing.”
 
“Defense counsel’s mistake of not calendaring the Case Management
Conference, or the deadline for filing a responsive pleading, were the causes
of missing the deadline, resulting in the Request for Entry of Default first
being filed one day after the responsive pleadings were due.”
 
(Greene
Decl., ¶¶ 17-18,
23.)
 
However,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ counsel fails to present new or different
facts, circumstances or law that were not available at the time of filing the prior
motion, and fails to provide an explanation for not having presented the new or
different information earlier. The Court agrees. 
 
In support,
Plaintiff relies on Even Zohar Constr. & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire
Townhouses, LLC, 61 Cal. 4th 830. In Even Zohar Constr. &
Remodeling, Inc., defendants’ counsel similarly moved for relief under
section 473(b) and the superior court denied defendants' motion, expressly
finding counsel’s declaration “not credible.” (Id. at 834.) Defendants’
filed a renewed motion and defendants’ counsel’s submitted another declaration
presenting a different reason for relief, however, the court found that
defendants did not adequately explain why these facts had not been included in
the first declaration. (Id. at 837.) Thus, defendants failed to meet CCP
§ 1008 requirements. (Ibid.)
 
Here, Defendants’
counsel declaration also fails to provide an explanation for not having
presented the new or different information earlier. Defendant does not address
this argument in its reply. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant RN Wellness, LLC’s motion. Since
Defendant’s motion is denied, the Court does not grant Plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees.  
 
III. DISPOSITION

Defendant
RN Wellness, LLC’s motion for relief from entry of default is DENIED.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 