 Case Number:  24STCV05898    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  73 09/17/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
BRADFORD v. LITHIA MOTORS, INC., et
al. (24STCV05898)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Shahane Martirosyan (Stephen Filip PC) Rodney
Mesriani (Mesriani Law Group) 
Counsel for Defendants/moving
party: Shirley Wang (Saber Law Group)
 
DEFENDANTS’ motion to compel arbitration (filed 04/18/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to
compel the arbitration and the action is stayed until
completion of the arbitration. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff Jack Bradford (“Plaintiff”),
filed this action against Defendants LITHIA MOTORS, INC., a California
Corporation; LAD-N, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, NISSAN
INFINITY OF DOWNTOWN LA, a California unknown entity, and DOES 1 — 100, (collectively, “Defendants”). 
 
Plaintiff brings the following fourteen causes of
action against Defendants: 
1.    
Violation of Labor Code section 1102.5
2.    
Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy
3.    
Violation of Labor Code section 98.6
4.    
Discrimination on the basis of age
5.    
Discrimination for being a veteran
6.    
Discrimination on the basis of disability/perceived
disability/medical condition
7.    
Retaliation in violation of California Family Leave Act
8.    
Violation of California Family Leave Act Rights
9.    
Failure to Timely Provide Personnel Records
10.  Failure to Timely Provide Payroll Records
11.  Retaliation in violation of FEHA
12.  Failure to Investigate Discrimination and
Retaliation in violation of California Government Code sections 12940(J)
13.  Failure to Correct and Remedy Discrimination in
Violation of California Government Code section 12940(K)
14.  Intentional Infliction Emotional Distress 
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiff is a 63-year-old retired U.S. Army
Veteran. Plaintiff began to work for Defendants on August 29, 2005, as an auto
technician. Plaintiff
has medical conditions that require routine check-ups, including diabetes,
brain tumor, and hypertension. In or
around 2022, Eddie Torres became the manager of used car repairs. The work
environment changed because Torres did not like and/or did not tolerate
Plaintiff taking time off work to go to the VA for medical treatments. Plaintiff alleges discrimination, retaliation,
various wage and hour violations, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress, all arising out of his employment with Defendants. 
 
On
April 18, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration
arguing:
·       Plaintiff signed the attached arbitration agreement, which
provides for arbitration of disputes arising out of Plaintiff’s employment with
Defendants. 
·       The FAA governs the arbitration agreement
·       The agreement is valid and enforceable
·       The
Court should compel Plaintiff to attend arbitration. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends:
·      
Defendants Failed to Show that Arbitration Agreement
Involved Interstate Commerce Covered by Federal Arbitration Act 
·       The agreement is also unconscionable. 
 
 In reply, Defendants argue:
·      
The Arbitration Agreement Specifically References
Interstate Commerce and Is Covered By the FAA
·      
The Agreement Is Not Unconscionable and Is Enforceable
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal Standard
 
A written
agreement where the parties agree to arbitration is valid, enforceable and 
irrevocable
unless there is a contract defense. (C.C.P. § 1281.) “On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.”¿¿(C.C.P. § 1281.2.)  
¿ 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence…”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿¿“In determining
whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties'
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”¿¿(Weeks
v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an arbitration
clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending
the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it
is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿(California Correctional Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
There is
strong public policy in favor of both arbitration of disputes and resolving any
doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes in favor of arbitration.¿(Moncharsh¿v.¿Heily¿&¿Blase¿(1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 9.) Arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question.¿¿(Vianna¿v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)¿ 
 
A.     Existence of
an Agreement to Arbitrate
 
The party
moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) 
 
Defendants
present an executed arbitration agreement (“the Agreement”) that is applicable
to Plaintiff’s claims. (Collinet Decl., Ex. A.) The Agreement states, in
relevant part, that:
 
“I and the
Company both agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy that either
party may have against one another (including, but not limited to, any claims
of discrimination and harassment, whether they be based on the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended, as well as all other applicable state or federal laws or regulations)
which would otherwise require or allow resort to any court or other
governmental dispute resolution forum between myself and the Company (or its
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, and parties
affiliated with its employee benefit and health plans) arising from, related
to, or having any relationship or connection whatsoever with my seeking employment
with, employment by, or other association with the Company, whether based on
tort, contract, statutory, or equitable law, or otherwise, (with the sole
exception of claims arising under the National Labor Relations Act which are
brought before the National Labor Relations Board, claims for medical and
disability benefits under my state’s workers’ compensation laws, and Employment
Development Department claims) shall be submitted to and determined exclusively
by binding arbitration.”
 
(Collinet Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges discrimination, retaliation, various wage and
hour violations, and intentional infliction of emotional distress, all arising
out of his employment with Defendants. Since
these claims arose out of Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants, and the
Agreement states that the employee agrees that any claim arising out of the
employment relationship or termination of employment relationship shall be
subject to binding arbitration, the Agreement encompasses all of Plaintiff’s
claims against Defendants. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants have met their burden of showing that
a valid agreement to arbitrate exists between the Parties.  
 
B.     Applicability
of the Federal Arbitration Act 
 
Plaintiff argues that the Federal
Arbitration Act does not apply because Defendants fail to show that its
business involves interstate commerce. 
 
The general rule is that the FAA governs all agreements to
arbitrate in contracts “involving interstate commerce.”¿¿(Higgins
v.¿Superior Court¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) “A party seeking to enforce an
arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA preemption.”  (Lane
v. Francis Capital Management, LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 687; see
also Nixon v. AmeriHome Mortgage Company, LLC (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th
934, 946 [“The party seeking to enforce the arbitration agreement also bears
the burden of establishing the FAA applies and preempts otherwise governing
provisions of state law or the parties’ agreement.”].) 
 
However, the term “involving”
commerce “is broad and is indeed the functional equivalent of “affecting’
commerce.” (Allied-Bruce Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 273–74.) The U.S. Supreme Court has held that this broad
interpretation includes employment contracts. (See Circuit City Stores
v. Adams (2001) 121 S. Ct. 1302, 1304.) Employment contracts, except for
those covering workers engaged in transportation, are covered by the FAA. (E.E.O.C.
v. Waffle House, Inc. (2002) 534 U.S. 279, 289.) Thus, since this is an
employment agreement and employment agreements relate to commerce, it would be
covered by the FAA. Further, as Defendants assert, the Agreement states: “I
acknowledge that the Company's business and the nature of my employment in that
business effect interstate commerce. I agree that the arbitration and this
Agreement shall be controlled by the Federal Arbitration Act…" (Collinet Decl., Ex. A.)  
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds the FAA applies to the arbitration agreement here. 
 
C.    
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff
also argues the Agreement is procedurally and substantively unconscionable.
 
The doctrine
of unconscionability refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of
one of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably
favorable to the other party.”¿¿(Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno
(2013)¿57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133.) It consists of procedural and substantive
components, “the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.”¿¿(Id.)
Although both components of unconscionability must be present to invalidate an
arbitration agreement, they need not be present in the same degree.¿(Armendariz
v. Found. Health¿Psychcare¿Servs., Inc. (2000)¿24 Cal.4th 83, 114 (abrogated in-part on other grounds by¿Concepcion,
563 U.S. 333).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“Essentially
a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural
process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the
greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.¿
[Citations.]¿ In other words, the more substantively unconscionable the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”¿¿(Id.)
“The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving
unconscionability.”¿(Pinnacle Museum Tower¿Ass’n¿v. Pinnacle
Market Dev.,¿55
Cal.4th 223, 247.)¿¿¿ 
¿  
a.     Procedural
Unconscionability
¿¿ 
Procedural
unconscionability “pertains to the making of the agreement.”¿ (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e,
L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)¿ Procedural unconscionability
“focuses on two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from
an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”¿ (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484.)¿A contract of adhesion
typically denotes a standardized contract imposed and drafted by the party of
superior bargaining strength which relegates to the subscribing party only the
opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it. (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at 113.)¿ The adhesive nature of a contract is one factor that the
courts may consider in determining the degree of procedural unconscionability.¿
(Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74,
84 fn.4.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Here, the Court
accepts that the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable to a moderate degree
because Defendants were the party of superior bargaining strength and drafted
the Agreement. However, there is no indication that Plaintiff risked losing his
employment sans signing the Agreement and even if it was presented to Plaintiff
on a “take it or leave it” basis, the terms of the Agreement plainly outlined
the arbitration procedure. In Roman
v. Superior Court (2000) 172 Cal.App.4th 1472, 1470-1471, the court found
that procedural unfairness in a contract of adhesion was limited because the
arbitration provision was “not buried in a lengthy employment agreement,” was
“contained on the last page of a seven-page employment application, underneath
the heading ‘Please Read Carefully, Initial Each Paragraph and Sign Below,’”
and was “set forth in a separate, succinct (four-sentence) paragraph that [the
plaintiff] initialed, affirming that she had seen it.” (Ibid.) Here, the
Agreement stated in bold it was a “Binding Arbitration Agreement,” and was not
buried in a lengthy contract. (Collinet
Decl., Ex. A, p. 3.)  Further, the Agreement stated in bold and capital letters
right above Plaintiff’s electronic signature “I UNDERSTAND BY AGREEING
TO THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION, BOTH I AND THE COMPANY GIVE UP OUR
RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY.”
 
Thus, the
Court finds that the Agreement is moderately procedurally unconscionable.¿¿¿ 
¿ 
b.     Substantive
Unconscionability¿
¿ 
An agreement
is substantively unconscionable if it imposes terms that are “overly harsh,”
“unduly oppressive,” “unreasonably favorable,” or “so one-sided as to ‘shock
the conscience.’”¿ (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC¿(2015) 61
Cal.4th 899, 910-911.)¿ “All of¿these formulations point to the central idea
that unconscionability doctrine is concerned not with ‘a simple old-fashioned
bad bargain’ [citation], but with terms that are ‘unreasonably favorable to the
more powerful party.’ [Citation.]”¿ (Id. at p. 911.)¿ “These include
‘terms that impair the integrity of the bargaining process or otherwise
contravene the public interest or public policy; terms (usually of an adhesion
or boilerplate nature) that attempt to alter in an impermissible manner
fundamental duties otherwise imposed by the law, fine-print terms, or
provisions that seek to negate the reasonable expectations of the¿nondrafting¿party, or
unreasonably and unexpectedly harsh terms having to do with price or other
central aspects of the transaction.’ ”¿ (Id. at p. 911.)¿¿ 
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable
because since Defendants’
alleged Arbitration Agreement is pursuant to the FAA, the parties cannot obtain third-party discovery during discovery
in Arbitration. (See Aixtron, Inc. v. Veeco Instruments, Inc. (2020) 52
Cal.App.5th 360.) Plaintiff contends that he intends to issue multiple
third-party subpoenas to former employees as well as customers and vendors.
(Martirosyan Decl. ¶ 2.) Thus, Plaintiff argues he will not be able to obtain
necessary and adequate discovery to adjudicate his claims. 
 
However, as
Defendants argue, any
arbitrator presiding over this matter will be able to issue third party
subpoenas under CCP section 1283.05. CCP section 1282.6 allows for the issuance
of subpoenas in arbitration under three circumstances: (1) at an arbitration
proceeding, (2) at a deposition under section 1283, and (3) if section 1283.05
applies, for the purposes of discovery. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1282.6, subd.
(a).) An arbitrator may grant discovery as authorized under CCP section 1283.05
(incorporating the Civil Discovery Act and authorizing discovery as if the
proceeding were before the superior court) if the parties agree to such a term.
(Aixtron, Inc., supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at 396-97; see Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 1283.05, subds. (a)-(d).) This is satisfied when an agreement allows
for discovery per the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) or per section
1283.05, both of which create enforceable discovery rights. (Aixtron, Inc.,
supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at 396.) Here, the Agreement incorporates the CAA,
including “section 1283.05 and all of the Act’s other mandatory and permissive
rights to discovery.” (Collinet Decl., Ex. A, paragraph 2.) Therefore, the
terms of the Agreement do not limit Plaintiff’s ability to obtain third-party
discovery. Plaintiff does not set forth any other grounds for substantive
unconscionability. There is no indication that any of
the terms of the Agreement were “overly harsh,” “unduly oppressive,”
“unreasonably favorable,” or “so one-sided as to ‘shock the conscience.’”¿ (Sanchez,
supra, 61 Cal.4th at 910-911.) Therefore, the Court does not find the
Agreement was substantively unconscionable. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court does not find the Agreement was unconscionable.
 
D.     Stay of
Proceedings
 
Pending the
results of arbitration, the Court will stay further litigation until the
arbitration is resolved. The Court has this power to stay the
action.  “The case management tools available to trial courts [include]
the inherent authority to stay an action when appropriate…[to] overcome
problems of simultaneous litigation…”¿(Jordache Enterprises, Inc. v.
Brobeck, Phelger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739, 758; Beal Bank,
SSB v. Arter & Hadden, LLP (2007) 42 Cal.4th 503, 513 (“trial courts
have inherent authority to stay…holding [actions] in abeyance pending resolution
of underlying litigation” out of concern for inconsistent judgments).) And
under CCP § 1281.2(3) the Court “may order arbitration among the parties who
have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special
proceeding pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding.” 
 
Therefore,
the Court stays the action pending the results of the arbitration.
 
DISPOSITION
 

For
these foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration and the action is stayed until
completion of the arbitration. 
 
Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 