  Case Number:  24VECV02432    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  O
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



FARDAD NEHOURAY, an
  individual, 
                  Plaintiff,
         vs.
 
LA SEWER INSPECTORS, LLC; WILLIAMS SEWER
  LINE INSPECTORS LLC; GREGORY LEE SAUNDERS; MELISSA BYLSMA; NICOLAS BYLSMA; and
  DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                  Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 24VECV02432  
 
 
ORDER
  DENYING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE
 



 
I.             
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Fardad
Nehouray (“Plaintiff”) alleges Defendants LA Sewer Inspectors, LLC (“LA
Sewer”), Williams Sewer Line Inspectors LLC (“Williams”), Gregory Lee Saunders
(“Saunders”), Melissa Bylsma (“Ms. Bylsma”), and Nicolas Bylsma (“Mr. Bylsma”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) negligently owned, operated, and/or entrusted a motor vehicle to
cause a collision between Defendants’ motor vehicle and that of Plaintiff’s on
January 25, 2023, while traveling on the I-405 northbound, north of Mulholland
Drive in Sherman Oaks, California. (See Complaint, pg. 5.) Defendants’
acts and omissions directly and proximately caused Plaintiff’s physical
injuries and damages for pain and suffering, medical expenses, emotional
distress, loss of income, loss of earning capacity. (See id.) 
II.          
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On May 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed his Complaint. 
On July 11,
2024, July 12, 2024, and July 19, 2024, Plaintiff served his Complaint,
alleging (1) Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence. 
On October 21,
2024, the Court denied Defendants’ Motion to Quash. 
On November
14, 2024, Defendants LA Sewer, Saunders, Ms. Bylsma, and Mr. Bylsma (“Moving
Defendants”) filed the instant Motion for an Order Striking Portion of the
Pleading.
On October 1,
2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition. 
On December 9,
2024, Moving Defendants filed their Reply. 
III.       
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure § 435(b)(1) provides,
in pertinent part: “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.”
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc. [1] § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (See id. at § 436(b).)
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false,
or improper matter or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (See
id. at § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (See id. at § 437.)
IV.        
MEET AND CONFER 
Code of Civ. Proc. § 435.5(a) (emphasis added) provides:
“Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party
shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If an amended pleading is
filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again with the party who
filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike the amended
pleading.”
Section 435.5(a)(3) requires a moving party to
include a declaration stating either how “the moving party met and conferred
with the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike, and that
the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised by the
motion to strike[,]” or that the opposing party “failed to respond to the meet
and confer request of the moving party or otherwise failed to meet and confer
in good faith.”
Section 435.5(a)(4) does not permit a court to grant
or deny a motion to strike simply because it concludes “the meet and confer
process was insufficient.” 
There appears to be a dispute between the parties
about whether Moving Defendants’ counsel properly met and conferred prior to
filing the Motion. Moving Defendants’ counsel declared under penalty of perjury
that [p]rior to filing this motion, [he] met and conferred with counsel for
Plaintiff, Shannon M. Popovich, of Omega Law Group, PC, regarding naming of
defendants.” (Link Decl., ¶ 3.) He further declared, “The culmination of those
efforts was that Ms. Popovich stated in a September 16, 2024, email that she
considered all defendants properly named.” (Id.) 
Conspicuously absent from Mr. Link’s Declaration is
a representation about the specific methods of communication he employed to
meet and confer with Ms. Popovich. As a result, the Court cannot verify whether
he complied with section 435.5(a)’s requirement that counsel meet and confer by
three specifically approved methods: in person, by phone, or by video
conference. Likewise, the email Mr. Link claims represent the end of his
efforts are not attached to his declaration either. Without the benefit of the
actual email and given the artfully worded nature of Mr. Link’s Declaration
combined with the fact the purported meeting and confer efforts concluded almost
two months prior to Moving Defendants’ filing the Motion, the Court
finds Moving Defendants have failed to properly meet and confer with
Plaintiff’s counsel prior to filing this Motion. 
The Court warns counsel it takes meet and confer
obligations very seriously. And although section 435.5(a)(4) does not
permit a court to grant or deny a motion to strike based on a party’s
noncompliance with section 435’s meet and confer requirements, this Court will
not hesitate to deny a motion or impose sanctions in the future for failing to
meet and confer when the applicable code section(s) allows it where appropriate.
In doing so, the Court considers the full context of a party or counsel’s
behavior over the entire lifespan of an action.
V.           
ANALYSIS
Moving Defendants
move to strike Williams from the Complaint because it was a dissolved LLC at the
time Plaintiff filed the action. Moving Defendants argue Williams should be
considered to have been dissolved de facto because the California Secretary of
State suspended it on May 1, 2024. They rely on the Declaration of Robert Thomas
Hayes Link (“Link Decl.”), which contains a screenshot of the Secretary of
State’s website purportedly demonstrating Williams’s corporate registration had
been suspended by the Franchise Tax Board, and CB Richard Ellis, Inc. v.
Terra Nostra Consultants (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 405, 413, to
support their argument.
Plaintiff primarily
argues whether a corporation’s registration has been suspended does not
preclude it from being a party to a lawsuit. Plaintiff also argues a motion to
strike is an improper vehicle to remove a defendant from an action and that Moving
Defendants essentially lack standing to bring the Motion on Williams’s behalf. 
In their
Reply, Moving Defendants’ rebut Plaintiff’s procedural argument and pivot from
their contention Williams has been dissolved de facto by virtue of its
suspension to claiming it is defunct. (See Reply, 6:21.)
In addition
to not being supported in any way by CB Richard Ellis, Moving
Defendants’ argument defies logic and common sense. Moreover, by being brought
on behalf of every defendant other than Williams and relying on wholly
inadmissible evidence, to wit, a screenshot of an internet page, the Motion is too
cute by half. First, the Court agrees with Moving Defendants that technically
speaking according to the letter of section 435(b)(1), “any party” may file a
motion to strike so they have standing. However, like demurrers, the analysis
on a motion to strike is confined to evaluating the four corners of a complaint
against the law. By contrast, here the instant Motion asks the Court to make factual
findings by relying on evidence outside the four corners of the complaint.
Moreover, that evidence is completely inadmissible because the Link Decl. fails
to lay the proper foundation for it. Internet pages of even official entities are
inadmissible absent evidentiary foundation showing the following elements: (1) author;
(2) date of creation; (3) purpose; (4) reliability; and (5) veracity. (See
Hartwell Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 27 Cal.4th 256, 279, fn. 12.)
Next, Moving
Defendants’ reliance on CB Richard Ellis is misplaced, both procedurally
and substantively. There, the Court of Appeal addressed the propriety of a jury
instruction the trial court gave to assist the jury in making a factual determination
about whether a corporation should be deemed to have been dissolved de facto based
on the totality of the circumstances even though it hadn’t formally dissolved
itself. That is procedurally distinct from the instant case, which is still in
the pleading stage and thus inappropriate for the Court to make any factual
findings of the sort the Motion requires. Substantively, even if it was
appropriate for the Court to delve into the factual analysis required to grant
the Motion, there is absolutely no admissible evidence to support such conclusion.
(See CB Richard Ellis, 230 Cal.App.4th at 412-13 (identifying
the factors the jury was instructed on to determine whether to find the
corporate entity should be deemed dissolved).)
Finally, even
assuming the issue of Williams’s suspended status is properly before the Court,
Moving Defendants’ argument ignores that Franchise Tax Board suspensions are
generally easily remedied by the payment of whatever amount an entity owes the
State. Were the Court to grant the Motion, it would give essentially give
license to every corporate entity in the state to avoid civil liability by
ignoring its tax obligations to the point where their corporate registration
gets suspended. Simply put, the Motion invites the Court to create unbridled
chaos. The Court declines Moving Defendants’ invitation.
Moving Defendants’
specious approach here combined with its failure to properly meet and confer
with Plaintiff by attempting to bootstrap Defendants’ prior meet and confer
efforts before their meritless motion to quash, leads the Court to caution Defendants
and their counsel against violating Code of Civ. Proc. § 128.7(b)’s requirement
that all filings meet the following conditions: 
“(1) It is
not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause
unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation. 
(2) The
claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing
law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal
of existing law or the establishment of new law.
(3) The
allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if
specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a
reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery;
(4) The
denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if
specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or
belief.” (emphasis added).
The Court will
stop short against issuing an Order for Cause re: Sanctions for Violating Code
Civ. Proc. § 128.7 on Moving Defendants’ counsel at this time in the hopes that
Moving Defendants counsel will take the Court’s warning to heart and work more
collaboratively with Plaintiff’s counsel going forward for the benefit of their
respective clients and judicial efficiency.
VI.        
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Moving Defendants’ Motion to Strike. Defendants have
10 days to file an Answer only.
         IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:     December 19, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


