 Case Number:  23STUD05333    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  74 KG Capital
Investments, LLC v. Jose Lopez, et al.
 
Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a landlord-tenant
dispute.
            On May 11, 2023, Plaintiff KG
Capital Investments, LLC (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Jose
Lopez and Sebastiana Hernandez (Defendants). 
            On October 6, 2023, Defendants filed
this motion for summary judgment.
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            “¿[A] motion for summary judgment
shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law.¿” (¿¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c)¿¿.) The
moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (¿¿Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850¿¿.) If the moving party
carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima
facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (¿¿Ibid.¿¿) Courts “¿liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.¿” (¿¿Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389¿¿.) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants argue Plaintiff
cannot prevail in this unlawful detainer action because the notice to pay rent
or quit was defective. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1161, subdivision
(2), the notice must state the amount of rent due and one of the following: (1)
the name, telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent payment
must be made, (2) the number of an account in a financial institution where the
rental payment may be made, or (3) if an electronic funds transfer procedure
has previously been established, that payment may be made through that
procedure. 
            Here, the notice states Defendants must
deliver the rental payment to Plaintiff and provides Plaintiff’s address,
telephone number, and office hours. (Complaint, Ex. 2.) Defendants contend the
notice is defective because it does not name a person who works for
Plaintiff and to whom Defendants could deliver the rental payment. Moreover,
Defendants also object that the notice does not clarify whether they should
personally deliver or mail the rental payment. 
            However, the notice also provides
that Defendants may make the payment through an electronic funds transfer
procedure to which the parties had already agreed. (Complaint, Ex. 2 [“In the
alternative of delivering rent in person or by mail, because you have
previously made your rent payments through an online tenant portal that you are
directly linked to, you may pay your rent in full by that means.”].) If a party
uses this alternative under Code of Civil Procedure section 11161, subdivision
(2), the notice need not state the name and address of the person to whom
payment must be made. (Foster v. Williams (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th Supp.
9, 16-17.) Because the notice is not defective for the reasons Defendants cite,
Defendants have not met their prima facie burden.
CONCLUSION
                The
court denies Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.
            Defendants shall give notice.