  Case Number:  23STCV11988    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  74 Hussein Sidky v. Ramy Baramily, et al.
 
Order to Show Cause Re: Whether to Issue a Preliminary Injunction
 
BACKGROUND 
            This action arises from
a business dispute.
            On May 26, 2023,
Plaintiff Hussein Sidky (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Ramy
Baramily (Defendant), Wrapedia, Inc., and RNB Signs MFG, Inc.
            On May 30, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a verified first amended complaint (FAC). In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: (1) dissolution of
corporation/partnership, (2) accounting, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4)
fraud, (5) breach of contract, (6) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and (7) quiet title.
            On March 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for issuance of temporary restraining
order.
            On March 6, 2024, the
court denied the ex parte application and scheduled this order to show cause
whether the court should issue a preliminary injunction.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks a preliminary injunction that enjoins Defendant and those
acting on his behalf from (a) operating the subject business, (b) accessing the
subject business’s accounts and systems, (c) engaging in any conduct that
impairs assets of the subject business, and (d) disposing of Plaintiff’s
personal property. Additionally, Plaintiff’s proposed injunction would vest in
Plaintiff (e) exclusive access and control of the subject business, (f) the
return of Plaintiff’s personal property from Defendant, (g) exclusive access to
the subject business’s accounts and systems, and (h) exclusive property rights
of all assets and opportunities arising from the subject business. 
            “As its name suggests, a
preliminary injunction is an order that is sought by a plaintiff prior to a
full adjudication of the merits of its claim.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30
Cal.4th 528, 554.) “In determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction,
the trial court considers: (1) the likelihood that the moving party will
prevail on the merits and (2) the interim harm to the respective parties if an
injunction is granted or denied. The moving party must prevail on both factors
to obtain an injunction.” (Pittsburg Unified School Dist. v. S.J. Amoroso
Construction Co., Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 808, 813-814.) “The trial
court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the potential-merit and
interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff's showing on one, the less must
be shown on the other….” (Church of Christ in Hollywood v. Superior Court
(2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1244, 1251-1252.) The burden is on the party seeking
injunctive relief to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a
preliminary injunction. (O'Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)
            Likelihood of Success
on the Merits.
            A preliminary injunction
must not issue unless it is “reasonably probable that the moving party will
prevail on the merits.” (San Francisco Newspaper Printing Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438, 442.) The “likelihood of success on the
merits and the balance-of-harms analysis are ordinarily ‘interrelated’ factors
in the decision whether to issue a preliminary injunction.” (White v. Davis,
supra, 30 Cal.4th at p. 561.) “The presence or absence of each factor is
usually a matter of degree, and if the party seeking the injunction can make a
sufficiently strong showing of likelihood of success on the merits, the trial
court has discretion to issue the injunction notwithstanding that party's
inability to show that the balance of harms tips in his favor.” (Ibid.)  
            In his verified first
amended complaint, Plaintiff alleges in part that Defendant breached his
fiduciary duty to Plaintiff. Corporate directors owe a fiduciary duty to the
corporation and its shareholders. (Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1037.) This duty consists in acting with
honesty, loyalty, and good faith. (Ibid.) In support, Plaintiff offers
evidence that he was a twenty-five percent shareholder in the subject business.
(Sidky Decl., ¶ 4. Ex. A.) Defendant, for his part, is the chief financial
officer of the subject business. (Sidky Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. C.) According to
Plaintiff, Defendant breached his fiduciary duty to Plaintiff by diverting
funds from the subject business to an unrelated business. (Sidky Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff
also alleges Defendant used funds belonging to the subject business for his own
benefit. (Sidky Decl., ¶ 5.) In support of his allegations, Plaintiff provides
accounting records that suggest Defendant transferred funds from the subject
business to his personal bank account on June 3, 2020, June 4, 2020, and
September 15, 2020. (Sidky Decl., ¶¶ 5, 12; Ex. B.) 
            Defendant in turn has
provided no evidence to the contrary in a timely response. Given the foregoing,
there is a reasonable probability that Plaintiff will prevail on the merits. 
Interim Harm to the Parties.
            “To obtain a preliminary
injunction, a plaintiff ordinarily is required to present evidence of the
irreparable injury or interim harm that it will suffer if an injunction is not
issued pending an adjudication of the merits.”¿(White, supra, 30 Cal.4th
at p. 554.) “In evaluating interim harm, the trial court compares the injury to
the plaintiff in the absence of an injunction to the injury the defendant is
likely to suffer if an injunction is issued.” (Shoemaker v. County of Los
Angeles (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 618, 633.) 

            As noted above, “[i]n
determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction, the trial court
considers: (1) the likelihood that the moving party will prevail on the merits
and (2) the interim harm to the respective parties if an injunction is granted
or denied. The moving party must prevail on both factors to obtain an
injunction.” (Pittsburg Unified School Dist. v. S.J. Amoroso Construction
Co., Inc, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at pp. 813-814.) 
            Plaintiff argues that,
absent a preliminary injunction, he will suffer irreparable harm. (Ex Parte
Application, p. 12.) In support, Plaintiff offers evidence suggesting Defendant
has repeatedly dissipated assets that once belonged to the subject business in
which Plaintiff has a substantial interest. (Sidky Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6, 12; Ex. B.)
Consequently, if the court does not issue an injunction, Defendant could
continue to divert assets from the subject business. Defendant, for his part,
has not demonstrated any harm he would suffer as a result of a preliminary
injunction. The balance of harm therefore tips in Plaintiff’s favor.
            Given the foregoing, the
court will issue a preliminary injunction that enjoins Defendant and those
acting on his behalf from engaging in any conduct that impairs the assets of
the subject business.[1] But
the court finds that Plaintiff’s proposed preliminary injunction is otherwise
overly broad. (Ex Parte Application, pp. 2-4.) Accordingly, the court will not
enjoin Defendant from operating the business or accessing its accounts and
systems. Nor will the court vest in Plaintiff total control of Defendant’s
business, exclusive access to its accounts and systems, and exclusive property
rights of all assets and opportunities arising from Defendant’s business. Such
measures are not necessary to preserve the status quo until the merits of the
action can be determined. (Wind v. Herbert (1960) 186 Cal.App.2d 276,
283.) 
CONCLUSION 
            Based on the foregoing,
the court grants the preliminary injunction in part. Plaintiff shall file and
serve a revised proposed order conforming to the court’s ruling granting item (3)
recited in Plaintiff’s proposed order filed on March 5.
            Because Defendant has
not requested an undertaking, the court does not order one. (Code of Civ. Proc.
§ 529.)
            Plaintiff shall give
notice.


