 Case Number:  22STCV40016    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


July
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV40016




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Enedino Espinoza 




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
On December 23, 2022, Plaintiff Joseph Buddenberg (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendants Target Corporation, Allied Universal, John Doe,
and Does 1 to 50 for various causes of action including, assault, battery, and
intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges that on October
18, 2022, he was exiting the premises at 735 S. Figueroa St. Los Angeles, when
John Doe, a security guard, physically attacked and assaulted him. (Complaint ¶
8.)
 
Defendant Enedino Espinoza (“Defendant”) now moves to continue trial. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on December 23, 2022. Trial was initially set
for June 21, 2024. 
 
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint,
substituting Defendant as John Doe.
 
On March 29, 2024, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued trial
and all related dates to October 18, 2024. 
 
Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike against the complaint
on May 29, 2024. 
 
On July 15, 2024, the Court overruled the demurrer and denied the
motion to strike.
 (Min. Order, 7/15/24.) Defendant filed an
answer on July 25, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant requests the Court continue trial and all related dates in
this case from October 18, 2024 to April 18, 2025. Defendant first appeared in
this case on May 29, 2024 and argues more time is required to commence
discovery. The Court notes that Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike were
overruled and denied on July 15, 2024. Accounting for the fact discovery
cut-off, there is approximately two months left for fact discovery. 
 
Defendant argues he requires more time to investigate the claims,
complete depositions, explore settlement opportunities, and prepare for trial.
No opposition has been filed to this motion. Therefore, seeing that Defendant
recently appeared in this case and requires additional time for discovery, the
Court finds good cause to continue trial. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to continue trial.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to April 3, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to April 17, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of
the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All
discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates shall be in accordance with the
new trial date.  
 
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 