 Case Number:  22STCV07401    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV07401




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Protective Order or Strike Expert Designation




MOVING PARTY:


Raphael
  Pariente Zapotitla




OPPOSING PARTY:


 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff seeks a protective
order compelling Defendant to choose between a neurosurgeon and orthopedist,
or, in the alternative, for an order striking the expert designation of both.
Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s neurosurgeon and orthopedic spine
surgeon are designated for the same purpose and will provide testimony on the
same topics, and are therefore cumulative, resulting in unnecessary deposition
costs and the possibility that Plaintiff will need to retain another expert in
rebuttal. Plaintiff further argues there is no prejudice to Defendant,
particularly as neither has conducted an IME of Plaintiff.
 
Defendant argues that the two experts practice in different areas of
medicine and the designations demonstrate that the anticipated testimony will
be different, in particular noting that neurosurgery and orthopedics are
different fields of medicine. 
 
In light of Defendant’s representation that the two experts are
anticipated to opine as to different areas, the Court cannot conclude that the
testimony will be cumulative, particularly without deposition transcripts.
Plaintiff’s argument is based solely on the argument that one expert could
testify about both topics.[1]
Accordingly, the motion for protective order is denied. To the extent that the
testimony is cumulative, Plaintiff can seek an order from the trial court
limiting the testimony.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for protective order is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 


