 Case Number:  22STCV08708    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV08708




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Physical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Arakelian Enterprises Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Rayvaughn Embry 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Arakelian Enterprises Inc. (“Defendant”) now moves to compel Plaintiff
Rayvaughn Embry’s (“Plaintiff”) appearance at a physical examination. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff’s counsel has filed a declaration in
opposition. No reply has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.250 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, or
refuses to submit to the physical examination, the defendant may move for an
order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the
request for an exam. The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.
 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.250 (b).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Taylor Stewart, Defendant’s counsel, states that
after Plaintiff objected to the physical examination, Defendant attempted to
meet and confer by calling, leaving a voicemail, and sending emails. (See
Stewart Decl. ¶¶ 8–10.) However, Plaintiff failed to give a reason for the
objection. Therefore, it appears Defendant attempted to reasonably resolve the
issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Since filing this motion, the Court has continued trial and all
related dates to November 12, 2024, pursuant to stipulation. (Order, 5//2/24.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges physical injuries from a fall including a head
laceration, pain to his shin, right leg, jaw soreness, swollen lips, neck pain,
headaches, cognition difficulties, memory difficulties, dizziness, headaches
and pinched nerves. (Stewart Decl. ¶¶ 2–3.) 
 
As a result, Defendant seeks to have Plaintiff examined by Barry
Ludwig, M.D., a board-certified neurologist. On March 12, 2024, Defendant’s
counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel requesting available dates for an
examination. (Stewart Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff provided two available dates. (Id.,
Exh. C.) Thereafter, Defendant sent an examination notice for the agreed date
of April 30, 2024. (Id., Exh. D.) However, on April 8, 2024, Plaintiff
objected to the examination without stating a reason. (Id., Exh. E.) Defendant’s
counsel asserts that despite repeated attempts to discern the reason for the
objection, Plaintiff has not provided one. 
 
The declaration by Plaintiff’s counsel in opposition, argues this
motion should be denied because Plaintiff does not oppose attending the
neurological examination with Dr. Ludwig. He further declares he will work with
Defendant’s counsel to confirm a date within the next thirty days. (Forstrom
Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
However, seeing that Plaintiff refused to submit for a noticed
examination that was scheduled on a mutually agreed date and time, and failed
to justify the objection, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Defendants seek $1,635 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff,
representing an hourly rate of $225, and the $60 filing fee.[1]
(Stewart Decl. ¶ 13.) Because Plaintiff failed to justify the objection to the
agreed upon examination date, and it appears Plaintiff did not respond to
Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer, the Court finds sanctions are
warranted, but the amount requested is excessive. Therefore, the Court awards $397.50
in monetary sanctions (1.5 hours of attorney time plus the filing fee).  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s physical examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff Rayvaughn
Embry shall
appear within 30 days’ notice of this order for a neurological examination with
Barry Ludwig, M.D. 
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $397.50 against Plaintiff. Said monetary sanctions shall
be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 


