 Case Number:  22STCV28462    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28462




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Responses to Requests for Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Nancy Pogue




OPPOSING PARTY:


 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Nancy Pogue (“Plaintiff”)
moves to compel Defendant Target Corporation (“Defendant”) to serve verified
responses, without objections, to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff served Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, on
Defendant on February 29, 2024. (Sarukhanyan Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Responses were
due April 1, 2024. (Id.) Plaintiff then granted extensions to May 26,
2024. (Id. ¶ 4.)  Since
then, no responses have been served. (Id. ¶ 6.) Accordingly, the motion to compel is
granted.
 
Plaintiff
requests $2,065 in monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of
record. This represents an hourly rate of $400 and the $65 filing fee. (Decl. ¶
7.) The Court finds sanctions are warranted, but the amount requested is
excessive given the type of motion, the lack of an opposition, and the fact
counsel can appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the
Court awards sanctions in the total amount of $665 (1.5 hour of attorney time and
the filing fee). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 30 days. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions
against Defendant and its counsel of record in the reduced amount of $665.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 