  Case Number:  20STCV01009    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV01009




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Jasmine Bledsoe




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on June 24, 2024 by Petitioner Jasmine Bledsoe (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Jayden Coleman, age 15.
The Court denies the petition without prejudice. 
 
In item 12b(1), Petitioner asserts is paid $0.00 dollars
to be reimbursed. Again, this conflicts with item 14b, which shows $9,647.65
sought to be reimbursed to Petitioner. However, given the information in the
proposed order, it appears that the values in 14b merely reflect the
reimbursements for the attorney fees and costs that Petitioner will be
obligated to pay following the settlement payment. (See Attach. 17a, Fee
Agreement.) 
 
It does not appear that there is guardianship of the
estate, which is different from a guardian ad litem. Petitioner must mark item
18b(2) instead. 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 