 Case Number:  22STCV09491    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV09491




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Discovery 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Charles Thornton




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ralphs Grocery Company



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on March
17, 2022. Defendant filed an answer on April 28, 2022. Plaintiff moves to
reopen discovery for the purpose of taking the depositions of Plaintiff’s
experts.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            The declaration of counsel describes
efforts to schedule depositions but does not describe meet and confer efforts
with regard to this motion.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff argues that the
depositions of medical experts are necessary, and argues that he has been
diligently requesting Defendant to take the depositions. Significantly, he
concedes that discovery has been closed since 2023. (Motion at p. 6.) Instead,
he argues that Defendant agreed to take the deposition of one of Plaintiff’s
experts and therefore discovery should be reopened as to all of Plaintiff’s
experts. (Motion at pp. 6-7.) Plaintiff further argues there is no prejudice
since trial is set for October 11, 2024.
 
            In opposition, Defendant points to
its August 2023 motion in limine to preclude Plaintiff’s experts from
testifying at trial. Defendant also points to various correspondences which
demonstrate efforts to resolve the issue and Plaintiff’s refusal to stipulate,
which Defendant argues demonstrates that Plaintiff has not established
diligence.
 
            The Court notes that on January 4,
2024, Plaintiff objected to the discovery deadlines remaining associated with
the January 2024 trial date. (See Minute Order 1/4/24.) No motion to reopen
discovery was filed at that time. At the June 4, 2024 Final Status Conference,
the trial was continued in order to provide the parties with time to
participate in the Resolve Law LA mediation program. (See Minute Order 6/4/24.)

 
            Plaintiff’s motion does not explain
which expert depositions are being sought, nor the diligence in seeking those
particular depositions or in seeking Court intervention. Plaintiff has not
replied to Defendant’s opposition. The email correspondence attached to the
motion and opposition undermine Plaintiff’s claim of diligence. (See, e.g.,
Exhibit 1.9 to Motion.) Moreover, although Plaintiff broadly claims that there
is no prejudice due to the October trial date, no specificity is provided
regarding the experts to be deposed and their availability.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
motion to reopen limited discovery is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 