 Case Number:  22STCV02323    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV02323




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs TC Nevada and TLC Luxury, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


None 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 20, 2022, Plaintiffs TC Nevada, LLC and TLC Luxury, LLC (“Plaintiffs”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Ramon Valdez, Ramon Valdez dba Matrix
Mattresses, Elias Hernandez, Elias Hernandez dba H&H Pallet Company,
Luzelena Hernandez, Luzelena Hernandez dba H&H Pallet Company, and Does 1
to 50 for negligence and negligence per se. Plaintiffs allege that on February
26, 2021, a fire destroyed ten buses that it owned. (Complaint, 3:10–17.)
 
On
February 13, 2024, the Court granted Defendant Luz Elena Hernandez’s motion for
summary judgment. Accordingly, on March 18, 2024, the Court entered judgment
for Luz Elena Hernandez. 
 
On
March 13, 2024, the Court overruled in part, and sustained in part, Defendant
Tere Pallets Corporation’s (Doe 26) demurrer to the complaint. The Court
observed that “the complaint does not identify which statutes,
ordinances, regulations, or codes form the basis of the negligence per se
claim.” (Min. Order, 3/13/24.) The Court further stated: “To the extent that
Plaintiffs are able to specify at the hearing which regulation will be
asserted, they will be granted leave to amend.” Plaintiff was given leave to
amend within 20 days. 
 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint. However,
it was rejected because Court authorization was required. (See Rejection
Notice, 4/4/24.) 
 
On
May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for leave to amend their
complaint to allege a single negligence cause of action and specify the
California Fire Code sections that were violated. No opposition has been filed.

 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiffs appear to amend their complaint in order to comply with the
Court’s March 13, 2024 ruling on the demurrer. The amended cause of action now
specifies the regulations that were purportedly violated. 
 
Plaintiffs argue there will be no prejudice to the remaining parties
since trial is set for February 3, 2025. 
No opposition has been filed.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File a First Amended
Complaint is granted. The First Amended Complaint must be filed and served
within 10 days. 
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 