  Case Number:  22CHCV00493    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  F51  JUNE 3, 2024    MOTION FOR SUMMARY  JUDGMENT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV00493    Motion Filed: 7/28/23                                                                               JURY TRIAL: 3/17/25   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Gary G. Topolewski  (“Mr. Topolewski”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Bank of the West  (on behalf of real party in interest, BMO Harris Bank N.A.) (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK¿    RELIEF REQUESTED: An  order granting summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication in  favor of Mr. Topolewski and against Plaintiff on Plaintiff’s complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied.     REQUEST FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE: Plaintiff’s  request for judicial notice is granted.   BACKGROUND    This action arises out of  three business loans extended by Plaintiff to nonmoving defendant Topolewski  America, Inc. (the “Company”). Plaintiff allegedly entered into three separate  loan agreements with the Company on 7/26/19, 5/14/20, and 7/12/21, each secured  by various pieces of the Company’s equipment as collateral. (FAC ¶¶ 14–22.)¿The equipment collateral was allegedly purchased from and insured by  nonparty Finning International, Inc. (“Finning”). (Id. at ¶¶ 64, 66.)   Plaintiff alleges that the  Company breached the loan and security agreements “by, among other things,  failing and refusing to allow [Plaintiff] to inspect the Equipment Collateral.”  (Id. at ¶ 48.) Plaintiff also alleges that it has reason to believe the  Company “never actually had ownership or possession of the Collateral and that  [the Company] made continuing misrepresentations to [Plaintiff] concerning [the  Company’s] alleged ownership and possession thereof.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff  alleges that Mr. Topolewski and the Company “are the alter egos of one another,  and each is fully responsible and liable for all obligations and debts.” (Id.  at ¶ 13.)   On 7/6/22, Plaintiff filed  its original complaint against Defendants, alleging causes of action for Breach  of Contract and Breach of Security Agreement with respect to each of the three  loans. Plaintiff’s complaint also pleads causes of action for Recovery of  Personal Property; Temporary Restraining Order/Preliminary Injunction;  Conversion; and Fraud and Deceit.   On 3/29/23, Plaintiff filed  its first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging the same causes of action against  Defendants. On 4/28/23, Defendants filed their answer.   On 7/28/23,  Mr. Topolewski filed the instant motion for summary judgment. On 10/10/23,  Plaintiff filed its opposition. On 10/17/23, Mr. Topolewski filed his reply. On  10/19/23, the Court continued the hearing on the instant motion to this date to  allow Plaintiff to conduct additional discovery. On 5/20/24, Plaintiff filed a  supplemental opposition. On 5/28/24, Mr. Topolewski filed his response thereto.   ANALYSIS   The function of a motion for  summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an  opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to  enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.  Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure  section 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary  judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably  deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or  evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that  the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.  Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of  the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the  issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether  there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the  pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 65,  citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,  381–382.)    As to each claim as framed  by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the  initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or  to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D.  B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519–1520.)     Once the defendant has met  that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of  one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense  thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the  motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.)    A.     Alter Ego  Theory   Here, Mr. Topolewski argues  that he is entitled to summary judgment on Plaintiff’s claims against him  because no triable issue of fact exists as to whether he was the alter ego of  the Company, and therefore liable for the Company’s alleged misconduct. Ordinarily,  shareholders are not personally responsible for corporate liabilities. However,  if a corporation has been operated as the “alter ego” of its shareholders, the  corporation’s creditors may be permitted to “pierce the corporate veil” and  enforce their claims directly against the shareholders. (Mesler v. Bragg  Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 300.)   To succeed on an alter ego  theory, there are two general requirements: “(1) that there be such unity of  interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the corporation and  the individual no longer exist and (2) that, if the acts are treated as those  of the corporation alone, an inequitable result will follow.” (Ibid.)   Here, Mr. Topolewski argues  that he “was not a shareholder of TAI at the time the loans were obtained by  TAI from Plaintiff.” (MSJ 4:14–15.) Mr. Topolewski further argues that “there  is no evidence to suggest that Mr. Topolewski treated TAI’s assets as his own  or added or withdrew capital from TAI’s bank accounts at will.” (Id. at  3:21–23.) “The thousands of bank transactions subpoenaed by Plaintiff confirm  that there was no comingling of Mr. Topolewski’s personal funds with TAI’s  business accounts such that it would suggest one is the alter ego of the  other.” (Id. at 4:8–11.) Finally, Mr. Topolewski asserts that no  inequitable result would follow should the Court find no alter ego, because  “there is no evidence that Mr. Topolewski received the proceeds from the loans.  There is no evidence that Mr. Topolewski took possession of the equipment that  was purchased.” (Id. at 5:2–3.)   Mr. Topolewski supports the  above arguments with the declarations of himself, and two employees of the  Company. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Mr. Topolewski has met his initial burden to  establish a defense to Plaintiff’s claims against him. The burden therefore  shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to  whether Mr. Topolewski is the alter ego of the Company such that he may be held  personally liable for its alleged conduct.    Plaintiff  argues in opposition that “because Mr. Topolewski personally controlled an  account for a company that was represented by Defendants to Plaintiff to be a  third party equipment vendor, [Finning,] Mr. Topolewski personally  participated, and benefited from, the fraud described in the Complaint.” (Pl.’s  Opp. 1:21–23.) Plaintiff asserts that discovery “revealed that several million  dollars were transferred from the account designated as belonging to [Finning]  to the accounts belonging to Topolewski America and Mr. Topolewski.” (Id.  at 8:2–9:1.) “Among those documents produced in the Second Document Production  were documents showing that the ‘Finning International’ account that received  the original loan funds from the Plaintiff was opened and controlled by  defendant, Gary Topolewski. Thus, instead of the Plaintiff’s loan proceeds  having been transmitted to what Plaintiff was led to believe was a third party  vendor of the Equipment Collateral, the loan proceeds were, in fact,  transmitted to a fabricated account controlled by Gary Topolewski.” (Id.  at 9:9–15.)   Essentially, Plaintiff argues that its discovery  efforts revealed that “in furtherance of the alleged alter-ego scheme, … Mr.  Topolewski used the Finning International account to distribute [loan] funds to  both Topolewski America and his own personal account.” (Id. at 12:2–8.)  Finally, Plaintiff argues that granting Mr. Topolewski summary judgment would  lead to an inequitable result because “if Mr. Topolewski were able to direct  these loan funds at will, in his personal capacity, to the detriment of the Plaintiff.”  (Id. at 12:17–20.)   In support of its argument, Plaintiff proffers copies  of documents subpoenaed from nonparty U.S. Bank showing various transfers of  funds from Finning to the Company, from Finning to Mr. Topolewski, and from the  Company to Finning. (Ex. 5 to Decl. of Joshua K. Partington.) Plaintiff also  proffers signature cards and account documents for Finning’s U.S. Bank account,  which are executed by Mr. Topolewski. (Ex. 6 to Partington Decl.)   Mr. Topolewski argues on reply that “Plaintiff points  to alleged evidence that Gary Topolewski and Finning International, Inc. may be  alter egos, but Finning is not a party to this litigation. Gary Topolewski’s  relationship with Finning is irrelevant to whether Topolewski is the alter ego  of TAI.” (Def.’s Reply 2:3–5.) The Court disagrees and finds that Mr.  Topolewski’s relationship with Finning is relevant to Plaintiff’s alter ego  claims, particularly where the equipment collateral at the heart of Plaintiff’s  allegations were allegedly purchased from and insured by Finning, and Plaintiff  presents evidence of the transfer of loan funds between Mr. Topolewski,  Finning, and the Company. (FAC ¶¶ 64, 66.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff  has met its responsive burden to show that a triable issue exists as to whether  Mr. Topolewski is the alter ego of the Company. Accordingly, the motion is denied  as to this issue.    B.      Conversion;  Fraud   Mr. Topolewski further asserts that Plaintiff cannot  maintain its Conversion and Fraud causes of action against him. “Conversion is  generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal  property of another.” (Fremont Indemnity Co., 148 Cal.App.4th at 119.)  “The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right  to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act  or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley  (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) The elements that must be pleaded in a cause of  action for fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation (false representation,  concealment or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of its falsity (or “scienter”);  (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and  (5) resulting damage. (Philipson & Simon v. Gulsvig (2007) 154  Cal.App.4th 347, 363.)   Here, Mr. Topolewski argues that he has not acted in  his personal capacity giving rise to any liability to Plaintiff for conversion  or fraud. “Mr. Topolewski did not commit any wrongful acts as relates to the  equipment; nor did he dispose of any property rights held by Plaintiff in the  equipment.” (MSJ 8:2–4.) Furthermore, “there were no false representations made  by Mr. Topolewski: he did not personally receive money from the loans and he  did not personally receive the equipment at issue.” (Id. at 9:7–8.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Mr.  Topolewski has satisfied his initial burden to negate essential elements of Plaintiff’s  ninth and tenth causes of action. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to show  that a triable issue of material fact exists.   In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Defendants led the Plaintiff to believe that  Topolewski America was purchasing the Equipment Collateral from a third party  vendor, Finning International, who also acted as the insurer of the Equipment  Collateral.” (Pl.’s Opp. 13:6–8.) “Because Mr. Topolewski was personally  responsible, as the owner and controller of the Finning International account,  for the transfers of funds from Finning International to Topolewski America and  to himself, personally, there exist triable issues of fact as to the  Plaintiff’s fraud and conversion claims against Mr. Topolewski.” (Id. at  13:12–15.) “If, as the evidence from Caterpillar and US Bank suggests, the  Equipment Collateral does not exist, then Mr. Topolewski perpetrated a fraud in  which he directed the Plaintiff, to transmit loan funds to an entity that  Plaintiff believed, based on Mr. Topolewski’s representations, was a third  party equipment vendor, for the purported purchase of the Equipment Collateral,  which funds were then directed to other bank accounts including, but not  limited to those owned by Topolewski America and Mr. Topolewski.” (Id.  at 13:18–23.)   Despite the  Court’s continuance of the instant motion to allow Plaintiff to conduct  additional discovery, namely to inspect the Equipment Collateral, Plaintiff was  unsuccessful in doing so. (Pl.’s Suppl. Opp. 2:12–14.) Nevertheless, the Court finds  that Plaintiff has met its responsive burden to show that a triable issue  exists as to whether Mr. Topolewski is either directly liable for conversion  and fraud as alleged in the FAC, or indirectly liable under an alter ego theory  as detailed above. Accordingly, the motion is denied as to these issues. CONCLUSION   The motion is denied.    