 Case Number:  21STCV03892    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  29 Motions to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiffs, filed
by Plaintiffs’ Counsel Joseph S. Farzam.
 
Tentative
The motions are granted
Background
On February
1, 2021, Crystal Diggins and Stephen Diggins (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed
a complaint against Hisook Ku and Does 1 through 20 for damages based on an
automobile accident occurring on February 27, 2019.
 
On March
27, 2024, Joseph S. Farzam of Joseph Farzam Law Firm (“Counsel”) filed motions
to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. No opposition has been filed. Proof
of personal service on Crystal Diggins and substituted personal service on
Stephen Diggins were filed on April 5, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
Counsel has filed
the Notice, Declaration, and Order to be relieved as Counsel. On the
Declaration, Counsel states there has been a breakdown in of the
attorney-client relationship. Counsel served Plaintiff Crystal Diggins by
personal service, and Plaintiff Stephen Diggins by substituted personal service
as his wife, Crystal Diggins, accepted the motion and supporting papers. 
The Order
includes all future hearing dates; the motion and supporting papers have been
served on all parties in this matter.
The Court finds
Counsel has established good cause to be relieved due to the breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship.  All
substantive and procedural requirements are satisfied.
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED. 
The order is
effective upon filing with the Court of a proof of service showing service of
the signed order (not the minute order) on the Plaintiffs.
Moving counsel
to give notice.