  Case Number:  20SMCV00872    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  I This is an ex parte application to enforce a
settlement agreement pursuant to CCP section 664.6.  The settlement agreement is in two
parts.  One was entered into in October
2022 and sets forth the amount of the settlement and certain other terms.  Another was entered into in May 2023.  It provides that certain art will be
auctioned off to satisfy the debt (and the auction house is named).  However, it also gives defendant time to sell
the art privately, obviously in the hope that a private sale will generate a
greater return.  Plaintiff has concluded
that the hoped-for private sale will not materialize and therefore wants the
art to be auctioned.  According to the
May Agreement, the sale must occur no later than November 3, 2023.  Plaintiff brings this application to enforce
those terms. 
The court will hear from the defense.  However, the settlement agreement does seem
pretty clear and the terms are direct. 
Defendant is required under the May Agreement to cooperate with the
Auction House (Guernsey) to effectuate the auction.  Plaintiff has made out a prima facie
case for enforcement.  The court will
hear from the defense as to why the court should not order defendant to comply
with the agreement.  (The agreement meets
the requirements of section 664.6.  It is
in writing and signed by the parties, and it specifically states that it is
enforceable under the statute.)  Of
course, only enough art need be auctioned to satisfy the debt.  The amount of the debt is as set forth in the
original settlement agreement plus accrued interest.  Plaintiff is to provide a payoff quote assuming
that the sale occurs on November 3, 2023. 
This is math, so the court assumes that the parties will be able to
agree on that amount.  If the sale is
earlier, plaintiff will refund whatever unearned interest there is.  If, however, defendant opposes the ex
parte, then the court will continue the matter for a relatively short time
to allow the defense to submit a written opposition.
 