  Case Number:  22SMCV02963    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Doe v. Bastiat
USA Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02963
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further (Request for Production, Set 3 to Bastiat USA Inc.)
HEARING DATE:   9/20/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is
broad. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010;
see Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) Section 2017.020(a) vests the Court with authority
to limit the scope of discovery if the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of the
discovery sought “clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  CCP § 2019.030 directs the Court to consider
the needs of the case, amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues
at stake in the litigation, and to consider whether the discovery being sought
is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable by a more
convenient or less expensive or less burdensome way, when deciding whether to
restrict the frequency of extent of use of an authorized discovery method.
 
            If a party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely
response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling response to
the demand. (CCP § 2031.300(b); see Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403-404.) However, when responses are served, the proper
motion is a motion to compel further responses, which is governed by CCP §§
2030.300 and 2031.310. A motion to compel further responses must set forth
specific facts showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the
demand and must be accompanied by a declaration showing a “reasonable and good
faith attempt” to resolve the issues outside of court. (CCP §§ 2016.040,
2031.310(b)(2).) 
 
            A motion to compel further responses
to a demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought based on:
(1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A motion
for order compelling further responses “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).) Absent a claim of privilege or attorney work product, the
moving party meets its burden of showing good cause by a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (See Kirkland v.
Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) If the moving party
has shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to
justify the objections. (Ibid.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES


Defendant’s objections to the Declaration of Craig Charles,
Exhibits 6-14 are SUSTAINED. 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) moves
to compel Defendant Bastiat USA, Inc. (“Defendant”) to provide further verified
responses to the Requests for Production (RFP), Set Three, and for production
for all documents in Bastiat’s possession, custody, or control that are
responsive to Plaintiff’s RPD nos. 68-80. 
 
Nos. 68-69
            
RFP Nos. 68-69 seek all documents
related to sexual harassment complaints made against Longo and investigation
into those complaints.  The requests and
responses are as follows:
 
RPD no. 68: ALL DOCUMENTS that refer
or relate to any sexual harassment COMPLAINTS in YOUR possession regarding
Jessy Longo.
 
RPD no. 69: ALL DOCUMENTS that refer
or relate to any investigations conducted by YOU related to any sexual
harassment COMPLAINTS lodged against Jessy Longo.

 
Response: Objection.
Attorney-client privilege and attorney work product. Seeks irrelevant
information that is not material to the subject matter of this litigation or
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Overly
broad and unduly burdensome. Seeks confidential, proprietary information. Vague
and ambiguous. Calls for a legal conclusion. Right of privacy of third parties
 
            Relevancy
 
Defendant argues any sexual
harassment complaints against Mr. Longo are not relevant to Plaintiff’s claim
that Bastiat USA knew that Rotondo posed a threat to others, or that Bastiat
USA negligently hired, supervised, and retained Rotondo. Plaintiff argues that these
documents would be relevant to Bastiat’s “avoidable consequences” defense. 
 
To establish an avoidable
consequences defense, the defendant must prove that (1) it “took reasonable
steps to prevent and correct workplace sexual harassment; (2) the employee
unreasonably failed to use the preventive and corrective measures that the
employer provided; and (3) reasonable use of the employer's procedures would
have prevented at least some of the harm that the employee suffered.” (State
Dept. of Health Services v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1026, 1044.) “In
a particular case, the trier of fact may appropriately consider whether the
employer prohibited retaliation for reporting violations, whether the
employer's reporting and enforcement procedures protect employee
confidentiality to the extent practical, and whether the employer consistently
and firmly enforced the policy. Evidence potentially relevant to the avoidable
consequences defense includes anything tending to show that the employer took
effective steps ‘to encourage victims to come forward with complaints of
unwelcome sexual conduct and to respond effectively to their complaints.’
[Citation.] ‘[I]f an employer has failed to investigate harassment complaints,
[or] act on findings of harassment, or, worse still, [has] retaliated against
complainants, future victims will have a strong argument that the policy and grievance
procedure did not provide a ‘reasonable avenue’ for their complaints.’ ” (Id.,
at 1045-1046.)
 
Complaints of sexual harassment
against Mr. Longo, another alleged employee, would tend to show whether or not
Bastiat reasonable steps to prevent workplace harassment generally. How Bastiat
handled such complaints would tend to show whether or not management would have
prevented some of Plaintiff’s alleged harm. Indeed, Plaintiff contends that any
report would have been futile. Thus, the sought discovery is reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant concedes
that the sought information would be discoverable due to their “avoidable
consequences” defense and offers to stipulate to withdraw their affirmative
defense to moot the issue. However, Defendant has not withdrawn, stipulated, or
dismissed this defense. Plaintiff notes that the affirmative defense for a
“Failure to Follow Company Procedures” reiterates this defense and would also
need to be dismissed. (Ans. at p. 4.)
 
Defendant also argues that Mr. Longo
did not work for Bastiat USA. However, this point is merely a contention on the
merits of the allegations. Defendant does not dispute that this discovery is
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in light
of their affirmative defense, whether or not Longo was “employed” by Bastiat
USA. Defendant suggests that they have submitted supplemental responses but has
not supplied the responses as an exhibit. If Defendant does not have
possession, control, custody, etc., of the documents, then it should provide a
code-complaint response stating as such, instead of an objection.  Otherwise, dismissing these two affirmative
defenses would moot the issue.  In their
brief, Plaintiff relies on cases involving hostile work environment that suggest
“even if not known to the plaintiff, a defendant's harassment of others
may be relevant to prove the defendant's intent or motive for conduct alleged
to have created a hostile environment.” (Thomas v. Regents of Univ. of
California, (2023) 97 Cal. App. 5th 587, 616, fn. 10; citing Pantoja v.
Anton, (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 87, 114-116 [court abused its discretion in
excluding evidence that employer sexually harassed other employees outside
former employee's presence and at times other than when she was employed
because the evidence would have given the jury additional grounds for believing
former employee's contention that employer harbored a gender bias that was
expressed in his words and actions toward her, and additional grounds for
disbelieving employer's contentions that he had a policy of not tolerating
harassment].) The relevant defendant referred to in Thomas and Pantoja
was the abuser. Unknown complaints against Mr. Longo (or others) would not tend
to show that Rotondo acted with necessary intent. Therefore, without the avoidable
consequences defense (or failure to follow company procedures defense), the
RPDs would not be reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. 
 
Privacy 
 
The party asserting a privacy right
must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1, 35-37.)  If there is a serious
invasion of a constitutional right to privacy, the party seeking the evidence
must establish that the information sought is not only essential and directly
relevant, but also that this information could not be discovered through less
intrusive means. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552; Allen
v. Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 447, 449.) 
Courts must carefully balance a right of privacy against the
interest in having just litigation. (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v.
Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 371.)
 
            Defendant
identifies a legitimate privacy interest of two third parties, Mr. Longo and
any accuser(s). The third-party privacy concern is self-evident in this
pseudonymous action. Indeed, sexual harassment complaints would necessarily
contain sensitive and personal information. As discussed above, other
complaints regarding sexual harassment and their outcomes are directly relevant
as to Defendant’s “avoidable consequences” affirmative defense. The complaints
would tend to show whether Defendant provided preventive and/or corrective
measures and whether reasonable use of such procedures would have prevented at
least some of Plaintiff’s harm. The parties also do not identify any less
intrusive means of obtaining this information. Further, if not already entered,
the parties must stipulate to a mutually agreeable protective order regarding
the handling of confidential information. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to nos. 68-69.
 
Nos. 70-75
 
These RPDs request documents
related to Mr. Longo. As an initial response to these RPDs, Defendant provided
an objection only response: “Objection. Seeks irrelevant information that is
not material to the subject matter of this litigation or reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Overly broad and unduly
burdensome. Seeks confidential, proprietary information. Vague and ambiguous.
Right of privacy of third parties.”
 
In opposition, Defendant asserts
that it provided a new, supplemental response to each request, stating in
effect: “This Request seeks information that is not relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims or Bastiat USA’s defenses for the same reasons stated above with regard
to Request Nos. 68-69. Notwithstanding those reasons, there are no documents to
compel because Bastiat USA never employed Longo and thus does not possess
responsive documents.”
 
The supplemental response is not
provided as an exhibit. Moreover, this response is not code-compliant. “A
representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because
the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.” (CCP § 2031.230; see § 2031.210(a)(2).) Therefore, the
supplemental response is inadequate, evasive or incomplete. Accordingly, a
further response is warranted.
 
Nos. 76-80
 
Generally, these request documents
that relate or refer to Bethany Halligan. Defendant provided the following
objection initially: “Objection. Attorney-client privilege and attorney work
product. Seeks irrelevant information that is not material to the subject
matter of this litigation or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Overly broad and unduly burdensome. Seeks confidential,
proprietary information. Vague and ambiguous. Calls for a legal conclusion.
Right of privacy of third parties.”
 
Defendant proffers the following supplemental
response: “There are no documents that refer or relate to Bastiat USA’s termination
of Bethany Halligan because Bastiat USA never terminated – indeed, never employed
– Halligan.” The supplemental response is not provided as an exhibit. Moreover,
this response is not code-compliant. Therefore, a further response is required.