  Case Number:  23STCV03001    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
 
Moving
Party: Defense Counsel Jeffrey D. Nadel
Resp.
Party:    None
 
        
The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is
GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On February 10, 2023,
Plaintiff Felix Pfeifle filed his Complaint against Defendant Alltrust Moving
and Storage, Inc. on causes of action arising from Plaintiff’s use of
Defendant’s moving services. 
 
On December 18, 2023,
Defense Counsel Jeffrey D. Nadel filed: (1) MC-051, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; (2) MC-052,
Declaration; (3) MC-053, Proposed Order; and (4) Proof of Service. 
 
On January 17, 2024,
by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered default on Defendant. 
 
No opposition
or other response has been filed to the motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“The attorney in an action or special
proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final
determination, as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client and attorney,
filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; 2. Upon the order of the
court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one
to the other.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 284.)
 
An attorney moving to be relieved as counsel
under California Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must meet the
requirements set out in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. 
 
To comply with rule 3.1362, the moving party
must submit the following forms: (1) Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel; (2) Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel; and (3) Order Granting Attorney's Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) 
 
The moving party must serve the
aforementioned forms on the client and all other parties who have appeared in
the case. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) Further, when the client is
served by mail, the attorney's declaration must show that the client's address
was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was confirmed. (Id.)  
 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an
attorney’s request for withdrawal should be granted.  (People v. Prince (1968) 268
Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) 
 
I.         
Discussion
 
Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
complies with all of the requirements of California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, in that Counsel provided notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel; proposed order granting attorney’s motion to be relieved as counsel;
and declaration in support of the motion to be relieved as counsel. 
 
The declaration states that there has been a
breakdown of trust, communication, and agreement on strategy between Defendant
and Defense Counsel. The declaration further states that elements of their
retainer agreement have not been honored over the past weeks. 
 
        For two reasons, there is a significant
risk of prejudice to Defendant by the proposed withdrawal. First, Defendant has
already had default entered upon it. Without prompt action, Defendant will not
be able to defend itself in this matter. Second, aside from narrow exceptions
such as in small claims court, the California Supreme Court has long held that
corporations cannot represent themselves in propria persona. (Merco Constr. Eng’rs, Inc. v. Mun. Ct. (1978) 21
Cal.3d.724, 730.)
 
        However, trial is not scheduled in this
matter, and it is not Defense Counsel’s responsibility to ensure Defendant’s
compliance with its retainer agreement. Further, while Defendant must act promptly
if it wishes to defend itself in this matter, it does still have sufficient
time in which it can find new counsel. 
 
II.       Conclusion
 
The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is
GRANTED.
 
 