 Case Number:  23STCV01384    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  MARIBEL JIORGE,Plaintiff, vs. GENERAL MOTORS, LLC,Defendant.  Case No.:  21STCV01384 Hearing Date:  October 3, 2023   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   PLAINTIFF MARIBEL JIORGE’S MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED AND FOR SANCTIONS Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s responses to requests for admissions is DENIED.Defendant’s request for relief from waiver of objections is GRANTED.The request for sanctions is granted. Sanctions in the amount of $1,345 are imposed on Defendant and are due within 20 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is a lemon law action. Plaintiff alleges that in 2015, she purchased a 2015 Chevrolet Silverado from Defendant. The vehicle suffered nonconformities with the HVAC, engine, lifters, camshaft, steering control module, brake system control module, brake vacuum pump, and other defects.  PROCEDURAL HISTORY On January 23, 2023, Plaintiff Maribel Jiorge filed her Complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC.On March 10, 2023, Defendant answered.On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to deem requests for admissions admitted.DISCUSSION Deem RFAsPlaintiff moves to deem requests for admissions propounded on Defendant admitted.Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), “if a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response,” the propounding “party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with section 2023.010).” The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).) Monetary sanctions are mandatory against a party, attorney, or both whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).) Here, Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that he propounded requests for admissions on Defendant on March 8, 2023 and never received a response. (Sanjur-Van Brande Decl., ¶¶2-3.)In opposition, Defendant’s counsel testifies that he failed to calendar the deadline for responses and objections to Plaintiff’s requests for admissions. (Brar Decl., ¶6.) Defendant requests relief from waiver of objections. Defendant alleges in its motion papers that it responded to Plaintiff’s requests for admissions on June 13,2023. (Opp., p. 4.) Plaintiff also alleges that the responses served on June 13, 2023 were verified on July 13, 2023. (Van-Brande Decl., ¶¶3-4.) Defendant also argues that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer before filing this motion. However, there is no meet and confer requirement where there has been no response to requests for admissions.Because Defendant has since filed complete responses to Plaintiff’s requests for admissions, the motion is denied. Sanctions here are mandatory because Defendant failed to serve timely responses to Plaintiff’s requests for admissions. However, Plaintiff’s counsel’s request for sanctions is excessive. Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that she and her supervising partner, Joseph Kaufman, both worked on this motion. Sanctions are granted in the amount of $1,345 for one hour of attorney time for Van Brande’s time and one hour of Kaufman’s time.Relief from WaiverDefendant seeks relief from waiver of objections. Although Plaintiff argues Defendant’s request is procedurally defective, Plaintiff has had the opportunity to oppose the request. If Plaintiff wishes additional time to oppose the request, Plaintiff should make it known at the hearing and additional time will be allowed. A party to whom requests for admissions are propounded waives his right to object to the requests if he failed to serve a timely response. However, a party may be relieved of that waiver if (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230 and (2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2033.280.) The statutory language “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” in the discovery statute should be interpreted using the same general principles developed in application of the identical language in section 473, subdivision (b). (Scottsdale Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 263, 275.) Although the party moving for relief under section 473 has the burden to show that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was excusable, any doubts as to that showing must be resolved in favor of the moving party. (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420.)  Defendant’s evidence shows that its failure to serve a timely response to Plaintiff’s requests for admissions was due to Defendant’s counsel’s failure to calendar the deadline to respond to the request for admissions. Plaintiff argues Defendant’s counsel’s failure to calendar the response deadlines is not excusable because he has failed to respond in 13 other cases. (Supplemental Decl., ¶7.) However, Defendant’s counsel’s actions in other cases are not relevant to whether counsel’s actions constitute excusable neglect in the case at hand. Because any doubts over whether the conduct was excusable must be resolved in favor of the party moving for relief, the Court finds that Defendant’s counsel’s failure to calendar the response deadline constitutes excusable neglect. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant did not substantially comply with Code Civ. Proc., section 2033.220 because the late response contained objections and verifications were not served until after the late responses were served.Courts have ruled that substantial compliance is dependent on the meaning and purpose of the statute. (Freeman v. Vista de Santa Barbara Associates LP (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 791, 793.) For example, a proposed response to requests for admission are substantially compliant where the responses were verified, contained responses to a majority of requests, and were served before the hearing on a motion to compel. (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 782.) Such responses may not have complied with all statutory requirements, but constituted facially good-faith efforts to respond to the requests for admissions that is substantially code compliant. (Id.)Here, the evidence shows that Defendant did file responses to requests for admission, though late, and later provided verifications. As of the date Defendant filed its opposition requesting relief from waiver of admissions, the responses were substantially code compliant. Because Defendant is seeking relief from waiver of objections, the inclusion of objections in the late responses does not mean the responses are not substantially code compliant. Moreover, Code Civ. Proc., 2033.280 does not require perfect compliance. The Court finds Defendant’s late responses are substantially code compliant. Defendant’s request for relief from waiver of objections is granted.DATED: October 3, 2023 ____________________________ Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court 