 Case Number:  23SMCV04901    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT          207
HEARING DATE       July 3, 2024
CASE NUMBER        23SMCV04901
MOTION                    Motion
to Set Aside Default
MOVING PARTY      Defendant
Karen Nguyen
OPPOSING PARTY   Plaintiff B.
Lance Miller
 
MOTION
 
On October 18, 2023, Plaintiff B. Lance Miller (“Plaintiff”) filed
suit against Defendants Duc Minh Dang (“Dang”) and Karen Nguyen (“Nguyen”)
(together, “Defendants”), alleging two causes of action for (1) breach of
contract; and (2) common counts.  Default
was entered against both Defendants on April 12, 2024.  
 
Nguyen now moves to set aside the default entered against her
primarily under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.  No reply was filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 473.5, “[w]hen service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice
to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has
been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a
notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to
defend the action.  The notice of motion
shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding
the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or
her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him of a written notice that the default
or default judgment has been entered.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).) 
A notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for
leave to defend the action “shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under
oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.  The party shall serve and file with the
notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in
the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5,
subd. (b).)  “Upon a finding by the court
that the motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and
that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not
caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set
aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and
allow the party to defend the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (c); Tunis v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1077 [“actual
notice” means “genuine knowledge of the party litigant” and does not include
imputed notice”].)  
 
            In
Ramos v. Homeward Residential, Inc., the Court of Appeal stated:  “It is the policy of the law to favor,
whenever possible, a hearing on the merits.  Appellate courts are much more disposed to
affirm an order when the result is to compel a trial on the merits than when
the default judgment is allowed to stand.  Therefore, when a party in default moves
promptly to seek relief, very slight evidence is required to justify a
trial court's order setting aside a default. In the present case,
defendant promptly moved to have the default judgment set aside once he learned
of it. The trial court's order granting relief was within its sound discretion
and, in the absence of a clear showing of abuse of discretion, should not be
disturbed.  Even in a case where the
showing is not strong, or where there is any doubt as to setting aside of a
default, such doubt should be resolved in favor of the application.”  (Ramos v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1434, 1444, emphasis added [cleaned up]; Luxury Asset
Lending, LLC v. Philadelphia Television Network, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
894, 907 [“with respect to setting aside a default judgment, it is the policy
of the law to favor, whenever possible, a hearing on the merits”].)  Against this backdrop, the Court assesses
whether Nguyen has met her burden.  
 
Foremost,
Plaintiff filed a proof of service on April 12, 2024, apparently showing that Nguyen was personally served with the summons at “220 26th Street #200 Santa Monica California 90402”
on October 29, 2023. 
Thereafter, based upon the request of Plaintiff, the Court entered
default against Nguyen on April 12, 2024. 

 
A declaration of service by a registered process server establishes a
presumption that the facts stated in the declaration are true.  (Evid. Code, § 647; Rodriguez v. Cho
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.)[1]  But Plaintiff admits that the proof of service
upon which the default was entered against Nguyen is defective --  “The proof of service erroneously stated the
place of service as the plaintiff’s business address . . . .”  (See Opposition, p. 2.)  As such, the Court determines that the default
should not have been entered in the first instance, and Plaintiff cannot and
should not benefit from the presumption under Code of Civil Procedure section 647
due to the erroneous “return of a process server.”  
 
Equally
important, Nguyen contends
she was never personally served with the summons and recently became aware of
the litigation through Defendant Duc Minh Dang, her former spouse.[2] 
In support of the motion, Nguyen advances her declaration in which she
states in full:
 
1.     I
am over the age of 18 and am a named party in this matter. I have knowledge of
the matters testified to herein and if called upon, I could and would
competently testify thereto. 
 
2.     I
was not personally served with the summons and complaint in this matter. I
reviewed the Proof of Service of Summons that was filed in this case and it
contains false information. First, the address where I was allegedly served is
not my address, but the address of Plaintiff. 
 
3.     I
was recently informed of the lawsuit by my ex-husband, co-defendant Duc Minh
Dang. 
 
4.     I
tried to call counsel for Plaintiff to discuss this matter, but I was unable to
get a hold of him. 
 
5.     June
6, 2024 (sic), I retained my current counsel [3] to
handle this matter. I am informed and believe that my current counsel reached
out to counsel for Plaintiff to stipulate to set aside the default judgment,
but was unsuccessful, resulting in this instant Application. I further
authorized my counsel to stipulate with counsel for Plaintiff to pay any
alleged process server fees and filing fees incurred in association with the
default judgment. 
 
6.     I
was not personally served with the summons and complaint in this matter. I
believe that counsel for Plaintiff rushed forward to obtain a default judgment
against me without giving me proper notice.
 
(Declaration
of Nguyen, ¶¶ 1-6.)
 
In opposition Plaintiff contends that Nguyen had actual notice of the
litigation precluding relief under Section 473.5, notwithstanding Plaintiff’s
admission that the proof of service of the summons is faulty.  In particular, Plaintiff implies that the incorrect
service address listed on the proof of service was a harmless error, indicating
that Nguyen was actually served at “274 San Felipe Street, Pomona, California
91707.”  In support, Plaintiff provides
the Declaration of Kris Fujimoto (“Fujimoto”), which provides in relevant part:
 
3. On October 29, 2023 around 10:30 a.m. I served
KAREN NGUYEN a copy of the summons and complaint. The service was made at 274
San Felipe Street, Pomona, California 91707. 
 
4. When I approached the property on October 29,
I called out KAREN NGUYEN's name. I was asked, "Who is it'? I replied,
"My name is KRIS and I have legal documents for you". 
 
5. Satisfied that the individual had identified
herself, I left the summons and complaint on the door wedged between the knob
and door jamb. I informed the defendant that she had been served. 
 
5. [sic] I had previously, on the same day,
served the other defendant, DUC MIEN DANG, at his residence in Upland. 
 
6. In error, the proof of service, item 4, had
the client's address rather than the Pomona address where the service was made.
 
(Declaration
of Fujimoto, ¶¶ 3-6.)   Based upon the Fujimoto declaration, Plaintiff
argues that Nguyen has not overcome the presumption of valid service of the
summons.  The Court disagrees with
Plaintiff.  
 
            First, as the Court notes above,
Plaintiff cannot rely on the presumption of validity because Plaintiff admits
that the proof of service is flawed.  
 
Second, although Fujimoto avers to where Fujimoto purportedly served
Nguyen with the summons, neither Plaintiff nor Fujimoto advances a corrected
proof of service.  
 
Third, there is no proof in the record that the purported service
address - 274 San Felipe Street, Pomona, California 91707 is Nguyen’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual
place of business, or usual mailing address, or even associated with her in any
manner.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd.
(b).)   This is particularly important because the Court is not
satisfied that simply calling out a person’s name, coupled with a response of
“Who is it,” is sufficient to identify the person at the San Felipe Street
address on October 29, 2023 as Nguyen, especially when Nguyen avers she was not
personally served with the summons as Fujimoto now claims to have perfected.  
 
In sum, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s
argument and finds that Nguyen has advanced sufficient competent evidence to
rebut the presumption of proper service.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            
In considering Plaintiff’s arguments, the Court does not find them to
be persuasive when measured against Nguyen’s declaration which the Court
readily acknowledges may be viewed as “very slight evidence.”  But the “very slight evidence” is all that Nguyen
needs to advance in support of the motion, and any doubt the Court may have
about granting the relief sought is resolved in Nguyen’s favor, especially when
the effect of not granting the relief sought may result in an adverse judgement
against Nguyen.  In summary, the Court
finds that Nguyen  has met her burden for
relief under Section 473.5. 
 
Therefore, the Court grants Nguyen’s
motion to set aside the entry of default, and vacates the default entered on
April 12, 2024 regarding Nguyen only. 

 
Further, the Court orders Nguyen to file and serve a response to the
Complaint on or before July 31, 2024.  
 
In addition, the Court discharges the Order to Show Cause re  Entry of Default Judgment set for hearing on
July 3, 2024, and sets a Case Management Conference on September 24, 2024 at
8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  All parties
shall comply with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding
Initial and Further Case Management Conferences.  In particular, all parties shall adhere to
the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724) and to the requirement to prepare and
file Case Management Statements (Rule 3.725). 

  
The Clerk of the Court shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and orders.
  
 
 
DATED:
July 3, 2024                                                 ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


