 Case Number:  23STCV12975    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



ALVARO PENICHE,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 23STCV12975




Hearing Date:


March 6, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE: 
 
DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION
 



            
Background
Plaintiff Alvaro Peniche (“Plaintiff”) filed
this lemon law action on June 7, 2023 against Defendant Hyundai Motor America
(“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act - breach of express warranty, (2) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act - breach of implied warranty, and (3) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2(b). 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n October 181
[sic], 2020, Plaintiff leased a 2020 Hyundai Ioniq, having VIN No.:
KMHC75LJ3LU060504…and subsequently purchased the Subject Vehicle on April 16,
2022.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n connection with the
purchase, Plaintiff received various warranties, inter alia, a 5-year/60,000
mile express bumper to bumper warranty, a 10-year/100,000 mile powertrain
warranty which, inter alia, covers the engine and the transmission, as well as
various emissions warranties that exceed the time and mileage limitations of
the bumper to bumper and powertrain warranties.” (Compl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[t]he Subject Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with serious
defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed other serious defects and
nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to, engine, emission,
electrical, and suspension system defects.” (Compl., ¶ 10.)  
Defendant now moves for an order
compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate his claims in accordance with his arbitration
agreement, and for an order staying this action pending the outcome of
arbitration. The motion is unopposed. 
Request
for Judicial Notice
The Court grants Defendant’s
request for judicial notice. 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel arbitration, the moving
party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the existence of the
arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the agreement. The
burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance of
evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)   
Generally, on a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4)
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting rulings on common issues. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California
has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v.
Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This
strong policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be
upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the liberal
federal policy favoring arbitration agreements under the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts “involving
interstate commerce.” (9
U.S.C. § 2, et seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In support of the motion, Defendant submits
the Declaration of Vijay
Rao, the “Director of Connected Ops & Owner Apps/Web” for Hyundai Motor
America Corporation. (Rao Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Rao states that “[i]n my capacity as
Director of Connected Ops & Owner Apps/Web, I administer business
activities and processes relating to the Hyundai Bluelink services for Hyundai
vehicles,” and that “Hyundai Bluelink services refers to a connected car system
that includes various functions and features.” (Rao Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3.) 
Mr. Rao states that “[t]o enroll in
Bluelink services, customers must agree to the then-effective Connected
Services Agreement (‘CSA’). Hyundai makes a copy of the CSA available to every
customer who enrolls in the Bluelink services plan.” (Rao Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Rao
further states that “[o]n October 18, 2020 Plaintiff enrolled their Vehicle[1] in
Bluelink service through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process.” (Rao Decl., ¶
5.) 
Mr.
Rao indicates that “[w]hen new Bluelink services enrollees like Plaintiff
activates Bluelink services through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process,
they agree to the then-effective CSA. An example screen capture that reflects
the content and general layout that Plaintiffs would have seen when they
activated Bluelink services through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process on
October 18, 2020 is attached as Exhibit 1. To enroll, Plaintiff would have had
to click the box to acknowledge that they ‘read and agree[d] to the Blue Link
Terms & Conditions’ and then click the ‘Complete’ button. The phrase Terms
& Conditions included a hyperlink to the then-effective CSA. As presented
to Plaintiff, the box acknowledging the Terms & Conditions would not have
been ‘prepopulated’ with a check mark. Plaintiffs would have had to click that
box to acknowledge assent to the CSA. A customer cannot successfully activate
Bluelink services through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process unless they
complete the step requiring them to click the box acknowledging they agree to
the Bluelink Terms and Conditions. Attached hereto as Exhibit 2 is a true and
correct copy of the CSA that was in effect at that time.” (Rao Decl., ¶ 6, Exs.
1-2.) As discussed above, Mr. Rao states that “[o]n October 18, 2020 Plaintiff
enrolled their Vehicle in Bluelink service through the Dealer-Assisted
Enrollment process.” (Rao Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Exhibit
2 to Mr. Rao’s Declaration is the “Connected Services Agreement Terms and
Conditions” (herein, the “Connected Services Agreement”). (Rao Decl., ¶ 6, Ex.
2.) The Connected Services Agreement contains a provision titled “Binding
Arbitration” which provides, inter alia, as follows:  
 
“Hyundai and
you agree to arbitrate any and all disputes and claims between us arising out
of or relating to this Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services
Systems, Service Plans, your Vehicle, use of the sites, or products,
services, or programs you purchase, enroll in or seek product/service support
for, whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via the sites or through mobile
application, except any disputes or claims which under governing law are not
subject to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. This
agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly interpreted and to make all
disputes and claims between us subject to arbitration to the fullest extent
permitted by law…The agreement to arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not
limited to: claims based in contract, tort, warranty, statute,
fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory; claims that arose before
this or any prior Agreement (including, but not limited to, claims relating to
advertising); claims that are currently the subject of purported class action
litigation in which you are not a member of a certified class; claims relating
to your vehicle for which you seek product or service support via the sites;
claims arising out of or relating to the Telephone Consumer Protection Act;
claims relating to your data privacy or information security; and claims that
may arise after the termination of this Agreement.” (Rao Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2,
emphasis added.) 
The
“Connected Services Agreement” also provides that “[a]s used in this Agreement,
the terms ‘you’ and ‘your’ shall be deemed to refer to, and this Agreement
shall be binding upon, any person or entity who has purchased or leased a
Vehicle equipped with, or uses as a driver or occupant (e.g., additional
drivers, passengers) of your Vehicle, the Connected Services and/or has
activated the Connected Services pursuant to Section 3A
of this Agreement. Also, as used in this Agreement, the terms ‘we,’ ‘us,’ ‘our’,
‘Hyundai Motor America’, ‘Hyundai’ or ‘Connected Services’ shall be deemed to
collectively refer to the following persons/entities, each of which are
intended beneficiaries of this Agreement: (i) Hyundai Motor America, Genesis
Motor America and their affiliates, their parent company, Hyundai Motor
Company, its successors and assigns and Hyundai dealers/Genesis retailers in
the United States...” (Rao Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2.)
In
the motion, Defendant asserts that “[w]ith respect to the CSA, Plaintiff’s
Claims on their face arise directly out of not only the Vehicle itself, but
also the warranty, both of which are directly within the scope of the agreement
to arbitrate. In fact, although Plaintiff’s claims are specifically accounted
for in the arbitration provision, the language of the arbitration provision
makes clear that is it is to be broadly interpreted and to make all disputes
and claims between Plaintiff and Defendant subject to arbitration. Given the
allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint are all entirely centered on the Vehicle
and its warranty, Plaintiff’s Claims necessarily come under the direct purview
of the arbitration provision.” (Mot. at p. 16:9-16.) 
As
set forth above, Plaintiff does not oppose the instant motion. Thus, Plaintiff
does not dispute that he agreed to the Connected Services Agreement or that it covers
the claims alleged by Plaintiff in the Complaint. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that Defendant has established that an arbitration agreement exists and that it
covers the claims asserted by Plaintiff in this action. In addition, as
Plaintiff does not oppose the instant motion, he has not raised any grounds for denial. 
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration is granted. The entire action is stayed pending completion
of arbitration of Plaintiff’s arbitrable claims. 
The Court sets an arbitration completion
status conference on March 6, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. The parties are
ordered to file a joint report regarding the status of the arbitration five
court days prior to the status conference, with a courtesy copy delivered
directly to Department 50. 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of this
Order.
 
DATED:  March 6, 2024                                
________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court


