  Case Number:  23STCV04239    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



CHRISTOPHER GOMEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ECOLAB INC., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV04239




Hearing Date:


March 6, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND DISMISS ACTION, OR ALTERNATIVELY, STAY THE
  CASE



            
            Background
Plaintiff Christopher
Gomez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on February 27, 2023 against Defendants
Ecolab Inc. (“Ecolab”), Scott Hoffner, and Jon Rodriguez (collectively,
“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) discrimination,
(2) harassment, 
(3) retaliation in violation of Government Code section 12940, et seq., (4) retaliation in violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5, (5)
failure to prevent harassment, discrimination, and retaliation, (6) failure to
provide reasonable accommodations, (7) failure to engage in a good faith
interactive process, and (8) wrongful termination in violation of public
policy. 
Defendants now move for an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims and staying all further judicial proceedings pending resolution of this
matter through arbitration. Plaintiff opposes. 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel
arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the
existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the
agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance
of evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). ((Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)  
Generally, on a petition
to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting rulings on common issues. ((Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2); ((see Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California has a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” ((Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of
California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) “This strong policy has
resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be
said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an
interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” ((Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring
arbitration agreements under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs
all agreements to arbitrate in contracts “involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. section 2, et seq.; ((Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)

            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that on or about December 1, 2021, Plaintiff began his
employment at Ecolab as a Sales Development Manager. (Compl., ¶ 11.) 
Defendants submit the
declaration of Katie Wiederhoeft, the “Senior Manager TA Technology and
Enablement” at Ecolab. (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms. Wiederhoeft states that
Ecolab uses “Workday” as its Human Resources Information System, and that
“Workday provides a web-based recruiting and application tracking system built
for recruiting and hiring...” (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 8.) She states that “[i]n
order to ensure the individual receiving and digitally signing the job offer
and on-boarding documents in the Workday Applicant Portal is the intended new
hire, the new hire must use his/her unique login credentials to access the
required on-boarding documentation in the Ecolab Applicant Portal.”
(Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 14.) “To digitally sign the job offers and on-boarding documents,
the new hire must enter his or her unique password into Workday Applicant
Portal. The new hire then must click on the links to open, review, and
digitally acknowledge or sign each document as required.” (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶
16.) 
Ms. Wiederhoeft indicates that “[p]rior to being hired, an email is
sent from Workday to the applicant’s personal email address included in his or
her application. The email includes a link to the Applicant Portal to sign in
and access certain job offer and pre-hire documents, including the Arbitration
Agreement.” (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 18.) She states that “[u]pon clicking the
link, and signing into their applicant/candidate account in the Applicant
Portal, the applicant is taken directly to an electronic version of certain job
offers and pre-hire documents, including the Arbitration Agreement. The
applicant is instructed to provide his or her electronic signature at the end
of the document. Workday automatically populates the date the applicant types
his or her electronic signature onto the form and records the date on a
separate log.” (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 19.) 
Ms. Wiederhoeft states that Plaintiff “electronically signed the
Arbitration Agreement by typing his name (‘Christopher Gomez’) on November 15,
2021, as indicated by the date typed below the electronic signature
(‘Christopher Gomez (Nov, 15, 2021 09:35 PST)’).”
(Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 20.) Ms. Wiederhoeft attaches as Exhibit B to her
declaration a copy of the subject “Ecolab Mediation and Arbitration Agreement”
(herein, the “Arbitration Agreement”). (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. B.) The
Arbitration Agreement provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“The Ecolab
Mediation and Arbitration Agreement (‘Agreement’) is designed to provide an
easy-to-use method for the cost-effective and prompt resolution of Disputes (as
defined below) between the Company and the Company’s present and former
Associates. Resolution of Disputes through the Agreement is typically less
expensive and quicker than traditional litigation. The Agreement is intended to
create a procedural mechanism for the final resolution of all Disputes falling
within its terms. Neither the Company nor its present and former Associates may
commence an action in court concerning a Dispute covered by the Agreement. The
Agreement should be interpreted in accordance with these purposes.”
(Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. B, ¶ 1.) 
The Arbitration Agreement provides that “Dispute” “means any and all
claims or controversies alleging violations of federal, state, local or common
law between an Associate and the Company (and vice versa) arising out of or in
any way related to the application for employment, employment or cessation of
employment with the Company, including all previously unasserted claims prior
to the date of this Agreement.” (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. B, ¶ 2(F).) The
Arbitration Agreement further provides that “[t]he term ‘Dispute’ includes,
without limitation, claims, demands or actions under Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Acts of 1866 and 1991, the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Fair Labor Standards Act
of 1938, the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and all amendments thereto and any other
federal, state or local statute, regulation or common law doctrine regarding
employment, employment discrimination, the terms and conditions of employment,
termination of employment, compensation, overtime, breach of contract,
retaliation, whistleblowing, defamation or employment-related tort.” (Ibid.)[1] In addition, the Arbitration
Agreement provides that “[a]ll Disputes shall be finally and conclusively
resolved by final and binding arbitration before a neutral third party.”
(Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. B, ¶ 3.) 
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s claims in this lawsuit fall within
the scope of the Agreement, which provides that any and all claims that arise
out of or relate to employment with or termination from Ecolab, including
claims that involve a current or former Ecolab employee, will be subject to
binding arbitration.” (Mot. at p. 6:25-28.) 
Plaintiff does not dispute that he signed the Arbitration Agreement or
that it covers the claims alleged by Plaintiff in the Complaint. Therefore, the Court
finds that the burden now shifts to Plaintiff to prove a ground for denial. 
B.    Grounds to Deny
Arbitration: Waiver 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants have
waived any right to compel arbitration here. 
“In determining
waiver, a court can consider (1) whether the party’s actions are inconsistent
with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation machinery has been
substantially invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit
before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3)
whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial
date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a
defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a
stay of the proceedings; (5) whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking
advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had
taken place; and (6) whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the
opposing party.” (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196 (internal
quotations omitted).) “State law, like the FAA,
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims…Although a court may deny a petition to
compel arbitration on the ground of waiver (§ 1281.2,
subd. (a)), waivers are not to be lightly inferred and the party seeking to
establish a waiver bears a heavy burden of proof.” (Id.
at p. 1195.)[2]

In his supporting
declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n May 16, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred with Defendants’ counsel in advance of
the June 28, 2023 Case Management Conference. During that phone call,
Defendants’ counsel verbally represented to me Defendants’ intent to
participate in litigation by stating that Defendants were leaning against
arbitration.” (Ramirez Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Plaintiff notes that on June 13, 2023, Defendants filed a Case
Management Statement in advance of a June 28, 2023 Case Management Conference.
Plaintiff notes that Defendants’ Case Management Statement states that
Defendants request a nonjury trial, and that Defendants estimate that the trial
will take 5-7 days. (See Case Management Statement Items 5, 7(a).) Item
10(c) of the Case Management Statement provides, “The party or parties
completing this form are willing to participate in the following ADR processes
(check all that apply):…” As noted by Plaintiff, this Item of Defendants’ June
13, 2023 Case Management Statement is blank. Plaintiff also notes that
Defendants checked Item 6(b) of the Case Management Statement, which provides,
“[n]o trial date has been set. This case will be ready for trial within 12
months of the date of the filing of the complaint…” In addition, the Attachment
to Defendants’ June 13, 2023 Case Management Statement lists “[d]ates on which
parties or attorneys will not be available for trial…” 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel states that “[o]n June 28, 2023, Defendants’ counsel and
Plaintiff’s counsel appeared at the Case Management Conference slated for that
morning. Defendants’ counsel and I confirmed our agreement with the Court to a
Jury Trial to be set for May 29, 2024 at 09:30 a.m. and to submit our Trial
Readiness/Exhibit Binder by May 10, 2024, among other things.” (Ramirez Decl.,
¶ 4.) 
            Plaintiff’s counsel also indicates
that on October 2, 2023, Defendants’ counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel
stating, inter alia, that Defendants’ counsel is “in receipt of the
following discovery requests due 10/18/2023…In the interest of resolving this
case expeditiously, are you agreeable to pausing the deadline to respond to the
above discovery requests?” (Ramirez Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. C.) Plaintiff’s counsel
indicates that on November 9, 2023, he sent a letter to Defendants’ counsel
which asserts, inter alia, that “rather than provide code compliant
responses to properly propounded discovery requests, Defendants have once again
elected to employ improper delay tactics as part of their continued effort to
obstruct Plaintiff’s right to prosecute his case. Defendants responses, which
only assert objections to each request, are obviously deficient.” (Ramirez
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. G.) Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ objections to
Plaintiff’s discovery “effectuate their desire to further delay Plaintiff’s
prosecution of his case and stifle the litigation process.” (Opp’n at p.
4:19-20.) 
Plaintiff asserts that “Defendants have at all times prior to filing
their motion to compel on February 2, 2024, invoked the machinery of litigation…”
(Opp’n at p. 6:21-22.) Plaintiff further asserts that “[i]nconsistent with any
right to arbitrate, Defendants participated in meet and confer conferences with
counsel for Plaintiff and represented their intent to participate in
litigation, including making clear their preference to not pursue arbitration,
meeting and conferring regarding timelines for discovery and depositions,
requesting extensions to respond to discovery based solely on purported efforts
to try to informally resolve the matter short of trial.” (Opp’n at p. 6:24-28.)
Plaintiff asserts that “[a]dditionally inconsistent with the right to arbitrate,
Defendants have made multiple, inconsistent representations to this Court,
including but not limited to: its desire for ‘5-7’ day ‘nonjury trial,’ that
‘[t]his case will be ready for trial within 12 months of the date of the filing
of the complaint,’ which dates they were not available for trial, etc.” (Opp’n
at p. 6:28-7:4.)
            In the reply, Defendants assert that
“[a] mandatory case management statement and discovery objections, without
more, do not constitute invoking the ‘litigation machinery’…” (Reply at p.
1:17-19.) Defendants cite to Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
980, 993-994, where the Court of Appeal found that “the Bank’s conduct in the 10
months prior to filing the motion to compel was inconsistent with an intent to
arbitrate. The Bank had the responsibility to timely seek relief either to
compel arbitration or dispose of the lawsuit, before the parties and the court
have wasted valuable resources on ordinary litigation. In the ten months
between service of the complaint and the motion to compel, the Bank filed two
demurrers, one cross-complaint, and one motion to transfer the case to the
municipal court. The Bank also
participated in five trial court hearings, including two status conferences,
and extensive discovery. The Bank actively litigated the case and never
objected to the court’s setting a trial date or to the discovery propounded
by Sobremonte and Esperidion
on grounds of arbitration.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
            Defendants assert that “[n]o such
substantive participation occurred here. In fact, the only actions Defendants
have participated in were to attend a mandatory Case Management Conference, a
mandatory Status Conference, and an Ex Parte Hearing to advance Defendants’
Motion to Compel Arbitration hearing. After being served with Plaintiff’s
voluminous sets of discovery, Defendants provided objections only, and
represented that Defendants did not intend on waiving their right to
arbitration. Nor did Defendants propound any discovery of their own, notice any
depositions, attend any other hearings, or file any other motions or counterclaims.”
(Reply at p. 4:17-23.)[3] As
set forth above, two of the factors articulated by the St. Agnes Court are “whether a
defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a
stay of the proceedings,” and “whether important intervening steps [e.g.,
taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration]
had taken place…” (St.
Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1196 (internal quotations omitted).)

In light of the foregoing, the Court agrees with Defendants that
Plaintiff has not shown that “the litigation
machinery has been substantially invoked” here. (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1196.) 
            Defendants also contend that they
have “taken every opportunity to assert their arbitration right…” (Reply at p.
4:2.) In his declaration in support of the opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel acknowledges
that on July 17, 2023, Defendants’ counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel stating
“I am meeting with my client this Wednesday to discuss potential mediation
and/or arbitration…” (Ramirez Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.) Plaintiff’s counsel also acknowledges
that on October 10, 2023, Defendants’ counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel
stating, inter alia, that “[a]s you are aware, Christopher Gomez signed
a binding arbitration agreement on 11/15/2021. (See attached Mediation and
Arbitration Agreement). We are requesting that the parties stipulate to
arbitration to avoid the unnecessary expense and cost of litigating this matter.”
(Ramirez Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E.) Defendants also note that their answer to the
Complaint alleges an affirmative defense concerning the Arbitration Agreement,
specifically, that “[t]his Court lacks jurisdiction to the extent there is a
valid, enforceable, and mandatory arbitration agreement that governs the adjudication
of Plaintiff’s claims.” (See Defendants’ May 25, 2023 Answer to
Complaint, ¶ 2.) Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff
has shown that “the parties ‘were well into
preparation of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an
intent to arbitrate.” (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare
of California, supra, 31
Cal.4th at p. 1196.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff also notes
that the instant motion was filed on February 2, 2024, a little less than a
year after this action was filed on February 27, 2023. Plaintiff contends that
“any and all benefits of a speedy resolution Plaintiff could have obtained
through arbitration have been lost.” (Opp’n at p. 7:25-27.) Defendants counter
that “[a]ny delay was related to Defendants’ hope to obtain a stipulation and
negotiate a resolution…” (Reply at p. 1:8-9.) 
            Plaintiff
further contends that “defendants’ bad faith in delaying arbitration
further supports that they waived any right to arbitration because the only
reason they now file the motion to compel at issue is to improperly derail the
scheduled trial for which they have failed to adequately prepare.” (Opp’n at p.
7:16-18.) The Court does not find that Plaintiff has presented evidence
supporting this assertion. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has
demonstrated that Defendants waived their right to compel arbitration. As
discussed, “[a]lthough a court may deny a
petition to compel arbitration on the ground of waiver (§ 1281.2, subd. (a)), waivers are not to be lightly
inferred and the party seeking to establish a waiver bears a heavy burden of
proof.” 
(Id.
at p. 1195.) 
C.    Grounds to Deny
Arbitration: Unconscionability
An arbitration agreement
must be both procedurally and substantively unconscionable to be unenforceable.
(Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 114; Mission
Viejo Emergency Medical Associates v. Beta Healthcare Group (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1146, 1159
(unnecessary to decide whether insurance policy was adhesion contract and
procedurally unconscionable because it was not substantively unconscionable).) 
                          
i.         
Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural
unconscionability concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and
the parties’ circumstances at that time. It focuses on the factors of
oppression or surprise. (Kinney v. United
Healthcare Servs. (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.) “Oppression generally takes the form
of a contract of adhesion, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it. In the case of arbitration agreements in
the employment context, the economic pressure exerted by employers on all but
the most sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the arbitration
agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and few employees
are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration requirement.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (internal
quotations and citations omitted).) “Surprise involves the extent to which the supposedly
agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by
the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp.
(1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486
(internal quotations omitted).) 
Plaintiff argues that here, “[t]he
element of procedural unconscionability is easily satisfied as the arbitration
agreement is a contract of adhesion between parties with unequal bargaining
power.” (Opp’n at p. 9:11-12.) In addition, in his supporting declaration,
Plaintiff states that “[a]t no time did Ecolab Inc.’s representatives explain
to me what arbitration is, what the arbitration process entails, what were the
consequences of accepting the arbitration agreement, or advise me to consult
with an attorney about this for advice.” (Gomez Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff further
states that “[n]o one at Ecolab Inc. told me that I would have to arbitrate any
claims against Ecolab Inc. or about what arbitration was all about or how
arbitration was different from filing my case in court.” (Gomez Decl., ¶ 3.) 
The Court notes that while it is true that “¿the existence of contract of
adhesion supports a finding of procedural conscionability,¿” a court must still weigh
the level of procedural unconscionability against any substantive
unconscionability to determine whether the agreement can be enforced. (¿¿Baxter v. Genworth North America Corp. (2017) 16
Cal.App.5th 713, 723¿¿.) “When…there is no other
indication of oppression or surprise, ‘the degree of procedural
unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low, and the agreement will be
enforceable unless the degree of substantive unconscionability is high.’¿” (¿¿Serpa v.
California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704¿¿.)   
Plaintiff also notes that the Arbitration Agreement
provides that “[t]he Arbitration will be conducted in accordance with
the AAA Employment Arbitration Rules, available at www.adr.org.” (Wiederhoeft
Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. B.) Plaintiff asserts that the Arbitration Agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because it only refers Plaintiff to a website
containing the rules. 
Plaintiff cites to Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
702, 721, where the
Court of Appeal found that “NCR’s ACT policy similarly
incorporates arbitration rules that were not attached and requires the
other party to go to another source in order to learn the full ramifications of
the arbitration agreement. The policy poses the potential for preliminary legal
battles, as well, by failing to address whether modified AAA rules or only
those AAA rules in effect at the time the policy was implemented apply to
employment disputes.” 
            In the reply,
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s argument that the Arbitration
Agreement is unconscionable because it does not attach a copy of the ADR rules
fails because the rules are readily available in their entirety online.” (Reply at pp.
6:27-7:1.) Defendants cite to Lane v. Francis
Capital Management LLC (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 676, 691-692, where the Court of Appeal noted as
follows: 
 
“[I]n Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702 [13 Cal. Rptr. 3d 88] (Fitz), the arbitration provision in the employment agreement allowed a
different and separate written policy to limit the discovery permitted under
AAA rules, yet the employer did not disclose that policy to its employees. (Id. at pp. 721–723.) In addition, the appellate court found
not only that the arbitration agreement was a contract of adhesion, but that
there was a ‘high degree of oppressiveness.’ (Id. at p. 722.) As Fitz and the preceding cases show, the failure to attach the
arbitration rules was of ‘minor significance to [the courts’] analys[e]s’ of
procedural unconscionability. (Bigler v. Harker School (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th
727, 737 [153 Cal. Rptr. 3d 78] [finding no procedural
unconscionability despite failure to provide a copy of AAA rules].)
 
Here, we conclude the failure
to attach a copy of the AAA rules did not render the agreement procedurally unconscionable.
There could be no surprise, as the arbitration rules referenced in the
agreement were easily accessible to the parties—the AAA rules are available on
the Internet. (See Boghos v. Certain Underwriters at Lloyd's of London (2005) 36 Cal.4th 495,
505, fn. 6 [30 Cal. Rptr. 3d 787, 115 P.3d 68] [full, up-to-date text of AAA
rules is available on AAA's Internet site]). In addition,
Lane—a formerly well-paid professional analyst—does not appear to lack the
means or capacity to locate and retrieve a copy of the referenced
rules. Finally, the arbitration
agreement at issue clearly specified a particular set of AAA rules, and it did
not modify those rules in any manner. In the absence of oppression or surprise,
we decline to find the failure to attach a copy of the AAA rules rendered the
agreement procedurally unconscionable.” 
In the opposition, Plaintiff also notes that
the Arbitration Agreement provides that “[t]o the extent there is any
conflict between the AAA rules and this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall control.” (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 20, Ex.
B.) Plaintiff asserts that “Defendants further required Plaintiff to
cross-reference the rules on the AAA rules with the procedures in the Agreement
to determine which procedures are applicable to arbitration proceedings.”
(Opp’n at p. 10:12-13.) But Plaintiff does not appear to cite to legal
authority demonstrating that this renders the Arbitration Agreement
procedurally unconscionable. 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the Arbitration
Agreement
has a low level of procedural unconscionability. 
                          
i.         
Substantive Unconscionability
Plaintiff also asserts that the Agreement is
substantively unconscionable. “Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an
agreement’s actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or
one-sided. A contract term is not substantively unconscionable when it merely
gives one side a greater benefit; rather, the term must be so one-sided as to
shock the conscience.” (Carmona
v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc., supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at     p. 85 [internal
quotation and citation omitted].) 
Plaintiff notes that the Arbitration Agreement here provides that
“[t]he award shall be in writing, shall explain the legal and factual basis of
the award, and shall be signed by the arbitrator.” (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶ 20,
Ex. B.) Plaintiff argues “[t]hat the arbitration agreement says nothing about
the right of appeal or judicial review clearly runs afoul to Armendariz’s
mandate that an arbitration provision provide for an adequate judicial review
process.” (Opp’n at p. 11:14-16.) In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court noted that “[a]lthough judicial scrutiny of arbitration awards necessarily is
limited, such review is sufficient to ensure that arbitrators comply with the
requirements of the statute at issue.” (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc., supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 106 [internal quotations omitted].) However,
Plaintiff does not appear to cite to any portion of the Armendariz opinion providing that an arbitration agreement must contain
a provision providing “for an adequate judicial review process.”
(Opp’n at p. 11:15-16.) 
The Arbitration Agreement also provides that “[t]o initiate
arbitration, either the Associate or the Company must file a written Demand for
arbitration with the American Arbitration Association at any office of the AAA
in accordance with the AAA Employment Arbitration Rules.” (Wiederhoeft Decl., ¶
20, Ex. B.) Plaintiff contends that “it is likely that Defendants are a repeat
player and therefore, the AAA might not be a disinterested company.” (Opp’n at
p. 11:19-20.) The Court notes that Plaintiff does not provide evidence to
support this assertion. 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the
Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable. “The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be
present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a
contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.” (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc.,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114 [internal emphasis omitted].) 
In light of the
foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has met his burden of
demonstrating that the Arbitration Agreement is unenforceable due to
unconscionability. 
Conclusion 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is granted. 
The entire action is stayed pending completion of
arbitration of Plaintiff’s arbitrable claims against Defendants. 
The Court sets an arbitration completion status conference
on March 6, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. The parties are ordered to file a
joint report regarding the status of the arbitration five court days prior to
the status conference, with a courtesy copy delivered directly to Department
50.¿¿ 
Defendants are ordered to provide
notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  March 6, 2024                                
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior


