


[1]As to Defendants Scott Hoffner and Jon Rodriguez, the Court notes that the Arbitration
Agreement provides that “Company”
“means Ecolab and its subsidiaries, divisions and business units; any entity or
person alleged to have joint and several liability concerning any Dispute; all
of their directors, officers, employees and agents; every plan of benefits
established or maintained by any such entity; the fiduciaries, agents and
employees of all such plans; and the successors and assigns of all such
entities, plans and persons.” The Complaint in
this action alleges that “Plaintiff is informed and believes…that at all times
relevant hereto, Defendants, and each of them, were the agents, employees,
managing agents, supervisors, coconspirators, parent corporation, joint
employers, alter egos, successors, and/or joint ventures of the other
Defendants, and each of them, and in doing the things alleged herein, were
acting at least in part within the course and scope of said agency, employment,
conspiracy, joint employer, alter ego status, successor status and/or joint
venture and with the permission and consent of each of the other Defendants.”
(Compl., ¶ 7.) 


[2]Plaintiff also cites to Morgan v. Sundance, Inc. (2022) 596 U.S. 411, where the United States Supreme Court noted that “[u]sually, a federal court deciding
whether a litigant has waived a right does not ask if its actions caused harm.
But when the right concerns arbitration, courts have held, a finding of
harm is essential: A party can waive its arbitration right by litigating
only when its conduct has prejudiced the other side. That special rule, the
courts say, derives from the FAA’s ‘policy favoring arbitration.’” The Morgan Court
“granted certiorari to decide whether the FAA authorizes federal courts to
create such an arbitration-specific procedural rule,” and held that “it does
not.” (Ibid.) The Court found that “the Eighth Circuit was wrong to
condition a waiver of the right to arbitrate on a showing of prejudice.” (Id. at pp. 1712-1713.)
 


[3]The Court notes
that Plaintiff does not assert in the opposition that Defendants propounded any
discovery or noticed any depositions. Defendants filed an ex parte application
on February 7, 2024 for an order shortening time to hear Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration. The docket for this action does not appear to show that
Defendants filed any other motions (other than the instant motion), any
demurrer, or any counterclaims.  

