 Case Number:  22STCV13645    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV13645




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Further Responses to Admission of Genuineness
  of Documents, Set One
(2)  
  Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
  Two




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Kenneth Washington, Kimberly
  Hagen, and Marley Washington




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  City of Hawthorne



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Kenneth Washington, Kimberly Hagen, and Marley Washington (“Plaintiffs”)
move to compel further responses from Defendant City of Hawthorne (“Defendant”)
to Requests for Admission of Genuineness of Documents, Set One, and Form
Interrogatories, Set Two. Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions. Defendant
opposes and Plaintiffs’ reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery.
In their reply, Plaintiffs state that they scheduled an IDC for January 8, 2024
but never communicated the date to Defendant’s counsel due to a clerical error.
(Reply, 2.) There is no indication that Plaintiffs filed an IDC statement with
the Court. Though Plaintiffs argue the Order is not a basis to deny this motion,
the Eighth Amended Standing Order states: “PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Discovery.” (Eighth Amend. Standing Order, ¶ 9E.) 
 
Plaintiffs
request the Court to instead continue the instant motions so an IDC can be
held. (Reply, 3.) A motion to compel further responses of interrogatories and
admissions requires a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2016.040. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(b)(1), 2033.290(b)(1).) Section
2016.040 states: “[a] meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall
state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” Here, the Declaration of
Loyst P. Fletcher states that on October 23, 2023, he sent a meet and confer
letter to Defendant. (Fletcher Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 3.) Defendant served amended
responses on November 17, 2023, which Plaintiff argues were still deficient.
(Id. ¶ 6–7.) No further efforts were made to meet and confer.
 
The
Court therefore denies the motions as procedurally defective. Accordingly, the
Court also denies Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies the motions to compel further discovery
responses and denies the requests for sanctions. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and
file a proof of service of such.