 Case Number:  21STCV24507    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


January
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV24507




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial and Related Dates




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Justin Valdez and Honeywell International Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Justin Valdez and Honeywell International Inc. (“Defendants”)
move to continue trial and all related dates for sixty days. No opposition has
been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on July 2, 2021. 
 
Defendants’ answers were filed on April 6, 2022 and June 13, 2022.
 
On October 17, 2022, the Court consolidated this case and 21STCV26050.
 
 
On August 21, 2023, the Court granted an ex parte application to
continue trial from October 3, 2023 to February 20, 2024. 
 
Trial is currently set for February 20, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
¿           “Continuances are granted only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage
of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has
broad discretion in considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v.
Nguyen (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332 sets forth factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to
continue trial.¿ 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned
for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard the date set
for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).)  
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial, whether
contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the request
for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under the
rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The party
must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once the
necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).) 
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
 

The unavailability of an
     essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other
     excusable circumstances; 


The unavailability of a
     party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 


The unavailability of trial
     counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
     circumstances;  


The substitution of trial
     counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the
     substitution is required in the interests of justice; 


The addition of a new party
     if: 

A.    The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or 
B.     The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s involvement in the case; 

A party’s excused inability
     to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
     despite diligent efforts; or 


A significant, unanticipated
     change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not
     ready for trial.”  

(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).) 
 
“In
ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the court must consider all
the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the determination. These may
include: 
 

The proximity of the trial
     date; 


Whether there was any
     previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
     party; 


The length of the
     continuance requested; 


The availability of
     alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
     application for a continuance; 


The prejudice that parties
     or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 


If the case is entitled to a
     preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the
     need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 


The court’s calendar and the
     impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 


Whether trial counsel is
     engaged in another trial; 


Whether all parties have
     stipulated to a continuance; 


Whether the interests of
     justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or
     by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 


Any other fact or
     circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
     application. 

 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendants argue that they originally scheduled Plaintiffs Ramon
Flores and Consuelo Flores (“Plaintiffs”) medical examination for November 21,
2023, and served notice on October 19, 2023. (Brand Decl. ¶ 2.) However, on
November 20, 2023, Plaintiffs stated they were unavailable. (Id. ¶ 3.) The next
available examination was January 9, 2024, but Plaintiffs were again
unavailable. (Id. ¶¶ 7–9.) As a result, Defendants argue they do not have
enough time to complete discovery before trial, through no fault of their own. Plaintiffs
Ramon Flores and Consuelo Flores filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to this
motion. Defendants set Plaintiffs’ examination for January 30, 2024, but was
informed that Plaintiffs would not be able to confirm the date until January 3,
2024. (Id. ¶ 11.) The expert designation date in this case was January 2, 2024.
 
As a result, Defendants argue they require at least 60 days in order
to complete discovery. Therefore, based on the above, it appears Defendants have
a reasonable excuse for failing to conduct necessary discovery. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to continue trial.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to continue trial.
 
The
trial date, currently set for February 20, 2024, is continued to May 7, 2024 at
8:30 AM in Department 32.  
 
The
Final Status Conference, currently set for February 5, 2024, is continued to April
23, 2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 32. 
 
All
discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates shall be in accordance with the
new trial date.  
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a
proof of service of such. 
 
 
 