 Case Number:  22STCV01372    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV01372




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Responses to Requests for Production of Documents and Things, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Century Villages at Cabrillo, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Century Villages at
Cabrillo, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel Cross-Defendant Quentin Darnell
Black (“Black”) to serve verified responses, without objections, to Requests
for Production of Documents and Things, Set One. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions.
No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant served Requests for Production of Documents and
Things, Set One, on Black on December 20, 2022. (Lunn Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.) The
responses were due February 17, 2023. (Id. ¶ 8.) On March 6, 2023, Defendant
sent a letter inquiring about the responses. (Id. ¶ 10.) Since then, no
responses have been served. (Id. ¶ 11.)  Therefore,
because responses have not been served, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Defendant also
requests $915.00 in monetary sanctions against Black, representing an hourly
rate of $190 and the $60.00 filing fee. (Id. ¶ 12.) The Court finds sanctions
are warranted because Black has failed to respond. However, the amount
requested is excessive due to the type of motion at issue and the fact no
opposition was filed. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $345.00
(1.5 hours of attorney time to file and appear at the hearing, plus the $60
filing fee).
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Requests for Production of
Documents and Things, Set One is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant Quentin Darnell Black
shall provide verified responses, without objections, within 30 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Cross-Defendant Quentin Darnell Black in the reduced amount of $345.00.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Defendant
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 