 Case Number:  23CHCV02848    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 1/19/24
Case #23CHCV02848
 
MOTION TO
STRIKE
 
Motion filed on 11/28/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants RFT
Investments, LLC; Rick Roussin and Gina Lauria dba Simi Valley Property
Management*
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Derek Ballot
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order striking portions of
the complaint regarding punitive damages.
 
RULING: The motion is granted, as set forth below,
with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff Derek Ballot’s
(Plaintiff) tenancy at the residential property located at 23142 Strathern
Street, Canoga Park, California 91304. 
Plaintiff alleges that the property owners and property manager
retaliated against him by trying to evict him for requesting remediation of habitability
issues at the property.  
 
On 9/25/23, Plaintiff filed this action against RFT
Investments, LLC (RFT); Rick Roussin (Roussin); Gina Lauria dba Simi Valley
Property Management (Lauria) and Does 1-20 for: (1) Negligence, (2) Violation
of Civil Code 1942, (3) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability, (4) Breach
of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (5) Tenant Harassment; (6) Violation of
Los Angeles Municipal Code 151.01, et seq.; (7) Violation of Business &
Professions Code 17200, et seq. and (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.  On 11/20/23, the law firm
Clausen Miller P.C. filed an answer to the complaint on behalf of Lauria.  On 11/28/23, the law firm Hanger, Steinberg,
Shapiro & Ash filed the instant motion to strike portions of the complaint
regarding punitive damages on behalf of RFT, Roussin and Lauria.  *Since Lauria has already answered the
complaint, the Court is not considering Lauria as a moving party on this
motion.  On 1/3/24, Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the motion to strike.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Punitive damages are recoverable in an action for breach
of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice.  Civil Code 3294(a).  In this context, “‘[m]alice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” “‘[o]ppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights,” “‘[f]raud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  Civil Code 3294(c).
 
A claim for punitive damages must be supported by
specific factual allegations.  G.D.
Searle & Co. (1975) 49 CA3d 22, 29, 32.
 
The complaint fails to allege sufficient specific facts
to support a finding that defendants’ conduct was oppressive, malicious and/or
fraudulent.  Additionally, the opposition
concedes that Plaintiff cited the incorrect code section in support of his
request for punitive damages.  (See
Opposition, p.5:13-16).  As such, Plaintiff
has not sufficiently plead a claim for punitive damages.  
 
Due to the  liberal
policy of allowing leave to amend and because this is only the original
complaint, Plaintiff is given the opportunity to try to cure the defects in his
pleading.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted as to Defendants RFT Investments,
LLC and Rick Roussin, only.  Plaintiff is
granted 20 days leave to amend.  
 