 Case Number:  24STCV11391    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Matthew  Murray v. Ninth Avenue Foods, LLC, et al.  Defendants  Ninth Avenue Foods, LLC and Heritage Distributing Company d/b/a Ninth Avenue  Foods, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration of Individual PAGA Claim and Stay  Representative Action  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s  individual PAGA claims and stay this action with respect to Plaintiff’s  representative PAGA claims pending completion of arbitration.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a PAGA action. On May 6, 2024, plaintiff Matthew Murray,  individually, and on behalf aggrieved employees pursuant to the Private  Attorneys General Act (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Ninth  Avenue Foods, LLC, Heritage Distributing Company d/b/a Ninth Avenue Foods (collectively,  Defendants), and Does 1 through 100, alleging the sole cause of action for violation  of Labor Code § 2698 et seq., entailing failure to pay minimum and overtime  wages, failure to provide meal periods and rest breaks, failure to timely pay  wages during employment, failure to timely pay wages upon termination, failure  to provide complete and accurate wage statements, failure to reimburse business  expenses, and penalties.  On August 21, 2024, Defendants moved to compel arbitration of  Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims and stay the representative action. On  September 5, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On September 11, 2024,  Defendants replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Parties may be compelled to  arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid  agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the  controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)  A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of  establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy  to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v.  Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,  1060 (Espejo).)  “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This  is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements  under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to  arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et  seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS  Defendants’ request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice only  as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records and other  specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the  factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta  (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  OBJECTION              The Court  OVERRULES Plaintiff’s objection to the declaration and exhibit included with Defendants’  Reply. The Court finds that the declaration and exhibit respond directly to  arguments raised in Plaintiff’s opposition and would not have been required to meet  the burden of proof on the motion to compel arbitration.  DISCUSSION  FAA v. CAA  “[T]he FAA's procedural provisions do not apply unless the contract  contains a choice-of-law clause expressly incorporating them. [T]he question is  not whether the parties adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural  statutes apply by default because Congress intended the comparable FAA sections  to apply in federal court. The question, therefore, is whether the parties  expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 337, 345 (Victrola 89), internal citations omitted and  italics in original.) “[P]revious cases have  held that when an arbitration agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall  be governed by California law, the [CAA] governs a party's motion to compel  arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’  shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's motion to compel  arbitration.” (Id., at p. 346.)  The subject arbitration agreement provides that it is “governed by  and enforceable under, the Federal Arbitration Act.” (Compendium, Ex. A, ¶ 4.) Accordingly,  the FAA governs this motion to compel arbitration. (See Victrola 89, supra, 46  Cal.App.5th at p. 345.)  Valid Arbitration Agreement and Covered Claims  Defendants move to compel arbitration based on the subject  arbitration agreement entitled, “Mutual Agreement to Arbitration Claims.”  (Compendium, Ex. A (the Arbitration Agreement).) Defendants attached a copy of  the Arbitration Agreement to their moving papers and therefore met their  initial burden of establishing the existence of an arbitration agreement  between the parties. (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.) The  burden now shifts to Plaintiff to challenge the validity of the Arbitration  Agreement.  Plaintiff’s opposition does not challenge the existence of the  Arbitration Agreement or dispute that it covers Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff  instead contends that he is exempt from the FAA under 9 U.S.C. section 1 because  it is a contract of employment and he is a transportation worker. Plaintiff  contends he is a transportation worker because he and other forklift drivers  loaded trucks which carried Defendants’ dairy products across state lines.  Plaintiff also contends the Arbitration Agreement is a contract of employment  because it was presented with Defendants’ other onboarding documents and covers  claims between Plaintiff as an employee and Ninth Avenue. Plaintiff contends  that California law applies here, which means he cannot waive his right to  pursue a PAGA claim on behalf of the State of California before the claim  arises, and that his representative PAGA claim cannot be split into an  arbitrable individual claim and a non-arbitrable representative claim.  In reply, Defendants contend that the transportation worker  exemption to the FAA is narrow and does not apply here. Defendants contend  Plaintiff was employed as a warehouse associate during his employment, and any  forklift operations were part of his broader duties as a warehouse associate. Defendants  contend none of Plaintiff’s essential job duties involved the actual  transportation of dairy goods or beverages across state lines. Defendants then contend  the Arbitration Agreement was not a contract of employment because Plaintiff  was an at-will employee and did not work for Defendants according to any  employment contract. They contend that the Arbitration Agreement only requires  arbitration of claims between the parties, and it does not call for any  performance of work by Plaintiff.  Defendants further contend the purported onboarding process in  which Plaintiff claims to have received multiple documents along with the  Arbitration Agreement and Plaintiff’s state of mind at that time is unavailing  because Plaintiff was not required to sign the Arbitration Agreement at that  moment. Defendants contend Plaintiff had time to review the Arbitration  Agreement and ask questions before he signed it. Defendants also note the clear  language indicating it was an agreement to arbitrate claims. Defendants also  argue Plaintiff is required to arbitrate his PAGA claim on an individual basis  under the Arbitration Agreement.  The Court finds Defendants are entitled to compel arbitration of  Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. First, the Court disagrees with Defendants  that the Arbitration Agreement does not necessarily constitute a contract of  employment for purposes of Section 1 of the FAA. The term “contracts of  employment” is not a term of art, but simply means work. (New Prime Inc. v.  Oliveira (2019) 586 U.S. 105, 114-116.) Additionally, Defendants concede  that Plaintiff was an at-will employee, which is just an employment agreement  without a fixed duration. (Reply, 6:7-8; Singh v. Southland Stone, U.S.A.,  Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 338, 355.) Plaintiff was given several  documents when he was hired, including the arbitration agreement, which he was  required to sign as part of the onboarding process. (Trujillo Decl., ¶ 4.)  However, the Court does not find persuasive Plaintiff’s arguments  that he is a transportation worker within the meaning of Section 1 of the FAA.  Plaintiff’s declaration indicates that Defendants’ company is not a  transportation company or a company that distributes its own products. (Murray  Decl., ¶ 3.) His declaration also indicates that the transportation of goods  was contracted out to J.B. Hunt Trucking Company. (Murray Decl., ¶ 3.) The  Court finds this significant because the cases in which the transportation  worker exemption applied were cases involving transportation companies or  companies that distribute their products themselves. (See, e.g., Southwest  Airlines Co. v. Saxon (2022) 596 U.S. 450, 455-456 [airline ramp supervisor  who was regularly required to load and unload cargo off and on commercial  airplanes]; Bisonette v. LePage Bakeries Park St., LLC (2024) 601 U.S.  246, 252-256 [franchisees for Wonder Bread and related bread companies who also  drove trucks to distribute baked goods]; Rittmann v. Amazon.com, Inc. (9th  Cir. 2020) 971 F.3d 904, 919 [truck drivers for Amazon.com].) Plaintiff’s job  duties were limited to working in the warehouse, which did not entail  delivering products or working as a truck driver. (Trujillo Reply Decl., ¶ 4.)  Given the foregoing, the Court does not find Plaintiff is exempt  from the FAA, which means the Arbitration Agreement is enforceable against  Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)  14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123.) With respect to Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims,  the Court exercises its discretion to stay this action pending the completion  of the arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. (Id., at pp.  1124-1125.)  The Court  notes that Plaintiff does not otherwise challenge the validity of the  Arbitration Agreement, which the Court construes as a tacit admission that  Defendants’ arguments are otherwise meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)  58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,  Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111  Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support  them with reasoned argument and citations to authority. [Citation.]”])  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s  individual PAGA claims and stay this action with respect to Plaintiff’s  representative PAGA claims pending completion of arbitration.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.