  Case Number:  23STCV19395    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  57 Defendants' demurrer to the  fifth cause of action in Plaintiffs' First Amended Complaint, which is for  constructive eviction, is overruled.This case arises from  Plaintiffs' tenancy at property located at 1375 South Sierra Bonita Avenue,  Unit 5, in Los Angeles, California ("the Subject Unit") that was  owned and/or managed by the Defendants.   Plaintiffs allege that their tenancy began on July 1, 2017 and ended on  February 28, 2023, when, according, to the Plaintiffs, they were constructively  evicted from the Subject Unit and vacated the premises.    "[A]ny disturbance of the tenant's  possession by the lessor or at his procurement which renders the premises unfit  for the purposes for which they are demised or which has the effect of  depriving the tenant of the beneficial enjoyment of the premises, amounts to a  constructive eviction, provided  the  tenant vacates the premises within a reasonable time." [Citations.] (Nativi  v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 292.)  Defendants argue that because the Plaintiffs  allege in the FAC that many if not all of the disturbances with Plaintiffs'  possession of the Subject Unit existed for the nearly six-year span of the  tenancy, Plaintiffs did not vacate the Subject Unit within a reasonable time  and thus their constructive eviction claim fails as a matter of law.  The problem with that argument is that, for  purposes of a claim for constructive eviction, whether a tenant vacated leased  premises within a reasonable period of time after the landlord's initial disturbance  of the tenant's possession is generally a question of fact for a jury and  cannot be decided on a demurrer.  (Stoiber  v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 911-912, 926 (reversing ruling  sustaining landlord's demurrer to tenant's claim of construction eviction;  whether tenant's decision to vacate leased premises three years after the  alleged disturbances with possession started was a question of fact for the  jury). Defendants' reliance on Bakersfield Laundry  Association v. Rubin (1955) 131 Cal.App.2d Supp. 162, is misplaced.  In that case, the Court of Appeal held that a  delay in vacating leased premises of more than six months after the onset of a  condition giving rise to a constructive eviction claim is unreasonable as a  matter of law.  (Id at p.  165.)   Bakersfield Laundry  Association is both procedurally and factually distinguishable.  As to the procedural distinction, Bakersfield  Laundry Association was not decided by the Court of Appeal on an appeal  from a demurrer ruling.  It was decided  on an appeal from a judgment in favor of the landlord following a jury  trial.  (Id. at p. 164.)  As to the factual distinction, the  disturbance that gave rise to the constructive eviction claim in Bakersfield  Laundry Association was a single act of the landlord in erecting a  temporary plywood wall that a caused a diminution in the square footage of the  leased premises available to the tenant.   (Id. at p. 165.)  Here, by  contrast, Plaintiffs allege multiple different interferences that cropped up  during the tenancy.  Defendants also argue that their demurrer  should be sustained because a number of the disturbances about which Plaintiffs  complain in the FAC were caused by other tenants on the property where the  Leased Unit was located and the Defendants cannot held be responsible for those  disturbances.   Defendants are  mistaken.  (See Andrews v. Mobile Aire  Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 590) (a tenant's constructive eviction  claim against his or her landlord may be based on actions of other tenants of  the landlord].)  Additionally, Defendants point to concessions  by the Plaintiffs in the FAC that the Defendants actually did take steps to  address some of the disturbances that Plaintiffs raised with the Defendants.  These concessions do not entitle the  Defendants to a demurrer on the constructive eviction claim, however.  The FAC alleges that other disturbances went  unaddressed. Finally, Defendants contend that some of the  disturbances alleged in the FAC are not substantial enough to support a claim  for constructive eviction.  In the  Court's view, whether that is so is a question of fact for the jury.    