  Case Number:  23SMCV03113    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03113 – 768 Ceres v. Kahn




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Emanuel Gomez and Juliana Medina




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  768 Ceres, LLC



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Emanuel Gomez and Juliana Medina, appearing in pro per, (“Defendants”)
demur to Plaintiff 768 Ceres, LLC’s (“Plaintiff”) unlawful detainer complaint for
failure to state a cause of action and for improper service of the three-day
notice to pay or quit.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.) 
Here, Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s unlawful detainer complaint on the
grounds that it fails to state a cause of action and for improper service of
the three-day notice to pay or quit.  
 
In support of the demurrer, Defendants argue the three-day notice is
defective because (1) it fails to include the payment information required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1161, ¶ 2; (2) it overstates the amount of rent
due; and (3) it was served before the rent was due.  Section 1161 provides, in relevant portion:
 
When the tenant continues in possession, in
person or by subtenant, without the permission of the landlord, or the
successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, after default in the
payment of rent, pursuant to the lease or agreement under which the property is
held, and three days' notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other
judicial holidays, in writing, requiring its payment, stating the amount that
is due, the name, telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent
payment shall be made, and, if payment may be made personally, the usual days
and hours that person will be available to receive the payment (provided that,
if the address does not allow for personal delivery, then it shall be
conclusively presumed that upon the mailing of any rent or notice to the owner
by the tenant to the name and address provided, the notice or rent is deemed
received by the owner on the date posted, if the tenant can show proof of
mailing to the name and address provided by the owner), or the number of an
account in a financial institution into which the rental payment may be made,
and the name and street address of the institution (provided that the
institution is located within five miles of the rental property), or if an
electronic funds transfer procedure has been previously established, that
payment may be made pursuant to that procedure, or possession of the property,
shall have been served upon the tenant and if there is a subtenant in actual
occupation of the premises, also upon the subtenant.
 
The notice may be served at any time within one
year after the rent becomes due.
 
A.   
FAILURE TO INCLUDE PAYMENT INFORMATION
 
Defendants argue “The California legislature has determined that the
payment information is just as important as the requirement that the amount of
rent due be stated, and the statement that the rent or possession of the
property must be demanded in the alternative.” 
The only support Defendants provide is citation to Section 1161.  
 
Defendants’ contention is belied by the plain text of the cited
statute, which requires only that the notice state “the amount that is due, the
name, telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent payment
shall be made, and, if payment may be made personally, the usual days and hours
that person will be available to receive the payment[….]”  Further, as an alternative to providing the
above information, the notice may instead include financial information where
payment may be made (“or the number of an account in a financial institution
into which the rental payment may be made[….]”).  (Code. Civ. Proc., § 1161, ¶ 2.)  
 
The notice to pay rent or quit provides that payment may be made to “Michael
Chang” at a specific address and phone number that are listed, and indicates
payments may be delivered “between the hours of 9:00 am and 5:00 pm Monday
through Friday.”  (Ex. 2 to
Complaint) (emphasis original.)
 
Thus, the Court finds that the notice is not defective for failure to
provide the payment information.
 
B.    
AMOUNT LISTED ON NOTICE & TIMING OF NOTICE
 
Defendants contend that the notice is defective because it overstates
the amount of rent due and was served before the rent was due.  Disputes concerning the amount of rent due go
beyond the four corners of the Complaint, and are factual questions to be
resolved at later stages of the litigation. 

 
The Notice indicates that $15,600 in rent was overdue, as does the
Complaint.  The Complaint further
indicates that Defendants paid $5,200 in monthly rent.  Therefore, there is nothing on the face of
the complaint that fails to state a claim. 

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrer to
the unlawful detainer complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file an Answer to the Complaint
on or before November 2, 2023.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  October 26, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior CourtTENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03113




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Katherine Taylor Kahn and Heather Lynn Ferguson (specially appearing)




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  768 Ceres, LLC 



 
MOTION
 
Specially appearing Defendants Katherine Taylor Kahn and Heather Lynn
Ferguson (“Defendants”) move to quash service of the summons and unlawful
detainer complaint on the basis that Plaintiff 768 Ceres, LLC (“Plaintiff”) did
not obtain an order to post, prior to serving them by posting the summons and
complaint on Defendants’ door.  
 
Plaintiff opposes, arguing (1) the motion to quash is untimely; and
(2) Defendants were validly served by posting. 

 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
For service on persons within California, generally, service of a summons
and complaint must be done by personal service. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.) 
However, with respect to unlawful detainer actions, “A summons in an
action for unlawful detainer of real property may be served by posting if upon
affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is
pending that the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served
in any manner specified in this article other than publication[….]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.45, subd. (a).)  In such instances, “The court shall order the
summons to be posted on the premises in a manner most likely to give actual
notice to the party to be served and direct that a copy of the summons and of
the complaint be forthwith mailed by certified mail to such party at his last
known address.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
415.45, subd. (b).)  “Service of summons
in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after posting and mailing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.45, subd.  (c).)
 

ANALYSIS
 
Untimeliness
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1327(a) provides, “In an unlawful detainer
action […], notice of a motion to quash service of summons on the ground of
lack of jurisdiction or to stay or dismiss the action on the ground of
inconvenient forum must be given in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1010.6 or 1013 and 1167.4.”
 
Sections 1010.6 and 1013 provide for extensions of time when service
is made electronically or by mail, respectively.  Section 1167.4 provides, “Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, in any action under this chapter [pertaining to summary
proceedings for obtaining possession of real property]: (a) Where the defendant
files a notice of motion [to quash service], the time for making the motion
shall not be less than three days nor more than seven days after the filing of
the notice.”
 
Here, Defendants filed the Motion to Quash on August 7, 2023, but set
the hearing for October 26, 2023.  Thus,
the hearing date far exceeds the time allowed by Section 1167.4. 
 
Service
 
Even if the hearing were timely scheduled, Defendants’ motion also
fails on the merits.  Defendants contend
that service by posting on July 28, 2023 was improper because Plaintiff failed
to request and obtain an order to post. 
Plaintiff did request and obtain an order to post on July 27, 2023.  Attached to the request was a declaration of
diligence, indicating that Plaintiff attempted to have Defendants personally
served on July 14 at 8:20 pm; on July 15 at 7:50 am; and on July 19 at 3:50 pm,
prior to resorting to posting.
 
In opposition to the motion to quash, Plaintiff attached a proof of
service, indicating that Defendants were served by posting (and certified mail
receipts indicating they were also mailed) on July 28.  Defendants concede they were alerted to this
action around 4:30 p.m. on July 28, when they discovered the summons and
complaint posted on their door.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Based upon the record, the Court finds that the service of the summons
and complaint on Defendants was proper. 
Consequently, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to quash service of
the summons and complaint.  
 
Defendants shall file and serve a response to the complaint on or
before November 2, 2023.
 
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service
regarding the same.   
 
 
 
DATED:
October 26, 2023                                                     ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 