 Case Number:  22STCV22709    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Reopen Discovery filed by Defendants Jim K.
Garcia and Ian “Juliana” McNeal Guevara.
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
BACKGROUND
On July 14, 2022, Luca Bruno and Brandi M. Brown
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Jim K. Garcia and Ian
McNeal Guevara (collectively “Defendants”) for general negligence and motor
vehicle negligence arising out of an automobile accident occurring on October
17, 2021. Defendants filed an answer on January 19, 2023.
Defendants have not been cooperative in the discovery
process.  The Court granted Plaintiffs’
motions to compel against Defendant Guevara on June 7, 2023; against Defendant
Garcia on August 4, 2023; against Defendant Garcia again on February 9, 2024; and
against Defendant Garcia yet again on February 16, 2024.  The Court also imposed further monetary
sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act against Defendant Garcia and counsel on
October 26, 2023, and against both Defendants and their counsel on October 31,
2023.
On March 6 and April 22, 2024, the Court denied Defendants’
ex parte applications to reopen discovery.
On April 10, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to reopen
discovery. Plaintiffs filed an opposition on April 30, 2024. Defendants have
not filed a reply brief. 
When the complaint was filed, Trial was set for December 28,
2023; accordingly, by statute, the fact discovery cutoff was in late November
2023.  The Court continued trial to
January 11, 2024; to January 17, 2024; and then, on January 17, to May 13, 2024,
with discovery remaining closed.
LEGAL STANDARD 
“On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050,
subd. (a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or
deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿  
DISCUSSION
Defendants seek to reopen discovery to obtain Plaintiffs’
complete medical records, depose Plaintiffs, and possibly depose Plaintiffs’
medical providers. 
In ruling on a request to reopen discovery, the Court must
consider all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the four
factors set forth in the statute. 
The necessity and the reasons for
the discovery.¿
The discovery that Defendants seek
is not unreasonable, but they do not provide an adequate explanation or why
they did not seek this discovery earlier, including prior to the discovery
cutoff.
The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿
Defendants filed their answer in
January 2023.  The defense counsel initially
assigned to the case conducted “little discovery,” if that.  (Foley Decl., ¶ 4.)  New defense counsel was assigned in November 2023.  (Id., ¶ 3.) 
Although it was not the fault of new defense counsel, the record is
clear that there was a complete lack of diligence by Defendants in conducting
discovery.  Defendants have every right
to proceed to trial without propounding discovery to Plaintiffs, and it appears
that that is what Defendants decided to do – at least prior to the assignment
of current defense counsel, on the eve of the discovery cutoff.
Any likelihood that permitting
the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going
to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ 
Trial is scheduled for the same
day as the hearing on this motion.  Some
continuance is necessary.  If the motion
is denied, the continuance will be short. 
If the motion is granted, the continuance will be long, likely at least several
months, if not longer. 
The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action. 
Trial was initially set for December
28, 2023, continued for short periods twice, and then in January continued for
approximately four months, to May 13, 2024. 
The Court has
considered all of the evidence in the record, all of the arguments of both
sides, and the four factors set forth in the applicable statute.  The Court finds that there was a complete
lack of diligence by Defendants prior to the discovery cutoff and that
Defendants have failed to show good cause for the Court reopen discovery.
Therefore, in
consideration of the above,
the motion is DENIED. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to
reopen discovery.
Moving Party to provide
notice.