 Case Number:  22STCV06786    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Continue Trial 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
Background
On February 24, 2022, Plaintiff
Molly Jean Sliwoski (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant
Extended Stay America, Inc.; ESA P Porfolio Operating Lessee, LLC (“ESAP”); and
Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of action for negligence and
premises liability.  Plaintiff alleges that on September 29, 2020,
while Plaintiff was visiting a guest at Defendant’s premises, she sat on a
bench, the bench collapsed, and she sustained injuries as a result.
On March 30, 2022, ESAP filed
its answer.
On July 21, 2022, Plaintiff
amended the complaint to name ESH Hospitality, Inc., as Doe 1.
On September 19, 2022,
Defendant ESA Management, LLC (“ESAM”), erroneously sued as Extended Stay
America, Inc. and ESH Hospitality, Inc., filed its answer.
On June 12, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  On June 16, 2023, ESAP and
ESAM (collectively, “Defendants”) filed an answer to the FAC.
On April 12,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to continue trial. Plaintiff’s counsel filed
an untimely supplemental declaration in support of the motion on April 29.  Defendants filed an opposition on April 30, and
Plaintiff filed a reply on May 6. 
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
 
As a threshold
matter, the Court declines to consider the untimely declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel filed on April 29, 2024.  The
Court did review the declaration and finds: (1) that the statements about
developments in fact discovery that occurred after the filing date are not
material to the motion (in part because parties that wait to propound written discovery
close to the discovery cutoff take the risk that they may not have time to
follow up and bring a timely motion to compel); and (2) that the statements
about Plaintiff’s alleged “upcoming spinal cord stimulator surgery” are hearsay,
would be given little weight even if they were admissible (as Plaintiff could
easily have presented evidence from Plaintiff or one of her doctors), and are
supported by medical records from October and November 2023 and therefore do
not represent new developments occurring after the motion was filed.
 
Turning to
the merits of the motion, the Court has considered all of the evidence in the
record and the arguments of counsel.  The
Court finds good cause for a brief continuance of the trial so that the pending
motions for sanctions may be heard before trial; the Court, of course, states
no view on the merits of the motions.
 
Plaintiff’s
other arguments for a continuance (or for a longer continuance) are not
supported by good cause.  Plaintiff filed
the complaint in this matter on February 24, 2022.  On filing, the Court assigned a trial date of
August 24, 2023.  On July 26, 2023, based
in part on the stipulation of the parties, the Court continued the trial date to
May 24, 2023 and reset all discovery deadlines based on the new trial date.
 
Plaintiff
has had plenty of time to complete discovery and has not shown, for example,
that there is an “excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts.”  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c)(6).)  Although
Plaintiff says that neither party has conducted expert discovery, both sides
have known of the trial deadlines since July 2023, and if they have failed to
conduct expert discovery, then the case may simply proceed to trial without such
discovery.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS in part and DENIES in part the motion to continue trial. 
 
The Court advances and
continues the trial date until a date in late June 2024.  The Final Status Conference is reset based on
the new trial date.  No discovery
deadlines are extended by this order; all discovery deadlines remain in place
based on the former trial date of May 24, 2024.
 
Moving party
is to give notice.