 Case Number:  22STCV01731    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Initial Response from Defendant Guerra to Supplemental Request
for Production (Set One)
Tentative Ruling
The
motions to compel is denied as moot.
The
request for sanctions is denied.
Background
On
January 14, 2022, Plaintiffs Rafael Marron Perez, Nancy Marlen Lopez, and Elisa
Marron Perez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the complaint in this action
against Defendants Eric Scott Herrera (“Herrera”), Cynthia Guerra (“Guerra”),
and Does 1 through 30, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence arising out of an accident on January 27, 2020, at or
near the intersection of Rinaldi and Porter Ranch Drive in Porter
Ranch.  Herrera and Guerra filed their answer on March 8, 2022.
As is
relevant to the matter set for hearing on May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs served Guerra
with Supplemental Request for Production (Set One) on January 11,
2024.  (Aziz Decl., ¶ 2 & Exh. 1.)  She did not serve a
timely response.  (Id., ¶¶ 3-5.)  As of the time of
the filing of this motion, Guerra still had not responded.  (Id.,
¶ 7.)
On March
11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to compel Guerra to provide an initial
response to the supplemental document request.  Guerra filed an
opposition on April 22, and Plaintiffs filed their reply on May 1.
Shortly
before Guerra filed her opposition, on or about April 18, she served verified
initial responses to the supplemental document request.  (Yegoyan
Decl., ¶ 8 & Exh. A.) 
Legal Standard
A party
must respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom requests
for production of documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the
requesting party may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial
responses, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., §
2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate
statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In
addition, a party who fails to provide a timely response generally waives all
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)
When a
party moves to compel initial responses to requests for production, “the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes [the motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (c).)
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the
discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of
“the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a).)
Discussion
The
Court has reviewed the evidence in the record and the arguments presented by
both sides.
The
Court finds that Defendant Guerra did not serve timely responses to the
Supplemental Requests for Production (Set One).  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.260, subd. (a).)  She therefore waived “any objection to the
requests.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)  Guerra
has not filed a motion for relief from that waiver.  (See ibid.)  Nor
has she shown that the failure to serve a timely response “was the result of
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.”  (Id., subd.
(a)(2).)
Guerra has
now served initial responses to the Supplemental Requests for
Production.  (Yegoyan Decl., ¶ 8 & Exh. A.)  Accordingly,
the motion to compel her to serve initial responses is denied as
moot.  The Court notes, however, that the responses contain
objections.  This is improper.  Guerra may face a motion to
compel, and potentially sanctions, if she does not amend and provide
substantive responses, without objections.
The
Court denies Plaintiffs’ requests for sanctions.  Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c), authorizes sanctions against a
party or attorney “who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel.”  Here, the motions are denied as moot, and so Guerra has not
unsuccessfully opposed any motion.  (See City
of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th
466, 504.)
Plaintiffs argue that sanctions should nonetheless be awarded and that,
in the absence of monetary sanctions, there are not sufficient negative
consequences for a party who fails to provide, for example, timely responses
and, instead, essentially forces the requesting party to incur the expense of
filing a motion to compel.  That is a reasonable argument and an
understandable concern, but the short answer is that the Legislature is
entrusted to make these decisions.  The Legislature has seen fit to
provide for an award of sanctions, in some contexts, even against a party that
does not unsuccessfully make or oppose a motion to compel.  For
example, with regard to Requests for Admission, a party who fails to serve
timely initial responses may be sanctioned even if the responses are provided
prior to the hearing, and the motion for a deemed-admitted order is
denied.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)  Similarly, the court is authorized to impose a sanction when a
motion to compel a deposition is granted, even if the other party does not file
an opposition.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(g)(1).)  And the Legislature has specifically authorized sanctions
against a party who produces documents shortly before a hearing on a motion to
compel production of documents.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.050, subd.
(a)(2).)  But in the context of the motion that is currently before
the Court (initial responses to requests for production), the Legislature made
the decision not to authorize sanctions unless a party has unsuccessfully made
or opposed a motion to compel.  The Court must apply the Civil
Discovery Act as written and may not, in the guise of interpretation, modify
the express provisions of the Act.
Conclusion
The
Court DENIES as moot Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant Guerra to provide
initial responses to Supplemental Requests for Production (Set One).
The
Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions.
The
Court ORDERS moving parties to give notice.