  Case Number:  22NWCV01030    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  F Heads
v. Aguilar, et al., Case No. 22NWCV01030
 
Defendants move to continue trial,
which is currently set for August 12, 2024. 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored,
the trial date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without
limitation): (1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party
depriving the new party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and
preparing for trial; (3) “excused inability to obtain essential testimony,
documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a]
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case” preventing it from
being ready for trial. 
 
Other
relevant considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶]
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶]
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶]
(7)¿The court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other
pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶]
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 (c).) 
 
Defendants argue that
they have not had the chance to depose Plaintiff. In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that the parties have scheduled Plaintiff’s deposition for June 14,
2024. In reply, Defendants argue that they need to conduct multiple independent
medical examinations and depositions of Plaintiff’s treating providers. 
 
Defendants argue that
their counsel is unavailable in August due to vacation.  
 
The Court finds it
unclear if the deposition took place on June 14, 2024. The reply papers state,
“If Plaintiff’s deposition goes forward in June, Defendant requests a trial
continuance…” Thus, it is unclear what further discovery Defendants need. 
 
The Court continues the
motion to September _, 2024. 
 
Moving party to give
notice. 