 Case Number:  23CHCV02153    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  11/21/24




Case
  Name: Cynthia Stoddart v. Alix A. Gutierrez, and Does 1-100




Case No.
  23CHCV02153



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

NOVEMBER 21, 2024
 

MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR
IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV02153

 
Motion
filed: 8/22/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Cynthia Stoddart
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Alix A. Gutierrez
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, alternatively,
Summary Adjudication.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is
DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from an alleged encroachment by Defendant,
who caused the construction of a staircase that extended onto Plaintiff’s
property located at 12325 Kagel Canyon Rd. Sylmar, California, 91342 (the
“Subject Property”).
 
On July 20, 2023, Plaintiff Cynthia Stoddart (“Plaintiff” or
“Stoddart”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Alix A. Gutierrez (“Defendant”
or “Gutierrez”) and Does 1–100, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Trespass, (2) Private Nuisance, (3) Quiet Title (Code of Civ. Proc., §§
760.020, et seq.), (4) Conversion, (5) Ejectment, and (6) Vandalism.
 
On September 19, 2023, at Plaintiff’s request, the Clerk entered
Defendant’s default (the “Default”). On
November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Request for Default Judgment. 
 
            On May 7,
2024, the Court granted Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside the Entry of Default
dated September 19, 2023. Subsequently, on May 9, 2024, Defendant filed her
Answer to the Complaint. 
 
            On August
22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment.
Subsequently, Defendant filed an Opposition on November 7, 2024, and Plaintiff
replied on November 13, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must
apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“A party may move for summary judgment in an action or
proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In
determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).)
 
“[I]f the moving papers establish a prima facie showing that
justifies a [ruling] in the [moving party’s] favor, the burden then shifts to
the [opposing party] to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable material factual issue.’ [Citation.]" (See's Candy Shops, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900, quoting Rehmani v. Superior
Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 945, 950.) “The defendant or cross-defendant shall
not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
 
A.   
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests the Court take judicial notice of the following
matters or documents:
 
1.     
Request for Judicial
Notice (“RJN”) No. 1: Defendant’s Response to Request for Admissions. (RJN Ex.
“1.”)
2.     
RJN No. 2: Deed of
Trust (RJN Ex. “2.”)
3.     
RJN No. 3: Legal
Description of the Property (RJN Ex. “3.”)
4.     
RJN No. 4: Survey
report for the property (RJN Ex. “4.”)
 
Evidence
Code section 452 provides, in pertinent part, that “[j]udicial notice may be taken of the
following matters ... (c) Official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.... (g) Facts and propositions that are of such common knowledge
within the territorial jurisdiction of the court that they cannot reasonably be
the subject of dispute. (h) Facts and propositions that are not reasonably
subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.”
 
            Based on the above, the Court GRANTS RJN Nos. 2 and 3,
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h).
 
            Furthermore, the Court acknowledges that “[a]ny matter
admitted in response to a request for admission is conclusively established
against the party making the admission ... unless the court has permitted
withdrawal or amendment of that admission under [Code of Civil Procedure
section] 2033.300.” (Monroy v. City of Los Angeles (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 248, 159-260.) However, the effect of such “conclusive admissions”
is limited for the purpose of litigation and does not constitute “indisputable
facts” that are “of such common knowledge within the territorial jurisdiction
of the court” under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (g). 
 
            Therefore, the Court DENIES RJN No. 1
 
            Additionally, the Court DENIES RJN No. 4, as the survey
report does not fall under any category of the judicially noticeable
documents.      
 
B.    
Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court OVERRULES Defendant’s evidentiary objections
filed concurrently with her Opposition to the Motion.
 
C.   
First Cause
of Action - Trespass 
 
“Trespass is an unlawful
interference with possession of property.” (Staples
v. Hoefke (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1397, 1406.) The elements
of trespass
are:
“(1) the plaintiff's ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant's
intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of
permission
for the entry
or acts in
excess
of permission;
(4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing
the harm.” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17
Cal.App.5th 245, 262, see CACI No. 2000.)
 
1)      Plaintiff’s
Initial Burden
 
Plaintiff presents undisputed
facts that she has been the owner of the Subject Property since 2008. (Pl.’s
Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) No. “1.”) On May 24, 2023, Plaintiff observed
Defendant, along with other individuals, entering the Subject Property without
Plaintiff’s permission, and installing a set of stairs on the Subject Property.
(Id. Nos. “2” & “3.”) Subsequently, Defendant returned to the
Subject Property on March 2, 2024, without Plaintiff’s permission and removed
the staircase. (Id. No. “6.”) Both the construction and removal of the
staircase caused damage to Plaintiff’s Subject Property. (Id. Nos. “5”
& “6.”) 
 
Based on the above evidence, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied her initial burden to justify a ruling
in her favor based on the UMFs. The burden now shifts to Defendant.
 
2)     
Defendant’s
Burden of Showing the Existence of a Triable Material
Factual Issue
 
Defendant opposes the Motion on
the grounds that she has no liability for Trespass because Defendant never
intended to cause an encroachment. (Opp’n. at p. 6.) Defendant further disputes
the damages to the hillside as claimed by Plaintiff. (Opp’n. at p. 8.)
 
i.                   
Intent Requirement
 
Under California law, “[t]he essence of
the cause of action for trespass is an ‘unauthorized entry’ onto the land of
another. Such invasions are characterized as intentional torts,
regardless of the actor's motivation.” (Miller v. National Broadcasting
Co. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1463, 1480 (Miller), underlines added.) “The intent
required as a basis for liability as a trespasser is simply an intent to be at
the place on the land where the trespass allegedly occurred. . . . The
defendant is liable for an intentional entry although he has acted in good
faith, under the mistaken belief, however reasonable, that he is committing no
wrong.” (Ibid., internal citation omitted.)
 
            Here,
Defendant argues that her evidence is sufficient to overcome Plaintiff’s
Trespass claim because she never intended to cause an encroachment and took
precautions prior to installing the steps. (Opp’n. at p. 7). Defendant submits
evidence that, as the owner of the adjacent lot, she believed that she was
installing a set of stairs on her own property. (Gutierrez Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5, 6.) Defendant
further declares that in May 2023, when she left the laborer on her lot to
install the set of stairs, she believed they would utilize the property markers
to appropriately measure out the location of the steps. (Id. ¶ 9.)
Defendant did not realize, however, that there was a possible problem with the
installation or measurements until Plaintiff approached her and claimed that
the set of stairs was partially installed on Plaintiff’s Subject Property. (Id.
¶ 11.) Subsequently, Defendant hired a survey company, and based on the
completed survey, “it became clear that there was a portion of the steps
encroaching on Plaintiff’s Property.” (Id. ¶ 15.) Following this,
Defendant had the set of steps removed, believing that Plaintiff consented to
do so and that the removal of the steps would resolve the dispute between the
parties. (Id. ¶ 17.)
 
            However,
the Court finds that Defendant’s evidence is insufficient to establish the
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the intent element.
Defendant acknowledges hiring laborers to install a set of stairs on what she
believed, in good faith, to be her own property. Nonetheless, the subsequent
survey revealed that a portion of the stairs is situated on Plaintiff’s Subject
Property. (Gutierrez Decl. ¶¶ 9, 15.) 
 
Consequently, Defendant’s
argument – that she reasonably believed her laborers would rely on property
markers to ensure the stairs were installed within her lot – does not negate
the fact that a portion of the stairs was constructed on Plaintiff’s property.
(See Miller, supra,  187
Cal.App.3d at p. 1480, [stating that the intent element for Trespass “is simply
an intent to be at the place on the land where the trespass allegedly occurred
... although [defendant] has acted in good faith, under the mistaken belief,
however reasonable, that he is committing no wrong.”])
 
Therefore, the Court finds
Defendant’s argument on this ground to be unpersuasive.
 
ii.                 
Damages
 
Defendant argues that there is
insufficient proof of damages, contending that the hillside land faces exposure
to the natural elements and Defendant promptly removed the stairs. (Opp’n. at
p. 10.) Defendant presents evidence that Plaintiff, by way of her verified
discovery responses, does not contend she has suffered any actual harm, nor has
Plaintiff set forth evidence to prove the scope of damage to the property.
(Def.’s UMF No. “5,” Hornbuckle Decl. ¶ 13.) 
 
In response, Plaintiff contends
that she has provided photographs clearly showing the state of the condition of
the land. (Stoddart Decl. ¶ 7.) Additionally, Plaintiff states that Defendant’s
encroachment necessitated her obtaining a survey report at a cost of $1,200.00
(Reply at p. 5). Moreover, Plaintiff claims that an estimate to stabilize the
hillsides from potential mudslides is $700.00, along with $2,700.00 for the
removal and cleanup of the wooden staircase. (Ibid.) Furthermore,
Plaintiff suggests that additional damages include legal expenses incurred in
bringing this action, as well as health issues that have taken a toll on her.
(Reply at p. 6.)
 
The Court observes that, except
for the photograph of the hillside attached to Plaintiff’s declaration, the
other damages claimed by Plaintiff are reflected only in her Reply. However,
statements made in briefs, including moving or opposition papers, are treated
as the party’s arguments and positions, and do not constitute evidence. The
Court must rely on the evidentiary materials attached to these papers to
determine the facts. (See Grant-Burton v. Covenant Care, Inc. (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 1361.) 
 
Consequently, the Court finds
that the Defendant has presented sufficient evidence to establish the existence
of a triable issue of material fact regarding the element of damages.
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the
Motion for Summary Judgment as to the Cause of Action for Trespass. 
 
D.    Second
Cause of Action – Private Nuisance
 
A private nuisance is a nontrespassory invasion of
another's interest in the private use and enjoyment of land. (San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. Superior Court
(1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 937 (San Diego Gas & Electric Co.))
A claim for private nuisance must involve substantial actual damage. (Ibid.)
 
Civil Code section 3479 provides, in the relevant part:
“Anything which is ... indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction
to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment
of life or property” is a nuisance. 
 
The act that causes the interference may be intentional and
unreasonable. Or it may be unintentional but caused by negligent or reckless
conduct. Or it may result from an abnormally dangerous activity for which there
is strict liability. However, if the act is intentional but reasonable, or
if it is entirely accidental, there is generally no liability. (Lussier
v. San Lorenzo Valley Water Dist. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 92, 100, See CACI
No. 2021.) (Underlines added.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff relies on the same evidence presented in support of the Trespass
claim to argue that the elements for Private Nuisance are satisfied. 
 
            Defendant
contends that there exists a triable material fact as to whether her conduct
was intentional, negligent, or accidental. Defendant asserts that she intended
for the whole set of stairs to pass through her own property only and was
unaware that the property markers had been removed. (Hornbuckle Decl. ¶ 13.) 
 
            Furthermore, the Court notes that while
nominal damages suffice for a Trespass claim (CACI No. 2000), “nominal damages alone are not available in cases
involving intangible intrusions such as noise and vibrations; proof of actual
damage to the property is required: “[T]he rule is that actionable trespass may
not be predicated upon nondamaging noise, odor, or light intrusion . . . .” (San
Diego Gas & Electric Co., supra, 13 Cal.4th at p. 936.) “[T]o proceed
on a private nuisance theory the plaintiff must prove an injury specifically
referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land. The injury, however,
need not be different in kind from that suffered by the general public.” (Koll-Irvine
Center Property Owners Assn. v. County of Orange (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
1036, 1041, internal citation omitted.)
 
            As
analyzed above, the Court has previously determined that Defendant has
satisfied her burden of showing the existence of a triable material fact as to
the actual damages caused by the encroaching stairs. Given that the Private
Nuisance and Trespass claims both arise from the same set of facts, the Court
concludes that the finding of triable issues as to the damage element is
applicable here.
 
            Therefore,
the Court DENIES the Motion for Summary Judgment as to the Private Nuisance
claim.   
 
E.     Third
Cause of Action – Quiet Title (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 760.020 et. seq.)
 
A claim for quiet title requires: (1) the legal description
and street address of the real property at issue, (2) title sought and the
basis of the same, (3) any adverse claims against the title Plaintiff seeks,
(4) date of which the determination is sought, and (5) prayer for relief. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)
 
In much the same way that a
declaratory relief action requires an actual and present controversy, a quiet title
action requires “antagonistic property interest[s].” (Friends of the Trails v. Blasius (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th
810, 831, 93 Cal.Rptr.2d 193.) In other words, a plaintiff cannot obtain a quiet title
judgment unless someone claims a conflicting interest in the same property as
the plaintiff. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff presents evidence that
Defendant admits that Plaintiff is the true owner of the Subject Property
(Pl.’s UMF No. “1,” Stoddart Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. “2,” and “3,” RJN No. 2.) However,
Plaintiff has failed to show that Defendant asserts an adverse claim against
the title of the Subject Property. On the contrary, Plaintiff concedes that the
staircase has been removed by Defendant. (Pl.’s UMF No. “6,” referencing
Defendant’s responses to Requests for Admission No. 21.)
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has failed to establish that there is “actual controversy” regarding
the ownership of the Subject Property. 
 
Therefore, for the purpose of the
instant Motion, the Court DENIES the Motion for Summary Judgment as to the
Quiet Title claim.
 
F.     Fifth
Cause of Action – Ejectment
 
California Civil Code Section 3375 states: “A person
entitled to specific real property, by reason either of a perfected title, or
of a claim to title which ought to be perfected, may recover the same in the
manner prescribed by the Code of Civil Procedure, either by a judgment for its
possession, to be executed by the sheriff, or by a judgment requiring the other
party to perfect the title, and to deliver possession of the property.”
 
The essential elements of an
ejectment action are (1) the plaintiff's valid interest in the property and (2)
the defendant's wrongful possession and withholding thereof. (Payne & Dewey v. Treadwell (1860) 16 Cal. 221,
243.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s UMF and supporting evidence establish that
Plaintiff is the owner of the Subject Property. (Pl.’s UMF No. “1.”) This satisfies
the first essential element of Plaintiff’s valid interest in the property.  
 
However, as discussed above, Plaintiff has conceded that the
staircase has been removed by Defendant, rendering Plaintiff’s injunctive relief
moot. Additionally, the Court has determined that Plaintiff has failed to show
the absence of triable issues of material fact regarding the actual damages, which
forms the basis for the Court’s denial of the Motion.
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the Motion for Summary Judgment
as to the Ejectment claim. 
 
G.    Fourth
and Sixth Cause of Action – Conversion and Vandalism
 
In the Motion, Plaintiff merely
states that if the Court grants summary judgment on the four causes of action
listed above, Plaintiff will dismiss the remaining two causes of action for
Conversion and Vandalism, without presenting substantively argument or legal
analysis. 
 
Consequently, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has entirely failed to meet her initial burden of establishing a prima facie
showing that justifies a ruling in her favor as to the remaining two causes of
action.
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the Motion for the Causes of
Action for Conversion and Vandalism.
 
H.    Motion
for Summary Adjudication
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure, section 437c, subdivision (f), “[a] motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.
 
Having
reviewed the evidence and arguments presented, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has not demonstrated that any cause of action, or claim for damages, can be
completely resolved under the applicable legal standards for summary
adjudication. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is
DENIED. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 