  Case Number:  22TRCV00096    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
THE
  ROOSK GROUP INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00096




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULINGS
 




 
JAMIE
  MCDANIEL, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September 11,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Zane Consulting,
Inc.
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Roosk Group
Motion
for Attorney’s Fees
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
            The
Court awards $89,260 to defendant Zane Consulting as the prevailing party
against plaintiff Roosk Group.
BACKGROUND
On February 9, 2022, plaintiffs
TelcoLynx, LLC and The Roosk Group Inc. filed a complaint against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc, Diane Zane, and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
On June 28, 2022, plaintiffs filed
a FAC. 
On August 12, 2022, the court
granted defendant Friendly Llama’s motion to disqualify counsel, Callagy Law,
P.C. as counsel for plaintiff TelcoLynx. 
On January 12, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff Roosk Group, Inc.’s motion for leave to file a SAC. 
On January 17, 2023, The Roosk
Group, Inc. and nominal party Telcolynx, LLC filed a SAC against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
On May 24, 2023, the court denied
defendant Friendly Llama’s request to strike “nominal plaintiff” Telcolynx, LLC
from the SAC.
On September 29, 2023, after taking
the matter under submission, the court denied defendants’ motion to strike
plaintiff The Roosk Group’s derivative claims against defendants.  The motion to strike was granted with leave
to amend to striking Telcolynx as a “nominal plaintiff” and allowing plaintiff
to amend to name Telcolynx as a “nominal defendant.”
On October 19, 2023, The Roosk
Group Inc. filed a TAC against Jamie McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane
Zane, Zane Consulting, Inc., and Telcolynx, LLC for (1) breach of oral contract
(against Friendly Llama), (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing
(against Friendly Llama), (3) breach of fiduciary duties (against Friendly
Llama), (4) breach of fiduciary duties (against McDaniel), (5) fraud (against
Friendly Llama and McDaniel), (6) rescission of contract (against Zane
Consulting), (7) breach of contract (against Zane and Zane Consulting), and (8)
unjust enrichment (against Zane and Zane Consulting).
On November 16, 2023, Zane
Consulting filed a motion for summary judgment.
            On February 1, 2024, the court
continued the hearing on Zane Consulting’s motion for summary judgment based on
plaintiffs’ request for a continuance to complete discovery.
On March 1, 2024, the court granted
defendant Jamie McDaniel’s motions to compel The Roosk Group to respond to
defendant’s written discovery.
On June 24, 2024, the court granted
Zane Consulting’s motion for summary judgment.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §1021 states:  “Except as attorney’s fees are specifically
provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties;
. . .” 
CCP §1032(b) states:  “Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding.” 
CCP §1033.5(a)(10)(A) states that
attorney fees when authorized by contract are allowable as costs and may be
awarded upon a noticed motion pursuant to CCP §1033.5(c)(5). 
“In determining the amount of
reasonable attorney fees to be awarded under a statutory attorney fees provision,
the trial court begins by calculating the “lodestar” amount.  Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1131.  The “lodestar” is “the number of
hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.”  PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1084, 1095.  To determine the
reasonable hourly rate, the court looks to the “hourly rate prevailing in the
community for similar work.”  Id.  Using the lodestar as the basis for the
attorney fee award “anchors the trial court’s analysis to an objective
determination of the value of an attorney’s services, ensuring that the amount
awarded is not arbitrary.”  Id.
(citation omitted).  The California
Supreme Court has further instructed that attorney fee awards “should be fully
compensatory.”  Id. at 1133.  Thus, in the absence of “circumstances
rendering an award unjust, an attorney fee award should ordinarily include
compensation for all of the hours reasonably spent, including those relating
solely to the fee.”  Id.  However, “a fee request that appears
unreasonably inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial court to
reduce the award or deny one altogether.” 
Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635.
“California courts have long held
that trial courts have broad discretion in determining the amount of a
reasonable attorney’s fee award.  This
determination is necessarily ad hoc and must be resolved on the particular
circumstances of each case.”  Meister
v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 437, 452.  In exercising its discretion, the trial court
may accordingly “consider all of the facts and the entire procedural history of
the case in setting the amount of a reasonable attorney’s fee award.”  Id. 
An attorney fees award “‘will not be overturned in the absence of a
manifest abuse of discretion, a prejudicial error of law, or necessary findings
not supported by substantial evidence.’” 
Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.
App. 4th 858, 894 (citation omitted).
“In reviewing the trial court’s
exercise of its discretion, we also recognize that ‘[t]he experienced trial
judge is the best judge of the value of professional services rendered in his
[or her] court, and while his [or her] judgment is of course subject to review,
it will not be disturbed unless the appellate court is convinced that it is
clearly wrong.’”  Bernardi v. County
of Monterey (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th 1379, 1394 (citation and internal
quotations omitted).
DISCUSSION
Defendant
Zane Consulting, Inc. requests attorney’s fees in the amount of $95,980.
In the Third Amended Complaint, plaintiff asserted
three causes of action against Zane Consulting: 
rescission of
contract, breach of oral contract, and unjust enrichment.
                        Entitlement
            Defendant
argues that it is entitled to attorney’s fees under Civil Code §1717 because it
prevailed on its motion for summary judgment, judgment was entered in favor of
Zane Consulting on June 24, 2024, and the contract between TelcoLynx and Zane Consulting
allows the prevailing party to recover their attorney’s fees. 
Civil
Code §1717 states:  “(a) In any action on
a contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and
costs, which are incurred to enforce the provisions of that contract, shall be
awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party
who is determined to be the prevailing party, whether he or she is the party
specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s
fees.”
            “Section 1717 imposes reciprocity
when a contract only authorizes attorney fees for one of the two parties to an
agreement.  If the other party wins a
lawsuit, he or she is entitled to an attorney fee award just as if the contract
term applied expressly to both.  . .
.”  Covenant Mutual Ins. Co. v. Young
(1986) 179 Cal. App. 3d 318, 323.
            The
attorney’s fee provision states:  “In the
event any litigation or arbitration is commenced in connection with this
Agreement, the parties hereby agree that the prevailing party shall be entitled
to payment by the other party of reasonable attorneys’ fees expended in
connection therewith.”
            Defendant
argues that the provision is “broad enough to cover tort as well as contract
causes of action.”  Hasler v. Howard
(2005) 130 Cal. App. 4th 1168, 1171. 
Defendant asserts that the provision allows fees when litigation is
brought “in connection with” the contract, and that “the term ‘in connection
with’ is broad, and has been interpreted to extend to both contract and tort
claims in a contractual attorney fees provision.”  Mountain Air Enterprises, LLC v. Sundowner
Towers, LLC (2017) 3 Cal. 5th 744, 757.  Defendant further contends that the fact that
plaintiff brought a derivative action does not prevent the award of fees in
favor of Zane Consulting because Zane Consulting was a signatory, and that
plaintiff sought to rescind the contract. 
“[A] successful defendant may collect attorney’s fees from the
shareholder pursuant to Civil Code section 1717 if the derivative claims were
on a contract that contained an attorney’s fee clause.”  First Security Bank of California, N.A. v.
Paquet (2002) 98 Cal. App. 4th 468, 476.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that defendant is not entitled to recover
attorneys’ fees from Roosk Group because plaintiff’s claims against Zane
Consulting were not “on a contract” as required under Civil Code §1717.  Rather, plaintiff’s claim was based in tort
for fraud.  See Schlocker v. Schlocker
(1976) 62 Cal. App. 3d 921, 922-23 (reversing award of attorney’s fees where
the lawsuit was brought in tort for fraud in derogation of the contract and not
in contract as required by Civil Code §1717). 
“A cause of action for fraudulent inducement is not ‘on the contract’
for purposes of section 1717.”  Reyes
v. Beneficial State Bank (2022) 76 Cal. App. 5th 596, 620
(citing to Schlocker, supra).  The
cause of action to rescind the contract alleges that the Zane Consulting
Contract was formed as a result of fraud, undue influence, and unlawful
activity exercised by defendants, who acted with knowledge that they were
prejudicing the rights and interests of TelcoLynx and Roosk.  TAC, ¶179. 
Plaintiff also asserts that the cause of action for breach of oral
contract does not contain an attorney’s fees provision and that Zane Consulting
was not a party to that contract.
            In
reply, defendant reiterates its argument that the attorney’s fee provision
covers plaintiff’s cause of action to rescind the contract.  Defendant asserts that a claim to rescind a
contract, even for fraud, is a claim “on the contract.”
            The
Court finds that defendant is the prevailing party and that it is entitled to
attorney’s fees under Civil Code §1717. 
The Court also finds that plaintiff’s cause of action for rescission of the
contract against Zane Consulting is “an action on the contract” under Civil
Code §1717 and the language of the provision is broad enough to cover torts as
it states, “any litigation . . . is commenced in connection with this
Agreement.”  See Super 7 Motel
Associates v. Wang (1993) 16 Cal. App. 4th 541, 549 (“[w]here
the plaintiff’s claim instead seeks rescission based on fraud, the courts have
concluded such claim does sound in contract and permits the award of fees.”) (citation
omitted.)  “Candidly, it is difficult to
think of an action that is more likely to be characterized as an ‘action on a
contract’ than one in which the party bringing the action explicitly seeks to
have the subject contract declared void and invalid in its entirety.”  Eden Township Healthcare Dist. v. Eden
Medical Center (2013) 220 Cal. App. 4th 418, 427.  See also Mountain Air Enterprises,
supra, at 757, determining that the term “in connection with” is broad and
extends to both contract and tort claims. 

 
                        Reasonableness
            Defendant
Zane Consulting requests $95,980 in reasonable attorney’s fees.
            According
to defense counsel’s declaration, Diane Zane and Zane Consulting retained
Carlsbad Law Group.  Over the course of
the case, partners J.L. Sean Slattery billed 31.1 hours and David Hall billed
72.8 hours at a rate of $500/hr. 
Associates Aundrea Cardoza billed 21.3 hours, Daniel Glazer billed 59.8
hours, and Adam Kidd billed 33.7 hours, at a rate of $325/hr.  Law clerk Theresa Men billed 44.8 hours at a
rate of $150/hr.  See David Hall decl.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that even if there was a basis to award attorney’s
fees, defendant has not identified what fees were incurred to defend against
each claim.  Plaintiff also argues that
the motion is premature because “there remain unresolved claims and disputes.”
            In
reply, defendant asserts that when claims damages are interrelated, there is no
need to differentiate attorney’s fees among various cause of action.  See Akins v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. of
San Francisco (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 1127, 1133 (“When the
liability issues are so interrelated that it would have been impossible to
separate them into claims for which attorney fees are properly awarded and
claims for which they are not, then allocation is not required.”) (citation
omitted).  Defendant also contends that
the motion is timely and appropriate as judgment has been entered and that
there are no matters left to resolve between plaintiff and Zane Consulting and
that the time to file a motion is mandatory. 
Defendant further points out that plaintiff does not dispute the amount
of hours expended or the hourly rates charged.
            The
Court finds that the motion is timely and not premature.  Further, the amount requested by defendant is
supported and reasonable except as to the amount for hours expended by law
clerk Men.  Defendant cites to authority
for a paralegal, but a law clerk is not a paralegal.  Thus, the Court exercises its discretion and
reduces the attorney’s fees to $89,260.
            The
motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.
            The
Court awards $89,260 to defendant Zane Consulting as the prevailing party
against plaintiff Roosk Group.

            Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling. 

Moving Parties:                      Defendant Diane Zane
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Roosk Group
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
            The
Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The
motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On February 9, 2022, plaintiffs TelcoLynx, LLC and
The Roosk Group Inc. filed a complaint against Jamie McDaniel, Friendly Llama,
Inc, Diane Zane, and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1) breach of contract, (2)
breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of fiduciary
duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6) unjust enrichment. 
On June 28, 2022, plaintiffs filed a FAC. 
On August 12, 2022, the court granted defendant
Friendly Llama’s motion to disqualify counsel, Callagy Law, P.C. as counsel for
plaintiff TelcoLynx. 
On January 12, 2023, the court granted plaintiff
Roosk Group, Inc.’s motion for leave to file a SAC. 
On January 17, 2023, The Roosk Group, Inc. and
nominal party Telcolynx, LLC filed a SAC against Jamie McDaniel, Friendly
Llama, Inc., Diane Zane and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1) breach of contract,
(2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of fiduciary
duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6) unjust enrichment. 
On May 24, 2023, the court denied defendant Friendly
Llama’s request to strike “nominal plaintiff” Telcolynx, LLC from the SAC.
On September 29, 2023, after taking the matter under
submission, the court denied defendants’ motion to strike plaintiff The Roosk
Group’s derivative claims against defendants. 
The motion to strike was granted with leave to amend to striking
Telcolynx as a “nominal plaintiff” and allowing plaintiff to amend to name
Telcolynx as a “nominal defendant.”
On October 19, 2023, The Roosk Group Inc. filed a
TAC against Jamie McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane, Zane Consulting,
Inc., and Telcolynx, LLC for (1) breach of oral contract (against Friendly
Llama), (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing (against Friendly
Llama), (3) breach of fiduciary duties (against Friendly Llama), (4) breach of
fiduciary duties (against McDaniel), (5) fraud (against Friendly Llama and
McDaniel), (6) rescission of contract (against Zane Consulting), (7) breach of
contract (against Zane and Zane Consulting), and (8) unjust enrichment (against
Zane and Zane Consulting).
On November 16, 2023, Zane Consulting filed a motion
for summary judgment.
            On
February 1, 2024, the court continued the hearing on Zane Consulting’s motion
for summary judgment based on plaintiffs’ request for a continuance to complete
discovery.
On March 1, 2024, the court granted defendant Jamie
McDaniel’s motions to compel The Roosk Group to respond to defendant’s written
discovery.
On June 24, 2024, the court granted Zane
Consulting’s motion for summary judgment.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
            CCP
§438 states, in relevant part:  “(b)(1) A
party may move for judgment on the pleadings. . . . (c)(1)  The motion provided for in this section may
only be made on one of the following grounds: 
(A) If the moving party is a plaintiff, that the complaint states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause or cause of action against the defendant and
the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the
complaint.  (B) If the moving party is a
defendant, that either of the following conditions exist:  . . . . (ii) The complaint does not states
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. . . .
(d) The grounds for motion provided for in this section shall appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice. . . .”  

DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Diane Zane requests judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend on the
seventh and eighth causes of action in the Third Amended Complaint.
The TAC alleges that the parties include TelcoLynx
(members are Roosk and Friendly Llama), Roosk (wholly owned by non-party
Brendan Murphy), Friendly Llama (wholly owned by Jamie McDaniel), Diane Zane,
and Zane Consulting.  In December 2011,
TelcoLynx was organized as a LLC by Murphy, who was a leader in the IT and
telecommunications industry.  He invited
McDaniel to join him as he built up a new “master agency” in telecom consulting.  McDaniel agreed to join but did not
immediately engage in the new company. 
As sales began to accelerate, McDaniel began to take more interest in
the company.  In September 2018,
TelcoLynx was reorganized as a LLC.  The
initial members were Roosk and Friendly Llama. 

The TAC further alleges that TelcoLynx recommends
and implements IT and telecommunications solutions to other businesses by
identifying vendors who can meet the needs of TelcoLynx’s client, solicits and
reviews bids for the project from vendors, and then engages a vendor, and
manages and supervises the project. 
TelcoLynx generates revenue in three ways—selection bonus, monthly
residual commission, and payment pursuant to professional services agreements.  Roosk and Friendly Llama reached an oral
agreement regarding the allocation of profits. 
As part of its business activities, TelcoLynx developed relationships
with strategic business partners, including Company S.
The TAC further alleges that on April 24, 2020,
Company S engaged TelcoLynx to manage a Request for Proposal for Company
X.  McDaniel advised Murphy that his
services would not be necessary because the Company X project was “too limited
in scope” to work jointly, but McDaniel knew that this representation was
false.  McDaniel decided to split the
Company X project 50/50 with Zane, McDaniel’s friend whom she had recently
engaged as a 1099 entry level sales position with TelcoLynx two months
earlier.  Zane’s only qualification to
participate in the Company X project was her friendship with McDaniel.  Murphy protested McDaniel’s attempt to “gift”
Zane with 50%.  Although McDaniel represented
to Murphy that the “deal is too skinny” to have them both involved and that it
would result in payments to TelcoLynx of $8,000 a month, the Company X deal was
a five-year agreement worth $125 million, which included several million
dollars in bonus payments on top of commissions.  McDaniel intended to conceal the true value of
the Company X contract from Murphy and Roosk so that she could siphon away the
significant profits.   Murphy eventually
became involved in the Company X project, but McDaniel took steps to undermine
his credibility and withheld information from him and sabotaged his
relationship with Company X.
            The
TAC further alleges that despite Zane’s lack of qualifications, McDaniel and
Friendly Llama, purportedly on behalf of TelcoLynx, signed a written contract
on July 24, 2020 with Zane’s company, Zane Consulting, whereby Zane Consulting
was engaged as an “Agent” to market TelcoLynx’s services, after TelcoLynx had
secured the Company X project.  On
December 8, 2020, defendants executed an Exhibit B to the Zane Consulting
Contract under which defendants agreed to split TelcoLynx’s profit from Company
X project at 10% to TelcoLynx, 45% to Friendly Llama, and 45% to Zane
Consulting.
                        Seventh
cause of action for breach of contract
            To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.”  Oasis West
Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.
Under the seventh cause of action for breach of
contract, the TAC alleges that TelcoLynx and defendants Diane Zane and Zane
Consulting entered into a valid oral contract for Zane and Zane Consulting to
provide services to TelcoLynx.  Pursuant
to the terms of the contract, defendants agreed to a specific compensation
structure soliciting end user customers for TelcoLynx’s offerings, which did
not include any right to a share of TelcoLynx’s profits distributed or to be
distributed to TelcoLynx’s members.  Defendants
have taken and received profits belonging to TelcoLynx, which constitutes a
breach of that contract.  
            Defendant
argues that there is no viable cause of action because “it is settled that an
employer may unilaterally alter the terms of an employment agreement, provided
such alteration does not run afoul of the Labor Code.”  Schachter v. Citigroup, Inc. (2009) 47
Cal. 4th 610, 619.  Defendant
asserts that the allegations suggest an at-will employment relationship and
that a managing partner of TelcoLynx altered Zane’s compensation structure on
the Company X project. 
In opposition, plaintiff argues that it has alleged
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action as plaintiff has pled the
existence of an oral agreement, breach of that agreement by Zane’s
overcompensation, and damage to plaintiff.it meets the elements.  Plaintiff disputes that the allegations
against Zane do not indicate an at-will employment relationship but one of
independent contractor.  In any event,
plaintiff contends, the employment status of Zane is not at issue. 
            The
Court finds that the allegations are sufficient to meet the elements for breach
of oral contract.
            The
motion is DENIED as to the seventh cause of action.
 
            Eighth
cause of action for unjust enrichment
The elements for a claim for unjust enrichment are “receipt
of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.”  Lectrodryer v. SeoulBank (2000) 77
Cal. App. 4th 723, 726 (citation omitted). 
“The ‘mere fact that a person benefits another is not of itself
sufficient to require the other to make restitution therefor.’”  Marina Tenants Assn. v. Deauville Marina
Development Co. (1986) 181 Cal. App. 3d 122, 134 (citation omitted).  “As a matter of law, an unjust enrichment
claim does not lie where the parties have an enforceable express
contract.”  Durell v. Sharp Healthcare
(2010) 183 Cal. App. 4th 1350, 1370. 
“[A] quasi-contract action for unjust enrichment does not lie where, as
here, express binding agreements exist and define the parties’ rights.”  California Medical Ass’n, Inc. v. Aetna
U.S. Healthcare of California, Inc. (2001) 94 Cal. App. 4th 151,
172.
The TAC alleges that defendants Zane and Zane
Consulting have taken and received substantial sums of money from TelcoLynx,
which monies were profits which were to be distributed to TelcoLynx’s member
Roosk.
Defendant Zane argues that a matter of law, an
unjust enrichment claim does not lie where the parties have an enforceable
express contract, and that plaintiff cannot base the claim on any compensation
paid under the contract.
In opposition, plaintiff argues that it can plead
inconsistent causes of action. 
The Court finds that the allegations are sufficient
to meet the elements for unjust enrichment and that plaintiff can plead in the
alternative.  
The motion is DENIED as to the eighth cause of
action.
 
ORDER
            The
motion for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.