  Case Number:  22CHCV00970    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Request for
Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22CHCV00970

 
Motion
filed: 11/8/23
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Arman Petrosyan (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, Nos. 1–70 within 10 calendar days. Plaintiff
further requests monetary sanctions to be imposed against Defendant and its
attorneys in the amount of $3,180.50.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is granted. Defendant to provide further code-compliant responses to
Plaintiff’s first set of RFPs, Request Nos. 1–70 within 30 days. The Court
imposes sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $790.00.
 
The parties are reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended
General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing
documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set
forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First
Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking
declarations and exhibits). (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1110(f)(4).) Plaintiff is further reminded
that “except in a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion, no
opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages. … No reply or closing
memorandum may exceed 10 pages.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1113(d).) Failure
to comply with these requirements in the future may result in papers being
rejected, matters being placed off calendar, matters being continued so
documents can be resubmitted in compliance with these requirements, documents
not being considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff brings this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle he purchased on or
around 3/11/21, which was manufactured and distributed by Defendant. (Compl. ¶¶
3–4, 11.) Plaintiff alleges that “the Subject Vehicle was delivered to
Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed
other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but not
limited to, engine, electrical, emission, and transmission system defects,” that Defendant knew of such
defects, and “was unable to repair it after a reasonable number of repair
opportunities.” (Id. at ¶¶ 13, 28, 56.)
 
On 10/25/22, Plaintiff filed his complaint, alleging against
Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2; and (4)
Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. On 12/13/22, Defendant filed its
answer.
 
On 9/5/23, Plaintiff served his Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, on Defendant. (Decl. of Kevin Y. Jacobson ¶ 29.) On 10/5/23,
Defendant served its responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 30.)
 
On 11/8/23, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further
responses to his RFPs, Set One. On 11/30/23, Defendant filed its opposition. On
12/6/23, Plaintiff filed his reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
California law requires a responding party to respond to
each request for production of documents with either a statement of compliance,
a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply, or an objection to
the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210, subd. (a).) 
 
If the response includes an objection to the demand in
part, it must also include a statement of compliance or noncompliance as set
forth above. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (a).) Additionally, the
response must (1) identify the particular
document that falls within the category of the
request to which the objection is being made, and (2) expressly set forth the
extent of, and specific ground for, the objection. (Id., subd. (b).) A propounding party may move
for an order compelling further response to a discovery request if it decides
that “an objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to compel additional responses to his
first set of RFPs, specifically to request Nos. 1–70, which are broadly divisible into the following six
categories: “(1) Plaintiff’s own vehicle (Request Nos. 1-14); (2) Defendant’s
warranty and repurchase policies, procedures, and practices (Request Nos.
15-20); (3) Defendant’s internal and regulatory investigations and analysis
relating to transmission defects in the Hydra-Matic Vehicles (Request Nos.
21-35, 50-60); (4) publications, including service bulletins, prepared by GM
relating to similar defects (Request Nos. 36-49); (5) communications between
Defendant and government agencies concerning the Transmission Defects in
Hydra-Matic Vehicles (Request Nos. 61-66); and (6) consumer complaints
exhibiting similar defects in similar vehicles as the Subject Vehicle (Request
Nos. 67-70).” (Pl.’s Mot. 2:21–28.) Plaintiff further
argues that the motion is warranted because Defendant unjustifiably refused to
respond to the requests and made meritless, boilerplate objections thereto. 
//
///
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion to compel further discovery responses must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on 10/10/23, he sent
Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter raising the issues set forth in
the instant motion. (Jacobson Decl. ¶¶ 38–44.) On 10/17/23, Defendant’s counsel
responded that Defendant would not produce any additional responsive documents.
(Id. at ¶ 45.) While the parties each dispute the good-faith nature of
opposing counsel’s meet and confer efforts, the Court finds that counsel has
satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.    
Defendant’s
Objections
 
Here, Plaintiff argues, in part, that Defendant’s
objections to his first set of RFPs are without merit. (Pl.’s Mot. 11:16–17; Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) Defendant objected to each request at issue
as follows: 
 
“GM
objects to this Request on grounds it is overbroad, unduly burdensome,
oppressive, and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited
to the issues in this action. GM also objects to the extent this Request seeks
confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further objects to
this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the
attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine.”
(Ex. 6 to Jacobson Decl.)
 
a.                  
Scope/Relevance 
 
Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or
“appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
objections to the subject RFPs on the basis that they seek irrelevant matter
are meritless because the requested documents “are highly relevant to
support whether Defendant failed to abide by its duties under the law and
whether its denial of Plaintiff’s prelitigation buy-back request was willful,”
and are “will help Plaintiff understand the circumstances behind the recurring
symptoms, issues, or problems Plaintiff experienced with the Subject Vehicle,
as well as Defendant’s knowledge or awareness of the defective nature of the
Subject Vehicle.” (Pl.’s Mot. 9:5–6, 9:17–19.) 
 
Defendant
argues in opposition that “documents about other vehicles or the design of the
Silverado are irrelevant to the pending claims.” (Def.’s Opp. 5:8.) “This
breach of warranty case is about Plaintiff’s Silverado and repairs to
that Silverado under warranty. GM has already produced all of the documents
relevant to Plaintiff’s breach of warranty claims. GM maintains its objections
that documents about other vehicles, complaints from or by other
consumers, or the design of specific component systems or parts are not
relevant to Plaintiff’s claim that GM failed to repair his Silverado within a
reasonable number of attempts, rendering Plaintiff’s Motion unwarranted.” (Id.
at 4:10–15 [emphasis in original].)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has provided sufficient cause for
production of the subject documents. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1).) In order to obtain civil penalties under the Song-Beverly Act, a
plaintiff must establish that the defendant’s failure to comply was willful,
which may be based on the defendant’s knowledge of a certain defect. (Civ. Code
§ 1794, subd. (c).) Information regarding vehicles other than Plaintiff’s is
relevant to the subject matter of this action as it could assist Plaintiff in
proving Defendant’s willful violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. Documents responsive to these requests may reasonably lead to the
discovery of information as to the nature and duration of the defects,
Defendant’s knowledge of the defects, and Defendant’s inability to repair the
defects. While the cases relied on by Plaintiff (i.e., Donlen v. Ford
Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138; Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967) may not involve the exact circumstance before this
Court, they are sufficient to show that the requested information could itself
be admissible or lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in this case.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant’s relevance
objections to Plaintiff’s Request Nos. 1–70 are without merit.
 
b.                 
Undue Burden
 
Plaintiff further argues that Defendant’s objections to his
first set of RFPs on the basis that they are unduly burdensome and oppressive
are meritless absent any additional showing of any such undue burden or
oppression. (Pl.’s Mot. 13:6–11.) The party
objecting to a discovery request on this basis bears the burden of supplying
evidence of “the quantum of work required.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 549.) 
 
“If a party objects to the discovery of electronically
stored information on the grounds that it is from a source that is not
reasonably accessible because of undue burden or expense and that the
responding party will not search the source in the absence of an agreement with
the demanding party or court order, the responding party shall identify in
its response the types or categories of sources of electronically stored
information that it asserts are not reasonably accessible. By objecting and
identifying information of a type or category of source or sources that are not
reasonably accessible, the responding party preserves any objections it may
have relating to that electronically stored information.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.210, subd. (d) [emphasis added].)
 
In opposition, Defendant observes that Plaintiff has
propounded 186 total discovery requests, and Defendant has already produced
various requested documents in response to Plaintiff’s first set of RFPs.
(Def.’s Opp. 1:3–21.) However, the Court notes that Defendant has not supplied
evidence to show the “quantum of work required” to respond in full to Plaintiff’s
first set of RFPs as requested in the instant motion, nor has Defendant stated
the categories of sources of ESI that are not reasonably accessible. Accordingly,
the Court finds that Defendant’s objections to the requests to the extent that
they are unduly burdensome or oppressive are without adequate support and
agrees with Plaintiff that Defendant has waived any objections it may assert
relating to ESI. 
  
c.                  
Trade Secrets 
 
Defendant objected to RFP Nos. 1–70 on the basis
that each request “seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information
in the form of GM’s internal policies and procedures.” (Ex. 6 to Jacobson
Decl.) Evidence Code section 1060 provides that the owner of a trade secret has
a privilege to refuse to disclose the secret and to prevent others from
disclosing it, unless allowing the privilege will conceal fraud or result in
injustice. A party that is claiming the trade secret privilege has the burden
of proving the party's entitlement to that privilege. (Amgen Inc. v
California Correctional Health Care Servs. (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 716, 733.)
 
“‘Trade
secret’ means information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program,
device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) Derives independent economic
value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to
other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2)
Is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to
maintain its secrecy.” (Civ. Code § 3426.1, subd. (d).)
 
Here,
Defendant argues that “the documents Plaintiff seeks may relate to and contain
confidential communications between GM employees and GM’s suppliers and/or
sub-suppliers concerning technical, mechanical, and commercial issues and
analyses.” (Def.’s Opp. 6:25–27.) “Because the wholesale disclosure of GM’s
internal, confidential materials would cause GM competitive harm, GM should not
be compelled to produce any additional documents without Plaintiff having
satisfied his heightened burden to show why he needs the documents in this
breach of warranty case, which Plaintiff has not done.” (Id. at 7:17–20.)
 
In
support of its argument, Defendant offers the sworn declaration of Huizhen Lu,
a Senior Manager/Technical Consultant of Engineering Analysis employed with
Defendant, attesting that the documents sought may include, “design
specifications, evaluations, and performance analysis relative to
specifications, material selection, cost, and quality. Such information is not
generally available to the public. GM LLC derives value from this information’s
confidentiality and would be harmed by the loss of confidentiality.
Consequently, GM LLC makes considerable effort to keep this information
confidential.” (Ex. B to Decl. of Jesse Valencia, ¶ 11.)
 
The Court notes that Defendant
appears to be amenable to a protective order, which would protect against the disclosure
of any claimed private, trade secret or confidential proprietary information.
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that production of any documents
Defendant contends contain trade secret or confidential proprietary information
shall be so designated and may be subject to a protective order.
 
As
set forth above, Defendant’s objections to the subject requests are
stricken/overruled, therefore the Court orders Defendant to provide further
code-compliant responses to these requests and produce further documents
accordingly within 30 days. Production of any documents Defendant contends
contain trade secret or confidential proprietary information shall be so
designated and will be subject to the stipulated protective order.
 
C.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(h).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff requests sanctions in the total amount of $3,180.50
to be imposed on Defendant. This amount includes: (1) 5.7 hours of Plaintiff’s
attorney’s time working on this motion, at his hourly billing rate of $395.00
per hour; (2) an anticipated 1.2 hours reviewing Defendant’s opposition and
drafting a reply; (3) an anticipated 1 hour preparing for and attending the
instant hearing; and (4) a $60.00 filing fee. (Jacobson Decl. ¶¶ 48–50.) Defendant
argues in opposition that it acted with substantial justification in objecting
to the overbroad requests. (Def.’s Opp. 8:9–10.)
 
In granting the instant motion, the Court finds it
reasonable to award Plaintiff sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $790.00.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. Defendant to provide further
code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s first set of RFPs, Request Nos. 1–70
within 30 days. The Court imposes sanctions against Defendant in the amount of
$790.00.