  Case Number:  21STCV42736    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Todd Bertrang (“Todd”)
and Ophie Bertrang (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants, Lido Sailing
Club, Inc. (“Lido”), Ivory Holdings, LLC (“Ivory”), and Scott Volero (“Volero”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) based on injuries Plaintiffs allege they sustained
from Todd’s exposure to hazardous chemicals. 

 
Plaintiffs filed their original
complaint on 11/18/21, and filed a First Amended Complaint on 5/04/22.  Notably, Plaintiffs did not serve any party
prior to filing their FAC, and no party responded to the original complaint.  On 6/13/22, Lido Sailing Club, LLC filed a
demurrer to the FAC, setting it for hearing on 9/08/22.  On 9/08/22, after receiving opposition and
reply papers, the Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend. 
On 9/30/22, Plaintiffs filed their Second
Amended Complaint.  On 10/05/22, Lido
filed a demurrer to the SAC.  Shortly thereafter,
the personal injury hub court found the case complicated and transferred it to
Long Beach for all further proceedings. 
On 1/12/23, Lido re-filed its demurrer to the SAC in Department
S27.  On 6/27/23, the Court continued the
hearing on the demurrer, finding the parties had not adequately met and
conferred prior to filing their papers. 
On 7/27/23, the Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend.  On 9/20/23, rather than amending the SAC,
Plaintiffs dismissed Lido from the case. 

 
2.     Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint
3.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel, Paul D. Rasmussen wrote a meet and confer letter to
Plaintiff, wherein Counsel detailed the arguments that form the basis of the
demurrer.  The correspondence concluded
by indicating that a demurrer would be filed if the parties did not resolve the
issues.  Counsel then discussed the
issues with Plaintiff by phone, but the parties were unable to agree on a
resolution.  The demurrer is therefore ripe
for determination on its merits.  
 

Request for Judicial
     Notice

Plaintiffs seek judicial notice of
a notice that the premises are being classified as hazardous, substandard, or a
nuisance.  As the Court noted previously
in connection with its ruling on Lido’s demurrer, while a demurring party can
use a judicially noticeable document to show the complaint is deficient, there
is no authority permitting the pleading party to supplement its pleading with a
judicially noticeable document to render the otherwise deficient pleading
sufficient.  At most, the Court would use
the document to determine whether leave to amend should be granted.  
 

Second Cause of Action,
     Strict Liability for Ultrahazardous Activity

Defendants demur to the second
cause of action, contending Plaintiffs failed to allege Defendants have ever
engaged in any ultrahazardous activity.  Defendants’
argument is that storing or releasing toxic chemicals on a property does not
constitute ultrahazardous activity.  They
argue handling, storage, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste happens
every day across Los Angeles, California, and the United States, and is not an
ultrahazardous activity.  They cite cases
concerning what is considered ultrahazardous activity and what is not; notably,
none of the cases address improper disposal of hazardous waste.  Additionally, none of the examples they list
have case citations, so the Court cannot review them.  
 
The Court finds Defendants failed
to meet their moving burden to show disposing of hazardous waste is not an
ultrahazardous activity.  The demurrer is
overruled.  The ruling is without
prejudice to Defendants’ right to raise the issue at further stages in the
proceedings with proper case citations and authorities.

Third Cause of Action,
     Violation of HSC §25359.7

Defendants contend Plaintiffs
cannot state a claim for violation of Health and Safety Code §25359.7 because
the code section provides for strict liability when a defendant “releases” or
has knowledge of the release of hazardous substances on the property.  Defendants contend Plaintiffs have alleged
only that hazardous substances are present on the property, but not that they
were released.  Plaintiffs, in opposition,
contend the substances would not be present on the property if they had not
been released.
 
It appears the parties are arguing
semantics.  Defendants appear to take the
word “present” to mean have been present at any time, such that even if the
chemicals were properly disposed of, they would have been “present” on the property.  This interpretation, however, does not make
sense.  The entities alleged to have
caused the waste to be “present” on the property ceased occupying the property
prior to 2014, and Plaintiffs allege they learned of the hazardous substances
in August of 2019.  If the substances
were never “released,” they would no longer be on the property in August of
2019.  The demurrer is therefore overruled.
 

Fourth Cause of Action,
     NIED

Defendants demur to the fourth
cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress, contending it
is redundant with the first cause of action for negligence (to which they do
not demur).  In Potter v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984-985, the Court held that
there is no separate tort for NIED; it is merely the tort of negligence.  It then went on to explain whether and under
what circumstances emotional distress damages can be recovered in connection
with a negligence cause of action.  
 
Plaintiffs do not meaningfully
oppose the demurrer.  The demurrer to the
fourth cause of action is sustained.  Leave
to amend is granted to permit Plaintiffs to add emotional distress allegations
to their first cause of action for negligence. 

 

Fifth Cause of Action, IIED

Defendants demur to the cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, contending Plaintiffs
have not alleged extreme and outrageous conduct that would support liability
under this cause of action.  Plaintiffs,
in opposition to the demurrer, argue that knowing hazardous substances are present
on the property and failing to inform them before they take possession is
extreme and outrageous, such that liability is appropriate.  The Court finds this is a jury issue that
cannot be decided at the pleading stage. 
The demurrer is overruled.
 

Alter Ego Liability

All claims pled against Volero are pled on an alter ego theory.  Volero demurs to all claims pled against him,
contending the allegations of alter ego are deficient.  Plaintiffs’ alter ego allegations are found
at ¶6 of the SAC, and merely allege that each defendant was acting as the alter
ego of each other defendant.  As Defendants
correctly note in their demurrer, Rutherfold Holdings, LLC v. Plaza del
Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236 sets forth the pleading standard
for pleading alter ego.  In Rutherford,
the Court discussed the allegations of the plaintiff’s complaint as follows:
Rutherford alleged that Caswell
dominated and controlled PDR; that a unity of interest and ownership existed
between Caswell and PDR; that PDR was a mere shell and conduit for Caswell's
affairs; that PDR was inadequately capitalized; that PDR failed to abide by the
formalities of corporate existence; that Caswell used PDR assets as her own;
and that recognizing the separate existence of PDR would promote injustice.
These allegations mirror those held to pass muster in First Western Bank &
Trust Co. v. Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 910, 915–916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657. As
in First Western, *236  “[a]ssuming these
facts can be proved, [Caswell] ... may be held liable ... under the alter ego
principle.” (Id. at p. 916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657.)
 
The Court went on to discuss the pleading
standard governing a plaintiff’s allegation of alter ego against a defendant,
holding:
Defendants argue that Rutherford
failed to allege specific facts to support an alter ego theory, but Rutherford
was required to allege only “ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v.
City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550, 67 Cal.Rptr.3d 330, 169 P.3d
559.) Moreover, the “less particularity [of pleading] is required where the
defendant may be assumed to possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if
not superior, to that possessed by the plaintiff,” which certainly is the case
here. (Burks v. Poppy Construction Co. (1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474, 20 Cal.Rptr.
609, 370 P.2d 313.) Therefore, we affirm the trial court's ruling that
Rutherford sufficiently pled an alter ego theory of liability.
 
Plaintiffs herein failed to allege
any of the ultimate facts showing alter ego liability.  They failed to allege unity of interest,
domination and control, inadequate capitalization, etc.  Volero’s demurrer is therefore sustained with
leave to amend.  Plaintiffs must allege
ultimate facts showing imposition of liability against Volero would be proper.
 
4.     Motion
to Strike
Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages and
related allegations.  Plaintiffs’ only
punitive damages allegations are found at ¶45 of the SAC, which is in the cause
of action for NIED.  Because the demurrer
to the NIED cause of action is sustained, the motion to strike is granted.  Because a negligence cause of action cannot
support a prayer for punitive damages, leave to amend is denied. 
 
5.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
in part and overruled in part as set forth fully above.  Plaintiffs are ordered to file a Third
Amended Complaint within twenty days. 
Defendants are ordered to file a responsive pleading within the
statutory time thereafter.  Defendants
are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   