 Case Number:  23LBCV00523    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Claudia Lankford, individually and as successor-in-interest
to Valentina Timascu, filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Memorial
Medical Center, Steven J. Appleby, M.D., and Maurice A. Bell, M.D., as well as
Sorin Musat as a nominal defendant, for medical malpractice and wrongful death
arising out of Defendants’ care and treatment of Decedent, Timascu.  
 
2.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.     Moving
Argument
At this time, Defendant, LBMMC moves for summary judgment, contending it
complied with the standard of care at all times, and nothing it did caused or
contributed to Decedent’s death.  
 
b.    
Law
Governing Standard of Care
The standard of care against which
the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  Elcome v. Chin
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.  Unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common
knowledge of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only
be proved by an expert’s testimony.  Id.  If the “common knowledge” exception does not
apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is conclusive and cannot
be disregarded.  Id.  
 
A medical practitioner is not
necessarily negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method
of treatment or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted
method would have been a better choice. 
CACI 506.  Likewise, a medical
practitioner is not necessarily negligent just because his efforts are
unsuccessful or he makes an error that was reasonable under the
circumstances.  CACI 505.
 
Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is
within the common knowledge of laypersons. 
See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App4th 836, 844. “‘When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’“ (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
 
c.    
Law
Governing Causation
In order to establish that
defendant's negligence was a “substantial factor” in causing injury or death,
the plaintiff must prove the negligence was of itself sufficient to bring about
that harm.  “The law is well settled that
in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable
medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.  Mere possibility alone is insufficient to establish
a prima facie case.  [Citations.]  That there is a distinction between a
reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical 'possibility' needs little
discussion.  There can be many possible
‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of circumstances which can produce an
injury or disease. A possible cause only becomes ‘probable’ when, in the
absence of other reasonable causal explanations, it becomes more likely than
not that the injury was a result of its action. 
This is the outer limit of inference upon which an issue may be
submitted to the jury.” Bromme v. Pavitt (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498; citing
Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402 403.
 
d.    
Evidentiary
Objections
Defendant, with its reply papers,
filed objections to the Declaration of Jeffery Brown, M.D.  Defendant’s objections are sustained.  Defendant correctly notes that Dr. Brown fails
to lay a foundation for his testimony, as he fails to set forth his expert credentials
and also fails to detail which records he reviewed to form his expert
opinions.  Defendant also correctly notes
that Dr. Brown’s declaration repeatedly discusses what physicians did or did
not do, but never specifically opines concerning what the standard of care is
that governs Defendant’s nurses and non-physician staff, or how any of those
persons breached the standard of care.  The
objections are therefore sustained.  
 
e.    
Moving
Burden
Defendant supports its motion with the expert declaration of Ryan Klein,
M.D.  Dr. Klein sets forth his expert
credentials, states what records he reviewed, details Defendant’s care and
treatment of Decedent (through its nursing staff and non-physician personnel),
and ultimately concludes that Defendant’s care and treatment of Decedent
complied with the standard of care and did not cause or contribute to Decedent’s
death.
The Expert Declaration of Dr. Klein
is sufficient to meet Defendant’s moving burden to establish it is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  Notably,
Plaintiff does not object to Dr. Klein’s declaration or articulate any argument,
in opposition to the motion, contending Defendant failed to meet its moving
burden.  
 
The burden therefore shifts to
Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact concerning breach of the
standard of care and causation.  
 
f.     
Opposing
Burden
Plaintiff filed opposition to the
motion on 1/10/24.  Plaintiff supports
the opposition with the Declaration of Jeffery Brown, M.D.  As noted above, Dr. Brown’s declaration is
deficient in numerous respects, and the objections to the declaration are
sustained.  Because expert testimony is
necessary to defeat a summary judgment motion in the medical malpractice
context, and because Plaintiff’s expert declaration is objectionable and
therefore not admissible, Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of material
fact.  The summary judgment motion is
granted.  
 
g.    
Notice
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.