 Case Number:  23LBCV00675    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Dana P. McCovery, in pro per, filed this action against
Defendants, Kyaw Moe, M.D. and Julio C. Romero, M.D. for malpractice, negligence,
and wrongful death.  Plaintiff alleges
Decedent, Ella Jackson coded during dialysis on 1/20/22, was revived, suffered
another Code Blue on 1/21/22, and passed away thereafter.  
 
Plaintiff filed her original complaint on 4/20/23.  Defendants demurred, and the Court continued
the hearing, after providing guidance, to require the parties to meet and
confer.  The parties agreed to permit
Plaintiff to file an amended complaint curing the defects in the original
complaint.  On 11/06/23, Plaintiff filed
her First Amended Complaint.  The FAC
includes a sole cause of action for general negligence and alleges Defendants
administered dialysis treatment negligently knowing Decedent’s blood pressure
had dropped dangerously low the last time the treatment had been administered.  
 
2.    
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel, Sean L. Cooper wrote a meet and confer letter to
Plaintiff, wherein Counsel detailed the arguments that form the basis of the
demurrer.  The correspondence concluded
by indicating that a demurrer would be filed if the parties did not resolve the
issues.  Counsel then discussed the
issues with Plaintiff by phone, but the parties were unable to agree on a
resolution.  The demurrer is therefore
ripe for determination on its merits.  
 
c.    
Initial
Note
Defendants filed their demurrer on 11/27/23.  Plaintiff attempted to file a Second Amended
Complaint on 11/29/23.  The Court “received”
the document, but did not file it, as it was not properly filed per CCP §473(a).  Plaintiff filed opposition to the demurrer to
the FAC on 1/08/24, and Defendants filed reply papers on 1/16/24.  
 
d.    
Analysis
Defendants argue the FAC is subject to demurrer because Plaintiff lacks
standing to pursue her claim for general negligence and also because the FAC
fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and is uncertain.
 
i.             
Standing

Plaintiff’s complaint includes a
sole cause of action for negligence.  Defendants
contend that, pursuant to CCP §377.32, Plaintiff was required to file an
affidavit or declaration under penalty of perjury including specified
information showing standing.  
 
The Court, in providing guidance in
connection with the demurrer to the original complaint (which included causes
of action for general negligence, medical malpractice, and wrongful death),
advised the parties:
With respect to the causes of
action for malpractice and negligence, Defendants are correct; the affidavit or
declaration was required.  With respect
to the cause of action for wrongful death, however, no such affidavit or
declaration is required.  CCP §377.60
sets forth the persons who can sue for wrongful death, and they include the
decedent’s children.  Plaintiff alleges,
in her complaint, that Decedent is her mother. 

 
The Court would be inclined to sustain
the demurrer with leave to amend as to the malpractice and negligence causes of
action on this ground, and to require Plaintiff to file the required
affidavit.  The Court would be inclined
to overrule the demurrer to the wrongful death cause of action on this
ground.  The Court asks the parties to
meet and confer to agree to the filing of an affidavit or declaration in
satisfaction of §377.32 if Plaintiff wishes to pursue the causes of action for
malpractice and/or negligence.
 
Plaintiff has continued to fail to
provide the required declaration or affidavit, has stated a sole claim for
general negligence in her FAC, and has failed to address the standing issue in
her opposition to the demurrer.  The demurrer
on this ground is sustained with leave to amend.  Plaintiff must provide a declaration or
affidavit in compliance with §377.32 if she amends her complaint a second
time.  
 
ii.            
Elements of Claims
Plaintiff’s claim sounds in
negligence.  Defendants correctly note
that the elements of a claim for negligence are duty, breach, causation, and
damages.  Defendants also correctly note
that the complaint, as presently drafted, does not give them notice concerning breach,
causation, and damages.  Plaintiff alleges
what happened, but does not allege that anything Defendants did violated the
standard of care, which is the required allegation in a negligence action
against a health care provider.  The demurrer
is sustained with leave to amend.  If
Plaintiff amends the complaint, she must allege Defendants’ acts violated the
standard of care applicable to medical providers under the circumstances of the
case.    
 
iii.           
Conclusion
The demurrer to the FAC is sustained
with leave to amend.  Plaintiff must file
a Second Amended Complaint and declaration or affidavit, as detailed above,
within twenty days.  Defendants must file
a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   