 Case Number:  23LBCV00365    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Demoni Henderson filed
this action against Defendants, City of Long Beach, City of Los Angeles, County
of Los Angeles, and California Department of Public Transportation for damages
arising out of a trip and fall on an unmarked bench.  Plaintiff’s complaint contains a sole cause
of action for premises liability – dangerous condition of public property.  
 
Plaintiff filed his complaint on
2/28/23.  The County filed an answer to the
complaint on 7/20/23.  Plaintiff dismissed
the County on 7/26/23.  The City of Long
Beach filed an answer to the complaint on 7/27/23.  CalTrans filed an answer to the complaint on
7/28/23.  Plaintiff dismissed CalTrans on
7/28/23.  
 
The City of Los Angeles filed this
demurrer and motion to strike on 8/10/23. 
Plaintiff filed timely opposition papers, and Defendant filed timely
reply papers.  
 
2.     Demurrer
to Complaint
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel, Jason R. Gianvecchio wrote a meet and confer letter to
Plaintiff, wherein Counsel detailed the arguments that form the basis of the
demurrer.  The correspondence concluded
by indicating that a demurrer would be filed if the parties did not resolve the
issues and inviting Plaintiff to discuss the issues.  Counsel declares Plaintiff’s attorney did not
respond to the correspondence.  The Court
will rule on the demurrer on the merits, and orders Plaintiff’s attorney to
promptly respond to meet and confer correspondence in the future in connection
with this and other actions.   
 
 

Analysis

Defendant demurs to the sole cause
of action in the complaint for dangerous condition of public property,
correctly noting that all claims against governmental entities must be pled
with specificity.  See Searcy v. Hemet Unified
School District (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d
792, 802.  Plaintiff’s complaint alleges
Plaintiff was injured because he encountered an unmarked bench that was in
disrepair.  As Defendant correctly notes
in the demurrer, Plaintiff provides no facts stating what “unmarked bench”
means, how the bench was in a state of disrepair, or how the bench injured
Plaintiff.  
 
Plaintiff’s lengthy opposition spends
a great deal of time arguing points not raised in the demurrer.  Plaintiff also cites authorities inapplicable
to a public entity.  What Plaintiff’s opposition
fails to do is address or show how alleging an unmarked bench in a state of
disrepair injured him.  The demurrer is
therefore sustained.  If Plaintiff
amends, he must plead his complaint with the level of particularity required
when pleading a claim against a public entity. 

 
3.     Motion
to Strike
a.     Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant seeks judicial notice of Plaintiff’s
claim for damages.  Plaintiff opposes the
RJN.  The Court takes judicial notice of
the fact that the document is what it purports to be and says what it purports
to say.  The Court does not take judicial
notice of the truth of any fact stated in the document.  
 
b.     Analysis
Plaintiff’s complaint, at Count
3(b), alleges the subject condition was created by a governmental employee.  Defendant moves to strike that allegation, contending
it conflicts with the government tort claim Plaintiff submitted prior to filing
the suit.  
 
Pursuant to Plata v. City of San
Jose (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 736, 748, a complaint is subject to
dismissal if it alleges a factual basis for recovery that is not “fairly
reflected” In the government tort claim. 

 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He first argues Defendant is improperly using
a motion to strike as a demurrer.  Plaintiff
is incorrect.  The motion to strike seeks
to strike a specific paragraph from the complaint.  Indeed, a demurrer would be an improper
vehicle to achieve this goal, as it must be used to challenge an entire cause
of action.
 
Plaintiff next argues Defendant is
improperly attempting to make argument outside the four corners of the
complaint.  Plaintiff is again
incorrect.  Defendant has properly sought
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s government tort claim.  The Court can review the claim and determine
what it does and does not say.  Again, per
Plata, the claim must fairly reflect Plaintiff’s legal theories in order to
support those theories in the complaint. 

 
Plaintiff’s final argument is that,
pursuant to Stockett v. Association of Cal. Water Agencies Joint Powers Ins.
Authority (2004) 34 Cal.4th 441, 446, his government tort claim is
sufficient to give Defendant notice of all theories ultimately pled in the
complaint against it.  Specifically, he
cites to a portion of the opinion clarifying that a plaintiff need not include
an allegation as to the legal cause of the accident in the tort claim.  The Court has reviewed Stockett and finds
Plaintiff is correct.  Stockett makes
clear that the claim need only give a general description of the circumstances of
the injury and damages incurred, and that variances between the claim’s general
description and the underlying facts or causes of action ultimately pleaded in
the complaint are not necessarily fatal; so long as the cause of action pleaded
alleges a factual basis for recovery that is “fairly reflected” in the written
claim, the complaint will be deemed sufficient. 

 
Plaintiff’s tort claim asserted he
was injured when he tripped on a bench.  A
variance between whether the City created the dangerous bench or failed to warn
of the dangerous bench is the type of variance Stockett held will not defeat
the complaint ultimately pled.  By way of
example, in Blair v. Superior Court (1990 218 Cal.App.3d 221, 226, the Court of
Appeals found a tort claim indicating the defendant entity had negligently
maintained and constructed the highway surface and failed to sand and care for
the highway was sufficient to support additional claims that the entity
defectively placed guardrails, negligently sloped the road, provided inadequate
warning signs, and allowed hazards to exist in the vicinity of the
highway.  
 
The motion to strike is
denied.    
 
4.     Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend.  Its motion to strike is
denied.  Plaintiff is ordered to file an
amended complaint within twenty days.  Defendant
is ordered to file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.    
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   