 Case Number:  23STCV22060B    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 13, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV22060




MOTION


Demurrer to Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff People of the State of California ex rel.
  Meredith J. Williams 




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Phibro-Tech,
  Inc.




 
MOTION
Plaintiff People
of the State of California ex rel. Meredith J. Williams, Director of the
California Department of Toxic Substances Control (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Phibro-Tech,
Inc. (“Defendant”), contending Defendant failed to comply with the California
Hazardous Waste Control Law (“HWCL”). 
Defendant cross-complained against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff demurs to the second cause of
action in Defendant’s cross-complaint.  Defendant
opposes the demurrer. 
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Defendant’s second
cause of action is brought under title 42 United States Code section 1983,
which provides, “Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance,
regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or Territory or the District of
Columbia, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States
or other person within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any
rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall
be liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other
proper proceeding for redress.”  (42 U.S.C. § 1983.)  “Only those
government actions that amount to a deliberate flouting of the law qualify for
relief under section 1983 . . . , not inadvertent errors, honest mistakes,
agency confusion, [or] negligence.”  (Galland
v. City of Clovis (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1003, 1038, internal quotations
omitted.)  In support of this cause of
action, Defendant alleges, “In violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
United States Constitution and article I, section 7(a) of the California
Constitution, [Plaintiff] deliberately flouted the law by erroneously applying
the HWCL and its implementing regulations to [Defendant] in such a way as to
injure [Defendant]’s economic and property interests.”  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 102.) 
Plaintiff argues Defendant
does not allege Plaintiff denied Defendant any legally protected interest.  As Plaintiff points out, Defendant alleges
Plaintiff’s actions “threaten[] [Defendant]’s ability to operate . . . ,” not
that Defendant is unable to operate.  (Cross-Complaint,
¶ 110.)  As such, Defendant’s allegations
reflect its claim is premature.  The
Court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.  Defendant must allege present harms to its
economic and property interests.
Plaintiff also
argues Defendant’s right to operate a hazardous waste storage facility is “an
economic right . . . , heavily regulated by the government, and derivative to [Defendant]’s
ability to satisfy numerous requirements.” 
(quoting Barri v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (2018) 28
Cal.App.5th 428, 460.)  As such, it is
not a fundamental interest entitled to substantive due process protection.  However, Defendant alleges Plaintiff violated
the HWCL in its treatment of Defendant.  (See,
e.g., Cross-Complaint, ¶ 107.)   Accordingly, Defendant may state a claim under
title 42 United States Code section 1983 that Plaintiff violated Defendant’s
rights under the HWCL.
Likewise,
Plaintiff’s argument Defendant’s allegations do not constitute flouting of the HWCL
is unpersuasive.  Defendant alleges Plaintiff
deliberately treated Defendant unequally and inconsistently.  (See, e.g., Cross-Complaint, ¶ 113.)  For pleading purposes, these allegations suffice.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s
demurrer to the second cause of action in Defendant’s cross-complaint is
sustained with leave to amend.  Defendant
is to file an amended cross-complaint within 10 days.
Plaintiff is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 