 Case Number:  20STCV39524    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
6, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: May 7, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         THE ESTATE OF RATAVOUS
SHAHVERDI, an individual; NORA SHAHVERDI, an individual, v. NARBEH TOVMASSIAN,
M.D., an individual; ELEVATE HEALTH GROUP, a medical corporation; MONTROSE
HEALTHCARE CENTER, business form unknown; and DOES 1 through 50,
inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV39524
 
            
 
DEMURRER
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Narbeh Tovmassian, M.D.,
and Elevate Health
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Estate of Ratavous Shahverdi and Nora Shahverdi
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants demurrer to Plaintiffs’
first amended complaint, move to strike Plaintiffs prayer for punitive damages,
and move for an order compelling a response from Nora Shahverdi. 
 
BACKGROUND
             
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Estate
Ratavous Shaverdi (“Ratavous”) and Nora Shahverdi (“Nora”) (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) claim that Defendants Narbeh Tovmassian, M.D. (“Dr. Tovmassian”),
Elevate Health Group (“Elevate”), and Montrose Healthcare Center (“MHC”)
(collectively “Defendants”) negligent provide medical services. Specifically,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants prescribed and force-fed Ratavous a regimen
of unneeded medication. Plaintiffs allege the medication caused adverse
chemical reactions, such as producing a high level of insulin in Ratavous,
causing him to be bedridden. Plaintiffs allege that the adverse reactions
caused Ratavous to be unable to communicate and lose his independence. 
 
            Plaintiffs filed a first amended
complaint on August 14, 2023, alleging eigth causes of action for (1) medical
malpractice, (2) lack of informed consent, (3) failure to screen, (4) loss of
consortium, (5) general negligence, (6) general negligence (negligent
infliction of emotional distress), (7) wrongful death, and (8) fraud. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth and eighths causes of action are SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. 
            
Defendants’ motion to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
Defendants’ motion to compel
discovery responses are DENIED as moot. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Demurrer
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Motion to Compel 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling a response to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. section
2030.290, subd. (b).) The same applies to a party that fails to respond to a
request for document production. (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.300, subd. (b).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure Section 377.31 and Statute of Limitations
 
Defendants argue that section 377.31
and the applicable statute of limitations bar Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
377.31, subdivision (a), provides that a person seeking to continue a pending
action as a decedent’s successor in interest “shall execute and file an
affidavit or a declaration” stating several factual statements. Defendants
contend Plaintiffs’ claims fail because they failed to include the affidavit
with their first amended complaint. In opposition, Plaintiffs concede they failed
to include the affidavit with their FAC but provide that they previously
executed and filed the declaration with their motion for leave to amend.
Because Plaintiff has previously executed and filed a declaration as decedent’s
successor-in-interest, Defendants’ arguments regarding Plaintiff’s failure to
comply with section 377.31 are rejected.
 
Defendants also argue that
Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the statute of limitations because they do not
relate back to Plaintiffs’ original complaint. Specifically and as applied to
Defendants’ demurrer, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action
for negligent infliction of emotional distress and eighth cause of action for
fraud do not relate back to Plaintiffs’ original complaint. In opposition,
Plaintiffs state they have decided to dismiss those causes of action.
(Opposition at p. 4:10.) Thus, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’ sixth and
eighth causes of action is sustained. 
 
            Duplicative
Causes of Action
 
            Defendants
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ causes of aciton on the grounds that they are
duplicative. However, Defendant Elevate previously raised this issue, which was
sustained in part and overruled in part. “[A] defendant cannot demur on the
same grounds to a previous demurrer that was overruled[.]” (County of El
Dorado v. Superior Court (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 620, 625.) Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ causes of action on the grounds that the claims are
duplicative are overruled.
 
            Third
Cause of Action for Negligent Failure to Screen
 
            Defendants
demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for negligent failure to screen.
This issue was previously raised by Defendants in their previous demurrer. The
demurrer was sustained without leave to amend as to Dr. Tovmassian but
overruled as to Elevate. Elevate brings this demurrer on the same grounds as
contained in its previous demurrer. Thus, Elevate’s  demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action
is overruled.
 
            Motion
to Strike 
 
            Defendants
move to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.13.
 
“In any action for damages arising out of the professional
negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive
damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless the
court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for
punitive damages to be filed. The court may allow the filing of an amended
pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended
pleading and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented
that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that
the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil Code. The court shall not grant a
motion allowing the filing of an amended pleading that includes a claim for
punitive damages if the motion for such an order is not filed within two years
after the complaint or initial pleading is filed or not less than nine months
before the date the matter is first set for trial, whichever is earlier.” (Code
Civ. Proc. section 45.13, subd. (a).)
 
Previously,
this court granted Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a first amended
complaint. Plaintiffs’ motion was predominately framed as a means of updating
the complaint to add a successor-in-interest to reflect that Ratavous Shahverdi
had passed away. Neither the motion nor declarations made sufficient showing
that there was a substantial probability that plaintiff would prevail on the
claim. Thus, Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages in their FAC are improper.
Plaintiff does not address this issue in opposition. Defendants’ motion to
strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is granted.
 
            Discovery
Motions
 
            Defendants
separately move for an order compelling Nora Shahverdi to provide responses to
their discovery requests. Elevate moves to compel responses to its special
interrogatories set two and requests for the production of documents set two.
Dr. Tovmassian moves to compel Nora to provide responses to his form
interrogatories, requests for the production of documents, and special
interrogatories. 
 
            Defendants
provide that they served their discovery requests on Plaintiff on October 20,
2023. (Mcamis Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendants provide that they have not
received any responses from Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 4.) In opposition,
Plaintiff’s counsel provide that no responses were served based on Plaintiff’s
deteriorating health condition. (Keshishian Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel
also provides that Nora Shahverdi passed away in January of 2024. (Opposition
at p. 3:4.) 
 
            It appears to the court that Defendants’ motion are mooted by
Plaintiff’s passing. However, Plaintiff’s counsel has not stated in his
declaration that Plaintiff has passed. Upon Plaintiff’s counsel’s affirmative
statement or declaration that he has been informed of Plaintiff's passing,
Defendants’ motions to compel are denied as moot. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth and eighths causes of action are SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. 
            
Defendants’ motion to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
Defendants’ motion to compel
discovery responses are DENIED as moot. 
 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:   March 6, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
