  Case Number:  19STCV37868    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  74 Rima
Badalyan v. Starbucks Coffee Company
Motion to Dismiss
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND 
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On October 21, 2019, Plaintiff Rima
Badalyan (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendant Starbucks Coffee
Company (Defendant). The complaint alleges discrimination, failure to provide
reasonable accommodation, failure to enter into an interactive process,
unlawful discharge, and wrongful termination in violation of public policy.
            On November 29, 2023, Defendant
filed this motion to dismiss for delay in prosecution.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “The court may in its discretion
dismiss an action for delay in prosecution […] if to do so appears to the court
appropriate under the circumstances of the case.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.410,
subd. (a).) “Dismissal shall be pursuant to the procedure and in accordance
with the criteria prescribed by rules adopted by the Judicial Council.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 583.410, subd. (b).)
            Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1340, the court may dismiss an action for
delay in prosecution if the action has not been brought to the trial or
conditionally settled within two years after the action was commenced against
the defendant.
DISCUSSION 
            The
court finds that a dismissal is not warranted under the circumstances. On
February 16, 2023, the court ordered the matter to be returned to arbitration.
Since then, Plaintiff has taken steps to initiate arbitration with AAA and JAMS
(Golob Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4; Ex. 1; Golob Decl., ¶ 11; Ex. 10.) Moreover,
Defendant has not persuaded the court that the parties will not get a hearing
date before the five-year mandatory dismissal deadline. (Code Civ. Proc.,
583.310.) And as Plaintiff notes, Emergency rule 10 extends that deadline by
six months. (Cal. Rules of Court, Appen. I, rule 10, subd. (a).) Thus, the
court declines to exercise its discretion to dismiss for delay in prosecution.
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Defendant’s motion to dismiss.
Defendant
shall give notice.