 Case Number:  23SMCV01477    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Abitbol v. Pico Eleven, Case no.
23SMCV01477
Hearing date October 7, 2024
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Leave to Amend
Tenant
plaintiffs Jonathan and Sara Abitbol sue landlord/property managers defendants
Pico Eleven, LLC and BD Management Company, LLC for breach of lease, breach of
the implied warranty of habitability, nuisance, negligence, NIED and fraudulent
concealment. Plaintiffs seek leave to amend their complaint.
Per
CCP §473(a)(1): “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.” Courts have held “there is
a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” Mesler v.
Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura
v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) (“Trial courts are
bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings…”)
Per
CRC 3.1324(a), a motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed
amended pleading; and (2) state what allegations are proposed to be deleted
from or added to the previous pleading. CRC 3.1324(b) requires a declaration
stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary
and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
Defendants
argue plaintiffs fail to state what allegations are to be deleted or added. Though
the motion does not state what allegations are being deleted, plaintiffs attach
their proposed FAC and a redlined version. This puts defendants on notice of
the proposed amendments. 
Plaintiffs
note removal of the sixth COA occurred via stipulation, and the court granted
an order on 6/6/2023 to that effect. Not only did defendants have notice of the
sixth COA’s deletion but were parties to that decision.
Defendants
argue plaintiffs’ declaration is defective under CRC 3.1324(a). Plaintiffs’
counsel states the effects of the amendments and when the facts were discovered.
Decl. Taylor para. 7. Counsel states the amendments are necessary because
plaintiffs experienced additional problems with defendants related to the
lawsuit since it commenced. Decl. Taylor para. 4. Counsel states the amendments
were not brought sooner because the issues within are ongoing, and plaintiffs
were in communication with defendants prior to the filing of this motion. Decl.
Taylor paras. 4-5. Plaintiffs’ declaration satisfies the requirements of CRC
3.1324.
Defendants
argue the newly alleged facts implicate anti-SLAPP issues. If defendants wish
the court to strike those allegations, defendants may file an anti-SLAPP
motion. It is not proper to consider such arguments in opposition to a motion
for leave to amend.
Defendants
argue the proposed amendments give rise to facts that will necessitate more
discovery. Plaintiffs note “[t]here is a strong policy in favor of liberal
allowance of amendments.” Mesler, supra, at 296. Parties can amend at
any time, including during trial. That the parties might need to engage in
additional discovery is not a reason to deny leave to amend. GRANTED.
Plaintiffs to file the FAC within 10 court days. 