 Case Number:  22SMCV02758    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Homerin v. Equinox Fitness Culver
City, Case no. 22SMCV02758
Hearing date October 7, 2024
Defendant
Equinox’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Plaintiff
Homerin sues defendants Equinox Fitness Culver City and Stages Cycling, LLC for
negligence and products liability claims arising out of an injury sustained
while participating in an indoor cycling class. Plaintiff alleges one of Equinox’s
employees negligently failed to properly secure the toe-cage on her bike,
causing it to come loose, injuring her. 
Equinox
moves for summary judgment, arguing plaintiff signed an express waiver of
liability and assumed the risk, barring her claim. Plaintiff’s counsel requests
relief for untimely filing of plaintiff's opposition under Code Civ. Proc.
§473(b) and opposes the motion. 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial
Notice of the TAC
Defendant
Equinox requests judicial notice of the third amended complaint, filed
7/21/2023. The court may take judicial notice of its own files when requested
pursuant to Evid. Code §452(d)(1). The TAC is part of the court’s record.
GRANTED.
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
to Voris Declaration
Defendant
Equinox files 32 evidentiary objections to plaintiff’s declaration of Harvey
Voris. Objections 1-8 OVERULED, objection 9-10 GRANTED (hearsay), objections
11-32 OVERULED.
Plaintiff’s Request for Relief from
Untimely Filing of Opposition
Plaintiff’s
opposition was filed one day late. Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a declaration,
asserting the delay was due to technology failure on the eve of the filing
deadline. Decl. Eballar para. 11. 
Equinox
argues the opposition should be disregarded as untimely. Equinox had sufficient
time to prepare a reply, filed 10/2/2024. There is not significant prejudice
due to the one-day delay, and plaintiff offered a reasonable explanation as to
the brief delay. The court will consider plaintiff’s opposition on its merits.
To do otherwise would be an unduly harsh result. If defendant was prejudiced by
the one-day delay, the court will hear argument or consider brief continuance
to allow defendant to have the full statutory time to reply.
Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgement
A
court determining a summary judgment motion applies a three-step process: (1)
identifying the issues framed by the complaint, (2) determining whether moving
party made an adequate showing that negates the opponent’s claim, and (3)
determining whether opposing party raised a triable issue of fact. Bostrom
v. County of San Bernardino (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1654, 1662. "In
order to state a cause of action for negligence, the complaint must allege
facts sufficient to show a legal duty on the part of the defendant to use due
care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or legal
cause of the resulting injury." Bellah
v. Greenson (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 614, 619. 
Defendant
argues the negligence claim is barred by an express waiver of liability, and plaintiff
assumed the inherent primary risk of indoor cycling. 
Both
parties agree plaintiff attended an indoor cycling class and that indoor
cycling carries inherent risks. SSAMF 1-2. Equinox argues plaintiff expressly
assumed the risk by signing a liability waiver. UMF 4-8. Equinox also argues
plaintiff was experienced. Plaintiff disputes existence of the waiver and
argues Equinox employee teacher Amy Robertson substantially increased the risk
of injury to plaintiff, defeating primary assumption of the risk. SSAMF 4-7.
Express Waiver of Liability
An
express release of liability is enforceable so long as it is clear, unambiguous
and explicit in expressing the parties’ intent. Sweat v. Big Time Auto
Racing, Inc. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1304-05. “A valid release
precludes liability for risks of injury within the scope of the release.” Grebing
v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 631, 637. 
Equinox
argues plaintiff digitally signed a liability waiver. UMF 4-8. This creates a
triable issue of material fact as to waiver and shifts the burden to plaintiff.

Plaintiff
disputes knowledge of, and signature of, a waiver. SSAMF 4-7. Plaintiff asserts
Equinox conducted a search, including a search of its national corporate
database, and is unable to locate a waiver signed by plaintiff. PMF 9.
Plaintiff asserts she never saw nor signed a waiver. PMF 7. Plaintiff argues
she only presented a photo ID and signed in using an electronic signature
sensor. PMF. 7. Plaintiff raised a triable issue of material fact regarding
existence of a signed waiver. 
Inherent Assumption of Primary Risk
Equinox
argues even if the express waiver does not bar a negligence claim, plaintiff
assumed the primary risk of indoor cycling, precluding liability. The
"assumption of the risk" doctrine provides an exception to the
general duty of care when a plaintiff is injured while voluntarily
participating in a sporting activity that has inherent risks. See Luna
v. Vela (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 102, 108. 
In
primary assumption of the risk, a plaintiff has voluntarily participated in an
activity or sport that includes various inherent risks, thereby relieving defendant
of a duty to use due care to avoid plaintiff suffering an injury as a result of
those inherently risky aspects of the sport. See, e.g., Knight v.
Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 308-309, fns. 3-4, 315-316.
The
parties do not dispute that plaintiff voluntarily participated in the indoor
cycling class, nor do the parties dispute indoor cycling has inherent risks.
SSAMF 1-2. 
Equinox
offers the declaration of fitness instructor Amy Robertson, who states indoor
cycling carries inherent risks, such as muscle soreness, knee/back pain, foot
numbness/tingling, dehydration and slipping off pedals if feet are not properly
secured. UMF 2; Decl. Robertson para. 4. Equinox asserts plaintiff’s injury
occurred as a result of her foot slipping off the pedal, an inherent primary
risk of indoor cycling. Equinox provides evidence that injuries similar to
plaintiff’s are inherent to the activity. The burden shifts to plaintiff to
show a triable issue of material fact.
Plaintiff
argues her injury did not arise from her foot slipping off a pedal, but from the
bike’s left toe cage separating from the bike and taking her foot with it. PMF
13, 14. Plaintiff argues a component of the bike falling off is not an inherent
risk of indoor cycling, so plaintiff did not assume the risk. Plaintiff
provides the declaration of engineer Harvey Voris, a fitness machine designer
and engineer, that the injury could arise as alleged and would be the
instructor’s responsibility to prevent. Decl. Voris paras. 17-18.
Plaintiff
also argues teacher Robertson increased the risk of harm to plaintiff. A
defendant who substantially or unreasonably increases the inherent risk of an
activity is liable for gross negligence, even if a waiver exists. Willhide-Michiulis
v. Mammoth Mountain Ski Area, LLC (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 344, 358. 
Plaintiff
asserts she asked Robertson for help securing the left toe cage. PMF 10. Plaintiff
asserts Robertson failed to properly warn her of potential risks prior to
beginning the activity. PMF 20. Voris opines Robertson failed to properly secure
the toe cage, resulting in injury. Decl. Voris para. 29.
Plaintiff
argues Robertson undertook responsibility for the safety of newer and
inexperienced class participants when she specifically targeted and repeatedly
reassured those invited to her class “DO NOT stress” because she will “get them
all set up.” PMF 4; Decl. Robertson ex. 4. Plaintiff further argues Robertson’s
actions created a duty to identify inexperienced riders, and Equinox breached
that duty via Robertson’s failure to properly attach the left toe cage. Plaintiff
established a triable issue of fact as to whether Robertson substantially
increased the risk of harm to plaintiff, thereby establishing a triable issue
of fact as to whether plaintiff inherently assumed the primary risk of indoor
cycling. DENIED.