 Case Number:  23STCV13920    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




heather miller

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
z&s management
   corporation d/b/a 360 behavioral health

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV13920




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   14, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  motion to compel arbitration
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to stay proceedings



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Z&S Management
Corporation, d/b/a 360 Behavioral Health – Management Services
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Heather Miller
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Arbitration 
(2)  
Motion
to Stay Proceedings
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with each
motion. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Heather Miller (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 15,
2023 against defendant Z&S Management Corporation, d/b/a 360 Behavioral
Health (“Defendant”), alleging 12 causes of action for (1) pregnancy
discrimination; (2) sex discrimination; (3) failure to provide reasonable
accommodation; (4) failure to provide lactation breaks; (5) retaliation; (6)
failure to prevent discrimination; (7) wrongful termination in violation of
public policy; (8) failure to provide meal periods; (9) failure to provide rest
periods; (10) failure to pay all wages due upon termination; (11) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; and (12) unfair business practices. 
Now pending before the court are two motions filed by Defendant: (1)
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration, and (2) Defendant’s motion to stay
proceedings.
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Defendant moves the court for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit
the claims alleged in her Complaint to binding arbitration, or, in the
alternative, to order the parties to address the issues presented in this
motion before Hon. Linda L. Miller (Ret.), the arbitrator appointed to the
arbitration proceedings previously initiated by Plaintiff (JAMS Case No.
1210038032).
1.     Existence
of Written Agreement to Arbitrate
A written
provision in any contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle
by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract shall be
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or
in equity for the revocation of any contract.¿ (9 U.S.C. § 2.)  The Federal
Arbitration Act requires courts to direct parties to proceed to arbitration on
issues covered by an arbitration agreement upon a finding that the making of
the arbitration agreement is not in issue.¿ (9 U.S.C. § 4; Chiron Corp. v.
Ortho Diagnostic Sys. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.)¿ “The court’s
role under the [Federal Arbitration Act] is therefore limited to determining
(1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether
the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.”¿ (Chiron Corp., supra,
207 F.3d at p. 1130.)¿ The Federal Arbitration Act reflects “both a ‘liberal
federal policy favoring arbitration,’ [citation], and the ‘fundamental
principle that arbitration is a matter of contract,’ [citation].”¿ (AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿ 
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ The burden of
production as to this finding shifts in a three-step process.¿ (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)¿ First, the
moving party bears the burden of producing prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate, which can be met by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opponent’s signature. (Ibid.)¿ If the
moving party meets this burden, the opposing party bears, in the second step,
the burden of producing evidence to challenge its authenticity.¿ (Ibid.)¿
If the opposing party produces evidence sufficient to meet this burden, the
final step requires the moving party to establish, with admissible evidence, a
valid arbitration agreement between the parties.¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
First, the
court finds that Defendant has met its burden of producing prima facie evidence
of an agreement to arbitrate. 
In support
of its motion, Defendant has submitted the “Arbitration Agreement” entered into
by and between Plaintiff, on the one hand, and Defendant, on the other
hand.  (Rea Decl., Ex. B to Ex. B,
Arbitration Agreement.)  The Arbitration
Agreement states, in relevant part, that the parties “agree that any dispute or
controversy covered by this Agreement or arising out of, relating to, or
concerning any interpretation, construction, performance, validity,
enforceability, or breach of this Agreement, except as provided in Section 2 of
this Agreement, shall be resolved by binding arbitration . . . .”  (Rea Decl., Ex. B to Ex. B, Arbitration
Agreement, p. 1.)  The Arbitration
Agreement further states that it “applies to the resolution of all disputes
arising out of or relating to the employment relationship including, but not
limited to, claims arising under statue, regulation, contract or common
law.”  (Ibid.)  The Arbitration Agreement purports to bear
Plaintiff’s signature, dated October 30, 2018. 
(Id. at p. 2.)
Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has produced prima facie evidence of an arbitration
agreement entered into by and between Plaintiff and Defendant. 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to
challenge the authenticity of the Arbitration Agreement.  
Plaintiff does not dispute the authenticity of the Arbitration
Agreement in her opposition papers. 
Moreover, the parties do not dispute that Plaintiff initiated
arbitration proceedings against Defendant pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement
on May 5, 2021.  (Rea Decl., ¶ 3;
Kaufman Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Thus, the court finds that there exists a valid agreement to arbitrate
between Defendant and Plaintiff.  
The court further finds that the Arbitration Agreement encompasses the
claims alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint, because (1) the Arbitration Agreement
extends to all disputes arising out of or relating to the parties’ employment
relationship, and (2) Plaintiff’s causes of action—which allege claims under
the Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Labor Code, and for wrongful
termination, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and unfair
competition—all arise from her employment with Defendant.  (Compl., ¶¶ 53-57, 60, 68, 79-81, 91,
98, 106, 113, 121, 128-129, 136, 140-142, 147.) 
2.     Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1281.98
As set forth above, the court has concluded that there is a valid
arbitration agreement and has noted that the parties do not dispute that
Plaintiff initiated arbitration proceedings against Defendant pursuant
thereto.  The parties dispute whether (1)
Plaintiff can rely on Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98 to withdraw from
arbitration, and (2) Defendant has materially breached the Arbitration
Agreement. 
The court finds that (1) the parties agreed to incorporate the Federal
Arbitration Act and its procedural provisions, and (2) Plaintiff therefore has
not met her burden to show that she may proceed in court pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.98. 
i.                
Incorporation of the Procedural
Provisions of the Federal Arbitration Act
“Section 2 of the [Federal Arbitration Act] is a substantive rule
that applies in both federal and state courts.” 
(Judge v. Nijjar Realty, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 619, 630.)  In contrast, “‘[t]he [Federal
Arbitration Act’s] procedural provisions (9 U.S.C. §§ 3,
4, 10, 11) do not apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause
expressly incorporating them.’ 
[Citation.]  ‘[T]he question is
not whether the parties adopted the [California Arbitration Act’s] procedural
provisions: The state’s procedural statutes ([Code Civ. Proc.,] §§ 1281.2,
1290.2) apply by default because Congress intended the comparable [Federal
Arbitration Act] sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) to apply in
federal court.’”  (Victrola 89, LLC v.
Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345 [emphasis in original] [internal citation
omitted]; Cronus Investments, Inc.
v. Concierge Services (2005) 35
Cal.4th 376, 394 [“Our opinion does not preclude parties to an arbitration
agreement to expressly designate that any arbitration proceeding
should move forward under the [Federal Arbitration Act’s] procedural provisions rather than under
state procedural law”] [emphasis in original].) 
Here, the Arbitration Agreement states that “[a]rbitration under this
Agreement . . . is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1
et seq.).”  (Rea Decl., Ex. B to Ex. B, Arbitration
Agreement, p. 1.)  The
court finds that this language shows that the parties “adopted the [Federal
Arbitration Act]—all of it—to govern their arbitration[,]”
including its procedural provisions.  (Rodriguez
v. American Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1122; Cronus,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 383 [courts “examine the language of the
contract to determine whether the parties intended to apply the [Federal
Arbitration Act] to the exclusion of California procedural
law”].) 
The court
notes that, when agreements to arbitrate are “completely silent” and include
“no terms mentioning or alluding to the Federal
Arbitration Act, California law, or any other state law or rules of
procedure[,]” the procedural provisions of the CAA will apply in California
courts.  (Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Safety National Casualty Corp. (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 471, 479.)  However, Plaintiff has
not pointed to any provision in the Arbitration Agreement that (1) limits or
conditions the application of the Federal Arbitration Act to
any part of arbitration, or (2) incorporates California law, and the court has
found none.  Instead, the only provision in the
Arbitration Agreement regarding choice of law is the provision stating that
arbitration is governed under the Federal Arbitration Act.  (Rea Decl., Ex. B to Ex. B, Arbitration Agreement, p. 1.)  
Thus, the
court finds that the language of the Arbitration Agreement requiring
arbitration to be “governed by the Federal Arbitration Act” is “broad and
unconditional” and incorporates the procedural provisions of the Federal
Arbitration Act in place of California procedural law.  (Rea Decl., Ex. B to Ex. B, Arbitration
Agreement, p. 1; Rodriguez, supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1121-1122 [finding that the arbitration agreement, which provided that the
parties agreed to arbitrate claims “[p]ursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act[,]”
incorporated the procedural provisions of the Federal
Arbitration Act].) 
 
ii.              
Default Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.98
In her opposition, Plaintiff contends that, because Defendant failed
to timely pay arbitration fees in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.98, Defendant is in material breach of the Arbitration Agreement, is in
default, and has waived its right to compel Plaintiff to proceed with
arbitration.  (Opp., p. 1:2-7; Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.98, subd. (a)(1).)  Thus,
Plaintiff requests that the court deny Defendant’s motion. 
As set forth above, the court has concluded that the procedural
provisions of the Federal Arbitration Act apply here.  Thus, the California Arbitration Act,
including Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98, do not apply to the parties.  (Gallo v. Wood Ranch USA, Inc. (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 621, 633, n. 4 [in 2019, the California Legislature amended the
California Arbitration Act to add, inter alia, section 1281.98].) 
The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to
show that Defendant has waived its right to compel Plaintiff to arbitration.[1]

3.     Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that (1) Defendant
has met its burden to show the existence of a valid, written agreement to
arbitrate this controversy; (2) Plaintiff has not met her burden to challenge
the authenticity of the agreement; and (3) Plaintiff has not met her burden to
establish a defense to the enforcement of the agreement. 
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion.  (Chiron Corp., supra, 207 F.3d
at p. 1130.) 
MOTION TO STAY PROCEEDINGS 
Defendant moves the court for an order staying proceedings in this
action (1) pending resolution of its motion to compel arbitration, and (2)
pending completion of binding arbitration before Hon. Linda L. Miller (Ret.). 
First, because the court has ruled on Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration, the request to stay the action pending resolution of Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is moot. 
Second, the court grants Defendant’s request to stay this action
pending completion of arbitration. 
(Opp., p. 7:10-11 [“Plaintiff does not object to the matter being stayed
pending completion of Arbitration with JAMS” and only objects to the extent
that Defendant has used this motion to evade discovery]; 9 U.S.C. § 3.)
ORDER

The court grants defendant Z&S Management Corp., d/b/a 360
Behavioral Health – Management Services’ (1) motion to compel arbitration, and
(2) motion to stay proceedings. 
The court orders (1) defendant Z&S Management Corp., d/b/a 360
Behavioral Health – Management Services and plaintiff Heather Miller to
arbitrate all of the claims alleged in plaintiff Heather Miller’s Complaint, and
(2) this action is stayed until arbitration is completed.
The court orders that all future hearing dates presently scheduled in
this action are vacated.   
The court sets an Order to Show Cause re: completion of arbitration
for hearing on October 15, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders defendant Z&S Management Corp., d/b/a 360
Behavioral Health – Management Services to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 14, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


