  Case Number:  23CHCV03338    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿¿ 
Date:5/13/24 
Case #23CHCV03338
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

MAY 10, 2024
 

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV03338

¿ 
Demurrer filed: 12/18/23
¿ 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Daryl Haghighi; and Esther Gold (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK¿ 
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint.
¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled. Moving
Defendant to file and serve an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint within 30 days.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On 12/1/20, Plaintiffs allegedly
purchased a vehicle manufactured by Moving Defendant, and now bring this action
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.),
alleging that defects and nonconformities manifested themselves during the
warranty period. (Compl. ¶¶ 9, 14.)
 
On 10/31/23, Plaintiffs filed their
complaint, alleging against Moving Defendant and the nonmoving dealership the
following causes of action: (1) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(d); (2) Violation
of Civil Code Section 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code Section
1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability; (5) Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment; and (6) Negligent Repair. All causes of action except
for the sixth are alleged against Moving Defendant.
 
On 12/18/23, Moving Defendant filed
the instant demurrer. On 4/30/24, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On 5/6/24,
Moving Defendant filed its reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Here, Moving
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action on the basis that
Plaintiffs fail¿to allege facts sufficient to¿state¿a cause of action for Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment.
 
A.    Meet-and-Confer
 
Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that he met and
conferred telephonically with Plaintiffs’ counsel to discuss the issues raised
in the instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to a resolution.
(Decl. of Chen Fei Liu, ¶ 3.) Therefore, counsel has satisfied the preliminary
meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a).
 
B.    
Timeliness
 
A defendant
must file a demurrer to the complaint within 30 days of service unless extended
by stipulation or court order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.40 subd. (a).)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs’ complaint was personally served on Moving Defendant’s authorized
agent on 11/2/23. The instant demurrer was served on 12/18/23, 46 days after
Moving Defendant was served with the complaint. Therefore, as Plaintiffs note,
the instant demurrer is untimely. (Pls.’ Opp. 3:14.)
 
Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Court exercises its discretion to consider the
untimely-filed demurrer, particularly where Plaintiffs do not argue that any prejudice
would occur by should the Court consider Moving Defendant’s demurrer on its
merits. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Jackson v. Doe
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 750 [appellate court determined that trial court
properly exercised its discretion in considering untimely demurrer].)
 
C.   
Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
 
Plaintiffs’
fifth cause of action alleges Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment against FMC.
“The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or
suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by
intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a
result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v.
Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) 
 
1.     
Particularity
 
Fairness
requires that allegations of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the
court can weed out nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to
answer. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The
particularity requirement typically necessitates pleading facts that “show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiffs allege that Moving Defendant had actual knowledge of the
transmission defect through prior “pre-production testing, pre-production
design failure mode and analysis data, production failure mode and analysis
data, early consumer complaints made exclusively to Ford's network of dealers
and directly to Ford, aggregate warranty data compiled from Ford's network of
dealers, testing conducted by Ford in response to consumer complaints, and
repair order and parts data received by Ford from Ford's network of dealers.” (Compl.
¶ 26.) “Plaintiffs are informed, believe, and thereon allege that while
Defendant knew about the Transmission Defect, and its safety risks, Defendant
nevertheless concealed and failed to disclose the defective nature of the
Vehicle and its transmission to Plaintiffs at the time of sale, repair, and
thereafter. Had Plaintiffs known that the Subject Vehicle suffered from the
Transmission Defect, they would not have purchased the Subject Vehicle.” (Id.
at ¶ 62.) “In failing to disclose the defects in the Vehicle's
transmission, Defendant FMC has knowingly and intentionally concealed material
facts and breached its duty not to do so.” (Id. at ¶ 65.)
 
Here, Moving
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs fail to meet the particularity requirement for
pleading a fraud cause of action because “Plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement
claim fails to allege with particularity the defect Ford allegedly concealed.”
(Dem. 9:7–8.) Specifically, Moving Defendant argues that “Plaintiffs fail
entirely to allege where the omitted information should or could have been
revealed by Ford and failed to identify the requisite representative samples of
advertisements, offers, or other representations by Ford that consumers relied
upon to make their purchase.” (Id. 9:24–27.)
 
“Less
specificity should be required of fraud claims when it appears from the nature
of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information
concerning the facts of the controversy; even under the strict rules of common
law pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when
the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) In Alfaro,
the Court of Appeal found that plaintiffs home purchasers in a housing
development were sufficiently specific in pleading fraud based on the defendant
vendors' alleged nondisclosure of deed restrictions, even though plaintiffs did
not allege that the nondisclosure occurred by a certain means or at a certain
time or place, because the defendants possessed the records of their dealings
with plaintiffs. (Id. at 1385.)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs
argue in opposition that the particularity requirement is relaxed when, as
here, a plaintiff brings a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. (Pls.’
Opp. 4:18–19, citing Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998)
19 Cal.4th 26, 47.) Here, as Plaintiffs allege, Moving Defendant had superior and/or
exclusive knowledge of the transmission defect, as it “was in a superior
position from various internal sources to know (or should have known) the true
state of facts about the material defects contained in vehicle equipped with
the defective transmission.” (Compl. ¶ 64b.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that the particularity requirement for pleading
a fraud cause of action is relaxed at this stage, and that Plaintiffs have
sufficiently alleged facts to meet the relaxed standard. To the extent that Moving
Defendant contends that the complaint lacks factual allegations identifying to
the purported defect in Plaintiffs’ vehicle, the Court notes that Plaintiffs
sufficiently allege that the subject transmission defects detailed in the
complaint affect the subject vehicle. (Id. at ¶¶ 25–35.)
 
2.     
Duty to Disclose
 
“Fraudulent
concealment requires the ‘suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to
disclose it.’” (Huy Fong Foods, Inc. v. Underwood Ranches, LP (2021) 66
Cal.App.5th 1112, 1121, quoting Civ. Code § 1710, subd. 3.)  “Although, typically, a duty to disclose
arises when a defendant owes a fiduciary duty to a plaintiff …, a duty to
disclose may also arise when a defendant possesses or exerts control over
material facts not readily available to the plaintiff.” (Jones v.
ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1199.)
 
Here, Moving
Defendant further argues that Plaintiffs do not allege any direct dealings with
it, and therefore has not alleged that Moving Defendant had any requisite duty
to disclose. (Dem. 10:17.) Moving Defendant argues that no duty to disclose
exists where, as here, a plaintiff brings its claims against a manufacturer
from which it did not directly obtain the product in question. (Id. at 11:14–17.)

 
In Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, the Court of Appeal found that the
defendant manufacturer of a medical device owed the plaintiff patient no duty
to disclose where there was insufficient evidence that the parties transacted
in any way. (7 Cal.App.5th at 314.) Here, as Moving Defendant argues, “Plaintiffs
fail to allege facts establishing any direct transactional relationship between
Plaintiffs and Ford at the time of the alleged non-disclosure.” (Dem. 11:13–14.)

 
Notwithstanding
Moving Defendant’s argument, the Court, as previously discussed, finds that
Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that Moving Defendant, as the
manufacturer, had superior and/or exclusive knowledge of the transmission
defect, and that despite this knowledge, “Defendant FMC actively concealed the
existence and nature of the Defect from Plaintiffs at the time of purchase,
repair, and thereafter.” (Compl. ¶ 36.) Absent a fiduciary relationship between
the parties, Moving Defendant may nevertheless have a duty to disclose based on
such control over the material facts underlying the action. (Jones, 198
Cal.App.4th at 1199.) 
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
support a finding that Moving Defendant had the requisite duty to disclose,
giving rise to a fraudulent concealment cause of action. 
 
3.     
Economic Loss Rule
 
“The
economic loss rule provides that, in general, there is no recovery in tort for
negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm
unaccompanied by physical or property damage. … For claims arising from alleged
product defects, economic loss consists of damages for inadequate value, costs
of repair and replacement of the defective product or consequent loss of
profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to other property.” (Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 837 review granted
Feb. 1, 2023, 523 P.3d 392 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)[1]
 
Here, Moving
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is barred by the economic loss
rule because it is based on an alleged fraudulent omission rather than
affirmative misrepresentation, seeks purely economic losses, and derives from Moving
Defendant’s alleged non-performance under the warranty contract. (Dem. 14:2–16:14;
see also Food Safety Net Servs. v. Eco Safe Sys. USA, Inc. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 (“a party alleging fraud or deceit in connection with a
contract must establish tortious conduct independent of a breach of the
contract itself, that is, violation of some independent duty arising from tort
law.”).)
 
Plaintiffs
argue in opposition that “the economic loss rule does not apply to fraudulent
inducement because the duty not to commit fraud is independent of the contract
and the fraud occurs prior to the contract formation.” (Pls.’ Opp. 9:17–19,
citing Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551–552.) Plaintiffs
contend that here, they have sufficiently alleged that Moving Defendant
fraudulently induced them to enter into purchasing the subject vehicle by
intentionally concealing a material fact concerning the subject transmission defect,
a tort independent from Moving Defendant’s alleged breach of the warranty
contract.
 
As the
Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment, as outlined above, the Court
likewise finds that this tort is independent from any alleged breach of the
warranty contract itself. Accordingly, the Court finds that the economic loss
rule does not apply to bar Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action.
 
Based on the foregoing, the
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fourth of action is overruled.
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The demurrer is overruled. Moving Defendant to file and
serve an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint within 30 days.


