 Case Number:  23BBCV00880    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES –
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT V
JONATHAN TYREE EVANS, et al.;
Plaintiffs, vs. ADVENTIST HEALTH GLENDALE; Defendant. 
Case No.: 23BBCV00880 
Hearing Date: February 23, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF
MELANIE NICHOLE MELENDREZ MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION, AND
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiff
Melanie Nichole Melendrez
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Lucia Laura Torres
Motion to Compel Defendant’s
Further Responses to Interrogatories, Request for Production of Documents, and
Requests for Admission
The court considered the moving
papers, opposition, and reply filed in connection with the motion.
BACKGROUND
On April 25, 2023, Plaintiffs
Jonathan Tyree Evans (“Evans”) and Melanie Nichole Melendrez (“Melendrez”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendant Lucia
Laura Torres (“Defendant”). On
October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint for (1)
Rescission, (2) Fraud — Intentional Misrepresentation, (3) Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability, (4) Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment,
(5) Negligence, (6) Retaliatory Acts (Retaliatory Eviction)—Violation of
California Civil Code § 1942.5, (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, (8) Violation of CC § 789.3, and (9) Violation of B & P § 17200.
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff
Melendrez filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to
form interrogatories, special interrogatories, request for production of
documents, and requests for admission. On February 8, 2024, Defendant filed and
opposition, and on February 13, 2024, Melendrez replied.
LEGAL STANDARD
Under Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2030.300, subdivision (a), Section 2031.310, and 2033.290 subdivision
(a), parties may move for a further response to interrogatories, requests for
production of documents, or requests for admission where an answer to the
requests are evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or
too general. A motion to compel further response to requests for production has
an additional requirement to “set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b)(1).)
Notice of motions to compel
further responses to discovery must be given within 45 days of service of the
verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel
a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd.
(c), 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b), 2031.310, subd.
(b), 2033.290, subd. (b).) California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that
all motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses. (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345 (a)(3)).
Where the court grants a motion
to compel further responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification, or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (h), 2030.300, subd. (d); 2033.290, subd. (d).)
DISCUSSION
A. Meet and Confer
Defendant argues that Melendrez
has not sufficiently met and conferred because she filed the motion 2 days
after supplemental responses were served. Court finds, however, that the meet
and confer requirement was satisfied based on Defendant’s meet and confer prior
to the supplemental responses, which only supplemented a portion of the
responses that Melendrez maintains are incomplete.
Form Interrogatories
Melendrez seeks further
responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 12.1, 12.4, 15.1, and 17.1. The court
has reviewed the subject discovery requests and responses. As to Nos. 12.1,
12.4, and 15.1, the court agrees that Defendant has not provided all information
requested in the various subparts. For example, Defendant fails to provide
contact information for potential witnesses (response to Form Interrogatories
Nos 12.1, fails to provide the requested information about the specifics of the
photographs referenced in the supplemental response to Form Interrogatories No.
12.4, provides no information about the denial of material allegations or
affirmative defenses in the pleadings (Form Interrogatories Nos 15.1).
Melendrez also argues that
Defendant’s response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 is not code compliant. A
code-compliant response must be one of the following:(1)¿A statement that the
party will comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing,
or sampling by the date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any
related activities; (2)¿A representation that the party lacks the ability to
comply with the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of a
particular item or category of item; or (3)¿An objection to the particular
demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210(a).) A representation of inability to comply “shall
affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an
effort to comply with that demand” and “shall also specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.) The statement “shall set forth the name
and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that
party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of
item.” (Ibid.) The response of “Unknown at this time. Investigation and
discovery is ongoing” is not code compliant when documents are requested.
Based on the foregoing, the
court GRANTS the motion as to Form Interrogatories.
B. Special Interrogatories
Melendrez seeks further
responses to Special Interrogatory No. 25. This interrogatory requests details
as to any attempt to evict Plaintiffs from the rental unit. Defendant responded
that “Responding party filed the first unlawful detainer case on July 2022 and
second unlawful detainer case on May 24, 2023.” Plaintiff requests a further
response on the basis that the response omits an unlawful detainer filed later
in 2023, and a forcible eviction attempt made in August/September of 2023 where
responding party simply locked the tenants out of the unit and threw out all of
their items. In opposition, Defendant argues that the terms “attempt” and
“evict” are vague and ambiguous and that Defendant provided all information
relating to any unlawful detainers filed by Plaintiffs and known at the time of
the response. The court finds the response sufficient. If Melendrez seeks
information about the incidents she refers to, she may compel discovery
specifically directed towards those incidents.
Based on the foregoing, the
court DENIES the motion as to Special Interrogatories.
C. Requests for Admission
Melendrez seeks a further
response to Request for Admission No. 12 which asks Defendant to admit that she
failed to provide Plaintiffs with a habitable place to live. Defendants
responded that “A reasonable inquiry concerning the particular matter in this
request has been made and the information known or readily obtainable is
insufficient to enable responding party
to admit or deny this request
at this time.” Melendrez argues that the request asks for the admission of a
straightforward fact. Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.220, subdivision (c)
provides: “If a responding party gives lack of information or knowledge as a
reason for a failure to admit all or part of a request for admission, that
party shall state in the answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter
in the particular request has been made, and that the information known or
readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.”
Accordingly, the court finds that the response is code compliant. Further,
whether the property is habitable requires a legal conclusion.
Based on the foregoing, the
court DENIES the motion as to Requests for Admission.
D. Request for Production of
Documents
Melendrez seeks further
responses to Request for Production of Documents Nos. 2, 3, 55, and 56.
Request Nos. 2 and 3 requests
Any and all communications between Defendant and any person (besides
Defendant’s attorney) where the communication relates to Plaintiff or the
rental unit. Defendant responded that she will comply in whole with the
requests, and produced text messages. Melendrez argues a further response
should be compelled because these are not all responsive documents.
Specifically, nothing has been produced between landlord and manager, between
landlord and the City of Burbank which repeatedly cited her, between landlord,
manager, repairmen, and vendors relating to maintenance, etc. In opposition,
Defendant has produced all documents that are currently in her possession,
custody and control. The court finds the response code compliant and the
production sufficient as Defendant represents that these are all the documents
she has in her possession, custody, and control.
Request No. 55 requests all
unlawful detainer complaints Defendant filed against Plaintiffs. Defendant
responded that she will comply in whole with the request and produced a motion
from one of the UD cases. Melendrez argues a further response should be compelled
because the requests asks for complaints and none have been produced. In
opposition, Defendant argues that she initially produced all documents
currently in her possession, custody and control. In a good faith effort to
further comply, she requested a copy of the file from the Unlawful
Detainer Attorney, who
previously represented her, and will produce non-privileged documents upon
receipt. She represents that she indicated this in her further response. The
court finds this to be code compliant and sufficient.
Request No. 56 seeks all
communications between Defendant and the office of M.C. Earle relating to the
rental unit. Defendant objected to this demand on the grounds that it seeks
documents protected by the attorney-client and attorney work product privileges.
Melendrez argues a further response should be compelled because objections have
been waived by the failure to provide a timely response. Defendant argues that
there is a pending motion for relief from waiver of objections and argues this
motion is premature prior to this motion being heard. The court agrees that the
documents that may be privileged should not be compelled prior to resolution of
the pending motion for relief from waiver, and thus the motion as to this
request is premature.
Based on the foregoing, the
court DENIES the motion as to Request for Production of Documents.
E. Sanctions
As the motion is granted in
part and denied in part, the request for sanctions is denied.
F. Multiple Motions Filed As
One
Melendrez
improperly filed four motions to compel further discovery as one motion as it
sought to compel further responses to four different sets of discovery.
Accordingly, Melendrez is ORDERED to pay three extra filing fees to the court
for the motions.
Moving Plaintiff is ordered to
give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED: February 23, 2024
_____________________________
Sarah J. Heidel
Judge of
the Superior Court
 