  Case Number:  20STCV07031    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to be Admitted Pro Hac ViceLisa F. Moore, Esq. (“Applicant”) seeks admission to appear as counsel pro hac vice to represent Belcalis Marlenis Almanzar, known professionally and sued as Cardi B, (“Defendant”) in this action.DISCUSSIONApplicable LawAn out-of-state lawyer, not admitted to practice in California, may be admitted pro hac vice—i.e., to appear and take part in a particular action only. Applications for such admission are generally heard as law and motion matters.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)  To be eligible for admission pro hac vice: (1) the applicant must be admitted to practice before a U.S. court, or the highest court of any state or territory; (2) he or she must not be a California resident, nor regularly engaged in practice or other business here; and (3) a member of the California Bar must be associated as attorney of record in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).) A verified application must be filed stating (1) the applicant's residence and office addresses; (2) the court or courts in which he or she is admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that he or she is currently in good standing in such courts; (4) that he or she has not been suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title and case number of any California action in which he or she has applied to appear pro hac vice during the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar who is attorney of record. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)—filing fee must accompany application.)Copies of the application must be served by mail upon all parties who have appeared in the action, and also upon the State Bar at its San Francisco office at least 16 court days before the hearing (notice governed by Cal. Civ. Proc. § 1005). A fee (currently $50) must be paid to the State Bar.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)Application to FactsApplicant establishes that she is licensed in the State of Georgia and State of Texas, and is in good standing. Applicant provides the list of courts she is admitted to practice and each date of admission. Applicant has not filed one prior application to appear pro hac vice in California in the past two years. Applicant further declares she is not a California resident and does not regularly work in California.  Licensed California attorney, Peter Anderson, Esq., is associated as counsel in this case. Counsel of record tendered payment to the State Bar and declares that the moving papers had been served on the State Bar. The Court finds the requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40 have been satisfied.  CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Motion to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED. Defendant to give notice.