 Case Number:  23VECV04903    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  W SANDRA FLORES
vs ABRAHAM BEN DAVID, et al.
 
plaintiff’s
motion to compel arbitration pursuant to arbitration agreement 
 
Date of Hearing:        February
7, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04903
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Sandra Flores 
Responding Party:     Defendants
Mulholland Security Centers LLC, Abraham Ben David, and Avi ‘Coby’ Jacoby  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a wrongful termination case. On
November 6, 2023, Plaintiff Sandra Flores filed a complaint against Defendants
Mulholland Security Centers LLC, Abraham Ben David, and Avi ‘Coby’ Jacoby for 1.
Constructive Discharge in Violation of Public Policy (FEHA); 2. Constructive Discharge
in Violation of Public Policy (Failure to Pay Owed Wages); 3. Discrimination and
Disparate Treatment Based on National Origin; 4. Harassment; 5. Failure to
Prevent Harassment; 6. Misclassification as Exempt Employee; 7. Failure to Pay Minimum
Wage; 8. Failure to Pay Overtime Wages; 9. Meal Period Liability; 10. Rest
Break Liability; 11. Failure to Pay Accurate Itemized Wage Statements; 12.
Waiting Time Penalties; 13. Violation of Business & Professions Code Section
17200 et seq.; 14. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 15. Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and 16. Liquidated Damages for Wage Theft and
Failure to Pay Wages Plus Interest. 
 
Plaintiff began working for Defendants
in August 2021 as a sales manager. Plaintiff alleges during her employment she
was subjected to discrimination based on her race, sex, ancestry, and national
origin. Plaintiff further alleges Defendants regularly denied Plaintiff the
ability to take compliant meal periods and rest breaks as well as failed to pay
Plaintiff overtime. When Plaintiff reported the incidents to Defendants,
Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff began to experience adverse employment and due to
the hostility, was forced to resign. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings Pursuant to Arbitration
Agreement is GRANTED. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTION
 
Defendants
submit evidentiary objections to Corey A. Pingle, Esq.’s declaration submitted
in support of the motion to compel arbitration. Defendants objections 1-4 are
SUSTAINED. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Plaintiff Flores moves this court for an order to
stay proceedings pursuant to written agreement of the parties to arbitrate any
controversy or claim. 
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1281.2(a)-(b).) “Because the existence of the
agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner
bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.”
(Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,
413.)¿ 
¿ 
“California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”¿ (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)¿ 
 
Plaintiff contends on August 20, 2021,
Plaintiff and Defendants entered into an agreement to arbitrate any and all
employment disputes. (Pingle Decl., Exh. 1.) The Arbitration Agreement provides:
“In the event of a dispute between the parties over the execution of the
attached contract, the parties will waive their right to litigate these issues
in court and instead will resolve their dispute through binding arbitration in
Canoga Park, California.” (Pingle Decl., Exh. 1, ¶1.) Pursuant to the terms of
the Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff made a demand of arbitration on April 4,
2023. (Pingle Decl., Exh. 2.) However, Defendants failed to comply by failing
to make the necessary payment to American Arbitration Association. (Pingle
Decl. ¶7.) 
 
Defendants oppose the motion. The court
takes the time to note it seems peculiar that Defendants, who themselves
drafted the Arbitration Agreement, now seek court intervention to deem the
agreement unconscionable. Although the court will, in good faith, analyze
Defendants’ unconscionability argument, Defendant's argument is an unusual one.

 
In opposition, Defendant first argues
the Arbitration Agreement is not enforceable because it was never signed by the
parties. The court disagrees. “[T]he writing memorializing an arbitration
agreement need not be signed by both parties in order to be upheld as a binding
arbitration agreement.”  (Serafin v. Balco Properties Lrd., LLC (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176.)  “ ‘[I]t is not the presence or absence of a
signature [on an agreement] which is dispositive; it is the presence or absence
of evidence of an agreement to arbitrate which matters.’ [Citation.] 
Evidence confirming the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, despite an
unsigned agreement, can be based, for example, on ‘conduct from which one could
imply either ratification or implied acceptance of such a provision.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  In the present case, while Defendants
did not execute the Arbitration Agreement, Defendants authored the Arbitration
Agreement, and printed the Arbitration Agreement upon Defendants’ letterhead,
and produced the agreement to Plaintiff as a term of employment. The court
further notes the Arbitration Agreement does not require a signature. (See Gorlach
v. Sports Club Co. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1497, 1509 holding “where an
arbitration agreement requires a signature to be effective, courts have found
that unsigned arbitration agreements are unenforceable.”
 
Defendants also argue that the
arbitration agreement was not properly authenticated. The court agrees.
Plaintiff is ordered to submit a declaration laying the proper foundation. The
court continues to discuss the substantive unconscionability argument below. 
 
Defendants argue the arbitration clause
has strong elements of substantive unconscionability. Defendant contends the
agreement does not fulfill the basic requirements of an enforceable, valid
arbitration agreement. Regarding arbitration costs, it allows the arbitrator to
shift fees or costs to the prevailing party rather than placing the
responsibility of payment of costs of arbitration exclusively on the employer.
Moreover, it fails to provide for a “neutral” arbitrator; rather, it states
that “the arbitration shall be conducted by one arbitrator” and fails to make
the full range of statutory remedies available; it does not seem to permit any
discovery, let alone, “adequate discovery;” it does not provide for a “written
arbitration that will reveal the essential findings and conclusions on which
the award is based.”
 
The court disagrees. Unconscionability
has both a ‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element.” (A & M Produce Co.
v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486.) An agreement to arbitrate is
unenforceable only if both procedural and substantive unconscionability is
shown. (Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519,
1533.) Defendant does not attempt to make a procedural argument. Even so, “[s]ubstantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that
is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively
unreasonable or unexpected manner.  [Citation] Substantive
unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but typically is found in the
employment context when the arbitration agreement is ‘one-sided’ in favor of
the employer without sufficient justification, for example, when ‘the
employee’s claims against the employer, but not the employer’s claims against
the employee, are subject to arbitration.’ [Citations].”  (Roman v.
Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469-1470.)  In
determining whether an arbitration agreement is unconscionable, the Court
considers whether the agreement: (1) provides for a neutral arbitrator; (2)
provides for reasonable discovery; (3) requires a written award; (4) provides
for the same remedies that otherwise would be available in court; and (5) does
not require employees to bear costs unique to arbitration.  (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83,
102-103.) 
 
First, the Arbitration Agreement
explicitly provides if this dispute is related to employment, the employer will
bear the cost of arbitration. (Pingle Decl., Exh. 1, ¶6.) Moreover, although it
is silent as to discovery, express discovery language is not necessary because,
“when parties agree to arbitrate statutory claims, they also implicitly agree,
absent express language to the contrary, to such procedures as are necessary to
vindicate that claim.” (Ramos v. Superior Court (2018) 28
Cal.App.5th 1042, 1062, quoting Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at 106.) As for a neutral arbitrator, although the agreement does not
explicitly state ‘neutral’, it says one must be selected (with no limitations)
and if the parties cannot agree to one, the arbitrator will be selected by the
AAA. This seems to provide for a neutral arbitrator. Lastly, the Arbitration
Agreement does provide the “parties agree to enter arbitration through the
American Arbitration Association and abide by the Commercial Arbitration Rules
of the American Arbitration Association. (Pingle Decl., Exh. 1, ¶2.) The
Commercial Arbitration Rules explicitly provides an award shall be in writing.   Further, in a reply declaration, Ms. Flores
expressly states that she signed the arbitration agreement and agreed to be
bound by it.  While ordinarily the court
does not consider evidence submitted for the first time with the reply
declaration, the court finds it appropriate to consider such evidence
here.  If defendant has evidence to
refute that it was signed and understood as Ms. Flores attests, the court may
grant permission to defendant to file a further declaration. 
 
The court notes Plaintiff also requests
sanctions in the amount of $1,500.00 with their moving papers.   The court denies the request for sanctions as
it was not set forth in the notice of motion, as required.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 