  Case Number:  22VECV01134    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  W YOSEF COHEN,
et al. v. KAMBIZ KAMANGAR, et al.
 
motions to
compel discovery 
 
Date
of Hearing:        February 7, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV01134
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 9, 2022, Plaintiffs Yosef
Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstyan filed a complaint against Defendants World Tech
Toys, Inc., World Trading 23, Inc., Kevork Kouyoumjian, Kambiz Kamangar, and
Kamir Distribution, LLC asserting causes of action for (1) Breach of Oral Joint
Venture Agreement; (2) Unlawful, Fraudulent & Unfair Business Practices; (3)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (4) Fraud. On January 12, 2023, Plaintiffs
amended their complaint adding two additional causes of action for Breach of
Partnership Agreement and Declaratory Relief. 
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendant Kamangar
made fraudulent representations to Plaintiff Cohen regarding a business
opportunity arising from the Pandemic. Plaintiffs allege Defendant Kamangar
represented to Plaintiff Cohen Defendant KOUYOUMJIAN had extensive contacts in
China as a result of his companies, World Trading 23, Inc. and World Tech Toys,
Inc., which were involved in importing goods from China for sale in the United
States and actively encouraged Plaintiff Cohen and Plaintiff Ter-Galstanyan to
order the gloves. Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to perform in accordance
with the term so of the Agreement as well as their fiduciary duty. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
1.      Defendant Kevork Kouyoumjian’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff Vahe Ter-Galstanyan to Respond to Written Discovery and
for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED. 
2.      Defendant Kevork Kouyoumjian’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff Yosef Cohen to Respond to Written Discovery and for
Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED. 
3.     
Defendant Kambiz Kamangar’s Motion to
Compel Discovery Responses of Plaintiffs (Special Interrogatories, Set One) and
Request for Sanctions is GRANTED. 
4.     
Defendant Kambiz Kamangar’s Motion to
Compel Discovery Responses of Plaintiffs (Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One) and Request for Sanctions is GRANTED.
5.     
Defendant Kambiz Kamangar’s Motion for
Order that Requests for Admission (Set One) be Deemed Admitted is GRANTED.
6.     
Defendant Kambiz Kamangar’s Motion to
Compel Discovery Responses of Plaintiffs (Form Interrogatories, Set One) and Request
for Sanctions is GRANTED.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Both moving parties, Defendant Kambiz
Kamangar and Defendant Kevork Kouyoumjian request this court take judicial
notice of several court documents regarding the criminal actions against
Plaintiffs in support of their motions to compel discovery. The court GRANTS the
Moving Defendants’ request for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT KEVORK
KOUYOUMJIAN’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF VAHE TER-GALSTANYAN TO RESPOND TO
WRITTEN DISCOVERY AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Defendant Kevork Kouyoumjian moves this
court for an order to compel Plaintiff Vahe Ter-Galstanyan to provide
responses, without objection, to Requests for Production of Documents, Special
Interrogatories, and Form Interrogatories, to order Ter-Galstanyan to produce
all requested documents within his possession, custody, and control, and for
monetary sanctions against Ter-Galstanyan in the amount of $1,840.00. Kouyoumjian
brings this motion on the grounds that Ter-Galstanyan failed to serve any
response to Kouyoumjian’s Requests for Production of Documents, Special
Interrogatories, or Form Interrogatories, which were served on September 1,
2023. Only one filing fee was paid; nonetheless, two additional filing fees are
owed.   
 
Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests,
the court may make an order compelling responses. (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2031.300,
2033.280; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to
serve a timely response to the discovery request waives any objection to the
request, including one based on privilege or the protection of attorney work
product. (CCP §§2030.290(a), 2031.300(a), 2033.280(a); Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 404.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may
also move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction. (CCP § 2033.280(b).) Under California law, unsworn responses
are tantamount to no responses.  (See Appleton v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636 (holding that unverified responses are
tantamount to no responses). 
 
In July of 2023, counsel for Defendant Kouyoumjian
became aware that Plaintiffs Yosef Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstanyan had pled
guilty to felonies involving money laundering. (McKown Decl. ¶2.) As a result,
Defense counsel e-mailed Plaintiffs’ counsel, Mr. Campbell, to determine
whether Plaintiffs would dismiss this case. (McKown Decl. ¶2, Exh. A.) Mr.
Campbell said he would reach back shortly and thereafter, Defense counsel
informed Mr. Campbell Defendants were prepared to serve written discovery in
the event a dismissal was not filed. (McKown Decl. ¶2, Exh. A.) Defense counsel
followed up at the end of July. (McKown Decl. ¶3, Exh. B.) After waiting
another month for Mr. Campbell to respond, Defense counsel served a complete
set of written discovery on Plaintiffs on September 1, 2023. (McKown Decl. ¶4,
Exh. C, D-F.) Plaintiffs’ responses to written discovery were due on or before
October 1, 2023. (McKown Decl. ¶4.) However, Plaintiffs did not provide any
responses or objections by October 1, 2023 nor did Plaintiffs request or
otherwise obtain any extension of the deadline. (McKown Decl. ¶4.) On October
9, 2023, Mr. Campbell emailed me acknowledging Plaintiffs’ failure to respond timely
to outstanding discovery and requesting a 30-day extension to respond. (Co
McKown hen Decl. ¶5.) Defense counsel indicated his willingness to grant the
30-day extension upon the conditions (1) that Plaintiffs agree that all of
their objections to the written discovery propounded by Kouyoumjian were
waived; and (2) that if Plaintiffs failed to provide responses by the extended
deadline (October 31, 2023), Kouyoumjian (and the other defendants) may proceed
with filing discovery motions. (McKown Decl. ¶5, Exh. G.) On October 13, 2023,
Mr. Campbell sent a written response confirming his acceptance of these
conditions. (McKown Decl. ¶6, Exh. H.) Based on the 30-day extension provided
by Kouyoumjian, Plaintiffs’ responses to written discovery, without objection,
were due on or before October 31, 2023. (McKown Decl. ¶7.) Plaintiffs, however,
did not provide any responses on or before October 31, 2023. (McKown Decl. ¶7.)
On November 9, 2023, Defense counsel notified Mr. Campbell he would be moving
forward with the motions to compel. (McKown Decl. ¶8, Exh. I.) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff Ter-Galstanyan
has failed to timely respond to Defendant Kouyoumjian’s properly served
discovery request. Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel Plaintiff Ter-Galstyan’s
responses to
interrogatories and request for production of documents is GRANTED. Plaintiff
is ordered to provide complete responses, without objection, and all documents
within 30 days. 
 
Sanctions
 
If a
propounding party moves for and obtains a court order compelling a response,
the court shall impose monetary sanctions against the party failing to timely
respond to interrogatories and demands for inspection unless that party acted
with substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (CCP
§§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c), 2033.280(c); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 404.) 
 
Defendant requests $1,840.00 in fees
and costs for approximately 2.5 hours preparing the motion, .5 hours preparing
any reply brief or non-opposition, and .5 hours attending the hearing on the
matter. (McKown Decl. ¶¶9-10.) Counsel’s hourly rate is $500.00. (McKown Decl.
¶11.) 
 
The court GRANTS Defendant’s request
for attorney fees of $1,840.00. 
 
II.                 
KEVORK
KOUYOUMJIAN’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF YOSEF COHEN TO RESPOND TO WRITTEN
DISCOVERY AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Defendant Kevork Kouyoumjian moves this
court for an order to compel Plaintiff Yosef Cohen to provide responses,
without objection, to Requests for Production of Documents, Special
Interrogatories, and Form Interrogatories, to order Cohen to produce all
requested documents within his possession, custody, and control, and for
monetary sanctions against Cohen in the amount of $1,840.00. Kouyoumjian brings
this motion on the grounds that Cohen failed to serve any response to
Kouyoumjian’s Requests for Production of Documents, Special Interrogatories, or
Form Interrogatories, which were served on September 1, 2023. 
 
In July of 2023, counsel for Defendant
Kouyoumjian became aware that Plaintiffs Yosef Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstanyan had
pled guilty to felonies involving money laundering. (McKown Decl. ¶2.) As a
result, Defense counsel e-mailed Plaintiffs’ counsel, Mr. Campbell, to
determine whether Plaintiffs would dismiss this case. (McKown Decl. ¶2, Exh.
A.) Mr. Campbell said he would reach back shortly and thereafter, Defense
counsel informed Mr. Campbell Defendants were prepared to serve written
discovery in the event a dismissal was not filed. (McKown Decl. ¶2, Exh. A.)
Defense counsel followed up at the end of July. (McKown Decl. ¶3, Exh. B.) After
waiting another month for Mr. Campbell to respond, Defense counsel served a
complete set of written discovery on Plaintiffs on September 1, 2023. (McKown
Decl. ¶4, Exh. C, D-F.) Plaintiffs’ responses to written discovery were due on
or before October 1, 2023. (McKown Decl. ¶4.) However, Plaintiffs did not
provide any responses or objections by October 1, 2023 nor did Plaintiffs
request or otherwise obtain any extension of the deadline. (McKown Decl. ¶4.) On
October 9, 2023, Mr. Campbell emailed me acknowledging Plaintiffs’ failure to
respond timely to outstanding discovery and requesting a 30-day extension to
respond. (Co McKown hen Decl. ¶5.) Defense counsel indicated his willingness to
grant the 30-day extension upon the conditions (1) that Plaintiffs agree that
all of their objections to the written discovery propounded by Kouyoumjian were
waived; and (2) that if Plaintiffs failed to provide responses by the extended
deadline (October 31, 2023), Kouyoumjian (and the other defendants) may proceed
with filing discovery motions. (McKown Decl. ¶5, Exh. G.) On October 13, 2023,
Mr. Campbell sent a written response confirming his acceptance of these
conditions. (McKown Decl. ¶6, Exh. H.) Based on the 30-day extension provided
by Kouyoumjian, Plaintiffs’ responses to written discovery, without objection,
were due on or before October 31, 2023. (McKown Decl. ¶7.) Plaintiffs, however,
did not provide any responses on or before October 31, 2023. (McKown Decl. ¶7.)
On November 9, 2023, Defense counsel notified Mr. Campbell he would be moving
forward with the motions to compel. (McKown Decl. ¶8, Exh. I.) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff Cohen has
failed to timely respond to Defendant Kouyoumjian’s properly served discovery
request. Defendant’s
unopposed motion to compel Plaintiff Cohen’s responses to interrogatories and request for
production of documents is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide complete
responses, without objection, and all documents within 30 days. 
 
Sanctions
 
If a
propounding party moves for and obtains a court order compelling a response,
the court shall impose monetary sanctions against the party failing to timely
respond to interrogatories and demands for inspection unless that party acted
with substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (CCP
§§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c), 2033.280(c); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 404.) 
 
Defendant requests $1,840.00 in fees
and costs for approximately 2.5 hours preparing the motion, .5 hours preparing
any reply brief or non-opposition, and .5 hours attending the hearing on the
matter. (McKown Decl. ¶¶9-10.) Counsel’s hourly rate is $500.00. (McKown Decl.
¶11.) 
 
The court GRANTS Defendant’s request
for attorney fees of $1,250.00. 
 
III.               
DEFENDANT KAMBIZ KAMANGAR’S MOTION TO
COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES OF PLAINTIFFS (SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE) AND
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Defendant Kambiz Kamangar will move the
Court under Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.290(b) to seek a court order
compelling answers to each Special Interrogatories, Set One, served on
Plaintiffs Yosef Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstanyan on September 7, 2023. Defendant
Kamangar also moves the court for an order imposing sanctions against
Plaintiffs in the amount of $1,387.95. 
 
On July 3, 2023, Counsel for Kamangar became
aware that Plaintiffs Yosef Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstanyan had pled guilty to
felonies involving money laundering when counsel for Kouyoumjian reached out to
Plaintiffs’ counsel (copying counsel). (Cohen Decl. ¶3, Exh. C.) On September
7, 2023, Defendant Kambiz Kamangar served on Plaintiffs, and each of them,
their own specific: (a) Requests for Admission (Set One); (b) Special
Interrogatories (Set One); (c) Form Interrogatories (Set One); and (d) Requests
for Production (Set One). (Cohen Decl. ¶4, Exhs. A and B.) On October 9, 2023,
Plaintiffs’ counsel sent an email stating that he was aware that responses were
due but, because Plaintiffs had been (and continue to be) incarcerated, he
sought an extension. (Cohen Decl. ¶5, Exh. D.) That same day, Defendant
Kamangar granted the extension until November 8, 2023. (Cohen Decl. ¶6, Exh.
E.) On October 13, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel agreed to the extension and
respective conditions. (Cohen Decl. ¶7, Exh. F.) On November 14, 2023, having
received no responses or updates, Plaintiffs were advised that Defendant
Kamangar would be moving to compel responses and seek sanctions. (Cohen Decl.
¶8, Exh. G.) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff Cohen and
Ter-Galstyan have failed to timely respond to Defendant Kamangar’s properly
served discovery request. Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel Plaintiffs Cohen and
Ter-Galstyan’s responses
to special interrogatories (set one) is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to
provide complete responses, without objection, within 30 days. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant Kamangar seeks $1,387.95 in
sanctions. (Cohen Decl. ¶9.) The motion is unopposed. Defendant Kamangar’s
request for sanctions in the total amount of $1,387.95 is GRANTED. 
 
IV.              
DEFENDANT KAMBIZ KAMANGAR’S MOTION TO
COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES OF PLAINTIFFS (REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
SET ONE) AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Defendant Kambiz Kamangar will move the
Court under Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.290(b) to seek a court order
compelling answers to each Request for Production of Documents, Set One, served
on Plaintiffs Yosef Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstanyan on September 7, 2023.
Defendant Kamangar also moves the court for an order imposing sanctions against
Plaintiffs in the amount of $1,387.95. 
 
For the reasons stated above, the court
finds Plaintiff Cohen and Ter-Galstyan have failed to timely respond to Defendant
Kamangar’s properly served discovery request. Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel Plaintiffs
Cohen and Ter-Galstyan’s responses to request for production of documents (set one) is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide complete responses, without objection, and all
documents within 30 days. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant Kamangar seeks $1,387.95 in
sanctions. (Cohen Decl. ¶9.) The motion is unopposed. Defendant Kamangar’s
request for sanctions in the total amount of $1,387.95 is GRANTED.
 
V.                
DEFENDANT KAMBIZ KAMANGAR’S MOTION FOR
ORDER THAT REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION (SET ONE) BE DEEMED ADMITTED
 
Defendant Kambiz Kamangar moves the
court for an order that the truth of each matter specified in each Requests for
Admission (Set One) served on Plaintiffs Yosef Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstanyan on
September 7, 2023, be deemed admitted and conclusively established for all
purposes in this action. Defendant Kamangar also seeks monetary sanctions in
the total amount of $3,287.95, as declared herein, be imposed against
Plaintiffs Yosef Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstanyan. 
 
Where there has been no timely response to a request for admission
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move
for an order that the truth of any matters specified in the requests and the
genuineness of any documents be deemed admitted, as well as a monetary
sanction. (CCP §2033.280(b).) The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially
compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result
of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (CCP §2033.280(a)(1)-(2).) The
court shall grant the motion “unless it finds that the party to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the
motion, a proposed response … in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”
(CCP §2033.280(c); St. Mary v. Sup. Ct. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762,
777-78.)
 
For the reasons stated above, the court
finds Plaintiff Cohen and Ter-Galstyan have failed to timely respond to Defendant
Kamangar’s properly served discovery request. Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel Plaintiffs
Cohen and Ter-Galstyan’s responses to have requests for admissions deemed admitted is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide complete responses, without objection, and all
documents within XX
days. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant Kamangar seeks $3,287.95 in
sanctions. (Cohen Decl. ¶9.) The motion is unopposed. Defendant Kamangar’s
request for sanctions in the reduced amount of 
$1,387.95 is GRANTED.
 
VI.              
DEFENDANT KAMBIZ KAMANGAR’S MOTION TO
COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES OF PLAINTIFFS (FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE) AND REQUEST
FOR SANCTIONS
 
Defendant Kambiz Kamangar will move the
Court under Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.290(b) to seek a court order
compelling answers to each Form Interrogatories, Set One, served on Plaintiffs
Yosef Cohen and Vahe Ter-Galstanyan on September 7, 2023. Defendant Kamangar
also moves the court for an order imposing sanctions against Plaintiffs in the
amount of $987.95. 
 
For reasons stated above, the court
finds Plaintiff Cohen and Ter-Galstyan have failed to timely respond to Defendant
Kamangar’s properly served discovery request. Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel Plaintiffs
Cohen and Ter-Galstyan’s responses to form interrogatories (set one) is GRANTED. Plaintiff is
ordered to provide complete responses, without objection, within 30 days. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant Kamangar seeks $987.95 in
sanctions. (Cohen Decl. ¶9.) The motion is unopposed. Defendant Kamangar’s
request for sanctions in the total amount of $987.95 is GRANTED.
 
Filing Fees
 
Defendant is ordered to pay filing fees
of $120 within ten days. 