  Case Number:  23STCV25985    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JAMES DAVIS, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
SCOTT EPPINGA, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV25985   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 25, 2024




 
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to set aside is DENIED.
 
On 10/24/2023, Plaintiffs James Davis, Paranotek, LLC,
and Astra Veda Corporation (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against Scott
Eppinga, Bradley M. Listermann, Benjamin Eppinga, and Think Humble, Inc. On
4/24/2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1)
breach of fiduciary duties; (2) breach of the duty of good faith and fair
dealing; (3) fraud; and (4) unjust enrichment.
 
            On
5/23/2024, Defendants Scott
Eppinga’s, Benjamin Eppinga’s, and Think Humble’s (collectively, Defendants’) unopposed
demurrer was sustained, without leave to amend. 
 
            Now, Plaintiffs move to set aside
the order sustaining Defendants’ demurrer. 

 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiffs seek to set aside the
ruling sustaining Defendants’ demurrer on the grounds that Plaintiff’s
counsel of record Mainak D’Attaray admitted fault in failing to oppose the
demurrer. 
 
Plaintiffs
cite Civil Code § 473(b) as the ground for their request relief, which
provides: 
 
(b) The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken. . . Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties.
 
            However,
as noted by Defendants, Plaintiffs’ motion is deficient in a number of regards.
First, while Plaintiffs’ Notice of Motion and Motion to Vacate references a
“Declaration of Mainak D’Attaray” admitting attorney fault, no such document
has been filed. Second, and importantly, Plaintiffs’ motion does not include a
copy of the proposed pleading, i.e., the draft opposition to the demurrer. As
such, Plaintiffs still have not set forth the grounds on which they would or
could oppose Defendants’ demurrer. 
 
            Notably,
despite Defendants identifying these deficiencies in an 8/23/2024 filing,
Plaintiffs did not prepare any reply or supplemental materials. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                               
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 