 Case Number:  23STCV01341    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



U&G CONSTRUCTION GROUP INC., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
REAL
   PROSPERITY INVESMENT LLC,
  et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


   CASE
  NO.: 23STCV01341
(Related
  to Case No. 22AHCV00886)
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT CDMY INVESTMENT, LLC’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S
   FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED
   COMPLAINT 
 
Dept. 3
8:30 a.m.
February 15, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
January 20, 2023, plaintiff U&G Construction Group, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against defendants Real Prosperity Investment, LLC (“Real
Prosperity”), LA Investment Advisory, LLC (“LA Investment”) and CDMY
Investment, LLC (“Defendant”) for foreclosure of mechanic’s lien and quantum
meruit relating to real property located at 1999 Sierra Madre Villa Avenue in
Pasadena, California (the “Property”). Plaintiff alleges it provided
construction services and improvements at the Property from approximately July
2022 and October 2022, at the request of the Property’s owners, Real Prosperity
and LA Investment. Plaintiff alleges Defendant then claimed rights to the
Property under a foreclosure. 
The case was initially assigned to the
Honorable Armen Tamzarian in Department 52 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. On
October 2, 2023, Judge Tamzarian granted Defendant’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings with 30 days’ leave to amend after determining that Plaintiff could
not recover on its two causes of action because: (1) Defendant held a senior
lien which, when foreclosed on, extinguished Plaintiff’s junior lien, (2) Plaintiff
did not allege that Defendant requested Plaintiff’s services as necessary for a
quantum meruit claim, and (3) facts subject to judicial notice showed that Plaintiff
was not a licensed contractor, and could not recover compensation for its
services under the Contractors State License Law, which provides that a
contractor may not maintain any action to recover compensation for the
“performance of any act or contract” unless the contractor was duly licensed
“at all times during the performance of that act or contract.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 7031(a).) A contractor “is ineligible to recover any compensation
... if, at any time during performance of an agreement for contractor services,
he or she was not duly licensed.” (MW Erectors, Inc. v. Niederhauser
Ornamental & Metal Works Co., Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 412, 425.)
On November
1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. 
On December
1, 2023, Defendant filed this demurrer to the FAC. 
On December
6, 2023, the case was deemed related to an earlier-filed case, U&G
Construction Group, Inc. v. Real Prosperity Investment LLC (Case No.
22AHCV00886) and transferred to Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse.
On December
14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint.

On December
29, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s demurrer. 
On January 5,
2024, Defendant filed its reply brief in support of this demurrer. 
On January
12, 2024, the Court heard oral argument on Defendant’s demurrer and continued
the hearing to February 15, 2024, so that the demurrer and Plaintiff’s motion
for leave to file a second amended complaint could be heard at the same time.
This order addresses both motions. 
II.      DISCUSSION
A.          
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant requests judicial notice of 8
publicly recorded documents and court records. The request is GRANTED. (Evid.
Code, §§ 452, subd. (c)-(d).
B.          
Demurrer
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
In its FAC, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant’s sole and/or controlling owner, member, and manager is Charles Wong
(“Wong”), a licensed real estate broker. (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that
Wong and his wife, Jing Yang (“Yang”) purchased the Property for $1.5 million on
or about March 5, 2012, and then transferred title to Defendant CDMY, who
subsequently sold the Property to co-defendants Real Prosperity and LA
Investment for $7.38 million on October 21, 2019. (FAC, ¶¶ 13-15.) On November
14, 2019, Real Prosperity and LA Investment executed a deed of trust against
the property with Defendant as beneficiary in order to secure a promissory note
of $6.642 million (“2019 Deed of Trust”). (FAC, ¶ 16.) On March 25, 2021, Wendan
Bao (“Bao”), the manager of Real Prosperity and LA Investment, executed a deed
of trust against the Property in favor of Yanji City Shungoushangmao Co., Ltd.
(the “YSC Deed of Trust”) to secure a promissory note of $8.6 million. (FAC, ¶
17.) 
Around May 2022, Zhuoheng Gu (“Gu”),
Plaintiff’s CEO, secretary and CFO, met Bao, who informed Gu that he and Wong
could help Plaintiff with development financing but Plaintiff would first have
to purchase the Property. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Around June 2022, Plaintiff entered into
a real estate sales agreement in which it agreed to buy the Property for $8.05
million; Bao told Gu that the 2019 Trust Deed and YSC Deed of Trust “were both
fake”, had been recorded to protect Wong’s interests, and could be removed at
any time. (FAC, ¶ 23.) Around the same time, Gu entered into a 2-year lease
with Real Prosperity and LA Investment for the Property and made a single rent
payment of $50,000. (FAC, ¶ 26.) Plaintiff also agreed to make improvements to
the Property, not to exceed $1.5 million, and the value of those improvements
would be credited against the purchase price.  (FAC, ¶ 27.) Plaintiff subsequently made
improvements to the property with a value of not less than $699,600. (FAC, ¶
31.) On or about October 11, 2022, Plaintiff learned that nonjudicial
foreclosure proceedings had commenced. (FAC, ¶ 33.) Plaintiff subsequently
filed a verified complaint against Real Prosperity and LA Investment for specific
performance and breach of contract (Case No. 22AHCV00886). 
Previously, Plaintiff alleged that the
property was owned by Real Prosperity and LA Investment and that Plaintiff was
a licensed contractor. (Compl., ¶ 9.) Now, Plaintiff alleges that it was exempt
from the licensing requirements because it “was an owner who made improvements
to its own property” by “contract[ing] with a duly licensed general contractor
to make the improvements,” and did not offer more than 4 single-family residential
structures for sale in a calendar year. (FAC, ¶ 32.) 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
supplemental declaration from Gu with certified translations which explain that
the initial allegation that Plaintiff was a licensed contractor was the result
of a miscommunication with Plaintiff’s prior counsel. (Supp. Gu Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)
Plaintiff argues that it should be allowed to enforce its mechanics lien
because it is an “owner” exempt from state contractor licensing requirements. Gu
declares that Plaintiff contracted with a licensed general contractor, Jia Li
Construction, to perform the improvements on the Property. (Id., ¶ 6.) However,
this claim contradicts the verified mechanic’s lien which identifies Plaintiff as
the “claimant” and the entity that performed the work on the Property,
including: “[s]ite preparation, foundation roofing, and interior repair after
leak, plumbing and electrical work.” (See Ex. B to FAC.) 
According to Civil Code section 8004, a
“claimant” is a person with a right “to record a claim of lien [mechanic’s lien],
give a stop payment notice, or assert a claim against a payment bond, or do any
combination of the foregoing.” A person that provides work authorized for a work
of improvement or a site improvement has a lien right, and may include a direct
contractor, subcontractor, material supplier, equipment lessor, laborer, or
design professional. (Civ. Code §§ 8400, 8402.) In turn, work is authorized for
a work of improvement or a site improvement” if it is “provided at the request
of or agreed to by the owner” or “provided or authorized by a direct
contractor, subcontractor, architect, project manager, or other person having
charge of all or part of the work of improvement or site improvement.” (Civ. Code,
§ 8404.) If Plaintiff hired Jia Li Construction to make improvements, then it
is unclear how Plaintiff is the appropriate “claimant” with a right to enforce
a lien.  
Furthermore, as articulated in Judge
Tamzarian’s ruling issued on October 2, 2023, any mechanic’s lien would have
been junior to CDMY’s deed of trust secured by the Property and extinguished
when CDMY acquired title to the Property on December 13, 2022. (RJN, Exs. C-E.)

Accordingly, Plaintiff has not shown
that it is able to enforce its mechanics’ lien and the demurrer to the First
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 
Next, Plaintiff’s quantum meruit claim
fails because although Plaintiff generally alleges that it was requested by “Defendants”
to perform work on the Property, the specific wording of the mechanic’s lien
states that the work was requested by Real Prosperity and LA Investment. Therefore,
Defendant’s demurrer to the quantum meruit claim is SUSTAINED. 
C.  
Scope
of Amendment
Plaintiff requests leave to amend the
FAC and add Gu as an individual plaintiff, and 3 individuals as principals of
Defendant, Real Prosperity, and LA Investment (Wong, Bao, and Shou Gu, who is Bao’s
wife, with no relation to Gu). Plaintiff states that an amended pleading would
assert claims for intentional misrepresentation, fraudulent concealment, false
promise, tortious interference with contractual relations, wrongful
foreclosure, and breach of the implied covenant and fair dealing, as well as
unfair business practices under Business and Professions Code section 17200, et
seq. 
Defendant argues that allowing these
additional causes of action and parties would vastly expand this litigation and
contends that Plaintiff should be required to explain when its fraud claims
arose and why these allegations were not made earlier. The Court will not
require Plaintiff to provide such a showing before amending its pleading
because these newly asserted claims are simply different legal theories based
on the same nexus of facts. Plaintiff is only restricted from asserting claims
against Defendant CDMY based on its mechanic’s lien and quantum meruit in any
subsequent amended complaint. 
D.  Motion for Leave to File Proposed SAC 
Given the Court’s ruling on Defendant’s
demurrer, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file the proposed SAC is DENIED
because the proposed SAC includes causes of action for foreclosure on the
mechanic’s lien and quantum meruit. 
III.     CONCLUSION
          Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED. An
amended complaint must be filed within 20 days and cannot include a cause of
action for foreclosure on the mechanic’s lien or quantum meruit against
Defendant CDMY. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 15th
day of February 2024.
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 