  Case Number:  22AHCV00192    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PAULINE YIP, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EASTERN
   HORIZON LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00192
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER FILED BY DEFENDANTS EASTERN HORIZON, LLC, CHONG
   DING aka VIRGINIA DING, AND JOY WANG 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   15, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
On April 4,
2022, plaintiff Pauline Yip (“Yip”) filed this action (the “Lead Case”) against
Eastern Horizon LLC (“Eastern Horizon”) for breach of contract relating to a
single-family residence located at 37 Twiggs in Irvine, California (the
“Subject Property”). Yip alleges that Eastern Horizon refuses to sell the
Subject Property to her at an agreed-upon price. On August 9, 2022, Eastern
Horizon filed a cross-complaint relating to the Subject Property against Yip
and Home Surface, Inc. dba Spectrum Realty (“Spectrum”) for breach of a lease
agreement and listing agreement, breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty, and declaratory relief.  
          On
August 9, 2023, this action was deemed related to the action captioned Pauline
Yip v. Eastern Horizon, LLC, et al. (Case No. 23STCV18152) (the “Related
Case”).  This Related Case is brought
against Eastern Horizon, Chong Ding aka Virginia Ding (“Ding”), and Joy Wang as
the trustee of the 2004 Anchen Gift Trust Dated December 23, 20024 (“Wang”).
Yip asserts claims for: (1) fraud, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) quiet
title, (4) cancellation of instrument, (5) declaratory relief, and (6) equitable
indemnity relating to the same Subject Property underlying the Lead Case. 
          On
August 23, 2023, Yip filed a motion to consolidate the Lead Case and the
Related Case for all purposes, including trial. On September 20, 2023, the
Court granted the motion to consolidate. On December 28, 2023, defendants
Eastern Horizon, Ding, and Wang (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a notice of
a new hearing date on their demurrer to the complaint in the Related Case. Defendants
refiled their demurrer on January 3, 2024. Yip filed an opposition brief on
February 2, 2024, and Defendants filed a reply brief on February 7, 2024. 
          Eastern
Horizon and Ding demur to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of
Action on the grounds that: (1) there is another action pending between the
parties and (2) it is a “sham pleading.” Wang also demurs to the Third, Fourth,
and Fifth Causes of Action on those grounds, and separately demurs to these
causes of action due to a “defect and/or a misjoinder of parties.” (Demurrer,
pp. 3-4.) 
II.      REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
          Defendants
request judicial notice of the complaint filed in the Lead Case. The request is
GRANTED. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if there is another action
pending between the same parties on the same cause of action or if insufficient
facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subds. (c), (e).) A demurrer may also be brought if there is a defect
or misjoinder of parties. (Id., subd. (d).) 
III.     DISCUSSION
A.  
Another
Action Pending
The Lead Case and the Related Case have
been consolidated into one action for all purposes, including trial. Therefore,
Defendants’ demurrer to the complaint filed in the Related Case on the grounds
that the Lead Case is pending is OVERRULED. 
B.  
Failure
to State Sufficient Facts
Defendants argue that the complaint in
the Related Case is a “sham pleading” because it is premised on facts which are
“fundamentally inconsistent” with the facts alleged in the complaint filed in
the Lead Case. The Court disagrees. In the Lead Case, Plaintiff seeks to
enforce the terms of a sale/leaseback agreement, which had an option to
repurchase. In the Related Case, Plaintiff seeks to quiet title and asserts other
claims rooted in fraud as alternatives in the event that no contract is found
to exist. ‘“When a pleader is in doubt about what actually occurred or what can
be established by evidence, the modern practice allows that party to plead in
the alternative and make inconsistent allegations.” (Mendoza v. Continental
Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1402.) As stated by Plaintiff, “[b]oth
pleadings state that defendants, notwithstanding their representations made to
Plaintiff and contractual obligation, failed to allow Plaintiff to buy back the
Subject Property for the ‘original price’ in 2018, conduct which potentially
gives rise to fraud or breach of contract. While both pleadings state different
causes of action which might be legally inconsistent, the allegations in the
pleadings are not contradictory.” (Opp., pp. 4-5.) 
C.  
Defect
or Misjoinder of Parties   
Last, Defendants argue that Wang is
improperly joined in this action because Plaintiff fails to allege that Wang
(or the Trust) claim an ownership interest in the Property. Wang argues she is
improperly included as a defendant in Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for
Quiet Title, Fourth Cause of Action for Cancellation of Instrument, and Fifth
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief. 
Plaintiff alleges, as part of her Third
Cause of Action for Quiet Title that all “[d]efendants [including Wang, as
trustee of the Trust], and each of them, assert adverse claims of title in the
Subject Property.” (Complaint, ¶ 95.) Therefore, Wang’s demurrer to the Third
Cause of Action for Quiet Title is OVERRULED. As part of her Fifth Cause of
Action, Plaintiff also alleges that “[a] dispute has arisen and an actual
controversy exists between Plaintiff and Defendants, and each of them
[including Wang, as trustee of the Trust], concerning the legal effect and
existence of the recorded grant deed, as well as the ownership title of the
Subject Property.” (Compl., ¶ 102.) The Court additionally notes in 2012, the
Trust held title to the Property while Plaintiff was its trustee and paying off
a loan to Ding. (Compl., ¶¶ 21-22.) (Compl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff’s complaint also
attaches an executed grant deed transferring the legal title of the Property
from the Trust to herself. (Compl., Ex. B.) Accordingly, Wang’s demurrer to the
Fifth Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
Lastly, the Court agrees that Plaintiff
fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for
cancellation of instrument against Wang or the Trust. The grant deed recorded
on October 3, 2018, which Plaintiff seeks to cancel, transferred the property
from Plaintiff to Eastern Horizon. Wang’s demurrer to the Fourth Cause of
Action is sustained without leave to amend. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend only with respect to Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action asserted
against Wang. The demurrer is otherwise OVERRULED. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 15th
day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 