  Case Number:  23CHCV00689    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  10/21/24




Case
  Name: James Hoseini v. Reza Abad; Aiden Bohlouli; Teza Products, Inc.; and
  Does 1-50




Case No.
  23CHCV00689



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JUNE 17, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES;
ISSUE AND/OR EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH
THE COURT’S JUNE 17, 2024, ORDER; OR ALTERNATIVELY FOR AN ORDER FOR SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV00689

 
Motion
filed: 8/2/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Aiden
Bohlouli
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff James Hoseini
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court compelling compliance with the Court’s June 17, 2024,
Order, which granted Defendant/Cross-Complainant Aiden Bohlouli’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two,
and imposing applicable sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.300, subdivision (c), and awarding Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Aiden Bohlouli monetary sanctions against Plaintiff James Hoseini in the amount
of $3,950.00. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED. The request for monetary sanction is GRANTED IN PART.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action stems from alleged fraud by joint venture
partners.   
 
On March 8, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant James Hoseini
(“Hoseini”) initiated this action against Defendants Reza Abad, Aiden Bohlouli (“Bohlouli”), Teza Products, Inc. (collectively,
“Defendants”), and Does 1-50. Subsequently, on March 20, 2023, Hoseini filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against all Defendants, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) fraud, (2) breach of written contract, (3)
breach of fiduciary duty, (4) elder abuse, (5) accounting, and (6) constructive
trust. Subsequently, on April 24, 2023, Defendants filed their Answer to the
FAC. 
 
On the same day, April 24, 2023, Defendants filed their
Cross-Complaint against Hoseini and Roes 1 to 20, which was subsequently
amended on September 1, 2023, to join Teza Doors, Inc., as an additional
Cross-Complainant. This operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) alleges
the following causes of action: (1) fraud, (2) conversion, (3) constructive
trust, and (4) permanent injunction.
 
On June 17, 2024, the Court granted Bohlouli’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff Hoseini’s Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
(“RFP”), Set Two. (2024/6/17 Minute Order.)
 
Subsequently, on August 2, 2024, Bohlouli filed the instant Motion to
Compel Plaintiff Hoseini’s Further Responses to the RFP, Set Two, and to Compel
Compliance with the Court’s June 17, 2024, Order (the “Motion”). On October 9,
2024, Hoseini filed his Opposition to the Motion, and Bohlouli filed his Reply
on October 14, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“If a party then fails to obey the
order compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction.... In lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court
may impose a monetary sanction.” (Code Civ. Procs., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
A.   
Failure to Comply
with a Court Order Compelling Responses
 
The Court’s June 17, 2024, order granted Bohlouli’s motion
to compel Plaintiff Hoseini’s responses to RFP, Set Two. Hoseini’s responses were
“due within 30 days without objection.” (2024/6/17 Minute Order.)
 
The Code of
Civil Procedure provides separate statutes for failing to obey an order
compelling response to a demand for production (see Code Civ. Procs., § 2031.300,
subd. (c)) and for failing to obey an order compelling further responses (see
Code Civ. Procs., § 2031.310, subd. (i)).
As a preliminary matter, Bohlouli cites both code sections
as authorities for the instant Motion. However, the Court finds that only the
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 subdivision (c) applies to the Court’s
June 17, 2024, Order.
 
Here, Bohlouli argues that Hoseini’s responses, which were
served on July 14 and subsequently supplemented on July 15, 2024, are improper
and non-compliant with the code requirements, failing to obey the Court’s June
17, 2024, Order. 
Bohlouli asserts that Hoseini’s responses contain no
caption, do not identify the propounding party and the responding party, nor
the set number, and were unverified. Furthermore, Bohlouli contends that
Hoseini’s responses to RFP, Set Two, Nos. 5-13 do not comply with the
requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure. The Court agrees.
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.210 provides, in pertinent part:
 
“(a) The party to whom a
demand ... has been directed shall respond separately to each item or category
of item by any of the following:
(1) A statement that the party will comply with the
particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling by the date set
for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant to paragraph (2) of
subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any related activities.
(2) A representation that the party lacks the ability
to comply with the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of a
particular item or category of item.
.....
(b) In the first paragraph of the response immediately
below the title of the case, there shall appear the identity of the responding
party, the set number, and the identity of the demanding party.
(c) Each statement of compliance, each representation,
and each objection in the response shall bear the same number and be in the
same sequence as the corresponding item or category in the demand, but the text
of that item or category need not be repeated.”
            
Additionally, “A representation
of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement
shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular
item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost,
misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession,
custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the
name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by
that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of
item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
Here, Hoseini’s responses merely
state:
 
“Request# 5 please see the
attached document
Request# 6 same documents as# 5
Request# 7 same document as# 5
RRequest # 8 dont have any
Request# 9 do not have any
Request # 10 do not have any
Request# 11 do not have any
Request# 12 do not have any
Request# 13 do not have any”
 
(Cohen Decl. Ex. “3.”)
 
The Court finds that the responses to RFP, Set Two, Nos.
8-13 constitute “a representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand.” However, they fail to specify “whether the inability to comply is
because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed,
has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party” as mandated by the
applicable code section. Nor do the responses “set forth the name and address
of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have
possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item,” failing to
meet the requirements outlined under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230.
 
Bohlouli also argues that responses
to RFP, Set Two, were non-responsive to the demands, which require Hoseini to
produce all communications between himself and Moses Abonal, as well as between
himself and Brett Lewis. (Mot. at p. 3.) Furthermore, Bohlouli contends that the
responses were incomplete because these communications “are clearly in his
possession, since they were previously produced redacted, but were not produced
now un-redacted[.]” (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds that Hoseini’s
responses to RFP, Set Two, Nos.5-7, contain two documents, both titled “Joint
Venture and Operating Agreement.” (Cohen Decl. Ex. “5.”) However, merely
attaching the documents, without further explanation or context, does not appear
to be fully responsive to the demands for documents regarding “communications”.

 
            The Court
does not need to resolve the factual dispute regarding whether Hoseini has additional
responsive documents concerning communications in his possession. Even if
Hoseini posits that he is unable to comply with the production, he is required
to specify the reasons for this inability, in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.230, which Hoseini has failed to do. It is clear that
this non-compliance stems from substantive deficiencies rather than mere
technical deviations. 
 
            The Court
also finds Plaintiff’s argument that the responses “are more than adequate” to
be unpersuasive and insufficient to override the Court’s findings outlined above.

 
            Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds Hoseini has failed to produce code-compliant
responses to RFP, Set Two, as required by the Court’s June 17, 2024, Order.
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the
Motion to Compel Plaintiff Hoseini to produce verified, code-compliant
responses to RFP, Set Two.
B.    
Sanctions
Pursuant to the authority of Code of
Civil Procedure sections 2031,300, subdivision (c), the Court finds it just to
impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Hoseini for his failure to comply
with the Court’s June 17, 2024, Order and to produce code-compliant responses. 
 
Utilizing the lodestar approach,
and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the
total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work
performed in connection with the Motion is $1,264.50, calculated based on a
reasonable hourly rate of $400.00 for three hours reasonably spent, plus $64.50
for filing fee.
            
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Aiden Bohlouli’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
of Documents, Set Two, due to Plaintiff’s failure to comply with the Court’s
June 17, 2024, Order, is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff James Hoseini is ordered to provide verified,
code-compliant responses to Aiden
Bohlouli’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, within 20 days.
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Aiden Bohlouli’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
Plaintiff James Hoseini is ordered to pay $1,264.50 in
sanctions to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Aiden Bohlouli’s counsel.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 