 Case Number:  24STCV01883    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
18, 2024                                                TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Angela Pasquini
v. Decron Properties Corp., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV01883
 





















 
MOTION
FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY THE ACTION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Decron Properties Corp. and Villa Cezanne Apartments
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Angela
Pasquini 
 
 
I.                  
BACKGROUND
 
In
2020, Plaintiff Angela Pasquini (“Pasquini” or “Plaintiff”) was hired as a Residential
Assistant Community Manager with Decron Properties Corp. (“Decron”).  Pursuant
to her employment, Pasquini lived and worked at the Ascent Apartments, which is
owned by Villa Cezanne Apartments (“VCA”). 
Pasquini reported to Senior Community Manager Robin Sidenstecker
(“Sidenstecker”) and Director Gino Cesario (“Cesario”).  David Nagel is the CEO of Decron.  Decron and VCA are joint employers.  
            On January 24, 2024, Pasquini
filed a complaint against Defendants, Decron, VA, Sidenstecker, Cesario, and
Nagel for: 
1.     
Breach of Express and Implied Contract;
2.     
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
3.     
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
4.     
Violation of California Government Code §§12900, 12955,
et seq.
5.     
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
6.     
Violation of Business & Professions Code §17200; 
7.     
Intentional Misrepresentation [Fraud], Negligent
Misrepresentation and Concealment;
8.     
Violation of California Labor Code- (Whistleblower)
§§1102.5, 6311; 
9.     
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability/Quiet
Enjoyment; 
10.  Nuisance;

11.  Negligence-Premises
Liability; 
12.  Negligence,
Negligent Supervision, Negligent Management 
13. 
Violation of Civil Code §§51, et seq., 52.1,
54.1.
In
short, Pasquini makes the following allegations:  During Pasquini’s employment and tenancy at
the Ascent Apartments, she made complaints to Defendants.  Additionally, Pasquini developed medical
conditions which caused her disability and entitled her to disability
accommodation.  However, Defendants refused
to accommodate her.  Pasquini also
requested her annual performance review, which Defendants refused to
provide.  In retaliation for requesting a
performance review and for needing to take disability leave, Defendants
provided Pasquini with a false performance review claiming the report had been reviewed
with her and that Pasquini’s performance was poor.  Eventually, despite her good job performance,
Defendants terminated Pasquini’s employment and evicted her. 
            On February 27, 2024, Decron and VCA
(hereafter, “Defendants”) filed this Motion for an Order to Compel Arbitration
and Stay the Action. 
            Pasquini
filed an Opposition.  Defendants replied.
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 971-72.) Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, the Court can compel parties to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate
their dispute. 
 
The
party petitioning to compel arbitration under written arbitration agreement
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and party opposing petition must meet the same
evidentiary burden to prove any facts necessary to its defense.  The trial court acts as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Provencio v.
WMA Securities, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.)
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Plaintiff generally and throughout her
opposition challenges the admissibility and authenticity of the Employment
Agreement attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Rick Spade.  The objection is overruled.  In People
v. Cruz, the Appellate Court stated: 
 “Authentication of a writing .... is required
before it may be admitted in evidence. ([Evid. Code,] §§ 250, 1401.)
Authentication is to be determined by the trial court as a preliminary fact
([Evid. Code,] § 403, subd. (a)(3)) and is statutorily defined [as relevant
here] as ‘the introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it
is the writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is’ .... (§ 1400.)”
(People v. Goldsmith (2014) 59 Cal.4th 258, 266, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d
637, 326 P.3d 239 (Goldsmith).) “[W]hat is necessary is a prima facie case.
‘As long as the evidence would support a finding of authenticity, the writing
is admissible.’ ” (Id. at p. 267, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d 637, 326 P.3d 239.)  
Thus, a writing can be authenticated if its
proponent adduces evidence sufficient to make a prima facie showing that the
writing is what its proponent claims it is, or, in other words, that the
writing is, “genuine for the purpose offered.” (Goldsmith, supra, 59 Cal.4th at p. 267, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d 637, 326
P.3d 239.) Conflicting inferences regarding the writing's authenticity go to
the weight of the writing as evidence, not its admissibility. (Ibid.) “ ‘As long as the evidence would support a finding of authenticity,
the writing is admissible. The fact conflicting inferences can be drawn
regarding authenticity goes to the document's weight as evidence, not its
admissibility.’ ” (People v. Valdez (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1429, 1435, 135
Cal.Rptr.3d 628.)
Except as provided by statute, the testimony of
a subscribing witness is not required to authenticate a writing (Evid. Code, §
1411), and there are no limits on the means by which a writing may be
authenticated. (Evid. Code, § 1410 [“Nothing in this article shall be construed
to limit the means by which a writing may be authenticated or proved.”].)
Rather, a writing may be authenticated by its contents and circumstantial
evidence, including the testimony of witnesses other than the person or persons who created the writing or witnessed its
creation. (Goldsmith, supra, 59 Cal.4th at p. 268, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d 637, 326
P.3d 239; People v. Landry (2016) 2 Cal.5th 52, 87, 211 Cal.Rptr.3d 160,
385 P.3d 327.)
 
(People v. Cruz (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th
715, 729.) 
 
            Importantly,
in Plaintiff’s Declaration, she admits to signing the documents.  In fact, she states she was required to
“complete and sign [the documents] on my first day of work.”  She argues she did not have an opportunity to
“read or review the documents before [she] signed them.”  (Pasquini Decl., ¶ 5.)  But she admits to signing them.  Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument, Plaintiff admits
to signing the documents.  
            
            Mr.
Spade testified to the custom and practice of Decron’s personnel policies and
procedures.  Based upon his familiarity
with the practices and procedures, he located the Employment Agreement in Plaintiff’s
personnel file.  Mr. Spade testified that
typically Assistant Community Managers for Decron are provided with an
employment contract.  Exhibit A fits that
description.  All of the pages are
initialed AP; page five is signed and dated and countered signed by Gino
Cesario, from Decron; page seven is signed and dated; page 9 is signed and
dated and Plaintiff’s name is also hand printed hand; Page 10 is signed and
dated; page 11 is signed and dated; page 13 is signed and dated.  
 
            The
hearsay objection to Exhibit A is overruled. 
(Jazayeri v. Mao (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 301, 316 [“documents
containing operative facts, such as the words forming an agreement, are not
hearsay”]; People v. Jimenez (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 795, 802; People v. Dell (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 248, 261–262;  Kepner-Tregoe,
Inc. v. Leadership Software, Inc., (5th Cir. 1994) 12
F.3d 527, 540 [“Signed instruments such as wills,
contracts, and promissory notes are writings that have independent legal
significance, and are nonhearsay”].) 
    
            Pasquini
separately raises ten (10) objections to the Declaration of Rick Spade and Exhibits
A and B.[1]  The objections are
OVERRULED.
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants move to compel
arbitration and stay the proceedings in this matter.  In opposition, Plaintiff raises seven
arguments which generally fall into the following categories: existence of the
agreement, enforceability, and miscellaneous challenges.  The court addresses each below. 
            
A.     Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
Pasquini was employed with Decron as an Assistant
Community Manager beginning on or about February 3, 2020.  (Spade Decl., ¶
4.)  On February 3, 2020, Pasquini signed an Arbitration Agreement wherein
she agreed to arbitrate any claims that arose out of her employment with Decron. 
(Rodriguez Decl., Exh. A.)  The Agreement is between Pasquini and Decron. 
(Id.)  Pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement, Pasquini and Decron
agreed to “binding arbitration.”  (Id.)  Specifically, Pasquini and Decron voluntarily
agreed that:  
The Parties agree that any dispute that may arise in connection with,
arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or any dispute that relates in
any way, in whole or in part, to Employee's hiring by, employment with or
separation from the Company, and its parent, subsidiary and affiliated
corporations and entities, and their predecessors, successors and assigns, or
any other dispute by and between the Parties, shall be submitted to binding
arbitration, and not through litigation in court or a trial before a judge or
jury. This arbitration obligation extends to any and all claims that may arise
by and between the Parties, and expressly extends to, without limitation,
claims or causes of action for wrongful termination, impairment of ability to
compete in the open labor market, breach of an express or implied contract,
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary
duty, fraud, misrepresentation, defamation, slander, infliction of emotional
distress, discrimination, harassment, retaliation, disability, loss of future
earnings, trade secrets misappropriation, unfair competition, breach of
fiduciary duty, breach of duty of loyalty, and claims under the California
Constitution, the United States Constitution, and applicable state and federal
fair employment laws, federal equal employment opportunity laws, and federal
and state labor statutes and regulations, including, but not limited to, the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Worker Retraining and Notification
Act of 1988, as amended, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, as
amended, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, the California Labor Code, as amended, the
California Business and Professions Code, as amended, the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act, as amended, and all other state, federal and local
laws and regulations, and contractual and common law claims (excluding workers'
compensation, unemployment insurance claims or state or federal disability insurance
claims, and claims under any other valid statute or law that expressly
precludes arbitration of such claims).”
(Spade Decl.,
Exh. A, § 10(a).)  Pasquini’s initials appear on each page of the
employment agreement, including the page with the arbitration provision.  (Id.) 
Pasquini signed the agreement.  (Id.)  Defendants have shown that a valid agreement
to arbitrate exists.
            Plaintiff offers three arguments in
opposition.  Each fail.  The first challenge is procedural in nature.  Plaintiff argues the motion should be denied
because Defendants did not incorporate or state verbatim the terms of the arbitration
agreement in the notice of motion.  The
argument relies on a misreading of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.  Rule 3.1330 states, “A petition to compel
arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the
provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for
arbitration.  The provisions must be
stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
There is nothing in Rule 3.1330 which requires that the terms of the arbitration
agreement appear verbatim or by reference in the notice of motion.  Defendants have attached a copy of the
arbitration agreement to the Declaration of Rick Spade which was filed
concurrently with the Motion.  Defendants
complied with Rule 3.1330.
Plaintiff next argues there is no agreement to arbitrate
because she did not consent to arbitration. 
In support, Plaintiff offers her declaration where she denies agreeing
to arbitrate any claims with Defendants, denies being told that any of the
documents she was signing was an agreement to arbitrate, and denies being aware
that an agreement to arbitrate existed between her and Defendants.  (Pasquini Decl., ¶¶ 5-8.)  However, the arbitration agreement bears
Plaintiff’s initials and signature.  Indeed,
Plaintiff admits to signing the arbitration. 
 (Pasquini Decl., ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff cannot reasonably argue that she
did not consent to arbitration.   Moreover, a contract may still be enforced
even if it is a contract of adhesion.  Adhesion
contracts are “fully enforceable . . . unless certain other factors are present
which under established legal rules – legislative or judicial – operate to
render it otherwise.”  (Graham v.
Scissor-Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 819; E.E.O.C. v. Luce, Forward,
Hamilton & Scripps (9th Cir. 2003) 345 F.3d 742, 749 (employers may
require employees to agree to binding arbitration of disputes as a condition of
employment); Craig v. Brown & Root (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 421
(no procedural unconscionability found where plaintiff was told to review the
company’s employee handbook and to acknowledge that he was bound by the
policies contained within the handbook, which contained the arbitration policy).)  
 Finally, Plaintiff
argues there is no admissible evidence of an arbitration agreement.  For this argument, Plaintiff relies on
objections to the Declaration of Rick Spade. 
The court considered her objections and overruled them.  There exists a valid arbitration agreement.  Further, there is no dispute the arbitration agreement
is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act.[2]
B.    
Enforceability
“California
law strongly favors arbitration.  Through
the comprehensive provisions of the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1280 et seq.), the Legislature has expressed a ‘strong public policy
in favor of arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute
resolution.  As with the FAA (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.), California law
establishes a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  An agreement to
submit disputes to arbitration “is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (OTO, L.L.C.
v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125.)  
  
 Arbitration
agreements may be declared unenforceable “upon such grounds as exist at law or
in equity for the revocation of any contract.  This saving clause permits
agreements to arbitrate to be invalidated by ‘generally applicable contract defenses,
such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability,’ but not by defenses that apply
only to arbitration or that derive their meaning from the fact that an
agreement to arbitrate is at issue.”  (AT&T Mobility LLC v.
Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) 
Plaintiff raises two arguments against the enforceability
of the arbitration provision: (1) the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual
Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (the “Act”) prohibits enforcement of the
arbitration agreement, and (2) the agreement is unconscionable.
1.      The Act
“In March
2022, President Joseph R. Biden signed the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual
Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (the Act) (9 U.S.C. §§ 401, 402), representing
the first major amendment of the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) (9 U.S.C. § 1 et
seq.) since its inception nearly 100 years ago.”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023)  87 Cal.App.5th 1223, 1230.)  “Section 402, subdivision (a), of the [EFAA]
describes its applicability, stating that effective immediately, predispute
arbitration agreements and joint-action waivers in the context of sexual
assault or harassment were no longer valid or enforceable.”  (Id. at p. 1234.)   “[A]t
the election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment
dispute or sexual assault dispute, or the named representative of a class or in
a collective action alleging such conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement
or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to
a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the
sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute. (9 U.S.C. § 402, subd.
(a).)”  (Id. at pp. 1234-35.)
The parties disagree over whether the
Act applies to Plaintiff’s claims.  As
framed by Plaintiff in her opposition, “Plaintiff’s sexual harassment claims
accrued on or about May, 2022. Plaintiff never voluntarily agreed to arbitrate
on the issue of sexual assault or sexual harassment. Therefore, the [Act]
serves to bar Defendants’ attempt for arbitration and their motion must be
denied.”  (Opp., p. 5.)  However, as Defendants correctly point out,
the Complaint is bereft of any factual allegations of sexual assault or sexual
harassment.  Indeed, the Complaint does
not state a claim based on sexual assault or sexual harassment.  The Complaint alleges, “In addition to
Defendants’ misconduct related to her tenancy, throughout her employ Plaintiff
was subjected to Defendant EMPLOYER’s and MANAGERS’ discriminatory, harassing
and retaliatory conduct including sexual harassment, based upon her sex,
gender, age, medical conditions, disability, perceived disability and
association with others.”  (Complaint, ¶
7.)  This is the only mention of sexual
harassment that appears in the FAC. 
Defendants argue this allegation is
conclusory.  Defendants further argue that
Plaintiff has not asserted a sexual harassment cause of action.  However, Defendants do not provide any
authority for the proposition that the court may disregard an allegation of
sexual harassment, even if it is conclusory, to avoid application of the Act.  Indeed, Defendants appear to concede that
Plaintiff’s lone reference to sexual harassment in Paragraph 7 of the Complaint
is sufficient to defeat arbitration as to that claim alone.  Absent any authority, the court finds the Act
applies to Plaintiff’s sexual harassment claim. 
Based upon the court’s review, and the parties’ discussion, it is
unclear which, if any, of Plaintiff’s causes of action include or rest upon the
alleged claim stated in paragraph 7 of the complaint.  The court will hear from counsel. 
2.     
Unconscionability 
Next Plaintiff raises the contractual defense of
unconscionability.  In general, the doctrine of unconscionability refers
to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together
with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.”¿ (Sonic-Calabasas
A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133 (Sonic) (cleaned
up).)  If unconscionable, the arbitration agreement is not a valid
contract and therefore is unenforceable.¿ (Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 (Armendariz).) 
¿ 
            “Unconscionability consists of both
procedural and substantive elements.  Procedural unconscionability
addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power.  Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement's actual terms and
to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided.)  Both
elements must be present for a court to refuse to enforce an arbitration
agreement.  However, the elements do not need to be present in the same
degree and are evaluated on a sliding scale.  [T]he more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  (Magno v. The College
Network, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 277, 284–285 (Magno) (cleaned
up).)  
¿ i. Procedural Unconscionability¿ 
¿           Procedural unconscionability has to
do with matters relating to freedom of assent. (Kinney v. United Healthcare
Servs. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.)  The procedural element
focuses on two factors: oppression and surprise.¿ (Id.) 
“Oppression” arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no
real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice.  (Id.) 
“Surprise” involves the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the
bargain are hidden in the printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce
the disputed terms. (Id.)¿¿ 
A “contract of adhesion” creates some amount of procedural
unconscionability – the term signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed
and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the
subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject
it.  (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Cos. (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690,
694.)  In addition, a lack of effort to highlight the presence of an
arbitration provision, such as through bold lettering, larger font, or
capitalization, has been found to indicate procedural unconscionability. 
(See Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238.)¿¿However,
when there is no other indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect
of an agreement, the degree of procedural unconscionability is low.  (Serpa
v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695,
704.)¿¿¿ 
“[T]he fact that the arbitration agreement is an adhesion
contract does not render it automatically unenforceable as
unconscionable.  Courts have consistently held that the requirement to
enter into an arbitration agreement is not a bar to its enforcement.”  (Serafin
v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 179 (Serafin);
see also Concepcion, supra, at pp. 346-47 [“the times in
which consumer contracts were anything other than adhesive are long
past”].)¿ 
¿               First, Plaintiff argues the agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because the agreement was drafted without input or
review by Plaintiff, was presented on a take it or leave it basis, and Plaintiff
was not given an opportunity to read or review it.¿ Based on the foregoing, the
court finds that the arbitration agreement is a contract of adhesion.  However, the court notes these factors are
not sufficient to invalidate an arbitration agreement. (Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1667, 1674 [“ 'Reasonable
diligence requires the reading of a contract before signing it. A party cannot
use his own lack of diligence to avoid an arbitration agreement.' ”].)  And, as
explained above, the fact that it is an adhesion contract does not render it
automatically unenforceable as unconscionable.  
¿           Plaintiff next argues the arbitration
agreement is procedurally unconscionable because she was not given the
arbitration rules.  “The failure to attach a copy of the arbitration rules
could be a factor supporting a finding of procedural unconscionability where
the failure would result in surprise to the party opposing arbitration.” 
(Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676,
690.)¿ In Lane, the Court concluded, “The failure to attach a copy of
the arbitration rules could be a factor supporting a finding of procedural
unconscionability where the failure would result in surprise to the party
opposing arbitration.”  (Id.)  The Lane Court
ultimately determined that “the failure to attach a copy of the AAA rules did
not render the agreement procedurally unconscionable. There could be no
surprise, as the arbitration rules referenced in the agreement were easily
accessible to the parties—the AAA rules are available on the Internet.”  (Id.
at p. 691.)¿¿¿ 
¿           The court finds a low degree of
procedural unconscionability.  “[T]he less procedural unconscionability is
present, the more substantive unconscionability is required to justify a
determination.”  (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 980 (Dotson).)  Under the sliding scale approach, Plaintiff
must therefore demonstrate a high degree of substantive unconscionability for
the court to find the agreement unenforceable.
¿           ii. Substantive
Unconscionability                  ¿ 
¿           Assessing substantive
unconscionability, courts generally focus on the terms of the agreement and
look for terms that are overly harsh or one-sided such that they shock the
conscience. (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281 (Nyulassy); see also Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 910-911 (clarifying various
definitions—e.g., “shocks the conscience,” “unduly oppressive,” “unreasonable
favorable” mean same thing).)  The “paramount consideration” is mutuality
of the obligation to arbitrate.  (Nyulassy, 120 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1281, 1287.)   
“Substantively unconscionable terms may take various
forms, but may generally be described as unfairly one-sided. One such form, as
in Armendariz, is the arbitration agreement’s lack of a modicum of
bilaterality, wherein the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration. [Citation.]
Another kind of substantively unconscionable provision occurs when the party
imposing arbitration mandates a post-arbitration proceeding, either judicial or
arbitral, wholly or largely to its benefit at the expense of the party on which
the arbitration is imposed. [Citation.] In determining unconscionability, our
inquiry is into whether a contract provision was unconscionable at the time it
was made. [Citation.]”  (Sonic, supra, 57 Cal.4th at
pp. 1133-34 [cleaned up].)  “To state it simply: it is substantively
unconscionable to require a consumer to give up the right to utilize the
judicial system, while imposing arbitral forum fees that are prohibitively high.” 
(Id. at pp. 1144-45.) 
Here, Plaintiff points to four terms which she maintains
are substantively unconscionable.
First, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement impermissibly
requires confidentiality.  Plaintiff
cites Ramos v. Superior Court (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1042 in
support of the proposition that “provisions requiring all aspects of the
arbitration be maintained in strict confidence is substantively
unconscionable.”  (Ramos, at
p. 1067.)  Ramos is
distinguishable.  In Ramos, the
arbitration provision stated, “Except to the extent necessary to enter judgment
on any arbitral award, all aspects of the arbitration shall be maintained by
the parties and the arbitrators in strict confidence.”  (Ramos, at p. 1065.)  
Here, the arbitration agreement states: “Except as may be
permitted by law as determined by the Arbitrator, neither a party nor an
Arbitrator may disclose the existence, content, or results of any arbitration
hereunder without the prior written consent of all parties.”  (Spade Decl., Exh. A, § 10(i).)  Unlike Ramos, the arbitration provision
vests the arbitrator with the authority to determine whether, under the law, any
aspect of the arbitration may be disclosed. 
Stated another way, Plaintiff is not foreclosed as in Ramos to conduct
discovery to support her claims.  
Second, Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement impermissibly
implies that Plaintiff must pay arbitration fees.   “When
an employer imposes mandatory arbitration as a condition of employment, the
arbitration agreement or arbitration process cannot generally require the
employee to bear any type of expense that the employee would not be required to
bear if he or she were free to bring the action in court.”  (Armendariz, supra, at pp.
110-111.)   Plaintiff’s argument is flawed.  Under applicable law, a plaintiff may be
required to pay a portion of the arbitration costs.  The cost simply cannot exceed the expenses that
would be incurred in bringing an action in court.  To the extent Plaintiff is arguing the
arbitration agreement implies that she must bear prohibitively high costs, a
review of the arbitration agreement does not favor that reading.  Here, the arbitration provision states: 
“The costs of arbitration, including the arbitrator's fees, shall be
allocated and paid in accordance with then-applicable law. If required by
applicable law, the Company shall pay all of the arbitrator's fees and the
arbitration related costs. If, however, under applicable law, the Company is
not required to pay all of the arbitrator's fees and/or the arbitration-related
costs, such fees and costs will be apportioned between the parties by the
arbitrator in accordance with applicable law and, if applicable law is silent
on this issue, such arbitration fees and costs shall be allocated equally
between the Company and Employee.”
(Spade Decl., Exh. A, § 10(k).)  
            Under the plain language of the provision,
costs of arbitration are allocated in accordance with applicable law.  As discussed, applicable law does not
authorize Plaintiff “to bear any type of expense that the employee would not be
required to bear if he or she were free to bring the action in court.”  This provision is not substantively
unconscionable.
            Plaintiff next argues that the
arbitration impermissibly restricts venue for the arbitration proceedings.  The arbitration provision mandates “the
location of the arbitration proceeding shall be in the city or county of the
Company’s then-current headquarters.”  (Spade Decl., Exh, A, § 10(j).)  In support, Plaintiff cites Government Code
section 12965 which allows an aggrieved person to bring an action “in any
county in the state in which the unlawful practice is alleged to have been
committed, in the county in which the records relevant to the practice are
maintained and administered, or in the county in which the aggrieved person
would have worked or would have had access to the public accommodation but for
the alleged unlawful practice . . . .”  (Gov. Code, §12965, subd. (c)(3).)  The argument is unsupported.  Plaintiff, who has the burden, does not show
that Decron’s company headquarters is located in a county other than Los
Angeles.
            Last, Plaintiff argues that the
agreement impermissibly requires her to waive her right to jury trial.  By agreeing to the arbitration clause, absent
a showing of unconscionability, Plaintiff agreed to proceed in an arbitral
forum, not a court of law.   
Plaintiff has not shown substantive
unconscionability.  Ultimately, determining whether an agreement is
unconscionable requires evaluating “the totality of the agreement’s substantive
terms as well as the circumstances of its formation to determine whether the
overall bargain was unreasonably one-sided.”  (Sonic, supra,
57 Cal.4th at p. 1146.)¿¿¿ Because both substantive and procedural
components of unconscionability need to be present, Plaintiff has not shown the
contract was unconscionable.  “The two factors [of procedural and
substantive unconscionability] are interrelated and are to be balanced in
determining the enforceability of an arbitration provision.”  (Dotson, supra, 181 Cal.App.4th
at p. 980.)  The court has balanced the
factors.  Viewed together, the court
finds that the arbitration agreement is not unconscionable.  The agreement is enforceable.
3.     
Miscellaneous
Challenges
Plaintiff raises two additional
arguments.  First, she argues that VCA is
a non-signatory to the arbitration agreement and therefore lacks standing to
enforce it.  Defendants argue that VCA
(as well as Sidenstecker, Cesario, and Nagel) may enforce the arbitration
agreement as Decron’s agents.  The law
favors Defendants’ position.
Under California law, non-signatories
may enforce an arbitration agreement if they are agents or alter egos of a
signatory party or third party beneficiaries of an arbitration agreement. “It
is well established that a nonsignatory beneficiary of an arbitration clause is
entitled to require arbitration.”  (Harris
v. Superior Court (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d 475, 478; see also Thomas v.
Westlawke (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614, 616.) 
            Here, Plaintiff
alleges that VCA, Sidenstecker, Cesario, and Nagel are Decron’s agents.  (Complaint, ¶ 27.)  Further, the arbitration agreement expressly
covers all of Plaintiff’s claims.  It
states, “any dispute that may arise in connection with, arising out of or
relating to this Agreement, or any dispute that relates in any way, in whole or
in part, to Employee’s hiring by, employment with or separation from the Company,
….”  (Spade Decl., Exh, A, § 10(a).)  VCA may enforce the arbitration agreement.
            Second,
Plaintiff argues that compelling her claims to arbitration when Sidenstecker, Cesario,
and Nagel are not signatories to the agreement would lead to conflicting
rulings.  This argument fails because the
court will order all of the parties to arbitration.  Under the FAA, the parties must be directed to
proceed to arbitration on issues as to which an arbitration agreement has been
signed.  (Los Angeles Unified Sch.
Dist. v. Safety Nat'l Cas. Corp. (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 471, 479.)  The court will compel this action to
arbitration.
V.        CONCLUSION
 
            The motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED, except as to the causes of action subject to Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual
Assault and Sexual Harassment Act.  The court
intends to the stay the case as to all parties, including the case with respect
to the Act, pending the conclusion of the arbitration.  The Court sets a
post-arbitration status conference for December 18, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. 
 
 
Dated:   April 18, 2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


