  Case Number:  23STCV03115    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
18, 2024                                    TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Bashar Alabi, et al. v. Equity Residential Management, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV03115
 





















 
MOTION
TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Equity Residential Management, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs Or
Vardi, Joseph Shuetz, Chaninthon Thammasan, and Stephanie Steiner 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This action
is brought by prospective tenants of various rental properties regarding
alleged violations of the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act
(ICRAA).  On February 14, 2023, Plaintiffs[1],
Or Vardi (“Vardi”), Joseph Shuetz (“Shuetz”), Chaninthon Thammasan
(“Thammasan”), and Stephanie Steiner (“Steiner”), filed a Complaint, against
Defendants, Equity Residential Management, LLC (“ERM”) and TransUnion Rental
Screening Solutions, Inc. (sued as Doe 1, hereafter, “TransUnion”).
 
            On December
21, 2023, the court sustained TransUnion’s demurrer to the Complaint.  Leave to amend was granted.
 
            On January
19, 2024, Plaintiffs timely filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC) which
asserts a single cause of action for Violations of the ICRAA, Cal. Civ. Code §
1786, et seq.
 
            The FAC
alleges as follows:  ERM manages and
operates the Hesby Apartments and Altitude Apartments (the “Subject
Properties”).  Plaintiffs were
prospective tenants of the Subject Properties. 
Vardi, Shuetz, and Thammasan applied for housing at the Hesby
Apartments; Steiner applied for housing at the Altitude Apartments.  The application required a release of
information permitting Defendants to obtain private and personal information
from third parties about the Plaintiffs, including information on Plaintiffs’
criminal background and previous evictions. 
Plaintiffs consented to the release of information.  ERM then requested and obtained investigative
consumer reports about Plaintiffs without complying with the mandatory disclosure
and authorization requirements pursuant to ICRAA.  That is, ERM concealed from Plaintiff the
nature and type of the investigative consumer reports they sought to procure about
the Plaintiffs, the date the reports would be procured, the entity or entities
which would provide the reports, and Plaintiffs’ rights regarding investigative
consumer reports, among other things. 
Defendants were aware of the requirements of the ICRAA prior to
committing the above violations. 
 
            On February
21, 2024, ERM filed this Motion to Strike the allegations and requests for
punitive damages from the FAC.  
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  ERM replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike the whole
pleading or any part thereof.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).)¿ On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)¿¿ 
“The grounds for a motion to strike are limited to matters
appearing on the face of the challenged pleading or matters which must or may
be judicially noticed. (§ 437, subd. (a); Evid. Code, §§ 451, 452.)”  (Garcia v. Sterling (1985) 176
Cal.App.3d 17, 20.)¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            “Before filing a motion to strike
pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached
that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)  “The parties shall meet and confer at
least 5 days before the date a motion to strike must be filed.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(2).)  “A determination by the court that the
meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny
the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd.
(a)(4).)  Here, Defense counsel has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.  (See Declaration of Shareef S. Farag, ¶ 5.)     
            
            Analysis
 
            
ERM seeks an order
striking the request for punitive damages at Paragraphs 4, 33, and 52 and
Paragraph 4 from the Prayer for Relief.   ERM argues that the punitive damages request
is improper because there are no allegations showing ERM has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice within the meaning of Civil Code section 3294.
 
            Plaintiffs argue the standard for
punitive damages as provided under the ICRAA is gross negligence or
willfulness.  Further, the FAC
sufficiently alleges grossly negligent or willful violation of the ICRAA.
 
            The court agrees with Plaintiffs.  The ICRAA provides, “If the court determines
that the violation [of ICRAA] was grossly negligent or willful, the court may,
in addition, assess, and the consumer may recover, punitive damages.”  (Civ. Code, § 1786.50, subd. (b).)  “Gross negligence” or “willfulness” is the
applicable standard for determining imposition of punitive damages for a
violation of the ICRAA.  In an apparent
concession, ERM abandons its arguments based on the general punitive damages
statute in its reply.
 
            The court further agrees with
Plaintiffs that the allegations sufficiently allege grossly negligent or
willful conduct.  “‘Gross negligence’
long has been defined in California and other jurisdictions as either a ‘want
of even scant care’ or “an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of
conduct.”  (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Ct. (2007) 41 Cal.4th
747, 754.)  Here, the FAC alleges: 
 
ERM was “aware of the Investigative
Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA) prior to committing the above violations
and were on notice that their conduct was clearly unlawful and committed the
above violations anyway.”  
[¶]
Further, ERM “did not want the
tenants or prospective tenants to know about or have access to any confidential
consumer reports about them but wanted to manage and run the property free of
any restrictions, questions or inquiries by tenants of information contained in
any reports on them.  Accordingly,
Defendants’ conduct and violations of the ICRAA was and is willful and grossly
negligent. Defendants acted in deliberate or reckless disregard of their
obligations and the rights of the Plaintiffs. Defendants willful conduct is
reflected by, among other things, the following facts: (a) Defendants are large
corporations with access to legal advice and have retained counsel who has
advised the Defendants that they must comply with California Civil Code sections
1786 to 1786.60; (b) Defendants required a purported authorization to perform
credit and background checks in the process of screening Plaintiffs for the
Hesby Apartments and the Altitude Apartments which, although defective,
evidences Defendants’ awareness of and willful failure to follow the governing
laws concerning such authorizations; and (c) The plain language of the statute
unambiguously indicates that inclusion of a box to check to request copies of
reports is required, and that the disclosure form must contain the name,
address, and phone number of the investigative consumer reporting agency
conducting the investigation.” 
 
(FAC, ¶¶ 33, 34.)  
            Contrary to ERM’s position, these allegations
are not simply conclusory.  Plaintiffs
allege that ERM, having retained counsel and being advised that compliance with
the ICRAA was necessary, nevertheless violated the ICRAA.  At the pleading stage, the court accepts this
allegation as true.  The request for
punitive damages is adequately pleaded. 
ERM does not point to any authority that directs a different result.          
            
V.          CONCLUSION
            
Defendant Equity Residential Management, LLC’s Motion to
Strike is DENIED.
 
Defendant is ordered to serve and file their Answer within 10
days of this order.
 
Plaintiffs to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   April 18, 2024                                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


