 Case Number:  24STCP00131    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




XTEN
  ARCHITECTURE, INC.,
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
1535 CARLA RIDGE
  OF LOUISIANA, LLC, et al.
                        Respondents.


Case No.:


24STCP00131




Hearing Date:


April 19, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
PETITION TO CONFIRM CONTRACTUAL ARBITRATION AWARD; 
 
PETITIONER XTEN
  ARCHITECTURE, INC.’S APPLICATION FOR AN ORDER DETERMINING GOOD FAITH
  SETTLEMENT
 




 
Background
On January 12, 2024, Petitioner XTEN Architecture,
Inc. (“Petitioner”) filed the instant petition to confirm contractual
arbitration award against Respondents 1535 Carla Ridge of Louisiana, LLC (“1535
Carla Ridge”) and David Schwartz. Petitioner seeks to confirm an arbitration award issued on August 21, 2023. (Pet., ¶¶ 7-8, Attachment
8(c).) Petitioner indicates that the petition and the settlement are only as to
Petitioner and 1535 Carla Ridge. (Pet, ¶ 8(b)(4).)
            The proof of service
attached to the Petition appears to indicate that the Petition was served via
electronic service on January 12, 2024. In addition, on February 29, 2024,
Petitioner filed and served an amended notice of hearing indicating that the
petition to confirm arbitration award has been set for hearing on April 19,
2024. No opposition
to the petition was filed.  
            On
January 29, 2024, Petitioner filed an application for an order determining good
faith settlement. Petitioner seeks an order determining that the settlement
between 1535 Carla Ridge and Petitioner is in good faith. No opposition
to the application was filed. 
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award 
“Any
party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court
to
confirm, correct
or vacate the award. The petition shall name as respondents all parties to the
arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound by the
arbitration award.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) 
“A petition under this
chapter shall: (a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the
agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an
agreement. (b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have attached
a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is duly
served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made…unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1286.) Any response to the petition is required to be filed and served within
10 days after service of the petition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.) 
The Court finds that Petitioner has satisfied
the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section
1285.4 by attaching a copy of the underlying agreement to arbitrate (Pet.,
¶ 4, Attachment 4(b)), by setting forth the name of the arbitrator (Pet. ¶ 6),
and by attaching a copy of the arbitration award between Petitioner and 1535 Carla Ridge. (Pet., ¶ 8, Attachment 8(c)). 
Based on the foregoing, and in light of the
lack of a response to the petition, the Court finds good cause to confirm the
award as made. 
Application for an Order Determining Good
Faith Settlement 
“[Code
of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by
the Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure for determining if a
settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith
and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable
contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown.” (Irm Corp. v.
Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action in which it
is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have
the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (d).)
“A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).)  
In Tech-Bilt, Inc.
v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499, the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were
found liable after a trial.  Other
relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy
limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”  The evaluation of whether a settlement was
made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.” (Ibid.) 
Significantly, when the good faith nature of a
settlement is uncontested, the Court need not consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. (City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) “[W]hen no
one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.” (Ibid.)
Petitioner submits
the declaration of its counsel, who states that “Respondent 1535 CARLA RIDGE OF
LOUISIANA, LLC (‘RESPONDENT’) filed a its [sic] Demand for Arbitration with AAA
on March 14, 2022 alleging design/construction defect and negligence claims
against Petitioner XTEN (architect) and Respondent David Schwartz (construction
manager).” (Lee Decl., ¶ 3.) Petitioner’s counsel states that “[o]n or about
July 18, 2023, a settlement was reached only as to and between XTEN and
RESPONDENT Carla Ridge,” and that “[o]n August 21, 2023, AAA Arbitrator Matthew
Argue Esq. signed, issued and served the Arbitration/Consent award (re
RESPONDENT and XTEN’s settlement) on all parties.” (Lee Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) 
Petitioner’s
counsel states that “[t]he basis, terms and amount of XTEN’s Settlement are as
follows: XTEN agrees to pay RESPONDENT TWO HUNDRED AND FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
AND NO CENTS ($205,000.00) in exchange for dismissal and release of any and all
pending claims by RESPONDENT Carla Ridge against XTEN (in Arbitration or
otherwise) and each party to bear its own costs and attorney fees. The terms of
the settlement are contingent on the Court’s determination that the XTEN
Settlement is in good faith.” (Lee Decl., ¶ 7.) 
Petitioner’s
counsel further states that “in this arbitration matter, XTEN had many
factual/contractual/legal and statute of limitations defenses to RESPONDENT’s
allegations and all causes of action asserted by RESPONDENT against XTEN are
time barred.” (Lee Decl., ¶ 8, emphasis omitted.) Petitioner asserts that
accordingly, its payment of $205,000.00 is greater than a rough approximation
of Petitioner’s liability and is within the ballpark of what Plaintiff might
recover at trial. (Lee Decl., ¶ 8.) Petitioner’s counsel also asserts that
“there is no evidence of any collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct between the
Settling Parties and the Plaintiff aimed at making the non-settling parties pay
more than their fair share. The settlement between Settling Parties was reached
through arms-length negotiations…” (Lee Decl., ¶ 8.) 
The Court finds that the unopposed application
describes the background of this case, details the nature of the proposed
settlement, and provides sufficient reasoning as to why the settlement was
reached in good faith. All indications are that the settlement was reached as a
result of arm’s length negotiations between the settling parties. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Petitioner’s
petition to confirm contractual arbitration award. The
Court orders Petitioner to file and serve a proposed order pertaining to the
petition within 10
days of the
date of this Order. 
The Court also grants
Petitioner’s application for an order determining good faith settlement. The Court notes that the fourth paragraph of Petitioner’s
proposed order submitted on January
29, 2024 contains language that is broader than Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6, subdivision (c). The Court orders Petitioner to file and serve a revised
proposed order in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6,
subdivision (c) within 10 days of this Order.  
Petitioner is ordered to provide notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  April 19, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court