 Case Number:  24VECV04128    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



MHER GEVORGYAN, an
  individual; NAZELI CHERKEZYAN, an individual, 
 
                    Petitioners,
          vs.
 
MOBILITAS INSURANCE COMPANY, an Arizona Corporation;
  and DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, 
 

                    Respondent.

 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
))))))
 


     CASE NO.: 24VECV04128
 
ORDER GRANTING
  PETITIONER’S PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



I.
       BACKGROUND 
Petitioners Mher
Gevorgyan and Nazeli Cherkezyan (collectively, “Petitioners”) allege they were
passengers in a vehicle operated by Lyft, Inc. when they were hit by an uninsured
motorist who then fled the scene. (See Petition to Compel Arbitration
and for an Appointment of a Neutral Arbitrator (“Petition”), pg. 4.) At the
time of the accident, Lyft, Inc. had an insurance policy providing uninsured or
underinsured motorist coverage with Respondent Mobilitas Insurance Company
(“Respondent”). (See id.) Petitioners claim they are covered under
Respondent’s insurance policy and that their demands to Respondent to arbitrate
their claims have gone unanswered. (See id.)
Petitioners now
seek to compel Respondent arbitrate their uninsured motorist claim.   
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On August 26, 2024,
Petitioners filed their Petition. 
On September 3, 2024,
Petitioners filed their Notice of Petition to Compel Arbitration. 
Although apparently
properly served on September 10, 2024, Respondent has not appeared in the case.

III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.2[1] permits a party to file a petition to request that the Court
order the parties to arbitrate a controversy.¿The Court may grant the motion if the Court determines that
an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless the petitioner has
waived the right to arbitrate or there are other grounds for rescission. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2(a)-(b).)
Insurance Code § 11580.2
establishes certain rules governing uninsured and underinsured motor vehicle
insurance policies. Insurance Code § 11580.2(f) requires that “the
determination as to whether the insured shall be legally entitled to recover
damages ... shall be made by agreement between the insured and the insurer or,
in the event of disagreement, by arbitration.” The provisions of Insurance Code
§ 11580.2 are deemed to be a part of every uninsured motorist policy. (See
Quintano v. Mercury Casualty Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1049, 1053; Harford
Fire Insurance Co. v. Macri (1992) 4 Cal.4th 318, 324; Travelers
Indemnity Co. v. Kowalski (1965) 233 Cal.App.2d 607, 609.)   
When a motion to
compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a
written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine
whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised,
whether it is enforceable.¿(See Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial
Sec. Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party bears the burden
of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence because the
existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the
petition.¿(Id.)¿¿
There are two
“common themes” in case law interpreting the scope of arbitration under Insurance
Code § 11580.2(f): “(1) arbitration of issues other than liability and damages
is appropriate if the parties have contractually agreed to arbitrate more than
is required by section 11580.2, subdivision (f); and, (2) only issues of
liability and damages may be decided in an arbitral forum if the parties did
not agree to arbitrate more than is required by section 11580.2, subdivision
(f).” (Bouton v. USAA Casualty Insurance Co. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 1190,
1197.)¿¿ 
“If the insured
has or may have rights to benefits, other than nonoccupational disability
benefits, under any workers’ compensation law, the arbitrator shall not proceed
with the arbitration until the insured's physical condition is stationary and
ratable. In those cases in which the insured claims a permanent disability, the
claims shall, unless good cause be shown, be adjudicated by award or settled by
compromise and release before the arbitration may proceed.” (Ins. Code §
11580.2(f).)¿ 
“Any demand or
petition for arbitration shall contain a declaration, under penalty of perjury,
stating whether (i) the insured has a workers' compensation claim; (ii) the
claim has proceeded to findings and award or settlement on all issues
reasonably contemplated to be determined in that claim; and (iii) if not, what
reasons amounting to good cause are grounds for the arbitration to proceed
immediately.” (Ins. Code § 11580.2(f).)¿ 
IV.         
ANALYSIS 
Petitioners argue
they are covered under Respondent’s insurance policy with Lyft, Inc. and that
the insurance policy contains an uninsured motorist arbitration provision. (See
Petition, pg. 2, ¶¶ 3-4.) Petitioners’ counsel declares he sent a
settlement demand letter to Respondent on May 13, 2024, and again on June 11,
2024, but that Respondent did not respond. (See Declaration of Mihran Ghazaryan
filed August 26, 2024 (“Ghazaryan Decl.”), ¶ 4.) Petitioners’ counsel further
declares he initiated the uninsured motorist coverage arbitration by serving
the Respondent, via certified mail and via email, with a formal demand for
arbitration. (See Ghazaryan Decl., ¶ 6.) Because Respondent has not
responded to Petitioners’ letters or formal settlement demand, Petitioners
request this Court compel Respondent to arbitrate Petitioners’ claims and
appoint a neutral arbitrator. (See Petition, pp. 2-3.) 
In support of their
request, Petitioners have attached the insurance policy containing the
arbitration provision and a copy of their demand letter. (See Petition,
Exs. A, B.) 
The Court finds
Petitioners are entitled to an order compelling Respondent to arbitrate their
claims and appointing a neutral arbitrator. As a preliminary matter, Petitioners
are covered under the insurance policy. (See Ins. Code § 11580.2(b)
(stating uninsured motorist coverage applies to “any other person while in or
upon or entering into or alighting from an uninsured motor vehicle”).) The arbitration
provision states “[i]f we and an ‘insured’ disagree whether the ‘insured’ is
legally entitled to recover damages from the owner or driver of an ‘uninsured
motor vehicle’ or do not agree as to the amount of damages that are recoverable
by that ‘insured’, the disagreement will be settled by arbitration. Such
arbitration may be initiated by a written demand for arbitration made by either
party. The arbitration shall be conducted by a single neutral arbitrator.
However, disputes concerning coverage under this endorsement may not be
arbitrated. Each party will bear the expenses of the arbitrator equally.” (Petition,
Ex. A (emphasis added).) “Insured” is in turn defined as “[a]nyone ‘occupying’
a covered ‘auto’ or a temporary substitute for a covered ‘auto’.” (Id.) 
Because they are
covered under the insurance policy, and because Petitioners have included the workers’
compensation declaration required by Ins. Code § 11580.2(f), Petitioners can
petition this Court to enforce the arbitration agreement and compel Respondent
arbitrate their claims. (See Petition, Ex. B.) 
V.       CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Petitioners’ Petition to Compel Arbitration. The Court
stays the matter pending arbitration completion. The Court will hold a Status
Conference re: Arbitration on May 9, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. The parties are ordered
to file a Joint Status Update on or before May 2, 2025.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:
October 9, 2024



Hon.
  Michael R. Amerian
Judge, Superior Court



 
 
 


