 Case Number:  24STCV20093    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANTONIO CEJA,
  
         vs.
 
KENNCO
  PLUMBING, INC., et al. 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV20093
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 30, 2024



 
Defendants Kennco
Plumbing, Inc.’s, Robert Kennedy’s, John Johnson’s, and Paul Yanez’s demurrer
to Plaintiff Antonio Ceja’s Complaint is
overruled as to the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th,
9th, 10th, and 12th causes of action and sustained with 20 days leave to
amend as to the 1st, 2nd, 7th, 8th, and 11th causes of action.
 
Defendants Kennco Plumbing, Inc. (“Kennco”), Robert Kennedy
(“Kennedy”), John Johnson (“Johnson”), and Paul Yanez (“Yanez”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
demur Plaintiff Antonio Ceja’s (“Ceja”) (“Plaintiff”) twelve causes of action
in his complaint (“Complaint”).  (Notice
of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §§430.10 et seq.)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.)
The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer
a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’ counsel declares that she sent a letter to
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the deficiencies in Plaintiff’s Complaint on
August 27, 2024, and requested Plaintiff’s counsel’s availability to discuss
the parties’ respective positions.  (See
Decl. of Rouhi ¶3, Exh. B.)  Defendants’
counsel indicates that on September 4, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel responded to
her letter and did not provide her availability to meet and confer, despite
Defendants’ counsel’s efforts.  (See
Decl. of Rouhi ¶6, Exh. E.)  Defendants’
counsel’s declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3)(B).  In the future, Defendants’ counsel is to attempt
to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel in person, by telephone, or by
video conference as required by C.C.P. §430.41(a); corresponding by email
or letter does not meet the requirements of the statute.  Therefore, the Court will consider Defendants’
demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed the operative Complaint on August 9, 2024, against Defendants alleging twelve
causes of action: (1) Breach of Express Contract [against Kennco]; (2) Breach
of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing [against Kennco]; (3) Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy [against Kennco]; (4)
Violation of California Constitution, Article I, §8 [against Defendants];
(5) Violation of Government Code §§12900 et seq. [against Defendants];
(6) Violation of Business & Professions Code §17200 [against Defendants];
(7) Fraud [against Defendants]; (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress [against Defendants]; (9) Violation of Labor Code §§551, 552,
1102.5 [against Kennco]; (10) Violation of Labor Code- rest, meal
period, overtime [against Kennco]; (11) Violation of Labor Code §§98.6,
1102.5, 6400 et seq., 6310- unsafe work conditions, whistleblower [against Defendants];
and (12) Violation of Labor Code §§226, 1198.5- wage statements [against
Kennco].
Defendants filed the instant demurrer on October 10, 2024.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on December 16,
2024.  Defendants filed their reply on December
20, 2024.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges he is a Latino male over the age of 40
who was employed by Kennco as a plumber/laborer since 2021.  (Complaint ¶1.)  Plaintiff alleges he was a loyal employee who
had extensive experience and knowledge in his trade, had a prior work injury,
was disabled, and after he reported safety violations and need for disability
accommodation, on or about August 11, 2022, was denied evaluation for accommodation,
was denied accommodation, and was wrongfully terminated by Defendants.  (Complaint ¶1.)  
Plaintiff alleges that at all relevant times his employ was
managed and controlled by Kennco’s owner Kennedy, who Plaintiff is informed and
believes authorized and ratified what occurred as alleged herein; Yanez,
Kennco’s Human Resources manager and Plaintiff’s manager; and Johnson, Kennco’s
“Finish Superintendent” and Plaintiff’s direct supervisor/Manager
(collectively, “Managers”).  (Complaint ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges the conduct was discriminatory,
personally harassing, and intended to and did cause a severely hostile
workplace, wherein despicable, malicious and oppressive conduct was condoned
and permitted in the workplace by all Defendants.  (Complaint ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges he was called a “liability”
due to being an older disabled person and was treated differently than
Caucasians and his younger non-disabled co-workers.  (Complaint ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges that when he protested, he
was retaliated against, and the conduct persisted until he was wrongfully
terminated.  (Complaint ¶2.)
Plaintiff alleges he was disabled with orthopedic issues,
diabetes issues and resultant symptoms, which he disclosed to Defendants and
which Defendant Managers required him to self-accommodate.  (Complaint ¶3.)  Plaintiff alleges he accommodated testing his
blood sugar levels, maintaining proper blood sugar levels, and eating as needed
by taking breaks when he could, however, he was also denied reasonable rest and
meal periods, was not paid for all his work hours, and worked overtime for
which he was not paid.  (Complaint ¶3.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants were advised of
his disabilities, need for accommodation, and his need for breaks, and that other
times he was denied breaks, and Defendants refused to evaluate him for
accommodation, so he was forced to accommodate himself. (Complaint ¶3.)
Plaintiff alleges that on or about August 9, 2022,
Plaintiff specifically advised Defendants of his need to be accommodated, and that
he had upcoming doctor’s appointments relating to his disability and needed
time to attend them.  (Complaint
¶4.)  Plaintiff alleges the time would
not affect his work, all of which he could complete.  (Complaint ¶4.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants, specifically Johnson,
with the approval of the other Managers, refused to evaluate Plaintiff’s need
for accommodation and demanded that he take a week off without pay.  (Complaint ¶4.)  Plaintiff alleges that he refused.  (Complaint ¶4.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about August 9, 2022, he protested against
unsafe work conditions and refused to work due to the unsafe condition.  (Complaint ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges that he was concerned that
he might trip and fall due to his diabetes and related issues.  (Complaint ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges his younger co-workers
continued to work despite the dangerous conditions.  (Complaint ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges that after he complained,
he was told by Johnson he was a liability due to his disability, perceived disability,
age and for having protested, and he was fired on August 11, 2022.  (Complaint ¶5.)  
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendants demur to each cause
of action on the basis they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against Defendants.  (Demurrer, pgs. 1-3; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)  Defendants demur to the 1st and 2nd causes of
action on the basis each fails to establish whether the alleged contract at
issue is written, oral, or implied by conduct.  (Demurrer, pg. 1; C.C.P. §430.10(g).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Breach of Contract
(1st COA)
The elements for a breach contract are: (1) existence of a contract;
(2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s
breach; and (4) resulting damage to the plaintiff.  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
Although a written contract is usually pleaded by alleging
its making and attaching a copy which is incorporated by reference, a written
contract can also be pleaded by alleging the making and the substance of the
relevant terms. (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Insurance
Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199; Perry v. Robertson (1988) 201
Cal.App.3d 333, 341.) “An oral contract may be pleaded generally as to its
effect, because it is rarely possible to allege the exact words. [Citation.] A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures. [Citations.]”  (Khoury
v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  That plaintiff could not allege with
specificity the exact terms of the contract does not preclude statement of a
cause of action.  (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges Kennco and Plaintiff entered into a
contract wherein Plaintiff was to be employed by Defendant, that he would be
treated fairly, not harassed, discriminated against, or retaliated against.  (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges Kennco’s promises were
terms of a contract between Plaintiff and Kennco.  (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges that from the beginning of
his employment through the date of his termination, was a loyal and hardworking
employee who relied upon Kennco’s promises. 
(Complaint ¶17.)
Plaintiff alleges that he has performed each and every
condition and covenant required on his part to be performed pursuant to said
employment agreement.  (Complaint ¶18.)
Plaintiff alleges that pursuant to said employment
agreement, Kennco expressly promised Plaintiff’s employment would continue as
long as he performed satisfactorily and obeyed all reasonable and lawful
directions of his employment.  (Complaint
¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges that based
thereon, he did not seek other employment. 
(Complaint ¶20.)  
Plaintiff alleges Kennco breached said employment agreement
and its express and implied promises by arbitrarily and wrongfully terminating
Plaintiff based upon the motivating factors stated above, in violation of Kennco’s
promises.
          Plaintiff fails
to allege whether the contract at issue is written, oral, or implied by
conduct.  (C.C.P. §430.10(g).)  Plaintiff fails to allege facts to establish
when the agreement was made, the particular terms of the agreement, and whether
there was any consideration or mutual acceptance and agreement by the parties.  (Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 337.)  Moreover, as relevant
to employment contract claims, there is a strong statutory presumption that the
relationship between an employer and employee in California is “at-will,”
absent an employment agreement which specifies the length of employment or the
grounds for termination.  (See Labor
Code §2922; Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 678.)  Plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient to
prove the existence of a contract, as opposed to an at-will agreement, or that Kennco
breached any contract.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Breach of Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (2nd COA)
“There is an implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing in every contract that neither party will do
anything which will injure the right of the other to receive the benefits of
the agreement.”  (Comunale v. Traders
& General Insurance Co. (1958) 50 Cal.2d 654, 658.)  The covenant of good faith and fair dealings
cannot “be endowed with an existence independent of its contractual
underpinnings.”  (Love v. Fire Ins.
Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1153.)
Plaintiff alleges the laws of
the State of California imply a covenant of good faith and fair dealing into
the relationship between Plaintiff and Kennco. 
(Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiff
alleges the covenant requires that each party to the employment contract act
with fairness and good faith toward the other, and that neither party nor their
agents or employees should take any action to prevent the other from reaping
the benefits of the relationship.  (Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges the covenant further
requires Defendant to refrain from needless injury or damage to Plaintiff. (Complaint
¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges the covenant
further requires Defendant to conform to all laws of the State of California
and to refrain from violating any laws which detrimentally affects Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges the covenant further
requires Defendant to maintain a workplace free from the pernicious influence
of discrimination and retaliation, to afford Plaintiff the benefits of all
rules and regulations adopted for his protection.  (Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges the above said acts of
Defendant, its agents and employees, constitute a breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing. Said breach is a substantial factor causing damage
to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶23.)  
Plaintiff alleges that he entered
into the contract to secure peace of mind, comfort, happiness, personal esteem
and financial security of his job/position.  (Complaint ¶24.)  Plaintiff alleges that in reliance on the
contract, he did not seek other employment and remained employed in reliance
upon Defendant’s express and implied promises as mentioned herein.  (Complaint ¶24.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s wrongful
termination of Plaintiff as indicated above was caused by improper motives,
which were not based on fact and were due to Defendant’s wrongful and malicious
conduct.  (Complaint ¶25.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendant, and
its agents and employees, at all times knew or should have known that the Defendants
were committing wrongful acts and omissions against Plaintiff and other
employees.  (Complaint ¶26.)  
Plaintiff alleges said action on
the part of Defendant and its agents and employees constituted bad faith actions
extraneous to the contract with the intent and purpose of frustrating the
contract, and to wrongfully terminate Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s conduct did in
fact result in Plaintiff suffering financial loss and emotional upset.  (Complaint ¶27.)  
Plaintiff fails to allege the
existence of a contract.  Plaintiff fails to allege whether the contract at issue is
written, oral, or implied by conduct. 
(C.C.P. §430.10(g).)  Plaintiff
fails to allege facts to establish when the agreement was made, the particular
terms of the agreement, and whether there was any consideration or mutual
acceptance and agreement by the parties.  (Guz, 24 Cal.4th at pg. 337.)  
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy (3rd COA)
To establish a wrongful
termination claim, Plaintiff must show: (1) he was employed by the company; (2)
the company terminated his employment; (3) a violation of public policy
substantially motivated the discharge; and (4) the discharge caused harm to him.
 (Haney v. Aramark Uniform Services,
Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 623, 643.)  To that extent, a plaintiff will also need to
demonstrate the existence of a public policy that (a) is derived from
regulatory, statutory or constitutional authority, (b) inures to the public
interest generally, (c) is well-established at the time of discharge, and (d)
is fundamental and substantial.  (Green
v. Ralee Engineering Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 66, 74-80.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s
wrongful treatment of Plaintiff and termination of Plaintiff was in violation of
fundamental public policies of the State of California as it included illegal
conduct and other wrongful activity of discrimination, harassment and
retaliation. Said policies are stated in the common laws and statutes of the
State of California, those stated herein and stated in the FEHA [Fair Employment
and Housing Act], the California Constitution, Civil Code, Labor Code, Health
and Safety Code, Business and Professions Code and other regulations, rules,
laws, statutes and case law.  (Complaint
¶32.) 
Plaintiff alleges his
termination by Defendant wrongful and in violation of these fundamental principles
of the public policy of the State of California.  (Complaint ¶33.)  Plaintiff alleges that as a result of said
employment relationship, Defendant was obligated to refrain from wrongfully
terminating Plaintiff, or any employee, for reasons which violate or circumvent
said policy, law, or the objectives which underlie each and not to compound its
illegal conduct.  (Complaint ¶34.)  Plaintiff alleges as a direct and foreseeable
result of the aforesaid acts of Defendant, its agents and employees, Plaintiff
has lost and will continue to lose income and benefits in an amount to be
proven at the time of trial.  (Complaint
¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges he has also
incurred attorney fees.  (Complaint
¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges he claims such
amount as damages together with pre-judgment interest pursuant to C.C.P. §3287
and/or any other provision of law providing for pre-judgment interest.  (Complaint ¶35.)
Plaintiff alleges that as a
result of the aforesaid acts of Defendant, Plaintiff has suffered financial
damages and has become mentally depressed, upset, distressed and aggravated.  (Complaint ¶36.)  Plaintiff claims general damages for such
financial loss and mental and emotional distress and aggravation in a sum to be
proven at trial.  (Complaint ¶36.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a
cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of public policy.  Plaintiff alleges that his termination
violated policies stated in “FEHA, the California Constitution, Civil Code, Labor
Code, Health and Safety Code, Business and Professions Code and other
regulations, rules, laws, statutes and case law.”  (Complaint ¶32.)  Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient to put
Defendants on notice of the basis for the instant claim.
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action is overruled.
 
Violation of
California Constitution, Article I, §8 (4th COA)
Article I, §8 of the California
Constitution states: “A person may not be disqualified from entering or
pursuing a business, profession, vocation, or employment because of sex, race,
creed, color, or national or ethnic origin.” 
(Cal. Const., art. I, §8.)
State constitutional prohibition
against sex discrimination applies to private as well as state action and
reflects a fundamental public policy against discrimination so as to support a
claim of wrongful termination in violation of public policy.  (Grinzi v. San
Diego Hospice Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 72, 82, rehearing denied, quoting Rojo v. Kliger (1990) 52 Cal.3d 65, 90 [“California’s
prohibition against sex discrimination is also distinguishable as it applies to
private as well as state action and ‘unquestionably reflects a fundamental
public policy against discrimination.’”].)
Plaintiff has asserted a
violation of article I, §8. 
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to the 4th cause of action is overruled.
 
Failure to
Accommodate in Violation of FEHA (5th COA)
A cause of action for failure to
accommodate in violation of FEHA requires the following elements: (1) Plaintiff
has a disability or medical condition or was regarded as suffering from a
disability; (2) plaintiff could perform the essential duties of a sought
reassigned job with or without reasonable accommodations; and (3) the employer
failed to reasonably accommodate.  (Wilson v. County
of Orange
(2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1193 [reasonable accommodations include job
restructuring, modified work schedules, reassignments, providing readers or
interpreters, and paid or unpaid leave]; 
Jensen
v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 256, 264-265 [employer’s allowing a
disabled employee to apply for positions fails to meet the employer’s burden to
show a reasonable accommodation, and impermissibly would shift to the employee
the burden to identify reasonable accommodations]; see also 
Scotch v. Art Institute of California-Orange County, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 994
[“Reasonable accommodation” means “‘a modification or adjustment to the
workplace that enables the employee to perform the essential functions of the
job held or desired.’”];  Nadaf-Rahrov v.
Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 975-976 [reasonable accommodation under
FEHA includes adjusting the workplace to enable employees to perform essential
functions of held or desired jobs].)
Plaintiff alleges that throughout
his employment, he was a loyal and hardworking employee.  (Complaint ¶43.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants subjected
Plaintiff to discrimination, harassment, retaliation motivated by his age,
race, national origin, ancestry, color, perceived medical condition/sickness
and need for family care or medical leave (CFRA), disability, perceived disability,
association with protected classes, denied him a good faith interactive
process, denied him a work environment free of discrimination and/or retaliation,
denied him pay, employment, denied reasonable accommodation and rest periods,
resulting in reprimand, hostile work environment, wrongful termination of
Plaintiff, causing him physical injury, emotional distress and other damages.  (Complaint ¶43.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ harassment was
severe, pervasive and caused Plaintiff extreme distress.  (Complaint ¶43.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
owed Plaintiff a duty to screen and hire capable and qualified individuals to assist
them and to serve as agents, including all Co-Defendants who were direct or
indirectly involved in Plaintiff’s employ. (Complaint ¶44.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants owed a duty to
persons similarly situated as Plaintiff to properly oversee and to direct their
agents, associates, and not to permit the abusive conduct they inflicted and
condoned.  (Complaint ¶44.)  
Plaintiff alleges Kennco had a
duty to evaluate Plaintiff through a good faith interactive process to
determine if he required accommodation.  (Complaint ¶45.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants refused this
process and refused accommodation. 
(Complaint ¶45.)  Plaintiff
alleges these duties were breached by Defendants.  (Complaint ¶45.)  
Plaintiff alleges as a proximate
consequence of Defendants’ wrongful acts of discrimination and retaliation against
Plaintiff, he has suffered lost wages, benefits, incurred attorney fees,
suffered emotional distress and other general and special damages.  (Complaint ¶47.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a
cause of action for failure to accommodate in violation of FEHA.  Plaintiff alleges he was disabled, sought
reasonable accommodations, and was denied such accommodations.  (Complaint ¶3.)[1]
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action is overruled.
 
Violation of
Business & Professions Code §17200 (6th COA)
A
cause of action for unfair business practices under the unfairness prong must
allege the following elements: (1) a business practice; (2) that is unfair,
unlawful or fraudulent; and (3) an authorized remedy.  (Bus. & Prof. Code §17200; Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006)
139 Cal.App.4th 659, 676; see also
People ex rel. Dept. of Motor Vehicles v. Cars 4 Causes (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016 [“An ‘unlawful’
practice requires violation of another statute, and a business practice
may be ‘unfair’ even if not otherwise proscribed by statute as long as the
practice is not expressly authorized by law.”]; Bank of the West v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1254, 1266 [“The
Unfair Business Practices Act defines ‘unfair competition’ as any ‘unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising….’ (§ 17200.) The Legislature intended this ‘sweeping
language’ to include ‘anything that can properly be called a business practice
and that at the same time is forbidden by law.’”]; Drum v. San Fernando Valley Bar Association (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th
247, 256 [“a split of authority developed among the Courts of Appeal, which
have applied three different tests for unfairness in consumer cases.”].) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
engaged in the acts and omissions heretofore alleged for the purpose of depriving
Plaintiff of income, benefits.  (Complaint ¶49.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ acts as
specifically stated herein, constitute unfair business practices which are
illegal under California Business & Professions Code §17200, which prohibits
unfair competition, which includes unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business acts
or practices and unfair, deceptive or untrue acts.  (Complaint ¶49.)
Plaintiff alleges as a proximate
result of Defendants’ wrongful acts Plaintiff seeks all damages allowed pursuant
to statute.  (Complaint ¶50.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants profited thereby
and also profited from similar treatment of others.  (Complaint ¶50.)  Plaintiff seeks disgorgement of said profits,
restitution and fees as a private attorney general.  (Complaint ¶50.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a
cause of action for violation of Business & Professions Code §17200.  Plaintiff has properly pled causes of action
for Violation of FEHA, Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy, and
Violation of the California Constitution.
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action is overruled.
 
Intentional
Misrepresentation (7th COA)
A cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation must allege the following elements: (1) misrepresentation;
(2) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (3) intent to defraud (induce
reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.  Fraud actions are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading. 
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Fraud must
be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory
allegations.  (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement
means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were made, and, in the
case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the
persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
made representations of material fact which were in fact false.  (Complaint ¶53.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants made the
representations with the intent to defraud and induce Plaintiff to act as
described herein.  (Complaint ¶53.)  Plaintiff alleges that at the time Plaintiff
acted, Plaintiff did not know the representations were false and believed they
were true.  (Complaint ¶53.) Plaintiff alleges
he acted in justifiable reliance upon the truth of the representations.  (Complaint ¶53.) Plaintiff alleges Defendants
made such promises without any intention of performing them.  (Complaint ¶53.) Plaintiff alleges in
reliance on the company’s promises, Plaintiff continued to work for Defendants.  (Complaint ¶53.) 
Plaintiff alleges as a proximate
consequence of Defendants’ wrongful acts against Plaintiff, he has suffered lost
wages, emotional distress and other general and special damages, including lost
interest.  (Complaint ¶54.)
Plaintiff fails to sufficiently
allege a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation.  Plaintiff fails to allege how, when, where,
to whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.  (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 7th cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress (8th COA)
“A cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A
defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.)
“‘Behavior may be considered
outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position that gives him
power to damage the plaintiff’s interests; (2) knows the plaintiff is
susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or
unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness
through mental distress.’”  (Molko v. Holy
Spirit Association
(1988) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1122, internal citation omitted.)
“With respect to the requirement
that the plaintiff show severe emotional distress, this court has set a high
bar. ‘Severe emotional distress means “emotional distress of such substantial
quality or enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society
should be expected to endure it.”’”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1051.)
Plaintiff alleges that when
Defendants, through their agents and employees, committed the acts described in
this Complaint, they did so deliberately and intentionally to cause Plaintiff
to suffer humiliation, mental anguish, and emotional distress.  (Complaint ¶57.)  Plaintiff alleges the outrageousness of the
abovementioned conduct is amplified due to Defendants’ abuse of their position,
which gave actual and apparent authority over Plaintiff, such as is commonly
found in employment relationships.  (Complaint ¶57.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants were aware
Plaintiff was relying upon his employment to sustain himself.  (Complaint ¶57.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants were aware that
mistreating Plaintiff and terminating his employment in the manner in which
they did would cause Plaintiff without notice, to suffer extreme emotional
distress, and other consequential damages. 
(Complaint ¶57.)
Plaintiff alleges that when
Defendants, acting through their agents and employees, did the acts described
in this Complaint to wrongfully terminate Plaintiff’s employment, they did so deliberately
and intentionally to cause emotional distress to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges the acts of Defendants,
through their agents and employees cannot be expected to normally occur in the
workplace.  (Complaint ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges
Plaintiff fails to allege “emotional
distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable
[person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1051.)  Plaintiff provides mere conclusory
allegations pertaining to the emotional distress suffered.
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 8th cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Violation of Labor
Code §§551, 552, 1102, et seq. (9th COA)
Labor Code §551 provides that
“every person employed in any occupation of labor is entitled to one day’s rest
therefrom in seven.” 
Labor Code §552 provides that
“no employer of labor shall cause his employees to work more than six days in
seven.” 
Labor Code §1102.5(b) states that
“An employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall not
retaliate against an employee . . . because the employer believes that the
employee . . . may disclose information, to a government or law enforcement
agency, . . . if the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or
noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or regulation, regardless of
whether disclosing the information is part of the employee’s job duties.”  Labor Code §1102.5(d) states “[a]n employer,
or any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an
employee for having exercised his or her rights under subdivision (a), (b), or
(c) in any former employment.”
Plaintiff alleges Kennco denying
Plaintiff rest days, refusing to comply with FEHA, and terminating Plaintiff’s
employment after he protested illegal treatment constituted a violation of Labor
Code §1102.5(b) and (d).  (Complaint
¶65.)
Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 9th cause of action is overruled.
 
Violation of Labor
Code §§226 and 512, and Wage Order 2-2001 (10th COA)
Labor Code §§226, 512, and Wage
Order 2-2001, paragraph 11(A) provides “No employer shall employ any person for
a work period of more than five (5) hours without a meal period of not less
than 30 minutes . . ..”
Wage Order 2-2001, paragraph
11(D) provides: “If an employer fails to provide an employee a meal period in
accordance with the applicable provisions of this order, the employer shall pay
the employee one (1) hour of pay at the employee’s regular rate of compensation
for each workday that the meal period is not provided.” 
Labor Code §226 and Wage Order
2-2001 paragraph 12(A) states: “Every employer shall authorize and permit all
employees to take rest periods. . . The authorized rest period time shall be
based on the total hours worked daily at the rate of ten (10) minutes net rest
time per four (4) hours or major fraction thereof. . . Authorized rest period time
shall be counted as hours worked for which there shall be no deduction from
wages.” 
Wage Order 2-2001, paragraph
12(B) provides: “if an employer fails to provide an employee a rest period in
accordance with the applicable provisions of this order, the employer shall pay
the employee one (1) hours of pay at the employee’s regular rate of
compensation for each workday that the rest period is not provided.”
Plaintiff alleges that during the
course of his employment, Plaintiff worked without breaks.  (Complaint ¶73.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants knowingly and
willfully failed to allow Plaintiff to take rest breaks or meal periods.  (Complaint ¶73.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants knowingly and
willfully refused to pay proper wages for overtime.  (Complaint ¶73.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
have failed and refused and continue to fail and refuse to pay Plaintiff the amounts
owed to him for failing to allow both the rest, meal periods, and overtime.  (Complaint ¶74.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’
failure to pay Plaintiff the required sums violate the provisions of the Labor
Code and entitles Plaintiff to penalties and other damages.  (Complaint ¶75.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a
cause of action for Labor Code §§226, 512, and Wage Order 2-2001.  
Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 10th cause of action is overruled.
 
Violation of Labor Code §§98.6, 1102.5, 6400 et seq., 6310
(11th COA)
A cause of action for
whistleblower retaliation under the Labor Code requires the following elements:
(1) a prima facie case of retaliation: (a) that Plaintiff engaged in a
protected activity; (b) employer subjected Plaintiff to adverse employment
action; and (c) there is a causal link between the two; (2) Defendant’s
legitimate, nonretaliatory explanation for its acts; and (3) plaintiff’s
showing that the explanation is merely a pretext for the retaliation.  (Patten v. Grant Joint Union High School District (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378,
1384; Hansen
v. California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (2008) 171 Cal.App.4th 1537,
1546 [emphasizing that there must have been an employer-employee relationship existing
at the time of the alleged retaliation]; see also Green, 19 Cal.4th at pg. 77 [stating
§1102.5(b) protects employees who report to public agencies, not those who report
suspicions directly to the employer].)
Plaintiff
alleges Labor Code §§98.6, 6310, and 6400 required Defendants to maintain a
safe workplace and not to retaliate against Plaintiff or terminate his
employment if he protested same. 
(Complaint ¶79.)
Plaintiff
alleges Defendants’ conduct violated the provisions of the California Labor
Code and entitles Plaintiff to penalties and other damages.   (Complaint ¶80.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of Defendants’
conduct Plaintiff is entitled to recovery of general and special damages, such
amounts, plus penalties, interest thereon, attorney’s fees, and costs, under
the law.  (Complaint ¶80.)  Plaintiff alleges he also seeks penalties
pursuant to the California Labor Code. 
(Complaint ¶80.) 
Plaintiff
fails to allege a cause of action under Labor Code §1102.5(b).  Plaintiff
fails to allege he reported an alleged illegal conduct to a public agency, or
that he refused to participate in an unlawful activity.  (See Green, 19 Cal.4th at pg. 77; CACI
4603.)
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 11th cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Violation of Labor
Code §§226 and 1198.5 (12th COA)
Labor Code §§226 and 1198.5 require an
employer to provide employees with personnel records and accurate itemized
statements in writing showing, among other things, total hours worked by the
employee, all gross wages earned, and the correct applicable hourly rates.
Plaintiff alleges he requested his personnel
records.  (Complaint ¶84.)  Plaintiff alleges he was not provided with
complete personnel records or accurate itemized statements accurately showing
all hours worked nor providing all applicable hourly rates in effect during the
pay period and the corresponding number of hours worked at each hourly rate by
the employee.  (Complaint ¶84.)  Plaintiff alleges he has been damaged and
injured by Defendants’ intentional violation of Labor Code §§226 and 1198.5.  (Complaint ¶84.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of
action for violation of Labor Code §§226 and 1198.5.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 12th cause of action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is overruled as to the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th, and
12th causes of action and sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, 7th, 8th, and 11th causes
of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  