 Case Number:  23STLC07184    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PSG
  CALIFORNIA, LLC,  
  
         vs.
 
ERIC
  MINTZ, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STLC07184
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 30, 2024



 
Defendant
Law Offices of David R. Denis, P.C.’s motion for
release of funds and dismissal of the interpleader action is denied.
Defendant
Law Offices of David R. Denis, P.C.’s request for fees and costs is denied.
 
Defendant Law Offices of David R. Denis, P.C.
(“LODD”) (“Moving Defendant”) moves for an order to release all interpleader
funds and to dismiss the instant action. 
(Notice Amended Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P §386.)  Moving Defendant further moves for an award of
costs and attorneys’ fees in the total amount of $175,468 payable to LODD
against Plaintiff PSG California, LLC (“PSG”) (“Plaintiff”) and against
Defendant and Cross-Complainant, Eric Mintz (“Mintz”) (“Defendant”), jointly
and severally.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
LODD’s 10/31/24 request for judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s Complaint in Interpleader is denied because this Court does not
need to take judicial notice of filings on the instant docket.
LODD’s 10/31/24 request for judicial notice of “Defendants’
Status Report on Pending Stipulations/Agreement Re: Payment on Judgment;
Declaration of Armando Galvan; Attached Exhibits” in Eric Mintz v. Law
Offices of David R. Denis, P.C. et al., LASC Case No. BC704715 (LODD-RJN,
Exh. 2), is granted.
Mintz’s 12/16/24 request for judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s Motion for Discharge and Declaration of Hazel Poei filed in the
instant case is denied because this Court does not need to take judicial notice
of filings on the instant docket.
 
Background
Plaintiff filed its complaint in interpleader
on November 8, 2023, against Defendants. 
Mintz filed his cross-complaint against Plaintiff on December 14,
2023.  On or about December 14, 2023,
Plaintiff deposited the sum of $21,243.54 (“Funds”), being the entire amount in
dispute, with the clerk of this Court on the filing of this Complaint.  (Decl. of Poei ¶12, Exh. 7.)
On
December 27, 2024, this Court ruled on Plaintiff’s motion discharging it
from all liability to Defendants, dismissing Plaintiff from the instant action,
and granting Plaintiff’s attorneys’ fees and costs.
LODD filed its initial motion on October 8,
2024.  LODD filed an amended motion on
December 5, 2024.  Mintz filed his
opposition on December 16, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed its opposition December 16, 2024.  As of the date of this hearing no reply has
been filed.
 
Legal Standard
Interpleader is proper whenever “double or
multiple claims are made . . . by two or more persons . . . such that they may
[expose the person against whom the claims are asserted] to double or multiple
liability.”  (C.C.P. §386(b).)
Interpleader
is proper even though the conflicting claims are not identical or mutually
exclusive. A partial conflict is sufficient (e.g., Bank holding $10,000, of
which A claims the entire amount, and B claims only $2,000).  (C.C.P. §386(b); City of Morgan Hill v.
Brown (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1114, 1123.)
A
two-step procedure is generally followed: (1) the court must first determine
whether plaintiff may bring the suit and force the claimants to interplead; and
(2) if it is so determined, the court will discharge plaintiff from liability
and then determine the rights of the various claimants to the property that has
been deposited with the court.  (City
of Morgan Hill, 71 Cal.App.4th at pgs. 1126-1127.)
Any
amount which the plaintiff-stakeholder admits owing may be deposited with the
court clerk. Such deposit has the effect of terminating any obligation for
interest, or for damages for detention of property, after the date of the
deposit.  (C.C.P. §386(c).)  Upon application of a party to the action,
funds so deposited will be ordered invested in an insured, interest-bearing
account.  (C.C.P. §386.1.)
C.C.P.
§386(d) provides:
A defendant named in a
complaint to compel conflicting claimants to interplead and litigate their
claims, or a defendant named in a cross-complaint in interpleader, may, in
lieu of or in addition to any other pleading, file an answer to the complaint
or cross-complaint which shall be served upon all other parties to the action
and which shall contain allegations of fact as to his ownership of or other
interest in the amount or property and any affirmative defenses and the relief
requested. The allegations in such answer shall be deemed denied by all
other parties to the action, unless otherwise admitted in the pleadings.
 
(C.C.P.
§386(d), emphasis added.)
C.C.P.
§386(e) provides:
Except in cases where by
the law a right to a jury trial is now given, conflicting claims to funds or
property or the value thereof so deposited or delivered shall be deemed issues
triable by the court, and such issues may be first tried. In the event the
amount deposited shall be less than the amount claimed to be due by one or more
of the conflicting claimants thereto, or in the event the property or the value
thereof delivered is less than all of the property or the value thereof claimed
by one or more of such conflicting claimants, any issues of fact involved in
determining whether there is a deficiency in such deposit or delivery shall be
tried by the court or a jury as provided in Title 8 (commencing with Section
577) of Part 2 of this code.
 
(C.C.P.
§386(e), emphasis added.)
 
Discussion
Moving Defendant’s motion is denied on the
grounds that is does not have standing to make the instant motion.
Here, Moving Defendant “may, in lieu of or in addition to any other pleading, file an answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint which shall be served upon all other
parties to the action and which shall contain allegations of fact as to his
ownership of or other interest in the amount or property and any affirmative
defenses and the relief requested. The allegations in such answer shall be
deemed denied by all other parties to the action, unless otherwise admitted in
the pleadings.”  (C.C.P. §386(d),
emphasis added.)  Moving Defendant has
not filed an answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint in interpleader.  The instant motion does not constitute an
answer.
Further,
“[e]xcept in cases where by the law a right to a jury trial is now given,
conflicting claims to funds or property or the value thereof so deposited or
delivered shall be deemed issues triable by the court, and such issues
may be first tried.”  (C.C.P. §386(e),
emphasis added.)  Moving Defendant cannot
make a motion to dismiss the action which involves issues that must be deemed
triable by this Court; such a motion is not dispositive and is procedurally
improper.
 
Attorneys’ Fees and Costs
C.C.P.
§386.6(a) allows a discharged party to recover its costs and reasonable
attorneys’ fees incurred in an interpleader action.  (C.C.P.
§386.6(a).)  “In ordering the discharge
of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and
reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been deposited
with the court. At the time of final judgment in the action the court may make
such further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney fees by one or
more of the adverse claimants as may appear proper.”  (Id.)
Here, Plaintiff is the only party entitled to
receive attorneys’ fees under C.C.P. §386.6(a) because it has been discharged
from the instant case.  LODD has not been
discharged from the instant case and therefore cannot receive attorneys’ fees
or costs at this juncture.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendant’s motion is denied.
Moving Defendant’s request for fees and costs is
denied.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  