 Case Number:  21STCV47583    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
On December 30, 2021, Plaintiff
Courtney Brooks (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against defendants Long Beach
Memorial Medical Center (“Medical Center”), Mundi Attinasi, M.D. (“Dr.
Attinasi”), Amjuli Kumar, M.D. (“Dr. Kumar”), Glenn Levine, M.D. (“Dr.
Levine”), and Does 1 through 20, alleging a cause of action for wrongful death
from professional negligence.  
 
On November 23, 2022, Plaintiff
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Medical Center,
Dr. Attinasi, Dr. Kumar, Dr. Levine, Sarah Dabagh, M.D. (“Dr. Dabagh”), Ramin
Javahery, M.D. (“Dr. Javahery”), and Does 1 through 18 and nominal defendant
Jamaar Butler (“Buttler”).  Plaintiff
alleges that her daughter, Marlee Sage Butler (“Marlee”) was born on April 8,
2020, with holoprosencephaly.  Marlee was
admitted to Medical Center on July 8, 2020.  On July 15, Marlee stopped breathing and became
unresponsive and required intubation.  On
July 18, 2020, after two tests for brain death were performed, Marlee was
pronounced dead.  The SAC includes causes
of action for wrongful death (professional negligence), fraud (Dr. Levine),
fraudulent concealment (Dr. Dabagh), Aiding and Abetting Fraud (Dr. Javahery),
and vicarious liability (Medical Center).
 
On February 28, 2023, the Court
sustained Dr. Dabagh’s demurrer without leave to amend.  Plaintiff never moved for reconsideration of
the ruling.  On March 3, 2023, Plaintiff
dismissed her case against Dr. Kumar.  On
July 5, 2023, Medical Center filed its motion for summary judgment which the
Court granted on November 9, 2023.  On
November 3, 2023, Dr. Attinasi filed her motion for summary judgment, and Dr.
Levine and Dr. Javahery filed their respective motions for summary judgment, or
in the alternative, for summary adjudication, all of which are set for January
18, 2024.  
 
On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion for leave to amend and to file her Third Amended
Complaint (“TAC”).  Dr. Javahery, Dr. Levine,
and Dr. Attinasi opposed the motion and Plaintiff replied.  Plaintiff seeks to add a new cause of action
for civil conspiracy (to commit fraud by fraudulently altering medical records
to deflect from negligence by obstructing justice); add Nicole Cobo, M.D. (“Dr.
Cobo”) as a new defendant for civil conspiracy; request permission from the
court to re-add ex-defendant Dr. Dabagh for the original cause of action
(fraudulent concealment) and civil conspiracy; and request permission to add a
claim for punitive damages based on fraud. 
 
2.     Motion
for Leave to Amend
a.     Legal
Standard
The court
may grant leave to¿amend¿the pleadings at any stage of the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).)  A party may discover the need to¿amend¿after
all pleadings are completed (the case is “at issue”) and new information
requires a¿change in the nature of the claims or defenses previously
pleaded.  (See Dye v. Caterpillar,
Inc. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1380.) 
 
“The
policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial
of leave to amend can be justified. 
Leave to amend should be denied only where the facts are not in dispute,
and the nature of the plaintiff’s claim is clear, but under substantive law, no
liability exists and no amendment would change the result.”  (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.)  Courts apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial,” absent prejudice to the adverse party.  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, added costs of preparation, or an increased burden of
discovery.  (See Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [trial court’s denial of
leave to amend was proper where those factors were present].)  If the delay in seeking the amendment has not
misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments
prevails.  (See Higgins v. Del Faro
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565 [describing same].) 
 
b.    
Timeliness
As a preliminary
matter, Plaintiff filed the instant motion on November 28, 2023, less than 16
court days before the motion hearing date of
December 14, 2023.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s
motion is untimely pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 subdivision
(b).  
 
c.    
Procedurally
A motion
for leave to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a).)  Further, a separate declaration must accompany the motion
and must specify the following: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise
to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b).)  
 
Plaintiff’s motion
does not satisfy the above CRC rules.  Notably,
Plaintiff does not provide a proposed copy of the TAC.  Also, Plaintiff’s declaration does not
specify why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise
to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.  
 
d.    
Civil Conspiracy 
The Court notes conspiracy is not a cause
of action but a theory of liability.  (See
Moran v. Endres (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 952, 954-55.)  “Although conspiracy to commit a tort is not a
separate cause of action from the tort itself, alleging a conspiracy fastens
liability on those who agree to the plan to commit the wrong as well as those
who actually carry it out.”  (Stueve
Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Kahn (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 303, 323.)  
 
e.    
Re-Adding Dr.
Dabagh
The Court notes, on February 28,
2023, it sustained Dr. Dabagh’s demurrer without leave 
to amend as the claims against her are time barred.  Plaintiff never moved for reconsideration of
the ruling.  By seeking to re-add Dr.
Dabagh, Plaintiff is essentially seeking reconsideration of the demurrer ruling.  
 
f.     
Punitive Damages 
“In any action for damages
arising out of the professional negligence of a health care provider, no

claim
for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless
the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim
for punitive damages to be filed. The court may allow the filing of an amended
pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended
pleading and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented
that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that
the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil
Code. The court shall not grant a motion allowing the filing of an amended
pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages if the motion for such an
order is not filed within two years after the complaint or initial pleading is
filed or not less than nine months before the date the matter is first set for
trial, whichever is earlier.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 425.13.) 
 
            Plaintiff originally
brought this motion on November 28, 2023. 
Trial in this matter was originally set for July 30, 2023, which means
the deadline to file the motion was November 30, 2022, even if the trial date
has since been changed to March 18, 2024. 
Plaintiff did not respond to this point in her reply.  
 
g.     Prejudice

Defendants briefly mention that Plaintiff
seeks to prejudice the summary judgment/adjudication 
motions as a result of the instant motion. 
            
            In its own
analysis of the record in this case, the Court finds that Defendants will
suffer prejudice if Plaintiff is allowed to file the TAC as Dr. Attinasi, Dr. Levine,
and Dr. Javahery’s motions for summary judgment/adjudication are only about one
month away, and the motions were filed before the instant motion.  
 
3.     Conclusion

For the foregoing reasons,
Plaintiff Courtney Brooks’ motion for leave to amend and to file her 
Third Amended Complaint is DENIED. 