  Case Number:  20LBCV00504    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Tokio Marine America Insurance Company, filed this action
against Defendant, Prestig, Inc. for carrier liability under the Carmack
Amendment.  Plaintiff filed its original
complaint on 11/19/20 and its operative First Amended Complaint on
1/19/21.  
 
Plaintiff alleges it insured Panasonic Corporation.  Defendant received a shipment of 1,024
cartons of lithium ion batteries from Panasonic in Carson and was charged with
taking the shipment to Kansas City. 
However, the rig carrying the batteries was involved in a single-vehicle
accident, resulting in the vehicle over-turning and damaging the
batteries.  Plaintiff alleges it suffered
loss in the amount of $620,199.27, as it had to pay its insured for the damage
to its goods.
 
On 5/06/21, the Court heard and denied Defendant’s special motion to
strike.  Defendant appealed the ruling,
and the Court of Appeals affirmed.  Both
the trial court and the appellate court held that Defendant failed to show the
complaint was based on protected conduct or speech, and therefore, the anti-SLAPP
statute did not apply; neither the trial court nor the appellate court reached
the second prong of the analysis, where a determination of the probability of
success on the merits would have been required.
 
On 12/06/22, the Court heard and overruled Defendant’s demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint.    
 
            On
11/07/23, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to reopen discovery and to compel
deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified or knowledgeable (“PMK) or
refer the matter to discovery referee.  
 
On 12/01/23, Defendant filed its
opposition. 
 
On 12/06/23, Plaintiff filed its
reply.  
 
On 12/07/23, Defendant filed its
“objection” to the reply. 
 
2.     Motion
to Reopen Discovery, Compel PMK Deposition, or Refer Motion to Compel to the
Discovery Referee
a.     The
Parties’ Arguments
            Plaintiff’s
counsel attests to the following facts in support of the motion.  On 5/15/2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with
a notice of deposition to depose Defendant’s PMK on 05/26/2023.  (Motion, declaration of Dennis A. Cammarano
(“Cammarano Decl.”), ¶ 4.)  On 5/21/23, Defendant served objections to
the notice of deposition, and on 5/25/23, filed a Motion to Quash the Notice of
Deposition and for a Protective Order scheduled for hearing on 11/28/23.  (Cammarano Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410, subdivision (c), the
filing of that motion to quash prevented the taking of the PMK deposition until
the Court ruled on the motion to quash. 
(Cammarano Decl., ¶
6.)  However, on 9/15/2023, the Court
referred all pending discovery motions (including Defendant’s motion to quash)
to a randomly selected discovery referee, Judge John P. Shook (Ret.).  (Cammarano Decl., ¶ 6.) 
On 9/27/23, the referee set 10/25/23 as the hearing date for all
motions, but on 10/02/23, Defendant took its motion to quash off-calendar.  (Cammarano Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9.) 
With the motion to quash no longer pending and the fact that the
discovery cut-off date had now passed, Plaintiff’s counsel asked defense
counsel to stipulate to the reopening of discovery to allow the taking of the
PMK deposition so that Plaintiff could seek such order from the Court.  (Cammarano Decl., ¶ 11.) 
Defendant refused.  (Cammarano
Decl., ¶ 12.)  The jury trial is set for February 20, 2024,
and Plaintiff has not been able to depose Defendant’s PMK.  (Cammarano Decl., ¶ 17.) 
The information sought from the PMK deposition is material to the
parties’ deposition.  (Cammarano
Decl., ¶ 17.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has good cause to
request the Court to reopen discovery and compel the deposition or refer the
motion to compel the deposition to the discovery referee.  (Cammarano Decl., ¶¶ 18, 19.) 

 
            On
12/01/23, Defendant filed an opposition arguing as follows.  
 
First, the Court has no authority
to rule on Plaintiff’s motion because the Court appointed a discovery referee
under Code of Civil Procedure section 639, subdivision (a)(5), and, therefore,
“any discovery motion must be filed, presented, and argued before Hon. Judge
Shook (Ret), the appointed Referee.” 
(Opposition, p. 5:21-24.)  
 
Second, the Court should deny the
motion to reopen discovery for failure to show good cause.  In its 8/17/23 order continuing trial to its
current date on 2/20/24, the Court stated that trial continuance did not reopen
or continue discovery.  (Opposition, p.
6, fn. 1.)  Therefore, Plaintiff had a
statutory right to obtain discovery only until 30 days before the last trial
date of 9/18/23, and to have its motion to compel heard by 9/3/23.  (Opposition, p. 6:21-25.)  Here, Plaintiff filed the instant motion on
11/07/23, 42 days after the discovery cut-off date and 35 days after the
cut-off date for discovery motions. 
(Opposition, p. 6:24-28.) 
Plaintiff has failed to establish good cause to reopen discovery for the
following reasons. (A) Plaintiff has not shown the necessity and reasons for
the discovery (Plaintiff has already taken the depositions of the driver,
dispatcher, and Defendant’s expert, participated in the deposition of the
Freight Arrangers, and the Court has already ruled that Plaintiff cannot engage
in discovery under its unpleaded alter ego or joint venture theories).  (B) Plaintiff has not shown diligence in
seeking the discovery (e.g., Plaintiff did not request to shorten or
advance the hearing on the motion to quash even though it was aware the motion would
be heard 15 days before the then-scheduled trial date).  (C) Plaintiff has not shown that
permitting discovery will not delay the result or prejudice any party.  Defendant will be prejudiced because (1) trial
is scheduled for 2/20/24 and counsel will be unavailable from 12/16/23 to
1/7/24, (2) Defendant’s owner and the sole corporate officer will be out of the
country from 12/03/23 to mid-December 2023, and has pre-scheduled commitments between
the period following her return in mid-December 2023 to, 1/15/24, (3) requiring
an Illinois company to produce its Illinois-based corporate officers or agents
in California violates Code of Civil Procedure section 1989, and (4) although
Plaintiff’s counsel alludes that he is willing to travel to Chicago, Illinois,
no such deposition notice has been served or offered.  (D) The length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of
the action weighs in favor of denying the motion.  To accommodate Plaintiff’s discovery needs, the
trial has been delayed from 6/17/23 to 2/20/24, eight (8) months of delay, with
no end in sight.  
 
Simply put, Defendant argues,
Plaintiff has not made meritorious argument for re-opening discovery.  
 
On 12/06/2023, Plaintiff filed a
reply, contending as follows (among other things).  The Court has the authority to hear the
motion because reopening discovery is beyond the scope of the discovery
referral.  Plaintiff has also shown good
cause to reopen the discovery.  Per the
dispatcher that Plaintiff deposed, (1) Defendant and co-defendant Prestige
Transportation Inc. (“PTI”) were one big company, (2) Deyana Koleva,
Defendant’s owner, was the boss and owner of the company, (3) the dispatcher
worked for PTI with Defendant’s telephone number, (4) there was a shared URL
for email, (5) PTI’s dispatcher provided Defendant’s motor carrier packet for
the load, and (6) billing for the load was effected by Defendant’s factor.  (Opposition, p. 3:14-18.)  These facts point to Defendant assuming
responsibility for the cargo’s movement, and they also point to the reason why
Defendant’s deposition is sought. 
(Opposition, p. 3:19-20.) 
Plaintiff has shown diligence in seeking the deposition because meet and
confer efforts started on 10/27/23, just over three weeks after the withdrawal
of the motion to quash.  (Opposition, p.
4:8-9.)  During those three weeks,
Plaintiff’s counsel was physically delivering three litigation binders to the referee
and preparing for and taking the deposition of Defendants’ rebuttal expert in
this case, among other things. 
(Opposition, p. 4:10-19.)  Plaintiff
is offering to travel to Chicago and take the deposition of Ms. Koleva or another
Illinois-based PMK, or Plaintiff can also take the deposition remotely since defense
counsel has attended every deposition remotely. 
 
On 12/07/2023, Defendant filed
“objections to reply,” arguing that it objects to the reply papers to the
extent Plaintiff is raising new issues that were not raised in the moving
papers, and to the extent that the Court will exercise its discretion in favor
of allowing such arguments, Defendant asks for the hearing to be continued to let
Defendant to file surreply. 
 
b.     Legal
Standard
1.     Re-Opening
Discovery
Any party shall be entitled as a
matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day,
and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day,
before the date initially set for the trial of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a).) Except as provided in Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050, a
continuance or postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen
discovery proceedings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (b).) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure,
section 2024.050, subdivision (a), on motion of any party, the court may grant
leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set. 
 
In assessing a motion brought under
Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050, a court assesses the following factors: (1) the
necessity and the reasons for discovery; (2) the diligence or lack of diligence
of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and
the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion
was not heard earlier; (3) any likelihood that permitting the discovery or
hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the
date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in
prejudice to any other party; and (4) the length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of
the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).) 
 
A court has discretion on whether
to grant the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).) 
 
Where the discovery cut-off date
has passed, a trial court abuses its discretion by hearing a motion to compel
discovery without first deciding whether discovery should be reopened for that
purpose under all of the relevant circumstances.  (See Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v.
Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568, 1588 [“By
simply hearing the motion to compel without first deciding whether discovery
should be reopened for that purpose under all of the relevant circumstances,
the trial court ‘transgresse[d] the confines of the applicable principles of
law’ [citation] and thereby abused its discretion”].)
 
2.     Referee

“A referee may be appointed upon
the agreement of the parties filed with the clerk, or judge, or entered in the
minutes, or upon the motion of a party to a written contract or lease that
provides that any controversy arising therefrom shall be heard by a referee if
the court finds a reference agreement exists between the parties ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 638.)
 
“When the parties do not consent,
the court may, upon the written motion of any party, or of its own motion,
appoint a referee in the following cases pursuant to the provisions of
subdivision (b) of Section 640: ¶
…. ¶ …. ¶ …. ¶ …. ¶ (5) When the court in any pending
action determines that it is necessary for the court to appoint a referee to
hear and determine any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to
discovery in the action and to report findings and make a recommendation
thereon.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd.
(a).)
 
“When a referee is appointed
pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) [see above], the order shall
indicate whether the referee is being appointed for all discovery purposes in
the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 639,
subd. (c).)
 
c.     Meet
and Confer
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
satisfied the meet and confer requirement. 
(Cammarano Decl., ¶ 11.)  
d.     Discussion
As an initial matter, the Court
denies Defendant’s request to continue the hearing of the motion to allow
Defendant to file a supplemental brief responding to the arguments in
Plaintiff’s reply.  The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s reply rebutted Defendant’s arguments in the opposition and did not
raise such new issues that Defendant needs to respond to.   Further, Defendant has argued in its
opposition that defense counsel will be unavailable from 12/16/23 to 1/7/24,
and the trial is set for 2/20/24. 
Therefore, there is not enough time for the Court to continue the
hearing to allow a supplemental brief to be filed and still hear the motion on
its merits before trial.  
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently explained the necessity and reasons for the discovery by arguing
in the moving papers that Defendant is a party to this action, has potential
liability, and no current employees of Defendant have been deposed, despite the
fact that Plaintiff believes Defendant’s owner (Ms. Koleva) was the one that
provided the “carrier packet” to the broker (Freight Arrangers).  
 
The Court also finds that Plaintiff
was diligent in seeking the hearing of the discovery motion.  As Plaintiff explained, “[t]he taking of a
deposition is stayed pending the determination of [a] motion [to quash a deposition
notice].” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c) [“In addition to serving
this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking
of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice.  This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  The taking of the deposition is stayed pending
the determination of this motion”].)  As
Defendant argues, it had the right to take its motion to quash
off-calendar.  However, as long as the
motion to quash was pending, Plaintiff could not proceed with the
deposition.  The fact that Plaintiff did
not file the motion to compel before or simultaneously with Defendant’s motion
to quash does not show a lack of diligence in seeking the hearing of the
discovery motion.  In either of those
situations, the Court would first have to rule on the motion to quash before
ruling on the merits of the motion to compel the deposition.  After the Court referred the motion to quash
to the referee, Defendant took the motion to quash of calendar, by which time
the discovery cut-off dates had passed. 
For those reasons, the Court finds Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff
did not act diligently unpersuasive. 
 
There is a possibility, however,
that permitting the discovery of Defendant’s PMK will prevent the case from
going to trial on 2/20/24, its current date. 

 
However, given that (1) Plaintiff
could not compel the PMK deposition as long as Defendant’s motion to quash
remained pending and (2) had Defendant not taken its motion to quash off the calendar,
the discovery referee may have denied the motion to quash and, consequently,
allowed Plaintiff to depose the PMK, the Court finds it will be unfairly
prejudicial to Plaintiff to deny the request to reopen discovery just because
trial may have to be continued. 
 
The length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set (9/18/23) and the date presently set (2/20/24)
for the trial of the action (i.e., five (5) months and two (2) days) does not
weigh in favor of denying the motion to reopen discovery.  On 9/15/23, the Court ordered the referee to
hear the then-pending discovery motions, including Defendant’s motion to
quash.  After Defendant took the motion
off calendar, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to reopen discovery three
weeks later.  Therefore, no evidence
exists that the parties have been delaying prosecuting or defending this action
since the Court continued the trial to its current date. 
 
For those reasons, the Court finds
it proper to grant the request to reopen discovery to allow Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant’s PMK deposition to be heard and the deposition to be taken
if the motion is granted.  In addition,
since Defendant concedes that the Court referred discovery matters to the
referee, the Court will refer the motion to compel the PMK deposition to the
referee.  
 
3.     Conclusion
The Motion to Reopen Discovery is
GRANTED. The request to compel the deposition of Defendant Prestig, Inc.’s
person(s) most qualified or knowledgeable is referred to the discovery referee,
Judge John Shook (Ret.). 