 Case Number:  23LBCV00093    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  S27  
1.    
Background Facts
On January 17, 2023, plaintiff Dean
W. Drulias, administrator of the Estate of Robert E. Long, and co-trustee of
the Robert E. Long Trust (“Plaintiff” or “Drulias”), filed the present action
against Elizabeth Scott Wise (“Wise”), BG Consolidated LLC (“BG Consolidated”),
and Onslow Bay Financial (“Onslow”). The action relates to real property
located at 1600 Crescent Heights Street, Signal Hill, California (“Property”),
and alleges that defendant Wise has collected benefits, including insurance
benefits in connection with that Property, which she is required to share with
Plaintiff.
 
On April 14, 2023, Universal North America
Insurance Company (“Plaintiff in Intervention”) moved to intervene as a
plaintiff, and the Court granted it. On July 10, 2023, it filed its complaint
in intervention.  
 
On November 15, 2023, Universal North
America Insurance Company moved to be discharged from this action. It also
sought attorney fees and costs. 
 
2.     Interpleader
a.     Legal
Standard
"Where the only relief sought against one of the defendants
is the payment of a stated amount of money alleged to be wrongfully withheld,
such defendant may, upon affidavit that he is a mere stakeholder with no
interest in the amount or any portion thereof and that conflicting demands have
been made upon him for the amount by parties to the action, upon notice to such
parties, apply to the court for an order discharging him from liability and
dismissing him from the action on his depositing with the clerk of the court
the amount in dispute and the court may, in its discretion, make such order."
(Code Civ. Proc., §¿386.5.) 
 
"A party to an action who follows the procedure set
forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert in his motion, petition, complaint, or
cross complaint a request for allowance of his costs and reasonable attorney
fees incurred in such action. In ordering the discharge of such party, the
court may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and reasonable
attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been deposited with the
court. At the time of final judgment in the action the court may make such
further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney fees by one or more
of the adverse claimants as may appear proper." (Code Civ. Proc., §¿386.6,
subd. (a).) 
 
b.    
Discussion 
Plaintiff in Intervention states that there are “conflicting
and rival claims of Defendant-in-Intervention/Interpleader Wise and Drulias” arising
out of a claim made for damages resulting from water loss on the Property. (Decl.
Eden at ¶¶ 5, 9.)  Plaintiff in Intervention also states that  “it claims no beneficial
interest in the Policy Proceeds Payable in connection with the Loss due under
the Universal Policy, except for the attorney’s fees and costs incurred in having
to file this interpleader action.”  (Id. at ¶ 10.)  Plaintiff
has deposited the $85,920.43 in policy proceeds.  (Ibid., Ex. B.) 
 
Defendants
in Intervention Nationstar Mortgage LLC dba Mr. Cooper erroneously sued as
Nationstar Mortgage LLC, Onslow Bay Financial LLC, and BG Consolidated, LLC
have all answered, and they each deny each and every allegation in the
complaint in intervention. In an interpleader action, “plaintiff must be a disinterested
stakeholder and the amount to be deposited in court cannot be litigated.” 
(Williams v. Gilmore (1942) 51 Cal.App.2d 684, 688.)  Here, there is
a dispute regarding the amount of funds subject to the interpleader. 
Therefore, the Court finds that interpleader is not proper. 
 
The Court also notes that self-represented defendant
Wise has been improperly served with the moving papers by electronic transmission. 
Code of
Civil Procedure § 1010.6 authorizes service of documents by electronic service
(service by e-mail) in certain enumerated circumstances.  Code of Civil
Procedure § 1010.6(a)(2)(A)(ii) provides, “[f]or cases filed on or after
January 1, 2019, if a document may be served by mail, express mail, overnight
delivery, or facsimile transmission, electronic service of the document is
authorized” only: (1) “if a party . . . has expressly consented to receive
electronic service in that specific action”, (2) “if . . . the court has
ordered electronic service on a represented party or other represented person
under subdivision (c) or (d)”, or (3) “if . . . the document is served electronically
pursuant to the procedures specified in subdivision (e)”, that is, electronic
service is made upon a party who is represented by counsel.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1010.6(a)(2)(A)(ii), (c), (d),
(e).) 
3.    
Conclusion 
Accordingly, Plaintiff in Intervention’s Motion is DENIED. Attorney fees and costs are also DENIED.

 
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If the parties
do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.