 Case Number:  23LBCV00007    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs Andrea Chait and Sean
Walter filed a complaint on January 3, 2023 as the parents and guardians ad
litem of their children, Jane and John Doe alleging:  (1) failure to protect/negligence and (2)
negligence.  Plaintiffs allege their
children were members of the Long Beach Junior Crew (“LBJC”).  Plaintiffs allege their children’s
applications to row in the 2022-2023 season were denied in retaliation for
their complaints about a parent chaperone who was a convicted felon for
domestic violence.  Plaintiffs allege the
chaperone was allowed to be present with minor children on the team without
another adult.  Plaintiffs allege Long
Beach Junior Crew did not enforce its own rules and guidelines to protect the
minor team members from inappropriate contact and interactions with the
chaperone, despite Plaintiffs’ complaints to them about it.  Plaintiffs allege Defendant also breached its
own policies and procedures by failing to engage, communicate or respond to Plaintiffs
prior to rejecting their children’s applications for the 2022-2023 season.  
2.     Defendant
Long Beach Junior Crew’s (“LBJC”) Motion for Summary Judgment 
a.    
Legal Standard
            Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(c).) From commencement to
conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. There is a triable issue of material
fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Company
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.)
            Where a
defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one
or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot
be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.”  (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy this burden by
showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence
on some essential element of the claim. 
(Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574,
590.)  Once the defendant meets this
burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Id.) 

            “A party is
entitled to summary judgment only if it meets its initial burden of showing
there are no triable issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if the opposing party fails to
file any opposition. The court's assessment of whether the moving party has
carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's
evaluation of the opposing party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion
does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the
opposing papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific
Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 (landlord’s
failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana
growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party
failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky
Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot grant
summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine
if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)
            In
addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed
strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read.  (Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100. “All doubts as to the propriety of granting the
motion (whether there is any issue of material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] §
437c) are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing the motion (i.e., a
denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)
b.    
Evidentiary Objections (if applicable)
            Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections are OVERRULED.  
            Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Sydney Chait-Walter are
OVERRULED.  The Court does rule on the
remaining objections because they are immaterial to the ruling per CCP
§437c(q).
c.    
Defendant LBJC’s Position
            Defendant
LBJC argues Plaintiffs claims fail, because they have no legal right to
participate in the rowing team of their choice, and LBJC has no legal
obligation to permit the Chait-Walter family to participate in its
program.  Defendant LBJC argues
Plaintiffs also have no evidence of damages due to Defendant’s rejection of the
minor Plaintiffs’ applications to row with LBJC in 2022-2023.  
            Defendant
LBJC also argues Plaintiffs cannot establish that LBJC owed Plaintiffs a legal
duty to investigate reports of misconduct. 
Defendants argue the alleged misconduct did not involve any of the
Plaintiffs.  Defendants argue Plaintiffs
cannot recover for the alleged injuries of a third party and cannot claim
negligence based on legal duties that may or may not have been owed to a third
party.  
            Defendant
argues it was also prohibited under federal law from investigating or
interfering in the ongoing SafeSport investigation.  Defendant argues the alleged misconduct fell
within the exclusive jurisdiction of SafeSport and it actually had a duty to
refrain from interfering with SafeSport’s investigation.  
            Defendant
argues Plaintiffs cannot seek emotional distress damages based on a traditional
negligence claim, because they did not suffer any physical injury due to
Defendant’s alleged negligence.  Defendant
argues Plaintiffs also cannot prevail on a claim for negligent infliction of
emotional distress.  Defendant argues
NIED can only be stated on a direct victim or bystander theory.  Defendant argues Plaintiffs cannot recover
for NIED as bystanders, because they did not have a special relationship with
the alleged subjects of the misconduct. Defendant argues Plaintiffs also did
not suffer emotional distress as a direct victim of Defendant’s alleged
negligence, i.e. Defendant’s breach of a duty owed to Plaintiffs.  Defendant argues it did not owe Plaintiffs
any duty that was breached by Defendant’s alleged conduct.  
d.    
Plaintiffs’ Opposition
Plaintiffs argue nonprofit
corporations are subject to a duty of care under Corporations Code
§5231(a).  Plaintiffs argue LBJC is in a
special relationship with its minor participants, because the participants are
particularly vulnerable and dependent on LBJC to protect their welfare.  Plaintiffs argue Defendant owed them a duty
of care pursuant to AB506 to screen and educate employees and volunteers and to
enact child protection policies.  Plaintiffs
argue Defendant owed them a duty to protect them from abuse. 
Plaintiffs argue LBJC’s written
policy included as part of the Registration Packet imposed on them a duty to
comply with certain procedures before removing a rower from the program.  Plaintiffs argue the policies, which
Plaintiffs Chait and Warren signed, required Defendant to discuss violations
with Plaintiffs, to send a follow-up email and only after two such
interventions and a third violation, Defendant could remove the minor rowers
from the program.  Plaintiffs argue
Defendant removed Plaintiffs’ minor children from the program after a single
email.  
Plaintiffs argue Defendant’s
breached their duties, as evidenced by Plaintiffs’ experts.  Plaintiffs argue Defendant did not check all
volunteers and staff via the California LiveScan system.  Plaintiffs argue Defendant did not ensure
that child abuse and neglect are reported to the authorities.  Plaintiffs argue Defendant did not follow its
own policy in dismissing the minor Plaintiffs from the program.  
Plaintiffs argue minor Plaintiffs
suffered emotional injury due to Defendant’s breaches.  Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiffs are now
forced to commute to Newport Beach to row competitively, increasing their
commute from 3 miles to 22.8 miles. 
Plaintiffs argue minor Plaintiffs have not been able to participate in
afterschool activities due to this increase in commute time, and they are
routinely ridiculed and bullied at competitions due to their improper
dismissal.  Plaintiffs argue John Doe’s
grades have suffered. Plaintiffs argue these are all damages flowing from
Defendant’s improper dismissal of minor Plaintiffs from the LBJC team.  
In reply, Defendant argues
Plaintiffs’ opposition is merely a restatement of their brief in support of
their own motion for summary judgment.  Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s separate statement is also defective, because it does not
cite to any evidence in dispute. 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs’ opposition should be stricken, because the
facts referenced therein do not appear anywhere in the separate statement.  Defendant argues Plaintiff has not raised a
triable issue of material fact. 
Defendant argues they have not established a cause of action for
negligence.  Defendant argues Plaintiff
fails to establish any legal duty in connection with its denial of minor
Plaintiffs’ applications to continue on the row team.  Defendant argues Plaintiffs have not alleged
that minor Plaintiffs suffered abuse of any kind as a result of Defendant’s
alleged negligence.  Defendant argues
Plaintiff also fails to establish severe emotional distress.  
e. Defendant only requests
summary judgment, not summary adjudication, and the existence of any triable
issue of material fact requires denial of the motion
Defendant’s notice of motion only
requests summary judgment.  For this
reason, the existence of even a single disputed material fact requires
denial.  Defendant did not request
summary adjudication and summary adjudication cannot be granted even if not
triable issues of fact remain as to a particular cause of action or
defense.  (Homestead Sav. v. Sup.Ct.
(Dividend Develop. Corp.) (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 494, 498.)  A court cannot sua sponte grant summary
adjudication on its own motion (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Const. Co. (1999)
69 Cal.App.4th 64, 75.)  
f.  Defendant fails to negate the existence of a
legal duty to screen volunteers, implement policies to prevent abuse,
inappropriate touching and harassment of the youth participants and report
abuse 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant is a
501(c)(3) non-profit youth organization. 
(Complaint, ¶1.)  Plaintiff’s causes
of action are both based on Defendant’s failure to protect the minor children
who were team members on the LBJC rowing team. 
(Complaint, ¶¶36 and 39.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant failed to report the
inappropriate behavior of an adult male chaperone who was a convicted felon, Defendant
allowed the chaperone unrestricted and unsupervised contact with minors,
Defendant failed to report the chaperone for inappropriate touching and
harassment of a minor team member with a massager and allowing him to stay on
the same floor as minor female team members. 
(Complaint, ¶¶35-36, 39-43.)  
Plaintiff’s complaint sufficiently
alleges facts establishing a legal duty of care to prevent and report
abuse.  Defendant fails to dispute that
it is a nonprofit organization for youth rowing.  These facts support imposition of a duty to
screen volunteers under California law and to report abuse.  
Plaintiff cites to AB 506 to
establish existence of such a duty.  AB
506 was adopted and codified as Business & Professions Code §18975.  Section 18975 requires that an administrator,
employee, or regular volunteer of a youth services organization complete
training in child abuse and neglect identification and training in child abuse
and neglect reporting.  (Bus. & Prof.
C. §18975(a).)  Section 18975 requires
that such individuals undergo a background check with certain exceptions.  (Bus. & Prof. C. §18975(b).)  Section 18975 also requires the youth service
organization to develop and implement child abuse prevention policies and
procedures, including but not limited to policies to ensure reporting o
suspected incidents of child abuse to persons or entities outside of the
organization.  (Bus. & Prof. C.
§18975(c).  Based on Bus. & Prof. C.
§18975, Defendant had a legal duty to implement policies and procedures to
protect its members, who are minors, from child abuse and neglect and to report
suspected abuse and neglect to outside agencies and to screen its volunteers by
performing a background check.
In addition, a legal duty based on
the Rowland factors clearly exists based on the undisputed fact that
Defendant is a youth sports organization where minor members are entrusted to
the care and supervision of the organization. 
The duty analysis set forth in Juarez v. Boy Scouts of America, Inc.
(2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 401-410 and Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2019)
40 Cal.App.5th 1077, 1091 based on Rowland and the “special
relationship” between the minor member, the youth organization and the
volunteers applies here.  
Defendant fails to present any
facts in its separate statement that would rebut Plaintiffs’ allegations
supporting imposition of a duty based on Defendant’s special relationship with
its youth members and the Rowland factors.  Defendant’s citation of the SafeSport Code
does not negate existence of a duty to report, screen or train.  SafeSport’s code merely indicates it has
exclusive jurisdiction over investigation or resolution of allegations of
participant sexual misconduct. 
(Defendant’s SSUMF Nos.  8 and 9;
Marko Dec., ¶5, Ex. 4, p. 1-2.)  The
portions of the SafeSport Code does not in any way absolve Defendant of its
duty to report child abuse, screen volunteers, implement policies and
procedures for the protection of minor members from child abuse and
inappropriate physical contact.  In its
reply, Defendant does not adequately respond to Plaintiffs’ legal arguments
that, as a youth organization, Defendant owed a legal duty to screen
volunteers, protect its minor members and to report any possible abuse to
outside authorities.  
Whether a defendant owes a duty of
care is a question of law. Its existence depends upon the foreseeability of the
risk and a weighing of policy considerations for and against imposition of
liability.  (Marlene F. v. Affiliated
Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588; accord,
Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 882, 884.)  Based on Defendant’s alleged status as a
youth organization, AB 506, Juarez and Brown, Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment based on lack of duty is denied.
g.  Defendant negates the existence of a legal
duty in tort to comply with its policies governing dismissal of a youth
participant and Plaintiff fails to raise a triable issue of fact in response 
Plaintiffs allege Defendant had a
duty to adhere to their policies and protocols regarding dismissal of
participants from the LBJC.  The policies
and procedures were set forth in the LBJC Parent  Responsibilities and Long Beach Junior Crew
Code of Conduct, which are included in the registration packet and which all
participating families must sign. 
(Complaint, ¶¶7, 10.)  Based on
these allegations, Defendant did not owe Plaintiffs a legal duty arising in
tort to comply with their policies and protocols regarding dismissal.  At best, Plaintiffs have pled a contractual
duty to adhere to the policies and regulations governing dismissal provided by
LBJC and signed by Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs
admit as much in their opposition:  “In
dismissing the family from the rowing club as they did, Long Beach Junior Crew
violated their own written policy as part of the Registration Packet, a
signed document forming a contract.” 
(Opposition, 14:6-10.)  
Based on these allegations and the
undisputed evidence, Defendant did not have a tort duty to follow the policies
and protocols set forth in the registration packet regarding dismissal of a
youth participant.  Any damages suffered
by Plaintiffs due to this failure would not give rise to a tort claim for
negligence.  
h.  Defendant fails to negate Plaintiffs’
allegations of breach of the duty to screen, implement polices to protect youth
from abuse and to report abuse
Breach of duty and causation are
usually questions of fact for the trier of fact's determination. (Johnson v.
Prasad (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 74, 83.) 
Defendant fails to negate the entirety of the allegations of
breach.  (Complaint, ¶¶5, 36, 40.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant failed to adhere
to its own policies of screening volunteers and supervision of minors and volunteer
chaperones, which allegedly led to a minor member being inappropriately touched
and harassed by a chaperone who should have been screened out as a volunteer
based on his status a convicted felon.  (Id.)  Plaintiffs allege the chaperone also entered
the hotel rooms of the female minor participants alone and unannounced, in
violation of Defendant’s own policies and regulations.  (Complaint, ¶3 and 4.)  Defendant submits evidence that they
instructed the victim’s parents to report the alleged abuse to SafeSport and
that they took measures after the chaperone allegedly touched a female minor
member of LBJC.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 11-13;
Defendant’s Evidentiary Appendix, Ex. 2, Reinis Depo., 25:22-25, 26:1-8.)  Defendant fails to submit any evidence
negating Plaintiffs’ allegations of breach before the chaperone inappropriately
touched and harassed the minor member. 
As such, Defendant fails to negate Plaintiffs’ allegations of
breach.  
h. Triable issues of fact remain
as to causation and minor Plaintiffs’ damages
There is no independent tort for
negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
(Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965,
984-985.)  The tort is negligence, which
requires breach of an independent duty imposed by law, assumed by the defendant
or exist by virtue of a special relationship. 
(Id. at 985.)  There is no
independent legal duty to avoid negligently causing emotional distress to
another.  (Id. at 984.)  Recovery for emotional distress is available
only if the emotional distress arises out of the defendant's breach of some
other legal duty and the emotional distress is proximately caused by that
breach of duty.  (Id. at 985.)  “[U]nless the defendant has assumed a duty to
plaintiff in which the emotional condition of the plaintiff is an object,
recovery is available only if the emotional distress arises out of the
defendant's breach of some other legal duty and the emotional distress is
proximately caused by that breach of duty. Even then, with rare exceptions, a
breach of the duty must threaten physical injury, not simply damage to property
or financial interests.” (Id. at 985; Cooper v. Supr. Ct. (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 1008, 1013 (“Although emotional distress arising out of loss of
property evokes a sentimental loss, recovery is limited to cases where, at a
minimum, a duty of care exists by virtue of a preexisting relationship between
the parties or where the damage arises out of an intentional tort”).
“In Molien v. Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals (1980) 27 Cal.3d 916, the Supreme Court made it clear that to
recover damages for emotional distress on a claim of negligence where there is
no accompanying personal, physical injury, the plaintiff must show that the
emotional distress was serious. Moreover, the court explained, serious
emotional distress may be found where a reasonable man, normally constituted,
would be unable to adequately cope with the mental stress engendered by the
circumstances of the case.”  (Wong v.
Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1377-1378 (citing Molien,
supra, 27 Cal.3d at 928).)
 
There are two classifications of
plaintiff for NIED claims: (1) bystander; and (2) direct victim.  (Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric
Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.)  A “direct victim” claim alleges emotional
distress from defendant's conduct directed at plaintiff. (Molien, supra,
27 C.3d 916, 930.)  A “bystander” claim
alleges emotional distress from witnessing negligently inflicted injury on a
person closely related to plaintiff. (Dillon v. Legg (1968) 68 C.2d 728,
739-741, 747.)
Plaintiffs do not allege that minor
Plaintiffs were ever harassed, inappropriately touched or abused by the chaperone.  Plaintiffs only alleged that a minor
participant was inappropriately touched and harassed by the chaperone.  (Complaint, ¶3.)  Plaintiffs do not allege that this minor
participant was one of the minor Plaintiffs. 

However, Plaintiffs also allege
that the chaperone was allowed to enter the hotel rooms of female Minor
Plaintiff and other female Minor rowers unsupervised.  (Complaint, ¶3.)  Plaintiff alleges and Defendant does not
dispute that these actions violated policies detailed in both the USRowing Safe
Sport Policy Manual and the USRowing Member Organization Safesport Policy
Manual for Long Beach Junior Crew.  (Id.
at ¶4.)  
Defendant submits evidence that the
alleged minor participating who was allegedly harassed and inappropriately
touched by the chaperone was not one of the minor Plaintiffs but another minor
who is a non-party.  (Defendant’s SSUMF
No. 11; Reinis Dec., ¶6; Defendant’s Exhibit Appendix, Cruz Depo., 10:3-7,
11:7-22.)  Plaintiffs fail to dispute
this fact.  (Plaintiffs’ Response to
Separate Statement, Response to SSUMF No. 11.) 

However, Defendant fail to negate
Plaintiffs’ allegation that minor Plaintiffs suffered injury as a result of Defendant’s
failure to ensure that the male chaperone did not enter the hotel rooms of minor
participants alone and unsupervised. 
(Complaint, ¶3.)  Again, Plaintiff
alleges and Defendant does not dispute that these actions violated policies
detailed in both the USRowing Safe Sport Policy Manual and the USRowing Member
Organization Safesport Policy Manual for Long Beach Junior Crew.  (Id. at ¶4.)   Defendant
merely asserts that Plaintiffs only suffered “garden variety” emotional
distress and therefore cannot recover for NIED per Molien and Wong.  (Defendant’s SSUMF no. 18.)  Defendant relies on the minor Plaintiffs’
responses to Form Interrogatories 6.1-6.7. 
(Defendant’s Appendix of Exhibits, Exs. 7-10.)  However, in response to those Form
Interrogatories, Minor Plaintiffs stated that they had in fact suffered mental
distress as a result of the alleged incidents. 
(Id.)  Although minor Plaintiffs
responded that they have not received medical treatment for their mental and
emotional distress, Defendant fails to cite any authority holding that the
failure to seek medical treatment for emotional distress establishes lack of severe
emotional distress as an issue of law.  Nothing
in those responses negate the existence of severe emotional distress (emotional
distress that “a reasonable man, normally constituted, would be unable to
adequately cope with the mental stress engendered by the circumstances of the
case”) as a matter of law.  (Molien,
supra, 27 Cal.3d at 928; Wong, supra, 189 Cal.App.4th
at 1377-1378.)
Defendant also argues that minor Plaintiffs
did not suffer any physical injury as a result of its alleged negligence.  However, as noted in Potter, emotional
distress damages require at least the threat of physical impact or
injury.  (Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at 985
(restricting emotional distress damages due to fear of cancer to cases where
plaintiff pleads and proves (1) plaintiff was exposed to a toxic substance
which threatens cancer due to defendant’s negligent breach of a legal duty and
(2) plaintiff’s fear stems from a knowledge, corroborated by reliable medical
or scientific opinion, that it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will
develop the cancer in the future due to toxic exposure).)       Defendant fails to submit evidence that
there was no threat of physical injury or impact as a result of its failure to
properly supervise the chaperone and prevent him from entering the hotel room
of minor Plaintiffs.  On that issue, the
Court notes that the duties allegedly breached by Defendant were intended to
protect the physical safety of minor participants, John and Jane Doe were
minors and Plaintiffs allege, and Defendant’s do not rebut, that the male chaperone
was a convicted felon who was not properly screened out from volunteering and
inappropriately touched another female minor participant.  
Moreover, Molien held that
damages for severe emotional distress may be recovered on a negligence claim in
the absence of resultant physical injury. 
(Molien, supra, 27 Cal.3d at 928.)  In discussing the existing rule that
emotional distress damages could not be recovered on a negligence in the
absence of resultant physical injury, the Supreme Court stated, “We agree that
the unqualified requirement of physical injury is no longer justifiable.”  (Id.) 
“[J]urors are best situated to determine whether and to what extent the
defendant's conduct caused emotional distress, by referring to their own
experience. In addition, there will doubtless be circumstances in which the
alleged emotional injury is susceptible of objective ascertainment by expert
medical testimony.  To repeat: this is a
matter of proof to be presented to the trier of fact. The screening of claims
on this basis at the pleading stage is a usurpation of the jury's
function.”  (Id. at 930.)  
As the party moving party for
summary judgment, Defendant has the burden of establishing that minor
Plaintiffs did not suffer any recoverable damages from the alleged breaches of
duty.  Defendant failed to satisfy that
burden. The burden therefore never shifted to Plaintiffs to submit evidence or
argument to raise a triable issue of fact on the issue of damages.  (Mosley, supra, 49 Cal.App.5th
at 434–435 (landlord’s failure to address issue of whether they were aware of
their tenant’s marijuana growing operation was not grounds to grant summary
judgment where moving party failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the
issue); Thatcher, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at 1086-1087 (court cannot grant
summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine
if the moving party has satisfied its burden).) 
However, Minor Plaintiff Jane Doe submits a declaration attesting to
emotional distress suffered as a result of the chaperone entering her and her
teammates’ hotel rooms unannounced. 
(Plaintiff’s Appendix of Exhibits, Ex. 2(a), ¶3.)  
Triable issues of fact remain as to
whether minor Plaintiffs suffered recoverable damages as a result of
Defendant’s negligence and its failure to properly screen and supervise the
chaperone.      
As for Plaintiffs’ damages due to
Defendant’s rejection of their application, Plaintiff’s allegations and
evidence do not support imposition of a tort duty to comply with Defendant’s
policies and procedures governing dismissal of a youth participant.  For this reason, Plaintiffs’ damages due to
Defendant’s failure to adhere to these policies and procedures are not
recoverable as part of a negligence claim. 
The undisputed facts and evidence therefore negate Plaintiffs’
allegation that they suffered tort damages recoverable on a negligence claim.  
However, Defendant’s rejection of
Plaintiffs’ application to row in 2022-2023 is only one of the bases of
Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action for negligence.  The absence of triable issues of fact as to
this specific negligent conduct would not support a motion for summary judgment.

Conclusion
Based on the undisputed evidence, Defendant
fails to establish that no triable issues of fact remain.  Triable issues of fact remain as to
Plaintiffs’ negligence claims to the extent they are based on Defendant’s
alleged duties to protect its youth participants by properly screening
volunteers and adhering to policies and procedures governing supervision of
volunteers and their interactions with youth participants.  Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.  
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.