 Case Number:  22LBCV00894    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Claire Stanford filed
this action against Defendants, The Palisades Association, Inc., Long Beach
Home Solutions, Inc. (“Defendant”), Boris Bogomolny, and Renee Bogomolny for
damages arising out of a fall down a staircase at her apartment complex.    
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
a.    
Parties’ Positions 
Plaintiff propounded her Special
Interrogatories, Set One (“SROGs”) on Defendant, and Defendant served responses.  On 8/25/23, Plaintiff sent Defendant a meet
and confer letter addressing the perceived deficiencies in Defendant’s
responses.  The letter ended by demanding
Defendant serve supplemental responses by 8/31/23 or a motion to compel would
be filed.  On 8/31/23, Defendant sent a
responsive letter asking to extend the deadline from 8/31/23 to 9/15/23.  Plaintiff responded, stating it would be
extended to 9/07/23.  On 9/14/23, she
filed this motion to compel further responses. 
She also seeks imposition of sanctions.
 
On 10/03/23, Defendant filed timely
opposition to the motion.  The opposition
contends the motion should be denied because (a) the notice was improper, (b)
the meet and confer efforts were insufficient, and (c) the responses are
sufficient.  Additionally, Defendant
contends sanctions are inappropriate.  
 
On 10/17/2023, the Court held the
hearing on the motion and after hearing oral argument, ordered the parties to
meet and confer in an attempt to resolve the outstanding issues.  The Court further ordered the parties “to
submit a joint statement of items in dispute by December 4, 2023.”  (Minute Order, filed October 17, 2023, p. 1.)
 
Any reply to the opposition was due
on or before 10/10/23.  
 
On 10/18/2023, Plaintiff filed her
untimely reply, arguing that (a) Defendant admitted through the opposition that
it has the information Plaintiff requested in the SROGs, but (b) still refuses to
provide code compliant, verified responses to the interrogatories.  (Reply, p. 2:11-14.)  Therefore, Plaintiff asks the Court to grant
the motion and impose sanctions of $1,000 against Defendant for necessitating
the motion.  (Reply, p.  4:13-16.)
 
As of 12/12/2023, no joint
statement regarding the outcome of the Court-ordered meet and confer process
has been filed.  
 
b.     Analysis
The SROGs at issue asked Defendant
the following:
·        
SROG No. 1: IDENTIFY the date construction of
the residential apartment complex located at 6 3rd Place Long Beach, CA 90802,
began.
·        
SROG No. 2: IDENTIFY the date construction of
the residential apartment complex located at 6 3rd Place Long Beach, CA 90802,
finished.
·        
SROG No. 3: IDENTIFY the date the stairway
pictured in Exhibit 1 was first constructed.
·        
SROG No. 4: IDENTIFY the date any and all
repairs were made to the stairway pictured in Exhibit 1 after it was first
constructed.
(Separate Statement, filed September 14, 2023, pp. 1-7.) 
 
For each of those SROGs, Defendant
gave the following response: “Objection.  The request seeks information that is
irrelevant or likely to lead to admissible evidence.  Without waiving said objection, Defendant
responds as follows: Defendant does not know.  Investigation and discovery are continuing.”  (Separate Statement, pp. 1-7.)
 
            As stated
above, the Court ordered the parties to meet and confer and file a joint
statement explaining which SROGs were still at issue.  The parties have failed to file the joint statement.

 
            Therefore,
since there is no evidence that the motion is still at issue, the Court finds
it proper to deny the motion, including the request for sanctions. 
 
c.     Conclusion
The Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Special Interrogatories, Set One is DENIED.
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   