  Case Number:  20STCV40540    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiffs
Haley Burnham and Patrick Burnham’s Motions to Quash Deposition Notice, for
Protective Order, and to Continue Trial, are GRANTED in part. The motion for
trial continuance is GRANTED. The request for a stay, protective order, or
order quashing deposition notices is DENIED. No sanctions are awarded.
 
Defendant
Mattive Brothers Leasing, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiffs
Haley and Patrick Burnham is DENIED. No sanctions are awarded. 
 
I.                  
MOTIONS
TO QUASH DEPOSITION NOTICE & COMPEL DEPOSITION
“[A] party may also
move for an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the
deposition notice. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040. The taking of the deposition is stayed
pending the determination of this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd.
(c).)
 
Conversely, a party
may make a motion compelling a witness’s deposition “after service of a
deposition notice” if that witness “fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion must
include a meet-and-confer declaration and show good cause for the discovery
sought. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1), (2).)
 
Plaintiffs Haley
Burnham and Patrick Burnham (Plaintiffs) in separate motions move to quash
deposition notices served upon them for their depositions scheduled on June 22
and June 28, 2023. Plaintiffs contend that after the consolidation of the
present case with LASC Case No. 20STCV40698 on August 22, 2022,
precipitated the addition of various other defendants into this action,
including Defendant Muncie Power Products, Inc. (Muncie), who despite being
served with summons on March 10, 2023, has not appeared in this action. (Motion
at pp. 4–5.) Plaintiffs thus argue that the case “is not at issue.” (Motion at
p. 5.) They note that, as natural persons, they may deposed only once except
where leave is granted by the court for another deposition, for good cause
shown. (Motion at p. 9, citing Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.610.) Thus directing
Plaintiffs to attend deposition when a named party has yet to appear thus risks
exposing Plaintiffs to multiple depositions. (Motion at pp. 8–10.)
 
Defendant Mattivi Brothers Leasing, Inc. (Defendant) objects
that both motions were served on the dates (or the day immediately before) when
depositions were scheduled, rather than the “three calendar days” prior to
deposition for which “the objecting party shall make personal service of that
objection.” (Opposition at pp. 3–4; Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410, subd. (b).)[1]
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs should be compelled to attend their
deposition, since defendants are entitled to conduct depositions as a matter of
right, and ought not be made to wait for all parties to appear in the present
action on what they characterize as the speculative chance that those parties
will wish to take a further deposition. (Opposition at pp. 8–9.)
 
Since the motions have been filed, Muncie has appeared in
this case by filing a demurrer and motion to strike on August 11, 2023.
Whatever basis Plaintiffs may have had for seeking a protective order no longer
applies, as all defendants have appeared and the case is now, even by their
estimation, “at issue.” Conversely, now that Muncie has appeared, there is no
basis to believe that Plaintiffs will not sit for their depositions, since the
probability of prejudice resulting from multiple depositions is now remote. The
motions to quash, for protective order, and the motions to compel deposition,
are all DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs also request a trial continuance to account for
the addition of new parties since the consolidation of these cases, citing Code
of Civil Procedure § 473, subd. (a) ,[2]
Code of Civil Procedure § 594a,[3]
and CRC Rule 3.1332, subd. (d). (Motion at pp. 6–7.) Defendant in opposition
does not oppose a trial continuance. (Opposition at p. 9.) Good cause for a
continuance exists, as a number of newly added defendants — Muncie, Inland
Truck & Service, and Niemco, Inc. — have only recently appeared in this
action, and additional time is necessary to prepare.
 
Plaintiffs’ motion for trial continuance is therefore
GRANTED.
 
II.               
SANCTIONS
“The court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
quash a deposition notice, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (d).)
 
Plaintiffs’ motions
purport to seek sanctions, but include no amount sought in sanctions or a
supporting declaration. Defendant seeks sanctions in connection with its motion
to compel deposition in the amount of $5,646.00, representing 14 hours of
attorney work preparing and defending the motion to compel at $175 per hour,
plus $1,690.00 in filing and deposition expenses. (Haas Decl. ¶¶ 23–25.) No
sanctions are awarded, as the motions were filed and opposed with substantial
justification.
 
 


