 Case Number:  23STCP03903    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ LG H&H CO., LTD., Petitioner(s), vs. INSIL KIM, et al., Respondent(s). Case No.: 23STCP03903 Hearing Date: November 6, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES  I. BACKGROUND On August 21, 2024, the Court granted LG H&H Co., Ltd.’s (“LG”) Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award. On September 30, 2024, LG filed the instant motion for attorney fees. LG argues it is entitled to attorney fees because the indemnification clause in the Stock Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) which identifies attorneys’ fees as losses. On October 24, 2024, respondents Insil Kim and Sunna Kim (“the Kims”) filed an opposition. They contend that LG this action was not brought under the indemnification clause of the SPA, and that attorneys’ fees as “Losses” covered by an indemnification provision is not a prevailing party fee-shifting clause. On October 30, 2024, LG filed a reply.  II. DISCUSSION Cal. Civ. Code § 1717(a) provides, “In any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other costs.” Here, LG relies on an indemnity provision, which is not the same as an attorney’s fee provision. “A provision including attorney fees as an item of loss in an indemnity clause is not a provision for attorney fees in an action to enforce the contract. Accordingly, such a contractual indemnity provision is not made reciprocal and applicable to the entire contract by…Civil Code section 1717. (Myers Bldg. Indus., Ltd. v. Interface Tech., Inc. (1993) 13 Cal. App. 4th 949, 971; see also Rideau v. Stewart Title of California, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal. App. 4th 1286, 1298 [Generally, the specification of attorney fees as an item of loss in a third party claim indemnity provision does not constitute a provision for the award of attorney fees in an action on the contract which is required to trigger the reciprocal contractual attorney fee statute.].)  III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, LG’s motion for attorney fees is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: November 5, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 