 Case Number:  20STCV38744    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  C Pena v. La Noria Entertainment, et al.
CASE NO.:  20STCV38744
HEARING:   9/20/23 @ 10:30 AM
#5
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Subpoenas is
GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Miguel Pena (Plaintiff) moves to
quash Defendants La Noria Entertainment, Inc and Total Production Group, Inc.’s
(Defendants) subpoenas pursuant to CCP § 1987.1.
Background
Plaintiff
filed a Complaint against Defendants and the City of Pico Rivera alleging
Battery, Negligence, Intentional Infliction of Emotion Distress, and Negligent
Hiring for an alleged incident involving a security guard injuring Plaintiff on
October 4, 2019. Plaintiff has since added numerous parties by way of Doe
Amendments.
Legal
Standard
“If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court,” the court may “order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.”
(CCP § 1987.1.)
Discussion

Defendants issued three subpoenas to
Plaintiff’s primary care physician, Dr. Stephanie Lopez. Plaintiff objected to
the subpoenas on the grounds that they were overbroad as to scope and time.
Plaintiff argues that they were not limited to the body parts or complaints
Plaintiff put at issue in his Complaint and that ten years is unreasonably
broad. The subpoenas at issue seek:
·       
“Documents
and medical records and reports, and writings, including, but not limited to,
office, emergency room, inpatient, outpatient, hospital charts and records,
including electronically stored documents and files, pertaining to the care,
treatment, and examination of Miguel Pena….from 10/04/2009 to the present.”
·       
“Itemized
statements of the billing charges, including insurance billing and records,
billing records, explanation of benefits (EOBs), billing off-sets, write-offs,
and records of payment, amounts paid, and amounts adjusted, pertaining to the
care, treatment and examination of Miguel Pena…from 10/04/2009 to the present.”
·       
“Radiology
materials and films, X-rays, MRI’s, and CT scans, pertaining to the care,
treatment, and examination of Miguel Pena…from 10/04/2009 to the present. A
complete list of breakdown from your film library must be provided prior to
production of requested films.”
The subpoenas are overbroad because they seek
private medical records for complaints or conditions beyond the limited waiver
of Plaintiff’s constitutional privacy rights. There is “an implicit waiver of a
party's constitutional rights” concerning “discovery directly relevant to the
plaintiff's claim and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson
v. Superior Court(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.) Thus, Plaintiff waived his privacy
rights as to the complaints and condition he put at issue by filing this
Complaint. The parties agree that those complaints and conditions are found
within Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 6.3. These complaints are as
follows: 
(a)
Plaintiff has continuing headaches, blurry vision, dizziness, decreased hearing
acuity, right ear tinnitus, neck pain, insomnia, sadness, concentration, word
finding difficulties, and PTSD. (b) all remaining the same. (c) Headaches –
varied duration, approximately twice a week; blurry vision – constant, daily;
dizziness – occasional, can be triggered by moving head side to side, up or
down; decreased hearing acuity, right ear – daily, constant; right ear tinnitus
– daily, constant; insomnia – daily, at night; sadness – when discussing the
incident; neck pain –daily, constant; concentration and word finding
difficulties – daily, constant; PTSD – chronic, frequency and duration
inapplicable for this type of condition.”
Defendants are entitled to discovery regarding
these complaints.  However, Defendants’
subpoenas place no limit on the types of complaints they are seeking, and as
such, the requests are overbroad. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that the
records should be limited to five years prior to the incident. The court agrees.
Therefore, Defendants’ subpoenas are quashed and are to be reissued with the
limitation as to injuries identified in Plaintiff’s response to Form
Interrogatory 6.3 within the past five years. 

Sanctions
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is procedurally defective because he fails to adequately identify
parties in his request. “A party's motion for sanctions must (1) state the
applicable rule that has been violated, (2) describe the specific conduct that
is alleged to have violated the rule, and (3) identify the attorney, law firm,
party, witness, or other person against whom sanctions are sought.” (CRC, rule
2.30(c).) Plaintiff states he is seeking sanctions against Defendants, however,
there are multiple Defendants. Plaintiff does not list each Defendant he seeks
sanctions against in his request. Thus, his request for sanctions is denied.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash Subpoenas is GRANTED. Defendants may reissue the subpoenas with
the above limitation. Plaintiff request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
 