  Case Number:  20STCV23612    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementCase Name: Turuyan Cunguslu, et al. v. Joshua Marlon Torres, et al.Moving Party: Defendants Combined Properties, Inc.; Seventy-Fifth LLCResponding Party: Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company (“Ralphs”)Tentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUND This case arises from a June 24, 2018 altercation between plaintiff Turuyan Cunguslu and defendant Joshua Torres at a Ralphs location. (UMF NO. 7). After a verbal argument with Mr. Torres inside the store, Mr. Cunguslu approached the exit door and started to walk outside when Mr. Torres attacked him. The altercation ended when Mr. Cunguslu stumbled toward the parking lot in pursuit of Mr. Torres and fell to the floor. (UMF NO. 30)In 1997, Ralphs and Defendants entered into a written lease agreement (“Agreement”). (UMF NO. 1). Section 14.1(a) the Agreement states: Tenant shall and does hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless, defend and protect Landlord from all claims, actions, demands, costs, expenses, loss and liability whatsoever (including reasonable attorneys fees and costs), on account of any such real or claimed damage or liability and from all liens, claims and demands arising out of the construction, use, occupancy or enjoyment of the Market and its facilities, or any repairs, alterations, maintenance, rebuilding or restoration which Tenant may make upon the Market, or occasioned in whole or In part by any act or omission of Tenant, its agents, contractors, servants, employees or invitees. (UMF NO. 5).Section 14.2(a) of the Agreement provides: Landlord shall and does hereby agree to Indemnify, hold harmless, defend and protect Tenant from all claims, actions, demands, costs, expenses, loss and liability whatsoever (including reasonable attorneys fees and costs), on account of any such real or claimed damage or liability and from all liens, claims and demands arising out of the construction, use, occupancy or enjoyment of the Common Area and its facilities, or any repairs, alterations, maintenance, rebuilding or restoration which Landlord may make upon the Common Area, or occasioned In whole or in part by any act or omission of Landlord, its agents, contractors, servants, employees or invitees. Landlord shall not be liable for damage or injury occasioned by the negligence or willful acts of Tenant or Its designated agents, servants or employees. (emphasis added) (UMF NO. 6)Pursuant to the Agreement in effect at the time, Section 11.1 states that “[t]he Common Area shall be under the management, supervision and control of the Landlord.” Section 11.5 states that the “Landlord shall operate and maintain Common Area” and provide “(h) Reasonable security in the Common Area.” Section 11.1 provides that premises Common Area includes the exterior parking lot and driveway, stating: “(ii) Parking of motor vehicles, and pedestrian and vehicular ingress and egress by Tenant and other occupants of the Shopping Center and agents, employees, customers, and other invitees of any of them, to and from buildings, Common Area and adjacent public street; “(iii) Parking stalls, private streets, sidewalks, walls, ramps, driveways, lanes, curbs, gutters, traffic control areas, signals, traffic islands, landscaped areas, traffic and parking lighting facilities and Pylon Sign with appropriate underground electrical connection and all things incidental thereto;..”The Agreement defines the following terms as follows:• “Market” is defined in Section 2.35 as the “building containing a Floor area of the approximate size set forth in the Lease Schedule to be constructed in the Building Area designated "Market" on the Site Plan, including its areas for truck parking and unloading and trash storage, and any supports and appurtenances that extend from the Market into the Common Area.” (UMF NO. 2). • “Common Area” is defined in Section 2.8 as “all of the Shopping Center and its improvements, including sidewalks adjacent to the front of a building, but not including Building Area, areas immediately adjacent to a building for truck parking, unloading or trash storage and permanent merchandising (other than sidewalks), and supports and appurtenances that extend from a building.” (UMF NO. 3). • "Primary Common Area" is defined in Section 2.45 as “the portion of the Common Area shown as crosshatched on the Site Plan,” which clearly delineates the areas controlled by each party and establishes the subject incident occurred on property controlled by Ralphs. (UMF NO. 4).MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendants seek summary judgment against Ralphs on the Seventh Cause of Action for Express Indemnity of Ralphs’ Cross-complaint filed February 8, 2021. Defendants argue that, under the terms of the Agreement, they do not owe express indemnity to Ralphs because the altercation did not arise out of the use of the Common Areas of the property. (Motion for Summary Judgement, p. 14.)OPPOSITIONRalphs argues the Court should deny Defendants’ motion for summary judgement because the evidence establishes that the altercation took place not only on Ralphs’ premises, but also in the Common Area parking lot driveway. (Opposition, p. 5.) Ralphs asserts that whether the fight “arose” from the “use” of the common areas is an issue of material fact for the jury to determine. (Id. at 14.)REPLYDefendants argue that whether a physical altercation occurred inside Ralphs is irrelevant — but rather that the evidence that the underlying incident arose from events that occurred inside Ralphs is dispositive and warrants summary judgement under the terms of the Agreement. (Reply, p. 2.)ANALYSIS I. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  Thus, summary judgment is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist, and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿ Express indemnity refers to an obligation arising “‘by virtue of express contractual language establishing a duty in one party to save another harmless upon the occurrence of specified circumstances.’” (Bay Dev., Ltd. v. Superior Ct., (1990) 50 Cal. 3d 1012, 1029.) Express indemnity generally is not subject to equitable considerations or a joint legal obligation to the injured party; rather, it is enforced in accordance with the terms of the contracting parties' agreement. (Markley v. Beagle (1967) 66 Cal.2d 951, 961.) The obligation to indemnify and hold harmless arises as soon as the indemnitee tenders the defense of a claim that "allege[s] facts that would give rise to a duty of indemnity." (Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 558). An express indemnity agreement is subject to the same rules governing the interpretation of any other contract. (Rossmoor Sanitation, Inc. v. Pylon, Inc. (1975) 13 Cal.3d 622, 633; Continental Heller Corp. v. Amtech Mechanical Services, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 500, 504.) A. Defendants’ Initial Burden Defendants have not met their initial burden of proof to provide admissible evidence showing Ralphs’ express indemnity cause of action has no merit. In this case, Defendants’ evidence does not give rise to a single indisputable reasonable inference of where and when the altercation arose. Namely, Defendants rely on evidence of the sequence of events leading up to the altercation to assert that they owe no express indemnity to Ralphs because the physical altercation arose from the use of the market rather than the Common Area. (Motion for Summary Judgement, p. 16.) Concluding the altercation did not arise in a Common Area requires assuming  the argument inside the store definitively marks the singular moment the altercation “arose.” However, despite Defendants’ characterization, when and where the altercation “arose” is ambiguous. While Defendants rely on evidence of a verbal conflict between Mr. Torres and Mr. Cunguslu in the store, the evidence here also reflects a distinct gap between the argument and the physical altercation. In the intervening time, Mr. Torres left the store but presumably remained in the parking lot.  In the meantime, Mr. Cunguslu returned to his original shopping task by completing the check-out process. The physical altercation then began in earnest when Mr. Cunguslu exited the store when Mr. Torres returned and knocked a bouquet of flowers from Mr. Cunguslu’s hand and run away.  Mr. Cunguslu then appears to chase Mr. Torres and he subsequently falls.  Based on this evidence, a jury may interpret Mr. Torres and Mr. Cunguslu’s initial verbal argument constituted a separate altercation altogether that conclusively resolved in the store, and that a separate physical altercation arose again outside in a Common Area. The evidence is thus deeply ambiguous regarding when and where an altercation “arose” — and whether more than one altercation occurred. While Defendants certainly provide one plausible interpretation of events, their proposed characterization is merely one of several potential interpretations of the evidence.This ambiguity is fatal to Defendants’ motion. The Court may only decide the issues as a matter of law where inferences are indisputable, otherwise the factual issues must be resolved by trial.¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) Here, the Court cannot conclude that there is only one reasonable inference regarding when or where an altercation arose from the evidence provided. These factual issues are determinative of the express indemnity cause of action, and must be resolved by trial.¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) Accordingly, the Court finds Defendants have not made a prima facie showing that the altercation did not arise in a Common Area, and thus do not meet their initial burden required for summary judgement. RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgement is DENIED.