 Case Number:  21STCV00473    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Set Aside Default JudgmentCase Name: Mohamed Akari v. Harry Kram, M.D., et al.Moving Party: Harry KramResponding Party: Mohamed AkariTentative Ruling: DENYANALYSISBackground On May 26, 2021, Plaintiff served Defendant by serving Defendant’s office assistant, Alejandra Barajas, in addition to mailing a copy to Defendant. (Willoughby Decl. ¶ 13-14; Exh. F.) Plaintiff also sent an additional to Defendant in his capacity as the agent for service of process on behalf of Defendant Legsavers. (Willoughby Decl. ¶ 15-16; Exh. G.) Plaintiff obtained a default judgment in the amount of $485,397.89 against moving Defendant on May 13, 2024. Defendant allegedly learned about this around September 15, 2024, after his real estate agent informed him that a lien had been placed on his residential property. Plaintiff filed his initial Request for Entry of Default on July 23, 2021 and filed his Request for Judgment on February 28, 2024. Judgment was formally entered on May 13, 2024. Defendant alleges he never received and was never given any court documents served on his office and was unaware of the action and subsequent filings.Moving Party PositionDefendant requests the Court set aside the default and default judgment, arguing default judgment was the result of surprise, excusable inadvertence, excusable neglect and excusable mistake, and is otherwise void as a matter of law. (Motion to Vacate, p. 5-6.) OppositionPlaintiff argues the Court should deny Defendant’s motion, arguing that default judgment did not arise from mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that Defendant’s claimed ignorance of proceedings do not implicate the mandatory attorney fault provision of section 473(b). Plaintiff moreover argues Defendant was aware of the instant litigation. (Opposition, p. 10.)ReplyDefendant argues that he has successfully satisfied his burden of establishing surprise, particularly because Defendant had medical liability insurance, and thus had no reason to ignore service of the complaint and subject himself to personal responsibility. (Reply, p. 2.)DiscussionI. Judicial NoticeThe Court takes notice of the following:• The entire case file for Superior Court of California Case No. 21STCV00473.• The documents and records on file with the California Secretary of State for Legsavers, A Medical Corporation (Entity ID No. 2143644).• The documents and records on file with the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs for Harry Kram, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in California.II. Evidentiary Objections Plaintiff submits 8 evidentiary objections, including 5 objections as to the Declaration of David R. Tredway and 3 objections as to the Declaration of Defendant. Sustained: Nos. 3, 4, 6 -8 (hearsay). Overruled: Nos. 1-2, 5. III. Motion to Vacate Default JudgmentCCP § 473(b) reads as follows: The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.A “surprise” under Code Civ. Proc. § 473 is defined as “some condition or situation in which a party to a cause is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.” (Baratti v. Baratti (1952) 109 Cal.App.2d 917, 921.)  CCP § 473.5 states as follows:¿ (a) When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i)¿two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii)¿180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered. (b) A notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.  “Mistake is not a ground for relief under section 473, subdivision (b), when ‘the court finds that the “mistake” is simply the result of professional incompetence, general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the law ....’ (8 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008) Attack on Judgment in Trial Court, § 155, p. 749.)” (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206.) Moreover, for inadvertence or neglect, relief under Section 473 requires that a litigant's neglect must have been “such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.” (Hearn v. Howard, supra, 177 Cal.App.4th at p. 1206; accord, Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 215, 229–230.) Wholly inexcusable inadvertence does not justify relief. “Unless in arranging for his defense he shows that he has exercised such reasonable diligence as a man of ordinary prudence usually bestows upon important business his motion for relief under section 473 will be denied. Courts neither act as guardians for incompetent parties nor for those who are grossly careless of their own affairs.... The only occasion for the application of section 473 is where a party is unexpectedly placed in a situation to his injury without fault or negligence of his own and against which ordinary prudence could not have guarded.” (Id.)Though public policy broadly supports setting aside default judgements in favor of hearing issues on the merits, the Court declines to do so here. Defendant’s motion relies on the contention that he lacked notice, specifically stating Defendant was “never made aware of the filing of the lawsuit or the service of these documents by Ms. Barajas or anyone in his office.” (Motion to Vacate, p. 6.) Defendant here attempts to substantiate his claim that he lacked notice of the action solely by referring to — and claiming not to have received — the initial complaint and summons. By doing so, Defendant glaringly omits reference to or acknowledgement of the many other forms of notice served on Defendant throughout the lifespan of this case. It is worthwhile to summarize, in part, the documents and communications directed at Defendant about this case — any of which would have provided Defendant with notice. On June 25, 2021, Plaintiff served written discovery on Defendant by mail. (Willoughby Decl. ¶ 19-20; Exh. I.) On July 23, 2021, Plaintiff sent Defendant a copy of the request for entry of default via mail. (Willoughby Decl. ¶ 21-22; Exh. J.) Plaintiff again sought an entry of default on August 9, 2021, which was mailed to Defendant. (Willoughby Decl. ¶¶ 25-26; Exh. L.) Following this Court’s entry of judgment on June 17, 2024, Notice of Entry of Judgment was again mailed to Defendant. (Willoughby Decl. ¶ 30-31; Exh. N.) Plaintiff also undertook additional efforts to notify Defendant of this action, including sending three separate letters to Defendant specifically to notify him of this litigation, including to Defendant’s personal email address provided to Plaintiff by an individual at Defendant’s office (Poblet Decl. ¶ 14-18; Exh. C & D), Defendant’s office email address (Poblet Decl. ¶ 14-18; Exh. C & D; Willoughby Decl. ¶ 6-7; Exh. B), and via facsimile. (Poblet Decl. ¶ 14-18; Exh. C & D; Willoughby Decl. ¶ 6-7; Exh. B.) Defendant’s alleged non-receipt of the original complaint and summons accordingly comprise a mere fraction of notices sent to Defendant regarding this action. Defendant fails to reference or address any of these notices in asserting that he lacked any awareness of this case. Notably, Defendant also has not provided a declaration from his office manager regarding whether she was served and, if so, what became of the service package; doing so would have provided immediate and compelling evidence to clarify Defendant’s potential excusable neglect. However, such immediate evidence is conspicuously absent here. Defendant thus urges the Court to find that it was reasonable to either discard or ignore repeated mailings to Defendant’s business address.  This the Court will not do.  The Court thus finds Defendant did not exercise “such reasonable diligence as a man of ordinary prudence usually bestows upon important business” and has failed to provide an adequate for “surprise” under Section § 473. The Court additionally finds Defendant was not reasonably diligent in bringing this motion.  To be reasonably diligent under Section 473, Defendant must provide a satisfactory excuse for the default and diligence in making the motion after discovering the default. (Stafford v. Mach (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1174.) In this case, Defendant fails to explain how or why this motion was not brought earlier given the repeated number of contacts relating to this case. Defendant’s motion exclusively refers to and attempts to account for the service of original summons and complaint, but does not account for or provide any excuse with respect to the many additional contacts that must have placed Defendant on notice of this action and the intent to enter a default judgment. Defendant has not offered any excuse, much less a satisfactory excuse, as to why repeated mailings in September 2020, May 2021, June 2021, July 2021 and August 2021 went unopened and unanswered.  The overwhelming weight of the evidence compels just one conclusion - that Defendant was aware of this matter and simply ignored it.  As a result, the Court finds Defendant was not reasonably diligent, providing additional support to deny the motion to set aside the default judgement.RULINGFor the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default Judgement is DENIED. Moving party is ordered to give notice.  