  Case Number:  23CHCV01564    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO COMPEL  DEPOSITION  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV01564    Motion filed: 8/21/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Michael Soriano, in pro per  (“Plaintiff”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Specially Appearing Non-party  Deponent M&Y Personal Injury Lawyers (“M&Y”) NOTICE: ok    RELIEF REQUESTED: An order (1) compelling  Steve Yamin and M&Y to appear to produced documents responsive to  Plaintiff’s document subpoena served on 7/11/23; and (2) monetary sanctions  against Yamin and M&Y in the amount of $1160.56.   TENTATIVE RULING: The  motion is granted in part. Nonparty deponent M&Y Personal Injury Lawyers is  ordered to produce any additional documents and/or communications in  connection with Plaintiff’s claims in the instant action, by delivering a true,  legible, and durable copy of the business records described in the 7/10/23  Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records, to Plaintiff’s address  of record, by the method described in Paragraph 1a. of the subpoena.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.   BACKGROUND   This is a personal injury action in  which Plaintiff alleges that on 6/24/21, defendant Mira Gavrieli caused a  collision of the automobiles driven by either party. (Compl. p. 5.) Defendant  Kfir Gavrieli allegedly entrusted the vehicle to Mira Gavrieli. (Ibid.)  M&Y is a law firm that formerly represented Plaintiff in this matter.  (Pl.’s Mot. 2:7–8.)   On 5/31/23, Plaintiff filed his  complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Motor  Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence. On 7/21/23, Defendants filed  their answer.   On 7/10/23, the  Court issued Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records to Steve Yamin and M&Y, seeking the production of “all case  files and all emails, recordings, facsimiles, or other communications or  records of communications between yourself and/or your firm and its agents, and  the other parties in the above titled case and claim #21-4496252” for  inspection at its offices on 8/8/23. (7/11/23 Subpoena & Proof of Service.)  On 7/11/23, Plaintiff served Yamin and M&Y with the deposition subpoena. (Ibid.)  On 8/8/23, when Plaintiff arrived at M&Y to inspect the documents, he was  informed that he was not allowed access to the law firm’s offices. (Pl.’s Mot.  3:3–15.)   On 8/21/23, Plaintiff filed the  instant motion to compel. On 10/19/23, M&Y filed and  served its opposition. On 10/23/23, Plaintiff filed his reply.   ANALYSIS   “If a deponent fails to answer any  question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or  tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition  notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court  for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480,  subd. (a).)               1.      Meet and Confer   A motion to compel a document  production in response to a document subpoena must (1) “be accompanied by a  meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (Id. at subd. (b).) Here,  Plaintiff states that on 7/31/23 and 8/9/23, he contacted M&Y via emails to  Yamin and Nick Movagar in attempts to meet and confer regarding the issues  raised in the instant motion but received no response. (Pl’s Mot. 5:24–26,  6:11–12.) Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the  meet-and-confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480,  subdivision (b).)   2.      Procedural Issues   a.       Separate Statement   M&Y argues that Plaintiff’s motion  should be denied because he has failed to include a separate statement as  required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345. (Opp. 6:3–10.)  Plaintiff argues in reply that the rule clearly states that “A separate  statement is not required … When no response has been provided to the request  for discovery.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1345(b)(1).) Here, Plaintiff argues  that because M&Y provided no response to the document subpoena and did not  respond to his meet and confer efforts, he is not required to attach a separate  statement to the instant motion. (Pl.’s Reply 7:11–25.) The Court agrees and  finds that Plaintiff was not required to attach a separate statement to the  instant motion.   b.       Service of Opposition   Plaintiff argues that M&Y’s  opposition was improperly served on him via electronic service, where he has  not consented to this method for service of documents, and therefore the Court  should disregard the opposition in full. (Id. at 4:8–9; Code Civ.  Proc. § 1010.6, subd. (c).) However, the Court notes that “the law respects  form less than substance.” (Civ. Code § 3528.) Additionally, the public policy  of California favors adjudicating cases on the merits (Elston v. City of  Turlock¿(1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 235; Hernandez v. Superior Court¿(2004)  115 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246.)    Here, while M&Y may have improperly served its  opposition papers on Plaintiff via electronic service, Plaintiff has not  alleged any prejudice resulting from such method of service, particularly where  Plaintiff has had an opportunity to provide a lengthy reply to the opposition.¿Accordingly,  the Court declines to reject M&Y’s opposition for this procedural  deficiency.   3.      Service of Document Subpoena   M&Y further contends that “Plaintiff  failed to properly serve the subpoena. By Plaintiff’s own admission, he never  served M&Y at its office. Nor did he serve any of M&Y’s attorneys,  officers, directors, or agents. Rather, the subpoena was left downstairs in the  lobby of a twenty-one story building M&Y occupies with hundreds of other  tenants. The individual that allegedly accepted this subpoena, ‘Gabby  Pelascio’, is a former employee of M&Y, and was never a legal assistant to  Steve Yamin, nor was she ever authorized to accept service of a subpoena. (Opp.  5:15–20, citing Reeves Decl., ¶ 8)   Plaintiff argues in reply that “regardless  of the opposing party’s assertion of the person assigned to receive the  subpoena and subsequent motion, Ms. Pelacios was a valid recipient via the  consent of Steve Yamin and Nick Movagar, both whom are officers of the law firm  in their capacity as law partners. These individuals authorized Ms. Pelacios to  accept the subpoena upon their behalf in lieu of personally appearing before  the individual making the personal service.” (Pl.’s Reply 6:14–18.)   As Plaintiff observes, to the extent  M&Y challenges the service of the document subpoena as improper, it could  have filed a motion to quash, but failed to do so. (Id. at 6:26–7:5.)  As such, the Court declines to make any findings pertaining to the service of  the original deposition subpoena for business records served on M&Y on  7/11/23 as they are not properly raised before this Court at this time.   4.      Client File   By way of the subject document  subpoena, Plaintiff seeks to recover his client file from M&Y. “The  documents, notes, and communications produced by the opposing party are known  to contain information that is necessary for the litigation of the movements  [sic] case.” (Pl.’s Mot. 6:18–19.)   In opposition, M&Y argues that the  instant motion should be denied on substantive grounds, as “the Motion seeks  documents that were previously produced to Plaintiff on April 3, 2023, and  re-produced a second time on September 22, 2023.” (Opp. 6:15–17.) “In the  hypothetical event this Motion were granted (which it shouldn’t), all M&Y  would and could do would be to produce the same documents a third time which  would be unnecessary, cumulative, and beyond duplicative in clear violation of  Code of Civil Procedure Section 2019.030(a)(1).” (Id. at 6:24–27.)   In reply, Plaintiff asserts that “the  exhibits directed to in ‘DECLARATION OF DANIEL J. REEVES, ¶ 9’, is just a  sampling of the E-mails and communications that were never provided as part of  the case file, which forms the basis of the Subpoena. These were never included  in the document repository that was provided in April 2023.” (Pl.’s Reply 8:27–9:2.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court  orders M&Y to comply with the 7/11/23 document subpoena to the extent that  any additional documents and communications, such as those identified by  Plaintiff above, have not yet been produced to Plaintiff. However, this Court  finds that M&Y is to provide these documents not by making them available  for inspection and copying by Plaintiff himself, but by mail delivery to  Plaintiff as outlined in Paragraph 1a. in the original subpoena.   5.      Sanctions   If the Court grants a motion to compel the production  of documents responsive to a deposition subpoena, it “shall impose a monetary  sanction …  against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or  production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (j).)  “A person failing to appear pursuant to a subpoena or a court order also  forfeits to the party aggrieved the sum of five hundred dollars ($500), and all  damages that he or she may sustain by the failure of the person to appear  pursuant to the subpoena or court order, which forfeiture and damages may be  recovered in a civil action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1992.)   Here, Plaintiff requests $1160.56 in  monetary sanctions to be imposed against Yamin and M&Y, which encompasses  the following: (1) $70.00 in process server fees; (2) $60.00 in court costs for  filing the instant motion; (3) $530.56 in travel, parking, and time expenses;  and (4) $500.00 forfeiture under Code of Civil Procedure section 1992. (Att. D  to Pl.’s Mot., ¶ 2.)   The Court notes that Code of Civil  Procedure section 1992 provides for a separate civil remedy for a deponent’s  failure to appear for deposition, therefore Plaintiff is not entitled to such a  forfeiture as a monetary sanction in connection with the instant motion.  Moreover, based on the arguments and supporting declarations set forth by  Plaintiff and M&Y, the Court finds that the imposition of sanctions against  M&Y would be unjust. Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for  sanctions.   CONCLUSION   The motion is granted in part. Nonparty deponent  M&Y Personal Injury Lawyers is ordered to produce any additional documents  and/or communications in connection with Plaintiff’s claims in the instant  action, by delivering a true, legible, and durable copy of the business records  described in the 7/10/23 Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business  Records, to Plaintiff’s address of record, by the method described in Paragraph  1a. of the subpoena. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.