 Case Number:  24LBCV00256    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 HAFELE AMERICA CO., Plaintiff(s), vs. ALCOM INTERMODAL, INC., ET AL., Defendant(s).[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTMoving Party: Plaintiff, Hafele America Co.Opposing Party: Defendant, Alcom Intermodal, Inc.Notice: See below1. Background FactsPlaintiff, Hafele America Co. filed this action against Defendants, Alcom Intermodal, Inc. and Does 1-10 on 2/02/24. Defendant filed an answer to the complaint on 2/14/24. The answer includes a general denial, various specific denials, and various affirmative defenses.2. Motion for Summary Judgmenta. Standard on Summary JudgmentSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) Until the moving party has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing party has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving party has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the opposing party may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action. (Id. at §437c(p)(2).) On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion. (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)Unlike former law, it is not the plaintiff's initial burden to disprove affirmative defenses and cross-complaints asserted by the defendant. (CCP § 437c(p)(1); Oldcastle Precast, Inc. v. Lumbermens Mut. Cas. Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 565.)b. Moving PositionPlaintiff argues Defendant owes past due rent in the amount of $159,000. Plaintiff establishes it served a three-day notice to pay rent or quit, and Defendant neither paid the rent due nor vacated the premises. Plaintiff therefore contends it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law in this UD action.c. Opposing BurdenDefendant filed timely opposition to the motion on 3/01/23. Defendant argues summary judgment should be denied because (a) Plaintiff failed to meet its moving burden of proof because the proof of service of the moving papers was at the wrong address, (b) the amount of rent due is a disputed question of fact, and (c) there are questions of fact concerning whether Plaintiff has status to sue.d. Service of Moving PapersThe Court cannot locate proof of service of the moving papers. The Court has viewed the motion for summary judgment, declaration in support of motion, and proposed order on motion, and none of the documents includes a proof of service.Defendant, in opposition to the motion, includes the Declaration of Alain Lopez, its CEO. Lopez declares he was not personally served with a notice to pay rent or quit on 12/13/23, and declares the proof of service of the moving papers indicates they were served at the Premises address, but the lease requires notices to be given to Defendant at 302 W 229th Street in Carson.Defendant appeared in this action on 2/14/24 through its attorney, Jacob O. Partiyeli. Pursuant to CCP §1014, once a defendant answers through its attorney, all papers must be served on its attorney. This statutory requirement would trump any contrary requirement in the parties’ lease agreement during the course of litigation. The Court asks Plaintiff to be prepared, at the hearing on the motion, to explain where the Court can find the proof of service of the moving papers. If the papers were served on Counsel, the Court will find service sufficient.e. Amount of Rent DueDefendant’s second argument is that Plaintiff improperly calculated late fees at $4500/month, and this calculation is not proper per ¶13.4 of the parties’ lease. ¶13.4 of the parties’ lease provides, “Lessee hereby acknowledges that late payment be Lessee of Rent will cause Lessor to incur costs not contemplated by this Lease, the exact amount of which will be extremely difficult to ascertain. Such costs include…According, if any Rent shall not be received by Lessor…Lessee shall immediately pay to Lessor a one-time late charge equal to 20% of each such overdue amount or $100, whichever is greater.”Lopez declares that there were no discussions or negotiations regarding the amount of any late charges, the late fee is excessive because it does not represent the costs to Plaintiff from a delay in payment, and the unreasonableness of the fee is demonstrated by the fact that Plaintiff is also entitled to interest on any past-due rent, which is more than enough to cover any late fees.¶13.4 is a liquidated damages provision. It provides for late fees in a sum certain. Defendant fails to cite any authority holding that a liquidated damages provision is unenforceable for any of the reasons articulated in the opposition papers. Defendant fails to show Plaintiff calculated the late fees incorrectly using the liquidated damages provision. This argument therefore fails to raise a triable issue of material fact.f. StandingDefendant’s final argument is that Plaintiff lacks standing to bring this action. Lopez attaches a copy of a Certificate of Surrender to Transact Intrastate Business for Plaintiff from the Secretary of State website as Exhibit A to the opposition. The document is from 1997.Because there is no time for reply papers in UD proceedings, the Court visited the Secretary of State website and searched for Hafele America Co. There are three entities with that name listed on the website. One was terminated, but the other two are active. The Court will hear argument on this issue at the hearing, but it appears Plaintiff is an active company in the State of California.g. ConclusionThe Court will hear argument concerning service and standing at the time of the hearing. If the Court is satisfied in both regards, it will grant summary judgment. If the parties submit on the tentative ruling, the motion for summary judgment will be granted.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.Dated this 5th day of March, 2024Hon. Mark Kim Judge of the Superior Court