 Case Number:  23LBCV00552    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



MARCUS MILLER, ET AL.,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
BRAND SCAFFOLD SERVICES, INC.,
  ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23LBCV00552
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION
  FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER OR TO QUASH NOTICE OF DEPOSITION
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
March 5, 2024



 
Moving Party:               Defendants, The AES Corporation, AES Puerto Rico,
Inc., and AES Puerto Rico, L.P.
Opposing Party:           Plaintiffs, Marcus Miller and Angie Muhamad
Notice:                         OK
 
1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiffs, Marcus Miller and Angie Muhamad filed this action against
Defendants, Brand Scaffold Services, Inc. and The AES Corporation for damages arising
out of injuries sustained in a workplace accident at AES’s power plant in
Puerto Rico.  Miller, who is a California
resident and employee of a California corporation, was injured in the incident.  AES has filed a motion to quash, asserting
this court lacks personal jurisdiction over it. 

 
2.    
Motion for a Protective Order

Parties’ Positions

Plaintiff noticed the deposition of
AES’s employee, Michelle Lopez.  AES
moves to quash the subpoena or for a protective order precluding the deposition,
contending (a) Lopez’s deposition would be a hardship, (b) there are less
burdensome ways to obtain the information sought by way of Lopez’s deposition,
and (c) any further information about the bid process would be proprietary and
not the proper subject of a deposition.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He argues (a) any burden on Lopez in sitting
for her deposition is minimal, (b) any burden from the deposition is outweighed
by the need for the deposition, because AES has identified Lopez as the person
with the most information about AES’s contacts and contracts in California, and
(c) there is no evidence that any proprietary or trade secret confidential information
would be revealed in the deposition.
 
Defendant, in reply, contends it
has established burden, and there is no need for the level of minutiae sought
by way of the Lopez deposition in opposing the upcoming motion to quash service
of the summons and complaint.  It contends
it adequately showed it proprietary information is at issue in connection with the
deposition.  
 

Law Governing Discovery Pending Jurisdictional Motion to Quash

In order to meet its burden of proof, a plaintiff is entitled to
conduct discovery with regard to the issue of jurisdiction before the hearing
on the defendant’s jurisdictional motion to quash; e.g., to establish the
nature and extent of the defendant's “contacts” in California.  The hearing date is often continued to
facilitate such discovery.  Mihlon v. Superior
Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 711.
 

Law Governing Specific Jurisdiction

To determine whether the Lopez deposition is necessary, the Court must
first discuss the general law governing whether and when an entity defendant is
subject to specific jurisdiction in California. 
In this case, as noted above, a California resident working for a
California company was injured while working at a power plant in Puerto
Rico.  The issue on the upcoming motion
to quash will be whether the Puerto Rico-based company, AES, is subject to jurisdiction
in California based on the doctrine of specific personal jurisdiction.  
 
Even if a nonresident defendant's “contacts” with California are not
sufficient for general jurisdiction, the defendant may still be subject to
jurisdiction on claims related to its activities there under a specific (also
called “case-linked”) jurisdiction analysis. The inquiry focuses on the relationship
between the defendant, the forum and the litigation.  Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 283-284.  For the state to exercise jurisdiction over a
defendant consistent with due process, “the defendant's suit-related conduct
must create a substantial connection with the forum State.”   Id. at 284. 

 
Such “specific” personal jurisdiction requires a showing of:
•           Purposeful
availment: The out-of-state defendant purposefully established contacts with
the forum state;
•           Arising
out of: Plaintiff's cause of action “arises out of” or is “related to”
defendant's contacts with the forum state; and
•           Reasonableness:
The forum's exercise of personal jurisdiction in the particular case comports
with “fair play and substantial justice.” 
Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 477-478.
 
The nonresident defendant must have purposefully directed its
activities at the forum, or purposefully availed itself of the privilege of
conducting activities within the forum state, thus invoking the benefits and
protections of local law.   Dow Chemical
Canada ULC v. Superior Court (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 170, 179.  “Minimum contacts” may be created by a
nonresident's use of mail, telephone or email. 
Hall v. LaRonde (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1344.  
 
For specific jurisdiction, plaintiff's claim must “arise out of” or be
“related to” defendant's forum activities. 
Burger King Corp., supra, at 477-478. 
That a nonresident enters California to execute or perform a contract
with a California resident does not per se establish “minimum contacts.” The
court considers all factors affecting negotiation, execution and performance of
the contract in determining whether defendant purposefully established minimum
contacts with the forum. Id. at 478-479.
 
That a nonresident entered into a contract with a forum resident does
not by itself establish “minimum contacts” between the nonresident and forum
state. Nor is it enough that the forum was the “place of contracting” or “place
of performance” or that breach has “caused an effect” (financial loss) in
California. The place where a contract is executed “is of far less importance
than where the consequences of performing that contract come to be felt.”   Stone v. State of Texas (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
1043, 1048 (holding that hiring a California resident did not subject the nonresident
employer to California jurisdiction where services were rendered outside
California).  
 
Rather, courts must adopt a “highly realistic” approach in determining
whether a nonresident contracting party “purposefully established minimum
contacts within the forum” taking into consideration:
•           — prior negotiations;
•           — contemplated future
consequences;
•           — terms of the
contract; and
•           — the parties' actual
course of dealings.  Burger King Corp.,
supra, at 478.  
 

Plaintiff’s Argument re: Deposing Lopez

The Court, in ruling on this motion, must make a threshold
determination of whether Plaintiff has shown he is likely to obtain any
necessary jurisdictional discovery by conducting Lopez’s deposition.  Plaintiff argues that, pursuant to Gordon
Armstrong Co. v. Superior Court (1958) 160 Cal.App.2d 211, 217, jurisdiction is
proper if the foreign corporation maintains substantial contacts with the state
through a course of regularly-established and systematic business activity, as distinguished
from casual isolated, or insubstantial contacts or transactions.  He therefore contends he needs to depose
Lopez because she will have information about the contacts giving rise to the instant
case, as well as about related contacts with Plaintiff’s employer throughout
the years.  
 
In Gordon Armstrong, the Court considered a situation where the
defendant solicited sales in California. 
The Court noted that the defendant had a pattern of regularly soliciting
sales in California, which pattern was extensive, regular, and continuous over
a period of many years, and which pattern established minimum contacts for
purposes of jurisdiction.  
 
Plaintiff previously deposed Jesus Bolinaga, who is the general manager
of AES.  During the deposition, Bolinaga
stated that he had met with Lopez prior to his deposition to prepare, as Lopez
was part of the supply chain team that handled construction contracts and the
bidding process.  Bolinaga stated, during
deposition, that Lopez would have the most information about the details of the
contacts between AES and Plaintiff’s employer, including details about dealings
and business procedures.  
 
The Court finds the foregoing is sufficient to make the threshold
showing that Lopez’s deposition is likely to provide relevant information
necessary to defend against the upcoming motion to quash.  Lopez appears to be the person who would know
the most about contacts with Plaintiff’s employer in connection with Plaintiff’s
employment, and also in connection with the parties’ prior history of dealings,
which is relevant to the minimum contacts analysis.  
 
The Court will therefore shift its analysis to determine whether AES
has set forth any justification for refusing to produce Lopez for deposition.  
 

Burden

AES’s primary argument seeking to preclude Lopez’s deposition is that the
deposition would create an undue burden. 
AES asserts there would be an undue burden because (a) Lopez resides in
a foreign jurisdiction and speaks a foreign language, (b) exposing her to a
deposition would create undue stress, (c) the deposition creates additional
stress because it creates potential employee turnover due to the stress of
knowing a deposition is possible, (d) AES has a lean staff and cannot afford to
have its employees tied up in depositions, and (e) the fact that there were
prior contacts between AES and Plaintiff’s employer is undisputed.  
 
The Court finds AES’s concerns are not well-taken.  Depositions are routinely taken with
interpreters because not all deponents speak the same language.  Puerto Rico is a territory of the United States,
and it is not clear how deposing a Puerto Rico resident is any different from
deposing an Arizona resident.  Depositions
are stressful, but the need for depositions outweighs the stress of
participating in them; indeed, that is why depositions are a court-sanctioned and
routine process.  The Court cannot meaningfully
follow AES’s parade of terribles where its employees apparently suddenly resign
en masse because they realize there is a possibility that they will be
deposed.  
 
The Court understand AES may have a lean staff and a deposition may be
a hardship.  Again, this is often true of
depositions; there are pros and cons, and one of the cons is that depositions
routinely take persons away from other commitments.  Despite this fact, however, they also
routinely go forward.  Notably, Plaintiff
seeks to conduct the deposition by zoom. 
In reviewing the facts of the case, it does not appear the deposition,
even with an interpreter, will be particularly long.  It will be limited to the issue of the scope
of prior contacts between AES and Plaintiff’s employer.  If Lopez is prepared for the deposition, it
should be very quick.  
 
As for general concerns about a deposition being stressful, the Court
notes that the role of attorneys in civil litigation is, in part, to prepare
deponents for deposition and for the stresses attendant to deposition.  
 
With respect to the final argument, that contacts between AES and Plaintiff’s
employer are undisputed, the Court finds this argument only holds water if AES
is willing to concede those contacts are sufficient to support imposition of
jurisdiction.  Clearly, AES is not
willing to do so, as it has filed a motion to quash jurisdiction.  Thus, Plaintiff needs to determine the scope
and extent of those contacts in order to meaningfully oppose the upcoming motion
to quash.
 

Trade Secrets

AES also makes a vague assertion that its trade secrets will be
implicated if Lopez is deposed.  The nature
of those trade secrets is not clear.  The
Court understands that, by revealing the nature of a trade secret, an entity
sometimes discloses the trade secret itself. 
In this case, however, the issue is the scope and extent of AES’s
contacts with California.  This does not
appear to be trade secret protected information.  If a specific trade secret comes up during
the deposition, the Court asks Counsel to meet and confer to draft a protective
order ensuring Plaintiff does not disclose any protected information to any of
AES’s competitors.  
 

Sanctions

Plaintiff seeks sanctions in connection with the opposition to the
motion.  The Court finds AES took its
position in good faith and with substantial justification.  The Court notes that jurisdictional issues,
as well as jurisdictional discovery issues, are complex, and also notes that allowing
this deposition is a close call.  The Court
therefore declines to impose sanctions.  
 

Conclusion

The motion to quash or for a protective order is denied.  The Court will allow Plaintiff to depose
Lopez.  The Court notes that the
jurisdictional motion to quash is scheduled for hearing on 5/02/24, and it
appears there is sufficient time to conduct the deposition and prepare the opposition
to the motion.  If, however, the parties
are unable to coordinate Lopez’s deposition, the Court asks the parties to meet
and confer to agree on a continued hearing date for the jurisdictional motion
to quash.  
 
3.    
Case Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above motion.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion.  
 
DATED:  March 5, 2024                         _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court