 Case Number:  23LBCV01166    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



ANTHONY SILLETTI,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
STRETCH’S SPEED SHOP, INC., ET
  AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23LBCV01166
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER
  AND MOTION TO STRIKE DIRECTED AT FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
March 5, 2024



 
Moving Party:               Defendants, Stretch’s Speed Shop, Inc. and William
Farnham 
Opposing Party:           Plaintiff, Anthony SIlletti
Notice:                         OK
 
1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Anthony Silletti filed this action against Defendants, Stretch’s
Speed Shop, Inc. and William Farnham for negligence and related claims.  Plaintiff’s operative complaint is his First
Amended Complaint, which he filed on 10/17/23. 
The crux of Plaintiff’s complaint is that he entrusted his 1969 Ford
Mustang and 1970 Ford Mustang to Defendants for restoration, but they were not
licensed to do the work contracted for and did not perform the work contracted
for.    
 
2.    
2/21/24 Hearing

Legal Standard on Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares the parties met and conferred by email and
telephonically, but were unable to resolve the issues presented by way of the
demurrer and motion to strike.  The Court
will rule on the matter on its merits.
 

Second Cause of Action, Fraud

Plaintiff’s second cause of action is for fraud.  Defendants demur to the cause of action,
contending (a) the allegations are not pled with the requisite specificity, and
(b) the allegations lump the two defendants together, which is improper.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the demurrer, establishes he has properly
pled a cause of action for fraud by concealment.  Plaintiff alleges, at ¶35 of the FAC, “Farnham
and Stretch fraudulently concealed Plaintiff by not disclosing to Plaintiff
that neither Farnham nor Stretch were licensed by the Bureau of Automotive
repair, and as such, they could not lawfully agree for money to perform the repair
and restoration work requested by Plaintiff.”
 
Defendants, in reply, make two arguments.  First, they argue Plaintiff is blending fraud
and fraudulent concealment.  Defendants
fail to cite any authority for their apparent position that fraud by
affirmative misrepresentation and fraud by concealment must be pled as two separate
causes of action.  Pursuant to Sheen v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 948, a demurrer cannot
be used to attack a part of a cause of action. 
If Plaintiff properly pled concealment, then the demurrer to the fraud
cause of action must be overruled.
 
Defendant also argues, “Plaintiff (incorrectly) claims that if he knew
he was not licensed that Plaintiff could not have paid for services rendered,
while incorrectly citing a section that states that an unregistered cannot
assert a lien.”  It is not clear to what
Defendant is referring.  Plaintiff’s
opposition cites to California Business and Professions Code §9884.6(a), which provides,
“It is unlawful for any person to be an automotive repair dealer unless that
person has registered in accordance with this chapter and unless that
registration is currently valid.”  
 
Plaintiff has properly pled a cause of action for fraud by
concealment.  Defendant’s arguments
concerning lumping all defendants together are rejected, as Plaintiff pleads
Defendants are each other’s alter egos; additionally, under the facts pled, it
is clear that each of the defendants would have the obligation to disclose
his/its non-licensed status to Plaintiff, and therefore each would be liable
for such failure to disclose.
 

Fourth Cause of Action, Conversion

Defendants demur to the fourth cause of action for conversion, contending
money cannot be the subject of a conversion claim unless the money is in a sum
certain.  Plaintiff, in opposition to the
demurrer, argues he has pled that he paid Defendants $70,000 for work that was
never performed and work Defendants were not licensed to perform.  He contends this is a sum certain such that the
claim is properly pled.  Defendants, in
reply, contend the claim is for “over $70,000,” not “$70,000,” and is therefore
not in a sum certain.  
 
Defendants are correct.  Plaintiff
alleges, at ¶9 of the FAC, that he paid Defendants “in excess of $70,000.”  The demurrer is sustained.  Leave to amend is granted if Plaintiff can
plead the exact amount he paid Defendants.
 

Unfair Business Practices

Defendants demur to this cause of action on the grounds that (a) it
rises and falls with the other causes of action, and (b) Plaintiff has not pled
damages.  
 
The demurrer on both grounds is overruled.  Plaintiff has pled a viable cause of action
for fraud, which can form the basis of the claim for unfair business
practices.  Notably, running an unlicensed
business would be the definition of an unfair business practice.  Additionally, Plaintiff has pled that he paid
Defendants more than $70,000 to restore his automobiles, which they failed to do.  This is sufficient to constitute damages.  
 
3.    
Motion to Strike
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages.  Because the
claim for fraud is well-pled, the motion to strike is denied.  See Civil Code §3294, which permits
imposition of punitive damages in cases involving malice, oppression, or
fraud.  
 
4.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth
cause of action for conversion is sustained with leave to amend.  The demurrer is otherwise overruled.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a Second Amended
Complaint within twenty days.  Defendants
are ordered to file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  If Defendants intend to challenge the SAC,
the parties must meet and confer in good faith before Defendants file the
pleading challenge.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 
DATED:  March 5, 2024                         _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 
 
 
 