 Case Number:  23LBCV01745    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



JENISE CHAPPELL,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
CITY OF LONG BEACH, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23LBCV01745
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER
  AND MOTION TO STRIKE DIRECTED AT COMPLAINT
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
March 5, 2024



 
Moving Party:               Defendant, Los Alamitos Medical Center, Inc. 
Opposing Party:           No opposition filed
Notice:                         OK
 
1.    
Complaint
Plaintiff, Jenise Chappell filed this action against Defendants, City of
Long Beach, LBPD, LBFD, Police Officer Kim, Del Amo Hospital, Inc., Dr.
Gessesse, Dr. Jack Freinhar, and Los Alamitos Medical Center for civil rights
related claims and medical malpractice related claims.  The crux of Plaintiff’s complaint is that she
is a medical doctor who experienced a disturbance in her home.  When she reported the disturbance to law
enforcement personnel, they did not believe that she was a medical doctor and placed
her on a 5150 hold.  She alleges the
medical defendants falsified medical records and provided improper
treatment.  
 
2.    
Demurrer

Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares she attempted to meet and confer with
Plaintiff’s attorney, who indicated an amended complaint would be filed.  After the parties met and conferred further,
Plaintiff’s attorney indicated an amended complaint would be filed AFTER
Defendant filed a demurrer, but not before. 
  
 

Analysis

Defendant demurs to the UNRUH, gross negligence, general negligence,
false imprisonment, medical malpractice, and IIED causes of action pled against
it.  
 
Pursuant to CCP §472, Plaintiff was permitted, as a matter of course,
to amend her pleading without leave of court at any time up to the date the opposition
to the demurrer was due.  Pursuant to
§1005(b), opposition to the demurrer was due nine court days prior to the hearing,
which fell on 2/21/24.  To date, the Court
has received neither opposition to the demurrer nor an amended complaint.  
 
Because Plaintiff indicated, during meet and confer, that she intended
to amend her complaint, the Court is inclined to sustain the demurrer with
leave to amend.  Plaintiff is admonished,
however, that:
(a)  
The
purpose of the meet and confer requirement is to resolve pleading issues without
the need for law and motion practice.  If
Plaintiff concedes there is a defect in her pleading, she should agree to amend
without requiring Defendant to file its demurrer first.  The Code was enacted to conserve resources,
both judicial resources and also party resources.  Plaintiff’s acts in this case were not in
keeping with that policy.
(b)  
Additionally,
Plaintiff is admonished that the timeline for opposing a demurrer or filing an
amended complaint is statutory and not optional.  If, in the future, in connection with this or
another case, Plaintiff’s attorney fails to respond to a scheduled demurrer, it
may result in the Court sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend and
dismissing the case.  
 
The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.  The companion motion to strike is moot in
light of the ruling sustaining the demurrer. 
Plaintiff must file an amended complaint within twenty days.  Defendant must file a responsive pleading within
the statutory time thereafter.  If Defendant
intends to challenge the amended pleading, the parties, including Plaintiff,
must meet and confer in good faith in an attempt to resolve issues without requiring
Defendant to file another demurrer.  If Defendant
does ultimately have to file a pleading challenge, Plaintiff must timely oppose
the demurrer on substantive grounds if she wishes to avoid dismissal of her pleading.  
 
3.    
Final Note
Del Amo Hospital has a demurrer and motion to strike scheduled for hearing
on 4/25/24.  The demurrer will be
rendered moot if Plaintiff files a timely amended complaint.  The Court orders Plaintiff to meaningfully
participate in meet and confer conversations with Del Amo as well, and to make
any necessary amendments to the pleading against it in her amended complaint.  If Del Amo challenges the amended complaint,
the Court’s meet and confer and opposition admonishments apply equally to
Plaintiff’s response to Del Amo’s pleading challenge.  
 
Demurring Defendant is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   
 
DATED:  March 5, 2024                         _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 