 Case Number:  23LBCV00523    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Claudia Lankford, individually and as successor-in-interest
to Valentina Timascu, filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Memorial
Medical Center, Steven J. Appleby, M.D., and Maurice A. Bell, M.D., as well as
Sorin Musat as a nominal defendant, for medical malpractice and wrongful death
arising out of Defendants’ care and treatment of Decedent, Timascu.  
 
2.    
Prior
Hearing on 
The Court was originally scheduled to hear this motion on 1/23/24.  Prior to the hearing, the Court issued a
tentative ruling granting the summary judgment motion.  The Court noted that Plaintiff’s expert
declaration was subject to objection.  Because
Defendant met its moving burden to show it was entitled to judgment as a matter
of law, absent an admissible opposing expert declaration, summary judgment was
appropriate.  At the hearing, Plaintiff
sought a continuance to amend the expert declaration.  The Court granted the request, and the motion
is now rescheduled for hearing on today’s date.
 
3.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Law
Governing Standard of Care
The standard of care against which
the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  Elcome v. Chin
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.  Unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common
knowledge of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only
be proved by an expert’s testimony.  Id.  If the “common knowledge” exception does not
apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is conclusive and cannot
be disregarded.  Id.  
 
A medical practitioner is not
necessarily negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method
of treatment or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted
method would have been a better choice. 
CACI 506.  Likewise, a medical
practitioner is not necessarily negligent just because his efforts are
unsuccessful or he makes an error that was reasonable under the circumstances.  CACI 505.
 
Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is
within the common knowledge of laypersons. 
See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App4th 836, 844. “‘When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’“ (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
 
b.    
Law
Governing Causation
In order to establish that
defendant's negligence was a “substantial factor” in causing injury or death,
the plaintiff must prove the negligence was of itself sufficient to bring about
that harm.  “The law is well settled that
in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable
medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.  Mere possibility alone is insufficient to establish
a prima facie case.  [Citations.]  That there is a distinction between a
reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical 'possibility' needs little
discussion.  There can be many possible
‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of circumstances which can produce an
injury or disease. A possible cause only becomes ‘probable’ when, in the
absence of other reasonable causal explanations, it becomes more likely than
not that the injury was a result of its action. 
This is the outer limit of inference upon which an issue may be
submitted to the jury.” Bromme v. Pavitt (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498; citing
Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402 403.
 
c.    
Evidentiary
Objections
Defendant, with its reply papers,
filed objections to amended evidence submitted with the amended opposition papers.  The ruling on the motion turns on a ruling on
these objections, so they will be discussed at length.  The objections fall into three categories:
·        
Dr. Brown’s lack of qualification to opine re:
standard of care or causation;
·        
Failure to authenticate records;
·        
Failure to provide more than conclusions
concerning standard of care or causation.
 
The primary objection is on the ground
that Dr. Brown is not qualified to opine concerning standard of care or
causation.  The Court previously
continued the hearing on the motion because Dr. Brown failed to discuss his
expert credentials or include his CV with his declaration.  Dr. Brown declares he graduated from Georgetown
University’s Medical Center with his MD in 2007.  He declares he has consulted as an expert on
approximately 30 legal matters and testified as an expert in 8 trials, and has
been a faculty mentor at SEAK since 2016. 
He declares his CV is attached as Exhibit A to his declaration.  
 
Dr. Brown’s CV indicates he is a “skilled
clinical researcher with 15 years of experience in the healthcare industry at the
intersection of clinical care delivery & clinical documentation.”  It states he has been retained as an EMR/EHR expert
in litigation; these terms are not defined in the CV. The remainder of his CV
makes it clear that he largely works for hospitals and medical groups
determining whether their care is medically necessary in order to ensure insurance
coverage will be provided.  
 
As Defendant correctly notes in
reply, Dr. Brown does not declare that he is a licensed medical doctor or that
he is familiar with the standard of care applicable to nurses or non-physician
staff.  See Keene v. Prisinzano (1972) 23
Cal.App.3d 275, 279.  The objection on the
ground that Dr. Brown failed to establish he is qualified to testify concerning
standard of care or causation is therefore sustained.
 
Additionally, the Court notes that
Dr. Brown sets forth all of the facts of the case, and then concludes, “For the
reasons stated above, it is my opinion that the moving party’s medical care was
below the community standard and did not meet the decedent’s needs and
therefore, constituted medical negligence, and arguably constitute malpractice.
More likely than not their actions (or inactions) hastened and contributed to
Valentina Timascu’s unfortunate death.”  
 
This is a very vague
conclusion.  The acts “arguably constitute
malpractice”?  They “more likely than not”
hastened death?  An expert opposing a
summary judgment motion must opine that, “to a reasonable medical probability,”
the defendant’s acts caused the damages. 
See Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763,
775-776.  More likely than not is not the
same as to a reasonable medical probability. 
These objections on the ground that Dr. Brown failed to adequately opine
concerning standard of care and/or causation are therefore also sustained.
 
The Court declines to rule on the remaining
objections, as doing so is not necessary to a resolution of the merits of the
motion.  CCP §437c(q).   
 
d.    
Opposing
Burden
The Court previously found
Defendant met its moving burden to show it is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  Dr. Brown’s declaration remains
deficient in numerous respects, and the objections to the amended declaration
are sustained, as discussed fully above. 
Because expert testimony is necessary to defeat a summary judgment motion
in the medical malpractice context, and because Plaintiff’s expert declaration
is objectionable and therefore not admissible, Plaintiff has failed to raise a
triable issue of material fact.  The summary
judgment motion is granted.  
 
e.    
Notice
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.