 Case Number:  23CHCV01112    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  F51 
APRIL 11,
2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV01112

 
Motion filed: 10/31/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Nissan North America, Inc.
(“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Jose Sandoval Hernandez
(“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK  
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order: (1) compelling Plaintiff
to submit his claims to arbitration; and (2) staying this action pending the
outcome of the arbitration.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE: Defendant’s request for
judicial notice is granted as to Exhibits 1 and 2, and denied as to Exhibit 3.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff brings this action under
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle he purchased on an
unspecified date, for which Defendant issued the manufacturer’s express
warranty. (Compl. ¶¶
6–7.) Plaintiff alleges that “the vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with
serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed other serious
defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to, various
engine, transmission, and electrical defects.” (Id. at ¶ 8.)
 
On 4/17/23, Plaintiff filed his
complaint, alleging against Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Violation
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; and (2) Violation of the Federal
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. On 5/22/23, Defendant filed its answer.
 
On 10/31/23, Defendant filed the
instant motion to compel arbitration and request for judicial notice. On 3/29/24,
Plaintiff filed his opposition. On 4/4/24, Defendant filed its reply.
//
//
//
//
ANALYSIS
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration
Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)
 
The party moving to compel
arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement
between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually done by
presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to
compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) 
 
The moving party must also
establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2.) The filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a
controversy clearly within the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively
establishes the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Hyundai
Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)
 
Here, the issue presented is
whether Defendant, as the nonsignatory manufacturer of the subject vehicle, may
invoke the arbitration provision in a contract of sale entered into between
Plaintiff and the selling dealership, a nonparty to the instant action.
 
A.   
Retail Installment Sales Contract
 
Here, the parties do not dispute
the existence of a written agreement containing an arbitration provision. The
subject contract of sale (the “RISC”) itself, a copy of which Defendant has
attached to its moving papers, provides the terms for the financing of the vehicle
purchase, and includes an arbitration clause at the end of the agreement.
 
1.     
Admissibility
 
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff objects
to the copy of the RISC proffered by Defendant as inadmissible on the following
grounds: lack of personal knowledge and authentication. (Pl.’s Evid. Obj. No.
2.) However, as Defendant argues in reply, the California Rules of Court
require only that the arbitration provision of a purported agreement “be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) “For
this step, it is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document
authentication ... If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and
the opposing party does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement,
then nothing more is required for the moving party to meet its burden of
persuasion.” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
158, 165 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
Here, the Court finds it sufficient
that Defendant has attached a copy of the purported RISC to its moving papers,
of which Plaintiff does not dispute the existence nor validity. Accordingly,
the Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections, and finds
that Defendant has met its initial prima facie burden to show that a valid
agreement to arbitrate exists.
 
2.     
Scope of Agreement
 
The arbitration provision in the
RISC provides, in relevant part: “Any claim or dispute, whether in contract,
tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this
Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between
you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out
of or relates to your … purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or
any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign the contract) shall, at your or our
election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.” (Ex. 4 to Decl. of Naoki Kaneko, p. 5 [emphasis added].)
 
Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff’s
claims are … within the class of arbitrable claims under the plain language of
the Arbitration Provision.” (Def.’s Mot. 7:1–2.) The Court agrees, noting that
here, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “defects and nonconformities to
warranty manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period”
which “substantially impair the use, value and/or safety of the vehicle.”
(Compl. ¶ 14.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Defendant has met its initial burden to establish the existence of a
written agreement that would provide for the arbitration of Plaintiff’s asserted
claims. However, in order to invoke the arbitration agreement, Defendant must
also establish a basis allowing it to enforce the agreement as a nonsignatory
to the RISC.
 
B.    
Nonsignatory Standing
 
Here, the agreement is executed solely
between Plaintiff and nonparty Nissan of Mission Hills. The right to
arbitration may generally only be invoked by parties to the purported arbitration
agreement. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) Here, Defendant argues that it may
nevertheless enforce the arbitration agreement of the RISC under the theory of equitable
estoppel.
 
The parties disagree on whether
this Court should rule in accordance with Felisilda v. FCA US LLC¿(2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, or the recently decided Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company (2023)
89 Cal.App.5th 1324, review granted Jul. 19, 2023, 532 P.3d 270.[1] Both Felisilda and Ochoa
discuss a nonsignatory vehicle manufacturer’s right to invoke the
arbitration provision of a sales contract entered into between a plaintiff
buyer and a nonparty dealership. 
 
In Felisilda, the Third
District Court of Appeal found that the plaintiffs’ agreement to the sales
contract constituted express consent to arbitrate their claims regarding the
vehicle’s condition, even against third parties, as the agreement unambiguously
included “an express extension of arbitration to claims involving third parties
that relate to the vehicle's condition.” (53 Cal.App.5th at 498.)
 
In Ochoa, the Second
District Court of Appeal declined to follow Felisilda, and instead found
that the nonsignatory manufacturer did not have the right to compel the
plaintiffs’ claims to arbitration under either theory of equitable estoppel or
third-party beneficiary standing.
 
Under the doctrine of stare
decisis, superior courts are bound by all published decisions of the Court of
Appeal, but where there is a split in authority, the superior court may choose
which appellate decision to follow. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.) Here, this Court elects to follow the
Second District Court of Appeal’s reasoning in Ochoa, for the reasons
set forth below.
 
1.     
Equitable Estoppel
 
The doctrine of equitable estoppel
allows for a nonsignatory party to compel arbitration “when the causes of
action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’
with the underlying contract obligations.” (Felisilda, 53
Cal.App.5th at 495–496; JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court¿(2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237; Goldman¿v. KPMG, LLP¿(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209,
217–218; Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co.¿(2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1061, 1070 [Under equitable estoppel, a party cannot avoid
participation in arbitration, where the party received “a¿direct¿benefit
under¿the contract containing an arbitration clause…”]; Boucher¿v. Alliance
Title Co, Inc.¿(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that it has
standing to enforce the arbitration provision in the RISC because “the Sales
Contract that memorialized Plaintiff’s purchase of his vehicle also gave rise
to the manufacturer’s warranties on the vehicle.” (Def.’s Mot. 4:18–20.)
 
The Court notes that the
arbitration provision in the instant action is identical to that in Felisilda,
which includes a provision extending the scope of the agreement to claims
involving third parties. Ex. 4 to Kaneko Decl., p. 5.) Plaintiff, in
opposition, nevertheless seeks to distinguish Felisilda and the number
of cases enforcing an arbitration clause by a third party, instead characterizing
the instant sales contract as a mere financing agreement that is separate and
distinct from the manufacturer’s warranties. (Pl.’s Opp. 11:26–28.) Plaintiff
further argues that Defendant cannot invoke the arbitration provision of an
agreement that Plaintiff does not seek to enforce through the instant action. (Id.
at 1:2–4 “Mr. Sandoval Hernandez is not trying to enforce the sales
contract against defendant. Plaintiff’s claims also do not depend on the terms
of the contract in any way.”)
 
The Ochoa court, in
accordance with Plaintiff’s argument, found that equitable estoppel would apply
where plaintiffs had sued defendant based on a breach of the terms of the sale
contract; however, this was not the case in Ochoa. (89 Cal.App.5th at
1335.) The Ochoa court ultimately found that “manufacturer vehicle
warranties that accompany the sale of motor vehicles without regard to the
terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the dealer are independent
of the sale contract.” (Id. at 1334.)
 
The Ochoa court proceeded to
distinguish Felisilda by reading the “third party” language in the
arbitration provision “as a further delineation of the subject matter of
claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to arbitrate” rather than the parties’
consent to arbitrate claims with nonsignatories to the agreement. (Id. at
1334–1335 [emphasis in original].) Ultimately, the Ochoa court found
that the plaintiffs’ claims did not rely on the sales contracts with the
dealership, and therefore equitable estoppel did not apply. (Id. at 1336.)
 
Defendant urges the Court to use
its discretion to follow Felisilda instead of Ochoa, arguing that
the Ochoa court relied on cases which predate both the UCC and the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. (Def.’s Mot. 6:3–22.) However, the Ochoa
court directly addressed this argument, finding that the defendant manufacturer
cited to “no more recent authority establishing that manufacturer warranty
obligations are implied terms in a retailer's sale contract.” (89 Cal.App.5th
at 1336.)
 
This Court exercises its discretion
to follow the Court of Appeal’s holding in Ochoa, particularly where
here, as in Ochoa, “the sale contracts include no warranty, nor any
assurance regarding the quality of the vehicle sold, nor any promise of repairs
or other remedies in the event problems arise,” and Plaintiff does not
otherwise allege any violation of the RISC’s express terms. (Id. at 1335.)
The Court further notes that Courts of Appeal have consistently ruled in accord
with the Ochoa holding as to this issue. (See Montemayor v. Ford
Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, review granted Sept. 20, 2023, 535
P.3d 1; Kielar v. Superior Court of Placer County (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th
614, review granted Oct. 25, 2023, 536 P.3d 1214; Yeh v. Superior Court of
Contra Costa County (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 264, review granted Nov.  15, 2023, 537 P.3d 1151.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant concern the express
manufacturer warranty issued by Defendant, which is independent of and not
“intimately founded in and intertwined with” the RISC. Accordingly, equitable
estoppel does not apply to allow Defendant to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied.
 
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
 
Notice may be given either by email at CHAdeptF51@LACourt.org or by
telephone at (818) 407-2233.


