 Case Number:  21STCV44536    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JADE CARRASCO, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  POSITIVE INVESTMENTS, INC., ET AL.,¿  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV44536  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 3, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Jade Carrasco, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem Jesse Ronald Carrasco, (“Plaintiff Carrasco”) moves to compel defendants Becky Radgowski, Joseph Radgowski, and Mark Radgowski (collectively, “the Radgowskis”) to appear for their depositions.  The Radgowskis are defendants in pro per. As of April 22, 2024, no opposition has been filed.  II. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION The Court is unable to proceed on the merits of this motion due to a procedural deficiency. Plaintiff Carrasco’s counsel declares that he made telephonic attempts regarding the Radgowskis’ availabilities to schedule the deposition, and after no dates were provided, Plaintiff Carrasco unilaterally set the deposition of Becky Radgowski and Joseph Radgowski for January 11, 2024, and Mark Radgowski for January 12, 2024. After no appearances by or for the Radgowskis, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a “fourth attempt” letter on January 16, 2024 requesting that the deposition be conducted within the next 35 days.  A motion to compel deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).) Here, Plaintiff’s counsel’s letter to the Radgowskis makes no reference to the January 11 and 12 nonappearances. (Mot. Exh. 4.) Instead, the letter is identical to the prior letters Plaintiff’s counsel mailed, which requests generally that all the pro per defendants contact Plaintiff’s counsel to provide availability dates. The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to submit a meet and confer declaration to inquire about the nonappearances within the express meaning of CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).   III. CONCLUSION The motion is therefore denied. The denial is without prejudice as to Plaintiff Carrasco re-filing the motion with the required meet and confer declaration.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 2nd day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   