Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV03053
Plaintiff's Name: Douglas Gonzalez
Defendant's Name: Roger Trucking, et al.
People-Names: Douglas Gonzalez, Robert Nunez Urbina, Martin Ferlito
Company-Names: Knight Transportation, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles
Dates: January 25, 2022, July 6, 2023, July 7, 2023, October 6, 2023, December 6, 2023
Events: Motor vehicle collision, Motion to Compel, Hearing, Sanctions
Money: Monetary sanctions
Intentions: Seek terminating sanctions, seek monetary sanctions
Facts: Plaintiff did not provide responses to discovery requests, disobeyed a Court Order, has failed to file an opposition to the motion
Disputes: Failure to comply with discovery obligations, willful disobedience of Court Orders
Acts: Filing of motion, service of notice, failure to provide responses to discovery requests
Agreements: Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court
Laws: California Civil Procedure Code, California Evidence Code
Case Citations: Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994), Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978), Lang v. Hochman (2000), Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011), Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966), Fred Howland Co. v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1966), Cornwall v. Santa Monica Dairy Co. (1977), Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005), Midwife v. Bernal (1988)
Statutes: California Civil Procedure Code, California Evidence Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Moving Party, Responding Party
Significant Statements:
* "Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's orders." (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978))
* "A court may impose terminating sanctions by striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering default judgment." (California Civil Procedure Code, ยง 2023.030, subd. (d))
* "A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005))
```

And here is the English text summarizing the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has granted the motion for terminating sanctions filed by the defendant, Knight Transportation, Inc. The plaintiff, Douglas Gonzalez, failed to provide responses to the defendant's discovery requests, disobeyed a court order compelling him to provide responses, and failed to file an opposition to the motion. The judge finds that the plaintiff's failure to comply with discovery obligations was willful and that lesser sanctions would not curb the abuse. As a result, the plaintiff's complaint against the defendant is dismissed with prejudice. The judge has also denied the request for monetary sanctions.