  Case Number:  19STCV18752    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 6, 2023                            TRIAL DATE:  January
17, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         California Joint
Powers Insurance Authority v. Soto Provision, Inc., et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV18752
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF RAMIN
GHANEEIAN
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA OF PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE AT
ROCKPOINT FUNDING LLC 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Soto Provision and Salvador Gabriel 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Monica
Ruiz Herrera  
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This action[1]
for personal injury damages and workers compensation subrogation arises from a
July 21, 2017 multiple vehicle rear-end collision.  Monica Ruiz Herrera
(“Herrera”) was driving on the freeway in the course and scope of her
employment with California Joint Powers Insurance Authority (“CJPIA”), when
Salvador Gabriel (“Gabriel”) collided his tractor trailer with a vehicle driven
by Delma Barragan-Garcia, who then rear-ended Herrera’s vehicle. Gabriel was
operating his vehicle in the course of his employment with Soto Provision, Inc.
(“Soto Provision”) at the time of the collision. 
 
            On July 1,
2019, Ms. Herrera filed a Complaint against Soto Provision and Gabriel.  This is the only remaining case in the
consolidated action.
 
            On June 8,
2023, Soto Provision and Gabriel (hereafter, “Defendants”) filed these motions
to compel nonparty Ramin Ghaneeian to personally appear for deposition and to
compel Rockpoint Funding, LLC to produce a person most knowledgeable for
deposition.  Rockpoint Funding, LLC is a
legal funding company offering medical liens, case costs, and client funding to
law firms.  Ghaneeian is the owner and
founder of Rockpoint Funding, LLC.
 
            Ms. Herrera
filed oppositions and Defendants filed replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
            Any
party may obtain discovery by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  A deposition subpoena may
command the attendance and the testimony of a nonparty deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)  If a nonparty deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2024.480, 2025.480.)   
 
            If
the nonparty deponent is a natural person, any person may serve the subpoena by
personal delivery of a copy of it to that person.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (b)(1).)  Personal service of any deposition subpoena is
effective to require the personal attendance and testimony of the nonparty
deponent, if the subpoena so specifies.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220,
subd. (c)(1).)   
 
            “A
written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to
a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing
from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent
unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic
service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition
record.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants’
motions are procedurally defective.  “A written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel
production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on the deposition record.”¿(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1346.)  Here, the proofs of service attached to the motions show Ramin
Ghaneeian’s and Rockpoint Funding, LLC’s counsel, Farooq Mir was electronically
served with these motions.  Ramin
Ghaneeian and Rockpoint Funding, LLC are not parties to this litigation.  As such, absent evidence that Ghaneeian and
Rockpoint Funding, LLC agreed to accept service by mail or electronic service,
Defendants are required to personally serve these motions per Rule 3.1346.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Accordingly, the hearing for these motions are CONTINUED to November
2, 2023 at 1:30 PM in Department 27 of Spring Street Courthouse to allow Defendants
to personally serve nonparties Ramin Ghaneeian and Rockpooint Funding, LLC with
the respective motions to compel.  Defendants
are to file proof of service no later than 5 court days before the hearing.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 6, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


