 Case Number:  19STCV33744    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
6, 2023                     TRIAL DATE: 
November 21, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Vahe Leon Andonian v. City of Glendale, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV33744
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendants
City of Glendale
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On September 11, 2023, Defendant, City of Glendale, filed this
motion to continue the trial date and to set all related discovery and motion cut-off
dates to the new trial date.  This is the
third request for a trial continuance.
 
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD FOR MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as
soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subdivision (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of
justice are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant argues
good cause exists to continue the trial date because essential discovery has
yet to completed.  Specifically, Defendant
has been unable to take Plaintiff’s deposition despite diligent efforts.  Defendant has properly noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition on three occasions yet Plaintiff refuses to appear.   For this
reason, Defendants request a trial continuance and all related dates to April 23,
2024.
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds good cause exists to continue the trial date and
all related dates.  As no party has
opposed this motion, the Court also finds no prejudice will result from
granting this motion.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  The Final Status Conference scheduled for November
7, 2023 is CONTINUED to April 9, 2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 27 of Spring
Street Courthouse.  The Non-Jury Trial scheduled
for November 21, 2023 is CONTINUED to April 23, 2024 at 8:30 AM in Department
27 of Spring Street Courthouse.  All
discovery cut-off dates, all pretrial deadlines including discovery, expert,
and motion cut-off dates are set to the new trial date of April 23, 2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   October 6, 2023                                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 