 Case Number:  21STCV39938    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
6, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  November 6, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Stacy Fields v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV21291
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ANSWERS TO DEPOSITION 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL SECOND INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Stacy
Fields
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            
            On October 29, 2021, Plaintiff, Stacy Fields, filed a form complaint
against defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“LACMTA”) for injuries Plaintiff sustained on an LACMTA bus.  Plaintiff alleges that, on December 25, 2020,
as he boarded the bus, the bus operator closed the bus doors on him.  Plaintiff alleges he sustained injuries to
his back and suffers headaches.
            
            Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Answers to Deposition Questions
            
            On
June 10, 2023, LACMTA deposed Plaintiff. 
At the deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel instructed Plaintiff not to
answer certain questions.  
            
            On
August 28, 2023, LACMTA filed this motion to compel  Plaintiff’s answers to the questions he was instructed not to
answer at deposition.  LACMTA seeks
sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel. 

 
            Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Second Independent Medical Examination
 
            On
February 15, 2023, Plaintiff was examined by LACMTA’s expert, Dr. Thomas J.
Grogan.  Dr. Grogan, an orthopedic
surgeon, did not examine Plaintiff for neurological symptoms.  Thereafter, LACMTA attempted to meet and
confer with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding a second Independent Medical
Examination (IME).  LACMTA seeks to learn
the extent of Plaintiff’s neurological injuries.  Plaintiff refused to stipulate a second IME.
 
            On
August 28, 2023, LACMTA filed this motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to second IME.  LACMTA does not seek sanctions.  Plaintiff opposes and LACMTA replies.  
 
II.        LEGAL PRINCIPLES
 
            a. Compel
Answers to Deposition Questions
 
            If a deponent fails to answer any questions or to produce
any document under his or her control, the noticing party may move for an order
compelling the answer or production.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(a).)  This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 20225.480, subd. (b).) 
A motion to compel answers at a deposition and/or to compel production of
documents at a deposition requires a separate statement, which is a separate
document that provides all the information necessary to understand each
discovery request and all the responses to it that are at issue.  The
separate statement must be full and complete so that no person is required to
review any other document in order to determine the full request and the full
response.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345.) 
            
            b. Compel
Physical Examination
 
            In
any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff where: (1) the
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive; and (2) the examination is conducted at a location
within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220, subd. (a).)  A defendant may make a demand for physical
examination without leave of the court after that defendant has been served or
has appeared (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (b)), and the physical
examination demanded shall be scheduled for a date at least 30 days after
service (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (d)).  
 
             If any party desires to
obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article
2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the
party shall obtain leave of court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)  The court shall grant a motion for a
physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good
cause shown.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320,
subd. (a).)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION
            
            a.  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Answers to
Deposition Questions
            
            LACMTA
filed a Status Report on September 25, 2023 indicating that counsel for the
parties agreed on the questions that will be asked of Plaintiff.  LACMTA later filed a Reply Brief indicating
that LACMTA is proceeding with this Motion because Plaintiff’s counsel had not
provided dates for Plaintiff’s deposition to take place nor responded to
LACMTA’s deposition notice.  LACMTA
noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for October 11, 2023 at 1:30 p.m.  LACMTA now requests the Court to compel
Plaintiff’s appearance at deposition on October 11, 2023, 1:30 p.m., so that
LACMTA may ask Plaintiff the questions that the parties had agreed upon.
 
            Given
the apparent agreement between the parties regarding the questions Plaintiff
will be asked at deposition (see Reply, Exhibit 1), and the lack of opposition
to this Motion, the Court finds LACMTA is entitled to an order compelling
Plaintiff’s appearance at deposition and to answer the agreed upon
questions.  
 
            The
remaining issue is whether to impose monetary sanctions.  Given that the parties agreed on the
questions to be asked of Plaintiff, the Court declines to impose sanctions
against Plaintiff or her counsel.  If,
however, at the hearing, Plaintiff proceeds to oppose this Motion, the Court
will consider LACMTA’s request.
 
            b.  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Second IME 

 
            LACMTA
seeks an order compelling Plaintiff’s neurological examination with Dr. Gabriel
E. Hunt, Jr. on October 20, 2023, at 9:00 p.m. 
LACMTA argues a second IME should be compelled because Plaintiff has placed
his neurological condition at-issue.  In
support, LACMTA points to Plaintiff’s discovery responses indicating Plaintiff
suffers headaches as a result of the incident, (Plaintiff’s Responses to Form
Interrogatory, Set One, No. 6.2, Special Interrogatory, Set One, No. 18, and
Special Interrogatory, Set Two, No. 32), and Plaintiff’s designation of retained
expert witness Dr. Jan Mathias Eckermann, a brain and spine surgeon who is
Board certified in neurological surgery.    
 
            The
Court finds good cause exists to compel Plaintiff’s attendance for a neurological
examination with Dr. Hunt, Jr.  By consistently
stating in his responses to LACMTA’s discovery that he suffers from headaches
as a result of the incident, Plaintiff has placed his neurological condition
at-issue.  Moreover, Plaintiff has
retained an expert in Dr. Eckermann that has a background in neurological
surgery.  Contrary to Plaintiff’s
contention, the foregoing shows LACMTA is entitled to a second IME to
counteract Plaintiff’s anticipated damages claims for neurological
injuries.  Absent an indication that
Plaintiff does not seek to recover damages for his neurological injuries,
Plaintiff must attend the neurological examination with Dr. Hunt, Jr.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff’s Answer to Deposition Questions is
granted.  Plaintiff Stacy Fields is
ordered to appear for deposition on October 11, 2023, at 1:30 p.m. via Zoom
conference. 
 
            The
request for sanctions is denied.
 
            The
Motion to Compel Medical Examination of Plaintiff is granted.  Plaintiff Stacy Fields is ordered to attend a
neurological examination with Dr. Gabriel E. Hunt, Jr. on October 20, 2023, 9:00
a.m., at 444 S. San Vicente Blvd, Ste. 800, Los Angeles, CA 90048.   
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 6, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 