 Case Number:  22STCV37815    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
6, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  June 3, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Anuja Rane v. Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV37815
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Anuja Rane
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Los
Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On December 5, 2022, Plaintiff, Anuja Rane, filed this
action against Defendant, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (“LACMTA”), for injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision
between Plaintiff and an LACMTA bus operated by Jon Paul Jimenez.  Plaintiff later amended the Complaint to name
Mr. Jimenez as a defendant.
 
On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed these motions to compel LACMTA’s
further  responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request
for Admission, Set One.  Plaintiff seeks
monetary sanctions against LACMTA. 
 
LACMTA filed oppositions and requests sanctions against Plaintiff.
 Plaintiff filed replies.  
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES¿TO DISCOVERY
¿ 
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, 2031.310, and 2033.290, parties may move
for a further response to interrogatories, requests for production of documents,
and request for admissions where an answer to the requests are evasive or
incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.  A
motion to compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1).)  
 
            Notice of
the motions must be given within 45 days of service of the verified response,
otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further
response.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c); 2031.310, subd. (c),
2033.290, subd. (c).)  The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1);
2031.310, subd. (b)(2), 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).)  
 
            Finally,
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses
involving further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each
request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd.
(a)(3).) 
 
            Monetary
Sanctions 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)  
 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.    
 
            Sanctions
shall be awarded against any party, person or attorney who unsuccessfully makes
or opposes a motion to compel further responses, unless the Court finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h), 2033.290, subd. (d).)
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.  Procedural Requirements 
 
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any
specific later date to which the requesting party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the requesting party waives any right to compel further
response to the interrogatory, demand for inspection, or request for admission.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.290, subd. (c), 2033.290, subd.
(c).)¿ Here, Plaintiff filed these motions on September 14, 2023 consistent
with the parties written agreement. [1] (See
Oppositions, Declarations of Joshua Adelpour, Ex. B.)  Accordingly, the
motions are timely. 
 
Additionally, as is required by the Eighth Amended Standing
Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts for the County of Los
Angeles, Central District, Plaintiff has satisfied the IDC requirement prior to
the hearing for the motions.  (See
8/30/23 Notice of Informal Discovery Conference Outcome.)   
 
In sum, the procedural requirements have been met. 
 
B.  Analysis 
 
Plaintiff seeks further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 19, 20, 31, 39, 54, 55, 56, 57, 59, Request for
Production, Set One, Nos. 6, 16, 17, 39, 40, 48, and 51, and Request for
Admissions, Set One, Nos. 4, 5, 8, 11, 12, 24, 26, 29, 30, 31, 34, 35.  The
Court rules as follows.
 
            1. Special
Interrogatories  
 
Special Interrogatory Nos. 19, 54-59:  In response to
Special Interrogatory Nos. 19 and 54-59, LACMTA interposed meritless objections.  These interrogatories are relevant.  Thery are not vague nor ambiguous.  A code-compliant response can be given.  To the extent LACMTA objects based upon Mr.
Jimenez’s privacy, LACMTA fails to establish that Mr. Jimenez’s right to
privacy outweighs Plaintiff’s right to discovery.  Further, Plaintiff offered to enter a
protective order to minimize any privacy objection.
 
Undeterred, LACMTA argues a further response should not be
compelled because these discovery requests seek records related to negligent
hiring, training, and supervision of the bus driver.  Given that LACMTA has already admitted vicarious
liability, evidence of negligent hiring is barred.  (See Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 cal.4th
1147, 1158-61.)  However, as Plaintiff
points out, these requests are relevant to Mr. Jimenez’s alleged negligent
driving.  Simply because the discovery
requests bear upon claims Plaintiff cannot maintain against LACMTA does not
mean it bars their application to other viable claims.
 
In sum, the motion as to Special Interrogatory Nos. 19
and  54-59 is granted.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 20: LACMTA interposed objections in its initial response and
identified Plaintiff’s claim for damages in its supplemental response to No.
20.  The objections are meritless.  LACMTA’s supplemental response is also incomplete.
 LACMTA identified one non-privileged
document.  LACMTA must describe the
remaining document for which it is asserting a privilege in order for Plaintiff
to seek production and demand a privilege log to assess the basis of LACMA’s
assertion of privilege.  (Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 293 [“If an
interrogatory asks the responding party to identify a document, an adequate
response must include a description of the document.”].)  LACMTA’s responses are deficient.
 
The motion as to Special Interrogatory No. 20 is granted.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 31:  The interrogatory
states:  IDENTIFY all training materials
and/or classes YOU require YOUR employees who operate passenger buses (such as
the one involved in the INCIDENT) for YOU to complete. 
 
LACMTA objected to No. 31 as overbroad as to time and
scope.  Plaintiff represents being
agreeable to limiting the time and scope to the year before and the year after
the incident.  LACMTA also identified the
LACMTA Rulebook in a supplemental response. 
Plaintiff contends she cannot assess whether the supplemental response
is adequate because LACMTA has yet to produce the LACMTA Rulebook.  Plaintiff’s uncertainty does not compel a
further response.  LACMTA supplemental
response to No. 31 is code compliant.
 
The motion as to Special Interrogatory No. 31 is denied.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 39:  The interrogatory
states: If YOU had any oral COMMUNICATIONS relating to the INCIDENT with any
witness to the INCIDENT (including Plaintiff ANUJA RANE), state the date of
each COMMUNICATION.
 
LACMTA responded “not applicable.” Plaintiff contends this
is an evasive response because LACMTA’s responses to Form Interrogatories
indicate LACMTA’s employee spoke with bus passengers.  LACMTA represents that it made a clerical
error in its response to Form Interrogatory 12.3 which asks about written and
recorded statements.  LACMTA states it
will provide an amended response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.3.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court need not rule on Special
Interrogatory No. 39.  The motion to
compel is MOOT.  Plaintiff may renew
their request to compel a further response if LACMTA fails to amend its
response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.3.
 
            2. Requests
for Production
 
The Code of Civil Procedure contemplates three forms of
proper responses to a request for production: (1) a statement of compliance in
full or in part (CCP § 2031.220); (2) a statement of inability to comply
(CCP § 2031.230); and (3) a partial objection coupled with a statement of
compliance or representation of inability to comply (CCP § 2031.240).¿¿¿ 
 
A statement of compliance under section 2031.220 has two
parts:¿¿¿ 
 
(1) the responding party “shall state that the production,
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will
be allowed either in whole or in part,” and¿¿ 
 
(2) “that all documents or things in the demanded category
that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no
objection is being made will be included in the production.”¿ 
 
A representation of inability to comply under section
2031.230 has three parts:¿ the
statement must¿¿ 
 
(1) affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has
been made in an effort to comply, and¿¿ 
 
(2) the statement shall specify whether the inability to
comply is because “the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party.”¿¿¿ 
 
And, (3) The third part comes into play if the responding
party knows or believes someone else has possession of the documents:¿ if so,
“[t]he statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.”¿ 
 
Request for Production Nos. 6, 39, 40, 48, and 51:  Here, LACTMA
provided meritless objections to each Request for Production at-issue.   Nos.
6, 16, 17, 39, 40, 48, and 51 are not overbroad or vague.  Rather, they are sufficiently clear and
calculated to the discovery of relevant information.  Nor is Mr. Jimenez’s right to privacy in this
case sufficient to overcome Plaintiff’s need for the discovery. 
 
LACTMA also interposed an objection to No. 6 based on
attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine.  LACMTA states in its response to No. 6 that
Mr. Jimenez and Supervisor Mark Geller prepared confidential reports on the day
of the incident which were prepared with the intention they would be
transmitted to LACMTA’s counsel  However,
missing from LACMTA’s response is an indication the report was completed at counsel’s
direction and in anticipation of litigation. 
LACTMA’s response does not show the confidential reports are entitled to
protection under either privilege.
 
The motion as to Request for Production Nos. 6, 39, 40, 48 and
51 is granted.  
 
Request for Production Nos. 16 and 17: LACMTA represents it will provide a further response to
Nos.  16 
and 17 to indicate that it does not have such documents. 
 
Accordingly, the motion as to Request for Production Nos. 16
and 17 is moot.
 
            3. Request
for Admissions
 
Section 2033.220 provides as follows:  
 
(a) Each answer in a response to requests for admission
shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits.  
(b) Each answer shall: 
   (1) Admit so much of the matter involved in the
request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably
and clearly qualified by the responding party. 
   (2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the
request as is untrue. 
   (3) Specify so much of the matter involved in
the request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient
information or knowledge.  
(c) If a responding party gives lack of information or
knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a request for
admission, that party shall state in the answer that a reasonable inquiry
concerning the matter in the particular request has been made, and that the
information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to
admit the matter. 
 
Request for Admissions Nos. 4, 5, 8, 29, 31, 34, and 35:  LACMTA asserted
meritless objections to Nos. 4, 5, 8, 29, 31, 34, and 35.  The responses are a mixture of objections:
the information is privileged, the requests are premature, and the requests call
for a legal conclusion.  LACMTA’s
objections based upon privilege lack merit because these requests do not seek privileged
information, and, if so, LACMTA fails to identify the nature of the privilege
or how a response invades such a privilege.  Nor do the requests ask for the identification
of privileged documents or communications.  The requests are not premature because the
parties have engaged in discovery.  Indeed,
the relevant documents such as the reports created on the day of the incident
and the bus video are in LACMTA’s possession. 
Nor do these requests call for a legal conclusion.  LACMTA’s further responses are warranted. 
 
The motion as to Request for Admission Nos. 4, 5, 8, 29, 31,
34, and 35 is granted.
 
Request for Admission Nos. 11 and 12:  Nos. 11 and 12 are
related to liability and negligence.  LACMTA
provided supplemental responses that track section 2033.220, subdivision
(c).  As such, LACMTA contends it
provided a code compliant response.  But
it is not enough to repeat the words of the statute.  A reasonable inquiry includes investigation
of information known or readily obtainable. 
Plaintiff points to known and readily obtainable evidence that is
sufficient to allow LACMTA to admit or deny these requests such as the “bus
video” and the incident reports created on the day of the incident.  Further responses are warranted.
 
Accordingly, the motion as to Request for Admission Nos. 11
and 12 is granted.
 
Request for Admission Nos. 24 and 26: LACMTA objected to Nos. 24 and 26 as vague and
ambiguous.  The Court disagrees. Nos. 24
and 26 are sufficiently clear to allow LACMTA to respond.  As Plaintiff points out, the subject bus is
equipped with a camera that captured the moments leading up to and including
the collision.   A further response is
warranted.
 
The motion as to Request for Admission Nos. 24 and 26 is
granted.
 
Monetary Sanctions 
 
As the Court has granted the motions as to nearly all
at-issue discovery, sanctions are warranted. 
Sanctions are imposed against LACMTA in the amount of $2,600 which
represents 4 hours at Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motions
are granted except as to Special Interrogatory, Nos. 31 and 39, and Request for
Production Nos. 16 and 17.  LACMTA is
ordered to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests as
indicated herein.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is granted.  LACMTA
is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $2,600 to Plaintiff, by and
through her counsel.
 
            Further
discovery responses are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 30
days of the date of this order.
 
            LACMTA’s
request for sanctions is denied.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
            
Dated:   October 6, 2023                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


