 Case Number:  24STCV07239    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Monarch, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
24STCV07239




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Total Resources International, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 20, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party: Specially Appearing Defendant Total
Resources International, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Monarch, LLC
 
T/R:     SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS DENIED.
 
TOTAL TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition and reply.
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (CCP §
418.10(a)(1).)  “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
Specially Appearing Defendant Total
Resources International, Inc. moves to quash service of the summons and complaint
on the grounds that they were not properly served. The proof of service shows that
Total’s agent for service, George del Carmen Rivera, was served by substitute
service on Lito Capinia, a shipping manager for Total.
Total asserts that this was improper because Capinia is not in charge of the
office where Rivera works. Total represents that Capinia works in a different
building from Rivera and is not in charge of Rivera’s office. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Total’s secretary of state
documents do not distinguish between two different buildings and argues that substitute
service need only be made on someone “apparently” in charge. Capinia declares
that he told the process server that he was the shipping manager. This is
sufficient to show service was affected on someone “apparently” in charge.
 
Defendant’s motion to quash is DENIED.


 