 Case Number:  23STCV19784    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



TADIJA DUKIC
                           
         vs.
 
VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV18784 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 9, 2024
 



 
Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART. As such, the Court declines to award
sanctions at this time. 
 
            On
8/18/2023, Plaintiff Tadija Dukic (Plaintiff) filed suit against Volkswagen
Group of America (Defendant), alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
            On
1/24/2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses from Defendant
to his Requests for Production (RFPs)
 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiffs
argue that good cause exists to compel further responses to his RFP Nos. 1-31.  
 
After review
of the relevant discovery responses, the Court finds many of Plaintiff’s
requests to be overly broad in scope. For example, Plaintiff seeks all substantially
similar customer complaints for all other 2020 Volkswagen Passat vehicles.  However, the Court also finds certain
objections by Defendant to be unfounded. For example, Defendant argues that customer
complaints concerning other vehicles are irrelevant per se. In addition
to all requested materials related to Plaintiff’s car itself (which Defendant
has already agreed to produce):
 
1.     
Defendant shall produce the “Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its
authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of
purchase to present.
 
2.     
Defendant shall produce any internal
analysis or investigation regarding defects concerning the transmission defect
in vehicles for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.
 
3.     
 Defendant shall produce any customer
complaints relating to defects that are similar to the alleged defects claimed
by plaintiff in vehicles within California for the same year, make, and model
of the subject vehicle, for the period of purchase to present.
 
4.     
 Defendant shall produce all documents
evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for
repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period
of purchase to present.
 
5.     
 Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices
for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle. 
 
6.     
  All other requests for further
production are DENIED.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part, denied in part. As such, the
Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 