  Case Number:  21STCV36355    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  47 1Durham v. Aide Healthcare, No. 21STCV36355 – Tentative rulingsDefendant’s MIL #1 – seeking exclusion of evidence related to communications or damages beyond July 30, 2021 when Plaintiff terminated the interactive processTENTATIVE RULING: Denied.Through its motion, Defendant seeks a ruling as a matter of law that Plaintiff’s counsel Tim Pico’s July 30, 2021 letter constituted Plaintiff’s abandonment of the interactive process, but this is the same proposition rejected by the Court in its ruling on Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.In the summary judgment motion, Defendant argued it was entitled to a ruling in its favor on Plaintiff’s disability claims contending, inter alia, that it was Plaintiff who failed to participate in the requisite interactive process. The Court rejected Defendant’s contention first by ruling that the decision to put Plaintiff on an unpaid leave of absence on June 11, 2021 could be construed by the jury as both a refusal to provide reasonable accommodations and a termination of the interactive process. (Ruling on Matter Taken Under Submission, filed September 21, 2023 (9/21/23 Order), pp. 5-6.) If the jury were to reach this conclusion, the July 30, 2021 letter -- sent more than 1½ months after Defendant aborted the interactive process -- would have no impact at all on Defendant’s liability or Plaintiff’s damages.Pursuing an alternative approach, defense counsel urged the Court at the summary judgment hearing to examine the July 30th letter as evidence of Plaintiff’s withdrawal from the interactive process, but the Court dismissed the notion that it had to be read as an abandonment of the process as a matter of law, explaining:Defendant’s argument is grounded on cases interpreting lawyers’ letters seeking a severance package or disability retirement as the employee’s withdrawal from the interactive process. See, e.g., Norwood v. UPS, Inc., NO. 19-2496-DDC-JPO (D. Kan. July 16, 2021) 2021 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 132597 at *73.) In contrast, however, Mr. Pico’s letter did not mention, much less demand, any severance or retirement package but rather invited Defendant to “initiate a dialogue to explore whether resolution of this matter is desirable and possible before initiation of legal action” and “a good-faith effort to resolve this matter promptly, efficiently, and confidentially without litigation.” (Castille Decl, Exh. A, p. 1.) At the core of the “matter” Mr. Pico sought to resolve was Defendant’s failure to accommodate Plaintiff’s disability and the abrupt way Defendant terminated the dialogue – that is, the interactive process -- about possible accommodations that would have allowed Plaintiff to continue working. (Id., pp. 2-4.) The Court cannot find, as a matter of law, that Mr. Pico’s letter halted the interactive process and turned to a resolution that would have separated Plaintiff from her employment. Thus, the cases cited by Defendant are plainly distinguishable. What is more, even if Mr. Pico’s letter mirrored the attorney correspondence in the cited cases, it would not invalidate Plaintiff’s claims since there is ample evidence to create a triable issue of fact regarding whether Defendant aborted the interactive process before the letter by denying Plaintiff any accommodation that would have permitted her to continue working and failing to respond to her messages. (See 2 CCR § 11068(c).)(9/21/23 Order, p. 6.)2In summary, the Court has already ruled there are triable issues of fact as to whether Defendant jettisoned the interactive process on June 11 and, even if not, whether the July 30th letter should be read as Plaintiff’s termination of that process. To grant Defendant’s motion barring certain evidence based on its interpretation of the facts would reverse the Court’s prior ruling and effectively grant Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as if there were no triable issues for jury resolution. The Court refuses to do that.Defendant’s MIL #2 – seeking exclusion of evidence or argument suggesting that Plaintiff suffered emotional distress beyond the “usual” garden-variety distress associated with her employment claim, including evidence of Plaintiff’s suicidal ideation and any expert testimony about Plaintiff’s emotional distress.TENTATIVE RULING: Granted in Part or in the Alternative, Denied in Part, Depending on Plaintiff’s Election, and Otherwise Deferred.On November 22, 2022, Plaintiff served a verified response to Defendant’s Form Interrogatory No. 212.2, describing the “physical, mental, or emotional injury that you attribute to the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION” as including “Mental and emotional distress, specifically, worthlessness, helplessness, intense anxiety and stress, anger, sadness, rumination and mental suffering, humiliation, betrayal, inconvenience, feelings of loss of identity, alienation, lethargy, lack of motivation, fear, foreboding, etc. Plaintiff experiences one or more of these symptoms daily and they remain the same in intensity.” (Pico Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant took Plaintiff's deposition on March 13, 2023, when she testified to the suicidal thoughts she reported to her primary physician. (Id., Exh. A.)On August 9, 2023, counsel in the case conferred about the proper exchange date for expert designations with Plaintiff’s counsel asserted that September 4, 2023 was the proper exchange date for the October 24, 2023 trial. (Handman Decl., Exh. A.) In that context, defense counsel asked if Plaintiff Plaintiff’s attorney “would be willing to stipulate, consistent with CCP 2032.320(c) that Ms. Durham: (1) is making no claim for mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed; and (2) no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for damages. If so, I can prepare a stipulation to that effect and will forego an independent mental exam.” (Id.) After negotiating a change in the language, Plaintiff executed a stipulation providing:1. Ms. Durham agrees that she is not making any claims for mental and/or emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries she has claimed and the alleged misconduct of Defendant claimed in this lawsuit.2. Ms. Durham will not present at trial any expert testimony regarding this usualmental and emotional distress in support of her claim for damages.(Pico Decl., Exh. B.) There is no evidence that counsel discussed whether this stipulation would limit any of the emotional or psychological symptoms Plaintiff had already revealed during discovery, including her suicidal thoughts, but the question here is whether the language chosen does in fact accomplish that result.3In the Court’s view, the language of the stipulation can be read as narrowing the scope of admissible evidence. Suffering from suicidal thoughts, such as those testified to by Plaintiff in her March 2023 deposition, is not a symptom “usually associated” with the physical injuries Plaintiff claims or with “the alleged misconduct of Defendant claimed in this lawsuit.” As the California Supreme Court observed in Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal. 3d 833: “A simple sexual harassment claim asking compensation for having to endure an oppressive work environment or for wages lost following an unjust dismissal would not normally create a controversy regarding the plaintiff's mental state. To hold otherwise would mean that every person who brings such a suit implicitly asserts he or she is mentally unstable, obviously an untenable proposition.” (Id., at p. 840.)Further, the stipulation explicitly refers to and borrows from the language of Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.320, which sets the standard by which a plaintiff can avoid a mental examination. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320(a)-(c).) This statutory standard – parroted in the parties’ stipulation – characterizes Plaintiff’s emotional distress as that “usually associated” with physical injury which is often referred to as “garden variety” emotional distress. Based on the language of the stipulation then, it can be construed as an agreement to limit evidence to symptoms that were customarily suffered by terminated employees.Plaintiff protests this construction of the stipulation, insisting that it simply acknowledged important facts about Plaintiff’s lack of reliance on mental health professionals, i.e., she had not treated with a mental health professional and had no intention of calling a psychiatrist or psychologist to testify about any mental health diagnosis she may have developed. Plaintiff emphasizes that she did not intend to give up her right to present the truth of her emotional distress as candidly revealed during discovery. She also contends that the addition of language in the September 1, 2023 stipulation about emotional distress suffered because of “the alleged misconduct of Defendant claimed in this lawsuit” should be read as an acknowledgement of the testimony and discovery responses Plaintiff had already provided to describe her claimed injuries from that misconduct.In this context, where Plaintiff had provided clear testimony about suicidal thoughts that fall outside the scope of garden-variety emotional distress and the parties modified the statutory language to include text about mental injury arising from “alleged misconduct of Defendant claimed in this lawsuit,” it would be unfair to construe the stipulation as a waiver of Plaintiff’s ability to present the entire panoply of her emotional symptomatology. It seems clear from the post-stipulation deposition testimony of Plaintiff’s friends and physician and her strident opposition to Defendant’s motion in limine that Plaintiff did not intend the stipulation as a straitjacket on her ability to prove her emotional injuries. To grant the motion would be tantamount to finding Plaintiff waived her right to pursue damages for some of the injuries she suffered, but the record does not reflect an intentional relinquishment of a known right. (Hupp v. Solera Oak Valley Greens Association (2017) 12 Cal. App. 5th 1300, 1310 fn6 [setting forth legal definition of “waiver”].)On the other side of the coin, however, the Court is persuaded that Defendant decided to forego a mental examination based on Plaintiff’s willingness to sign a statutory stipulation. The Court credits Defendant’s perspective that the stipulation restricted the scope of emotional symptoms that would be admissible at trial and chose not to pursue a mental examination because of this limited scope of evidence. The record before the Court reveals no meeting of the minds, nor even any discussion, about how the stipulation would impact the scope of admissible evidence at trial, except that Plaintiff would offer no psychological expert testimony.4Given this situation, the Court issues the following order with respect to Defendant’s motion. The motion will be denied, but if Defendant seeks a defense mental examination, the Court will entertain a request to continue the trial to allow for such an examination. The Court finds there is good cause for a mental examination and, if pursued by Defendant, would direct the parties to meet and confer on the parameters and timing of the examination. If Plaintiff is willing to withhold her evidence of suicidal thoughts at trial or if Defendant does not seek a mental examination, the trial will proceed as scheduled. The Court defers any ruling on the question of what questions can be posed to Plaintiff’s personal physician pending the parties’ elections as between the options offered.Defendant’s MIL #3 – seeking exclusion of Plaintiff’s Expert Angel HoTENTATIVE RULING – Denied. Testimony from human resources experts may be helpful to the jury and admissible over Defendant’s objections, depending on its nature. (Kotla v. Regents of the University of California (2004) 115 Cal. App. 4th 283, 293-294, fn. 4-6.) On the other hand, it may be inadmissible where it usurps the authority of the Court to instruct on the law or invades the province of the jury to resolve factual disputes. (Id., at p. 293.) Without having the exact opinions being offered, however, the Court cannot formulate a ruling on admissibility. Accordingly, any decision to exclude evidence would be improper because neither party has submitted the explicit expert testimony sought to be excluded or allowed.