 Case Number:  23VECV05696    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  W ANA
MARIA SERNA CHAVEZ, ET AL. VS CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.
 
CITY OF LOS
ANGELES’ MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT  
 
Date
of Hearing:        July 12, 2024                                                  Trial Date:       N/A  
Department:
             W                                                                    Case No.:        23VECV05696
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant City of Los
Angeles
Responding
Party:     No opposition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December
26, 1023, Plaintiffs Ana Maria Serna Chavez and Estate of Noe Antonio Lopez
filed a complaint against Defendant City of Los Angeles and Alyazeed Moawya
Dobi. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Dobi collided with his vehicle into Decedent
Noe Antonio Lopez, a pedestrian. After the collision, Defendant Dobi and other
witnesses called for an ambulance. Plaintiff alleges LAPD and paramedics
assumed the duty of providing reasonable assistance to the injured party, and also
represented that they were investigating and looking for the injured party. Unfortunately,
no investigation was done, no report was made, and no search was conducted by
Defendant City of Los Angeles personnel. The following day, Decedent Noe
Antonio Lopez was found dead near the location of the subject incident.
Request for
entry of default against Defendants Alyazeed Moawya Dobi and the City of Los
Angeles was entered April 5, 2024. The court set aside the default against
Alyazeed Moawya Dobi on May 22, 2024. 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
City of Los Angeles’ Motion
to Set Aside Default is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles moves the court for an
order requesting that the default against the City be set aside on the grounds
of mistake and/or excusable negligence under Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b). 
 
Case law instructs that so long as counsel is willing
to fall on their sword, relief is mandatory. (See Abers v. Rohrs (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 1199, 1210.) “Section 473’s provision for mandatory relief from
a dismissal based upon a declaration of attorney error does not require a
determination the error was excusable. It applies even when the attorney has no
excuse.” (Ibid.) “Relief is mandatory when a complying affidavit is
filed, even if the attorney's neglect was inexcusable.” (SJP Limited
Partnership v. City of Los Angeles (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 511,
516-517.) 
 
Counsel for the City avers over the past several
years, the number of civil case filings against the City have skyrocketed and
the personnel on hand to address new filings have been stretched thin for years.
(Quinones Decl. ¶2.) Counsel contends though the Complaint was received on or
about February 20, 2024, the deadline to file an Answer was not properly calendared.
(Quinones Decl. ¶2.) Counsel was not assigned the matter until April 24, 2024
and by the time he received the matter, the deadline to file an answer already
passed. (Quinones Decl. ¶3.) The City attempted to file an answer but the
answer was rejected and default was entered. (Quinones Decl. ¶¶6, 7.) Plaintiff
has refused to voluntarily set aside the default. (Quinones Decl. ¶8.) 
 
The court finds relief mandatory. The motion has been
filed within six months after entry of default. Moreover, the deadline to file
an answer was missed due to a calendaring error at the City’s Counsel’s office.
Accordingly, Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) mandates that the default
be set aside. 
 
City of Los Angeles’ Motion
to Set Aside Default is GRANTED. The City is ordered to file an answer within 20
days. 
 
 