  Case Number:  19SMCV01709    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  O   Case  Name:  City National Bank v. Law  Offices of Jeremy Tenser Limited, et al.      Case No.:   19SMCV01709   Complaint Filed:   9-26-19                Hearing Date:   11-30-23    Discovery C/O:   N/A     Calendar No.:   8   Discovery Motion C/O:   N/A     POS:   OK    Trial Date:   None    SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES MOVING  PARTY:   Cross-Defendant Amy  Lerner-Hill RESP.  PARTY:         Cross-Claimant Law  Office of Jeremy Tenser Limited; Adam Jeremy Tenser   TENTATIVE  RULING             Cross-Defendant  Amy Lerner-Hill’s Motion for Attorney Fees is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant Amy  Lerner-Hill is the prevailing party pursuant to CCP 425.16 et seq. and awarded  fees of $84,881.63 against Cross-Claimant Adam Jeremy Tenser.                 A  “prevailing defendant” on a special motion to strike is “entitled to recover  that defendant’s attorney’s fees and costs.” (§ 425.16, subd. (c)(1).) The  purpose of this provision is to provide the SLAPP defendant financial relief  from the plaintiff’s meritless lawsuit. (Liu v. Moore (1999) 69  Cal.App.4th 745, 750 (Liu).) “[A]n award of fees may include not only  the fees incurred with respect to the underlying claim, but also the fees  incurred in enforcing the right to mandatory fees under Code of Civil Procedure  section 425.16. (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1141.)               Cross-Defendant  Amy Lerner-Hill’s (“Lerner-Hill”) is the prevailing party on the Anti-SLAPP  motion  (see the 5-23-23 Minute Order,  and thus is entitled to a mandatory award of reasonable attorney’s fees and  costs under CCP §425.16(c). The request for  attorney’s fees and costs was deferred to a separate motion, and Lerner-Hill  was dismissed from the case. (See 5-23-23 Minute Order.)               Cross-Claimant Adam Jeremy Tenser  (“Tenser”) argues Lerner-Hill only partially prevailed in the Anti-SLAPP motion,  and that the fees requested are not Lerner-Hill’s obligation to pay as the work  on Lerner-Hill’s motion overlapped between CNB and the other  Attorney-Cross-defendants. (Oppo., p. 5.) As stated above, and explained in the  5-23-23 Minute Order, Lerner-Hill’s Anti-SLAPP Motion was granted in full.  Tenser’s argument regarding Lerner-Hill  partially prevailing lacks merit.                Regarding fee allocation and  Tenser’s argument of overlapping fees between Co-Cross-Defendants, Lerner-Hill  argues “the fees should not be apportioned separately between Ms. Lerner-Hill  and the other Attorney-Cross Defendants because the same work was used to  defend both,” and the claims are “so factually interrelated that it would be  impossible to separate work done for Ms. Lerner-Hill from work done for the  other Attorney Cross-Defendants.”. (Motion, p. 10–11; Hsu Decl.,  ¶¶ 8, 11, Ex. B.) The Court agrees with  Lerner-Hill. “Allocation also generally is required when the same  lawyer represents one party that is entitled to recover its attorney fees and  another party that is not. As with allocation among causes of action,  allocation among jointly represented parties “is not required when the  liability of the parties is ‘so factually interrelated that it would have been  impossible to separate the activities ... into compensable and noncompensable  time units. ... [Citation.]’’ (Brown Bark III, L.P. v. Haver (2013)  219 Cal.App.4th 809, 830, emphasis added.)               Tenser  argues self-represented attorney fees are prohibited under Carpenter &  Zuckerman, LLP v. Cohen (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 373, 385–88. Tenser is  correct that self-represented attorneys are not entitled to attorney fees as  the prevailing party in an Anti-SLAPP motion, however Lerner-Hill was not  self-represented in her Anti-SLAPP motion, and thus this prohibition does not  apply.                Tenser  argues that Lerner-Hill should not recover attorney fees since CNB paid for the  fees. Tenser does not provide any authority to support this argument. To the  contrary, a litigant is not required to show they have paid the attorney’s fees  they have incurred. “Modern jurisprudence does not require a litigant seeking  an attorney fee award to have actually incurred the fees. ‘[I]n cases involving  a variety of statutory fee-shifting provisions, California courts have  routinely awarded fees to compensate for legal work performed on behalf of a  party pursuant to an attorney-client relationship, although the party did not  have a personal obligation to pay for such services out of his or her own  assets.’ [Citation.] Moran v. Oso Valley Greenbelt Assn.(2004) 117 Cal.  App. 4th 1029, 1036               Tenser  argues the fees are inflated and include work done for disinterested parties.  (Oppo, p. 6.)  “In challenging attorney fees as excessive because too many  hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the challenging party to point  to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient argument and citations to  the evidence. General arguments that fees claimed are excessive, duplicative,  or unrelated do not suffice. Failure to raise specific challenges in the trial  court forfeits the claim on appeal.”  Premier Medical Management  Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th  550, 564. Tenser does not meet his burden to point to the specific time spent  that he argues is excessive.     Determining the reasonableness of a  fee request ordinarily begins with the "lodestar," a touchstone  figure based on the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the  reasonable hourly rate.  PLCM Group, Inc., supra, 22 Cal.4th  at 1095 (lodestar "presumably reasonable" method for calculating  fees).  Under this approach, a base amount is calculated from a  compilation of time reasonably spent and reasonable hourly compensation of each  attorney.  The base amount is then adjusted in light of various factors.   Serrano v. Priest ('Serrano III') (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 48. Lerner-Hill  provides a full breakdown of hours spent along with detailed invoices within  with the Hsu Declaration. (See Hsu Decl., Exs. A, B.)  The declaration of  counsel, along with the attached invoices and fee breakdown spreadsheet is  sufficient given his breakdown of the time spent on the SLAPP motion and this  motion for fees. (See City of Colton v. Singletary (2012) 206  Cal.App.4th 751, 784–785 [trial court’s award of $11,300 in SLAPP fees was  sufficiently supported by counsel’s declaration, which broke down requested  fees by task and time spent; court could verify reasonableness of time spent  and worth of work by looking at the record, e.g. the points and authorities].)   Based on counsel’s declaration, a review of the underlying record and applying  the lodestar method, the Court finds the amount of fees requested is  reasonable.      Case  Name:  City National Bank v. Law  Offices of Jeremy Tenser Limited, et al.     Case No.:   19SMCV01709   Complaint Filed:   9-26-19                Hearing Date:   11-30-23    Discovery C/O:   N/A     Calendar No.:   8   Discovery Motion C/O:   N/A     POS:   OK    Trial Date:   None   SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDERMOVING  PARTY:   Cross-Claimant Law Office of  Jeremy Tenser Limited; Adam Jeremy TenserRESP.  PARTY:         Cross-Defendant City  National Bank, Kelly Coffey, Russell Goldsmith, and Robert Wartburg TENTATIVE  RULING            Cross-Claimant  Adam Jeremy Tenser’s Motion for Protective Order is DENIED.  Tenser's Request for Judicial Notice filed on 11-21-23 is DENIED as untimely.  Moreover, while the Court can take judicial notice of the existence of court records, the Court does not take judicial notice of the truth any facts stated therein. In his motion, Tenser requests a vague protective  order “to limit any further discovery.”  In  his revised proposed order (received 11-21-23) Tense request the Court order stating:   “Cross-Defendant are PROHIBITED  from the use and public disclosure of statements not logically connected to the  subject matter of this case, including Tenser’s association with People v.  Leibel. Cross-Defendant City National Bank is PROHIBITED from disclosing  Tenser’s social security number and account numbers, or other confidential  information prohibited from disclosure by the laws of the State of California.”  The motion appears to be moot regarding the claimed disclosure  of Tenser’s social security number or financial account numbers.  In this case, there is no evidence of any threatened disclosure  of  Tenser’s social security number or  financial account numbers in Defendant’s discovery responses or otherwise.  To the extent Tenser seeks to prohibit the Defendant’s  from responding to discovery requests in this case with unspecified statements regarding “Tenser’s  association with People v. Leibel” or unspecified  statements that Tenser believes are  “not logically connected to the subject matter  of this case”), the motion is DENIED.  Tenser  has failed to show including such unspecified statements statements in  discovery responses or otherwise violates any right of privacy of Tenser or otherwise  are confidential.     Case
Name:  City National Bank v. Law
Offices of Jeremy Tenser Limited, et al.  




Case No.:


19SMCV01709


Complaint Filed:


9-26-19           




Hearing Date:


11-30-23 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


8


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None




SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO STRIKE THE LAW OFFICE
OF JEREMY TENSER LIMITED’S ANSWER TO CITY NATIONAL BANK’S FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT

MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiff City National Bank

RESP.
PARTY:         Defendant Law Office of
Jeremy Tenser Limited; Adam Jeremy Tenser

 

ORAL TENTATIVE
RULING

             Plaintiff City National Bank’s Motion to Strike The Law Office of Jeremy Tenser Limited’s Answer to City National Bank’s
First Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to 
___________________ to give Defendant The Law Office of Jeremy Tenser a reasonable opportunity to seek a
revivor of the suspension of Defendant Law Office of Jeremy Tenser for
non-payment of taxes.  If Tenser refuses
to do so, the motion will be GRANTED.

             “The ‘corporate
powers, rights and privileges’ of any domestic corporate taxpayer may be suspended
for failure to pay certain taxes and penalties (Citation.).... Nor, during the
period of suspension, may the corporation prosecute or defend an action, seek a
writ of mandate, appeal from an adverse judgment, or renew a judgment obtained
before suspension. [Citation.]” Tabarrejo v. Superior Court (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 849, 862.  An appropriate
remedy when a corporation’s suspended status is brought to the Court’s
attention is to grant a brief continuance to enable the suspended corporation
to effect reinstatement to defend itself in court.  See, Cadle Co. v World Wide Hospitality
Furniture, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 504,513.  If the corporation fails to obtain reinstatement
within a reasonable time, the corporation’s answer may be stricken.  In addition, sanctions may be imposed on
counsel for continuing to litigate a case on behalf of a suspended corporation after
knowledge of the suspension. See e.g, Palm Valley Homeowners Ass'n, Inc. v.
Design MTC (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 553, 563 (The firm's actions on behalf of
its client served only to delay and avoid an otherwise inevitable default
judgment, in the absence of any acts by Design MTC to cure its suspended
status.)

 