  Case Number:  23STCV12319    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  40 
23STCV12319 Daniel
 E. Kelly v. Jonathan S. Kelly, et al. 
Thursday,
 November 21, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
 PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO FIRST AMENDED
 COMPLAINT TO ADD ALL PARTNERS AS DEFENDANTS IN THE DISSOLUTION CLAIMS 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER TAKING
OFF CALENDAR THE DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE FILED BY DEFENDANT, CITRIN
COOPERMAN & COMPANY, LLP.
 
I.      
BACKGROUND
      The
first amended complaint (“FAC”) filed on June 26, 2024, alleges that Defendant,
Jonathan S. Kelly, (“Jonathan”), breached a 2015 written contract that would
guarantee Plaintiff £10,000
every month in exchange for Plaintiff ceding management and control of two
parcels of real property located in London, England. The first two conversion
claims arise from the alleged forgery and transfer of Plaintiff’s 15 percent interest
in Kellytoy Worldwide, Inc. by Defendants, Jonathan Kelly, Adam Kelly, Maya
Kelly, and David Kelly (collectively, the “Joint Defendants”). 
      The third
count for conversion arises from the alleged wrongful transfer of Plaintiff’s 35
percent interest in Hamilton Towers, LP (“Hamilton Partnership”) to Jonathan’s
mother. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants engaged in a coverup of these forged
transfers with Defendant, Citrin Cooperman, alleged to be a licensed certified
public accountant, who filed tax returns on Plaintiff’s behalf without
Plaintiff’s knowledge.
      The
fourth conversion count arises from Jonathan’s alleged wrongful distribution of
funds from the sale of 28 Lancaster Gate in London without distributing
Plaintiff’s share of the sale proceeds. Plaintiff alleges 15 causes of action related
to these alleged events, including derivative claims for dissolution on behalf
of the Hamilton Partnership and 4811 S. Alameda Partnership (“Alameda
Partnership”).  
II.    
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
requests leave to add all partners as Defendants in the 12th and 13th
causes of action for involuntary dissolution and for an appointment of a
receiver. The partners are indispensable parties in the dissolution claims. There
is no prejudice to defendants who asserted in their respective answers that
Plaintiff failed to join necessary and indispensable parties as a second
affirmative defense. 
      In
opposition, Defendants argue that they have spent considerable time and effort
preparing their respective motions including a motion to compel arbitration and
a motion to stay the dissolution claims set for hearing on December 12, 2024.
Defendants contend they have a right to be heard. Defendants argue it makes no
sense for Plaintiff to amend the complaint again if the litigation will be
stayed pursuant to Defendants’ pending motions. The arbitrator can determine
who are the proper parties in this case. Alternatively, Defendants ask that the
court continue this hearing until after Defendants’ motions are heard on
December 12, 2024.
      In
reply, Plaintiff argues Defendants have not shown prejudice given their second
affirmative defense asserting failure to join indispensable parties.
Defendants’ motions to compel arbitration and stay the action set for December
12, 2024, will not render this motion moot. The arbitration motion has nothing
to do with the dissolution claims. The court cannot order a buyout without all
necessary partners included in the action. 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
      Leave
to amend is permitted at the court’s discretion upon any terms that may be
just. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473 subd. (a)(1).) The statute is liberally construed to permit amendment
of the pleadings “unless an attempt is made to present an entirely different
set of facts by way of the amendment.” (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 760.) 
      If the
motion is timely made, and the granting of the motion will not result in
prejudice to the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend. (Morgan
v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Where denial of the motion will result in a party
being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action, “it is not
only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Id.) Amendments are permitted
up to the date of trial or during trial where no prejudice is shown to the
adverse party. (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) 
IV.  
DISCUSSION
      For
purposes of clarity, the court construes Plaintiff’s motion as a motion for
leave to file a second amended complaint. 
       The joinder of a party is compulsory where
complete relief cannot be accorded without that party or that party claims an
interest relating to the subject matter such that disposition in his absence
will impede that party’s ability to protect that interest. Under these
circumstances, the court must order joinder of that party. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 389.)
      In any
suit for judicial dissolution of a limited partnership, “the other partners may
avoid the dissolution of the limited partnership by purchasing for cash the
partnership interests owned by the partners so initiating the proceeding … .” (Corp.
Code, § 15908.02.) Accordingly, the partners Plaintiff seeks to join have
an interest in this litigation and are indispensable parties. (Kraus
v. Willow Park Public Golf Course (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 354, 369 ["Normally,
in a suit to dissolve and wind up the affairs of a partnership, all of the
partners are considered indispensable parties to the litigation.”].)
      Defendants
have not shown any substantial prejudice to their rights resulting from the
amendment except for the time and resources they have spent to prepare their
respective motions. The policy permitting amendments is liberally construed at
any stage of the proceeding so as to dispose of cases upon their substantial
merits where the authorization does not prejudice the substantial rights of
others.’" (Board
of Trustees v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1163.) Permitting
leave to amend will bring all necessary parties before the court and will promote
judicial efficiency with respect to later motions that may potentially affect
the new parties. This is especially true of the Alameda Partnership, who seeks
a stay of the dissolution and proposes a buyout of Plaintiff’s interest. The
proposed buyout affects all of the partners in the partnership and cannot be fairly
considered without them.
 
V.    
CONCLUSION
      Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to file a second amended complaint is
GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to file the proposed Second Amended Complaint
within 10 days. As the proposed pleading supersedes the first amended complaint,
which "ceases to perform any function as a pleading,” the demurrer and
motion to strike filed by Defendant, Citrin Cooperman & Company, LLP, are
TAKEN OFF CALENDAR. (Fireman's
Fund Ins. Co. v. Sparks Construction, Inc. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1135,
1144.) 
 