 Case Number:  22TRCV01443    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                               Thursday, September 21, 2023 Department
B                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 12
 
  
PROCEEDINGS
 
Skei
McGrath Saulnier, et al. v. Tesla Motors Inc., et al.
22TRCV01443
1.      Tesla, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration 

TENTATIVE RULING
 
Tesla, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is denied
without prejudice. 
 
Background 
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on December 9, 2022.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs allege that the subject 2020
Tesla Model X, which was manufactured and distributed by Defendant Tesla
Motors, Inc., suffered from widespread defects including: defective body
system; defective safety system; defective locking system; defective electrical
system. Plaintiffs allege causes of action based on violations of the
Song-Beverly Warranty Act.  
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Tesla Inc.’s request for judicial notice is denied
without prejudice solely based on the reasoning set forth below in the ruling
to the motion.
 
            Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law
reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick
and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
            “The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284.
 
            “The party opposing arbitration has
the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to
require arbitration of the dispute. 
Nonetheless, this policy does not override ordinary principles of
contract interpretation.  [T]he
contractual terms themselves must be carefully examined before the parties to
the contract can be ordered to arbitration: 
Although [t]he law favors contracts for arbitration of disputes between
parties, there is no policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of
controversies which they have not agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th
1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
            In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of
Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce
an arbitration agreement.”  Id. at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory who is the agent
of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims against his
will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            “Under the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, [...] a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to
compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action
against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and intertwined with the
underlying contract obligations. By relying on contract terms in a claim
against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not exclusively, a plaintiff may be
equitably estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in that
agreement. Where the equitable estoppel doctrine applies, the nonsignatory has
a right to enforce the arbitration agreement.” Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495–96 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 states, in
relevant part: “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[. . .]” “Generally, an
arbitration agreement must be memorialized in writing. A party's acceptance of an
agreement to arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs the agreement. A
signed agreement is not necessary, however, and a party's acceptance may be
implied in fact or be effectuated by delegated consent. An arbitration clause
within a contract may be binding on a party even if the party never actually
read the clause.” Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development
(US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (internal citations omitted).
 
            Apparent non-party Tesla, Inc. (and
possibly non-signatory to the arbitration agreement) moves for an order
compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and for an order for stay pending
completion of arbitration. (The purported Motor Vehicle Order Agreement appears
to set forth an arbitration provision involving “Tesla Inc.” However, the
“Seller/Creditor” named in the Retail Installment Sale Contract is identified
as “Tesla Motors, Inc.” (Decl., Raymond Kim, Exs. 1, 2).)  The motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 1281 et seq. and the FAA, on the grounds Plaintiff is bound by a
written agreement to arbitrate the subject matter of the Complaint. Tesla Inc. argues
that a valid arbitration agreement exists between the parties that requires
arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims.
 
            The motion is denied without
prejudice because, as currently situated, there is no entity named “Tesla Inc.”
that has been named in the Complaint nor served with the Complaint. The only
named and served Defendant is an entity named Tesla Motors, Inc. 
 
            Therefore, the motion is denied
without prejudice to a properly brought motion by the named Defendant. If the
Defendant is not properly named and identified by the Plaintiff, the proper
procedural method to address this defect may be raised by the appropriate party
or parties. 
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.   
 
            
 