 Case Number:  21STCV35833    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                               Thursday,
September 21, 2023 
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 9
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Siddiq
Mumin, et al. v. Las Flores Convalescent Hospital, et al.  
21STCV35833

1.      Laibco, LLC, et al.’s Demurrer to Complaint
2.      Laibco, LLC, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Complaint      
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Laibco, LLC, et al.’s Demurrer to
Complaint is overruled.
 
Laibco, LLC, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Complaint is denied.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on September 29, 2021.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent, Betty Webb, was
admitted to Las Flores Convalescent Hospital. Decedent was admitted due to an infection,
mobility assistance, lack of mobility, fall risks, and for other limiting
conditions.  Due to the egregious conduct
of Defendants, decedent died on May 16, 2020. Plaintiffs allege causes of
action for: 1. Wrongful Death – Elder Abuse Act; 2. Elder Abuse; 3. Violations
of Health and Safety Code § 1430(b); 4. Wrongful Death – Negligence.    
 
            Meet and Confer
  
            Defendants set forth
a meet and confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and
CCP § 435.5.  (Decl. Rita R. Kanno.)   
 
            Demurrer

            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
            Defendants demur to the Complaint and each of the four
causes of action on the ground that the causes of action fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The Court notes that Defendants
also set forth arguments concerning purported uncertainty, but this was not a
specified ground in the notice, and, thus, the Court does not consider these
arguments. In addition, Defendants attempt to argue that this demurrer should
be sustained because Plaintiffs purportedly failed to serve the Defendants with
the Complaint in a timely manner. The Court also does not consider these
arguments because failure to timely serve a summons and complaint is not a
ground for sustaining a demurrer.
 
            First and Second Causes of Action for Violations of
the Elder Abuse Act
 
            As to the causes of action for Elder Abuse, the demurrer
is overruled. Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action. The
alleged facts are sufficient to establish the necessary standard of egregious
conduct to meet the requisite level of conduct to constitute neglect or abuse
to state a cause of action.
 
            A cause of action under Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et
seq. (“Elder Abuse Act”) must be alleged with particularity.    See,
Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.   Acts that constitute simply professional
negligence do not constitute elder abuse. 
“In order to obtain the remedies available in section 15657, a plaintiff
must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of
something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless, oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious conduct. The latter three categories involve
"intentional," "willful," or "conscious"
wrongdoing of a "despicable" or "injurious" nature.”  Delaney
v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31-32.  
“To recover the enhanced remedies available under the Elder Abuse Act
from a health care provider, a plaintiff must prove more than simple or even
gross negligence in the provider's care or custody of the elder.”  See,
Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396,
405.
 
            Plaintiffs allege the following particularized facts to
support allegations of elder neglect and/or abuse. Decedent was 86 years of age
and “admitted to the Facility for an internal infection, mobility assistance,
lack of mobility, fall risks, and for other limiting conditions.” (Complaint, ¶
32.)  Defendants had knowledge of
decedent’s underlying conditions and had a duty under state and federal law to
provide for decedent’s care and custody. (Complaint, ¶¶33-35.)  Defendants breached their duties and withheld
and failed to provide care to decedent by failing to provide rotation and
adjustment to prevent bedsores, failing to provide medication, treatment, and
supervision for the required mobility and rotation to prevent injuries,
withholding and failing to provide preventative measures, withholding pertinent
information to family members about falls and other injuries that decedent
suffered, withholding and failing to provide the necessary protection for
health and safety hazards, failing to provide procedures to prevent illness and
infection, failing to provide the necessary treatments once decedent developed
illness and infection, and deliberately understaffing the facility and failing
to hire, train, and supervise the staff. Plaintiffs also allege the necessary
causation component.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 36, 49(a)-(k),
51, 65(a)-(k), 67, 84(a)-(k), 86, 96.)  Further,
the Plaintiffs allege that Defendants violated regulations under the Patient’s
Bill of Rights in section 72527 of title 22 of the CCR. (Complaint, ¶¶77-83.)
 
            Plaintiffs allege the necessary facts to meet the
standard for punitive damages against an employer pursuant to CC § 3294(b).
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were employers. (Complaint, ¶ 20.)  Plaintiffs allege that the employees were
“acting within the course and scope of such agency and/or employment and/or
with knowledge, authority, ratification and consent of the other DEFENDANTS
and/or received incidental and substantial benefits from the conduct of the
other DEFENDANTS and/or aided and abetted the other DEFENDANTS in the conduct
and activities alleged herein.” (Complaint, ¶21.) Plaintiffs allege that “DEFENDANTS”
included administrator and individual defendants with decision-making authority
and control. (Complaint, ¶¶ 5-16.)  Defendants’
employees withheld and failed to provide care required by law. (Complaint,
¶¶49, 65, 84.)  Plaintiffs allege that
managers, officers, and/or directors either committed the wrongful conduct
and/or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct. (Complaint, ¶¶ 5-23.) 
 
            Therefore, the factual allegations do support Plaintiffs’
contention that Defendants acted with a deliberate and knowing conduct of
indifference in conscious disregard for the rights and safety of decedent. See, Carter, 198 Cal.App.4th
at 405-07 (outlining examples of the type of egregious conduct that would
support an Elder Abuse cause of action). 
Plaintiffs alleged facts that go beyond negligence, but which would,
instead, demonstrate willful or reckless misconduct.   See,
Id. 
 
            Thus, Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts of
conduct which rises to the level of despicable and egregious behavior to allow
Plaintiff the heightened remedies and prayer for attorney’s fees available
under the Elder Abuse Act.  Therefore,
the demurrer to the first and second causes of action is overruled.  
    
            Third Cause of Action for Violation of the
Patient’s Bill of Rights (Health and Safety Code § 1430)
 
            Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.
Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
            Health & Saf. Code, § 1430 states, in relevant part:
            
            “(a) Except when the state department has taken action
and the violations have been corrected to its satisfaction, a licensee who
commits a class “A” or “B” violation may be enjoined from permitting the
violation to continue or may be sued for civil damages within a court of
competent jurisdiction. An action for injunction or civil damages, or both, may
be prosecuted by the Attorney General in the name of the people of the State of
California upon the Attorney General's own complaint or upon the complaint of a
board, officer, person, corporation, or association, or by a person acting for
the interests of itself, its members, or the general public. The amount of
civil damages that may be recovered in an action brought pursuant to this
section may not exceed the maximum amount of civil penalties that could be
assessed on account of the violation or violations.
            (b)(1) A current or former resident or patient, or the
legal representative, personal representative, or successor in interest of a
current or former resident or patient, of a skilled nursing facility, as
defined in subdivision (c) of Section 1250, or intermediate care facility, as
defined in subdivision (d) of Section 1250, may bring a civil action against
the licensee of a facility who violates any rights of the resident or patient
as set forth in Section 72527 or 73523 of Title 22 of the California Code of
Regulations, or any other right provided for by federal or state law or
regulation. The suit shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction. The
licensee shall be liable for the acts of the licensee's employees.”
 
            Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to state a cause
of action. The factual allegations here are based on the same allegations set
forth in the first and second causes of action which the Court has determined alleged
the required particularized facts. Paragraph 70 of the Complaint incorporates
by reference all preceding paragraphs. 
 
            Plaintiffs allege: “The herein described conduct of
DEFENDANTS constituted ‘abandonment,’ ‘abuse,’ ‘neglect,’ and/or other unlawful
conduct within the meaning of WIC §§15600, et seq., Patients Bill of Rights in
Section 72527 of Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations, Health and
Safety Code §1599.1, and any other right provided for by federal or state law
or regulation, and caused physical pain and suffering and/or deprived Decedent
of the services that were necessary to protect Decedent from physical pain and
suffering and death.” (Complaint, ¶ 85.)  Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts to
support the third cause of action. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.
 
 
            Fourth Cause of Action for Wrongful Death
(Negligence)
 
            Defendants’ demurrer is overruled. Plaintiffs state
sufficient facts to state a cause of action. 
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for wrongful death are
a tort, such as negligence, and resulting death. (Boeken v. Philip Morris
USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 806, 108 Cal.Rptr.3d 806, 230 P.3d 342.)
The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty to use due care and
breach of duty, which proximately causes injury.” Lopez v. City of Los
Angeles (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.
 
            Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to meet the
elements of negligence.  Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants owed a duty of care as long-term care providers.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 92-94.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant “breached
their duties of care by negligently, carelessly, unsafely, and/or improperly
providing care, services, and/or treatment to Decedent and/or by other
negligent, careless, unsafe, and/or improper conduct.” (Complaint, ¶ 95.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ actions
“contributed to, caused, and/or were a substantial factor in causing Decedent
and Plaintiffs to suffer past and future economic and noneconomic damages[.]”
(Complaint. ¶ 96.)
            
            Therefore, the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled.

 
            Motion to
Strike  
 
            The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Defendants move to strike the following items:
            “(1) Page 8-9, ¶ 52 in its entirety; (2) Page 9, ¶ 53 in
its entirety; (3) Page 12, ¶ 68 in its entirety; (4) Page 12, ¶ 69 in its
entirety; (5) Page 15, ¶ 89 in its entirety; (6) Page 17, lines 21-23, Prayer
for Relief - vi: As to the First through Third Causes of Action, attorneys’
fees allowed by law, including, but not limited to statutory attorneys’ fees
and costs pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code §15657 and Health and
Safety Code §1430(b); (7) Page 17, lines 24-25, Prayer for Relief - vii: As to
the First through Third Causes of Action, exemplary/punitive damages allowed by
law, in an amount to be proven at the time of trial.” (Notice of Motion, page
2, lines 16-27).
 
            The motion to strike is denied. Based on the same factual
reasoning above overruling the demurrer to the first and second causes of
action, Plaintiffs state sufficient particularized facts to allege a prayer for
enhanced remedies and attorneys’ fees under the Elder Abuse Act.  In any event, based on the ruling to the
demurrer above, the Court has already determined that a claim for punitive
damages is adequately stated based on the requisite conduct to meet the cause
of action for Elder Abuse.  Stating facts
to meet the heightened level to state a prayer for punitive damages is a
requirement to state a cause of action under the Elder Abuse Act.  In addition, Plaintiff is not required to
comply with CCP § 425.13 when the gravamen of the action is under the Elder
Abuse Act.  Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004), 32 Cal.4th 771, 790. Finally, attorneys’ fees are available under
the Elder Abuse Act. Wel. & Inst. Code 15657(a).
 
            Therefore, the Motion to Strike is denied.
 
             Defendants are
ordered to file and serve an Answer within 10 days of this date.
 
            Plaintiffs are
ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
 