 Case Number:  23SMCV01640    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Mastro, et
al., v. Marina Admiralty Company, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01640
MOTION:                  Motion
to Strike
HEARING DATE:   12/8/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
            Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and
upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
 
            In order to state a prima facie
claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated
in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code Section 3294. (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294
(a).) 
 
            “In order to survive a motion to
strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an
entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. [Citations.] In passing
on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations
of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their
context, and assume their truth. [Citations.] In ruling on a motion to strike,
courts do not read allegations in isolation. [Citation.]” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant
an award of punitive damages. [Citation.] Not only must there be circumstances
of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim. [Citation.]” (Grieves
v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. omitted.)
 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Marina Admiralty Co.
moves to strike Plaintiffs Thomas Mastro and Andrea Almasi’s claim for punitive
damages. Here, Plaintiffs do not
allege any acts of malice, oppression or fraud as required to support a
claim of punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294. Malice is conduct
“intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.) Despicable is
a powerful term used to describe circumstances that are “base,” “vile,” or
“contemptible.” (See Coll. Hosp. v. Superior Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 726.)
Oppression, under section 3294, also requires “despicable” conduct. Thus, the
statute “plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs'
interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (Id.)
 
Under California law, a landlord’s failure to repair can support a claim
for punitive damages. (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903,
920.) In Stoiber, the Court found that the tenant had pled sufficient
facts to support her prayer for exemplary damages because she alleged that the
landlord had actual knowledge of defective conditions in the premises,
including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof,
broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions, and that the
landlord failed to repair them. (Id.,
see also Erlach¿v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC¿(2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 1281, 1299 [alleged facts supported a claim when the
landlord-defendant turned off tenant's utilities to prevent the tenant
from returning to the property].)
 
Defendants are the owners and/or
property managers of an apartment complex, Mariners Village, where Plaintiffs
were tenants. (Compl., ¶¶1 1-5) Plaintiffs allege that there were various
habitability issues with their residence, such as plumbing, mold, and
electrical issues. (¶¶ 9-11.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to
correct the following habitability issues: 1) mold, asbestos, and presence of
illegal and caustic chemicals; 2) water & leaking plumbing; 3) electrical
wiring not up to code; 4) vermin, rats and bugs; and 5) rubbish. (¶11.) Further,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants had unapproved and illegal construction,
including unpermitted plumbing, and underwent efforts to illegally evict
Plaintiffs, including destruction and reduction of amenities and services,
threats, verbal assaults, discrimination, harassment, and maltreatment. (Id.) Plaintiffs
repeatedly notified the Defendants and their agent about the habitability
violations and illegal construction, but Defendants failed to correct the
issues. (¶ 12.)  Defendants allegedly had
written notice of these issues from Plaintiffs and the Los Angeles Department
of Building and Safety. (¶¶12-14.) 
 
Defendants attempted to fix the
matters in September 2022. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Defendants then engaged in illegal
construction and demolition of the Subject Property in an effort to remedy the
caustic conditions, which ultimately spread the damage throughout the unit. (¶
16.) Defendants received written and video documentation of the conditions 13
throughout 2022, and into January 2023. (¶ 17.) In January 2023, Defendants
relocated the Plaintiffs to a different unit while repairs were again attempted.
(¶ 18.) Defendants failed to remediate the unsafe and unhabitable conditions.
(¶ 20.) Defendants continued to demand rent from Plaintiffs despite these
conditions. (¶¶ 15, 19.) 
 
The above allegations do not show
any conduct by Defendant that was either intended to cause injury or carried
out with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
Further, Plaintiffs fail to meet the increased pleading standard of “despicable
conduct” in order to establish malice or oppression. Plaintiffs do not even
attempt to allege, as matters of fact, that Defendants acted with malice,
oppression or fraud. At worst, Defendants allegedly engaged in negligent
conduct by failing to repair the habitability conditions. Defendants even attempted
to repair the habitability conditions, which undercuts any extrinsic claims of malice
or oppression. Therefore, further facts are required to support punitive
damages.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED with ten days leave
to amend.