 Case Number:  23SMCV01204    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Zarabi, et al.
v. Perez
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01204
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses
HEARING DATE:   12/8/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is
broad. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010;
see Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation] Admissibility is not the test
and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead
to admissible evidence. [Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery.” (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.) 
 
A motion to compel further responses to form (FROG) or
specially (SROG) prepared interrogatories may be brought if the responses
contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or
insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce documents in lieu of a
substantive response; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(CCP § 2030.300(a).)   
 
            A motion to compel further responses
to a demand for inspection or production of documents (RPD) may be brought
based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections. (CCP§ 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel
further responses to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”
(CCP. § 2031.310(b)(1).) “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on the
moving party to show both: [¶] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g., how the
information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue in the
case); and [¶] Specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why such information
is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial.) [Citations.]
[¶] The fact that there is no alternative source for the information sought is
an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for inspection. But it is not
essential in every case.” (Edmon & Karnow, California Practice Guide: Civ.
Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶ 8:1495.6.) 
 
            A motion to compel further responses
be brought based on responses to requests for admission (RFA) that: (1) provide
evasive or incomplete answers; or (2) make unmeritorious or overly-generalized
objections.  (CCP., § 2033.290(a).)
However, a motion to compel further responses cannot compel the admission of
matters already denied.  (Holguin v.
Superior Court (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 812, 821.)
 
            A motion to compel further must be
noticed within 45 days of the
service of a response, or any supplemental response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing. Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right
to compel further response to the inspection demand. (See, e.g., CCP §
2031.310(c).)
 
            Motions to compel further responses
must always be accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (per CCP §
2016.040) demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §§ 2030.300(b),
2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) They must also be accompanied by a separate
statement containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as
reasons why a further response is warranted. (CRC, rule 3.1345(a).) The
separate statement must also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may
be incorporated by reference. (CRC rule 3.1345(c).)
 
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or
failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories];
see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) 
 
Analysis
 
This hearing concerns twelve
motions to compel further discovery. Each of the three Plaintiffs filed motions
to compel further responses from Defendant Perez as to their respective SROGs,
FROGs, RPDs, and RFAs. As to each set of discovery, Perez submitted a series of
boilerplate objections. As there is no dispute that these motions were properly
brought, Perez has the burden of justifying the objections to each set of
discovery.
 
As to each type of discovery,
Defendant submits a joint opposition against Plaintiff’s respective motion. In
each opposition, Defendant submits that the objections are meritorious. For
example, as to the FROGs, Perez argues that questions regarding his academic
history and claimed injuries are not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of any information that would be admissible at trial in this matter.
However, the standard of discovery is broad, and the requested information is
basic. Plaintiffs may fairly inquire as to whether Defendant claims any
injuries stemming from this incident, as this could lead to the discovery of
additional information regarding the traffic collision and the parties’
respective liabilities. Further, to the extent that Perez claims privacy
concerns, Perez does not substantiate any privacy concerns with competent
evidence. Perez also points to no authority which suggests that privacy
protections would extend to where he went to school. As to the RPDs, SROGs, and
RFAs, Defendant only provides the conclusory argument that the objections are
code-compliant and meritorious, without further explanation. Defendant also
concedes that there “may be validity to some of plaintiffs’ arguments” but that
there are “legitimate disputes that exist.” These arguments would not meet
Defendant’s burden to justify the objections. Regarding the various objections based
on attorney-client privilege, Perez has not proffered any privilege logs. As
such, Defendant has failed to justify his objection-only responses.
 
The principal issue is that Perez himself
is not participating in the litigation. Defense counsel provides that when she
served objections on behalf of Mr. Perez, she made plaintiff’s counsel aware
that she had been unable to communicate with Mr. Perez in order to provide
substantive responses. Counsel thereby admits that the objections are simply
place holders until they are able to contact their client. Based on this record,
Defendant provided objections-only responses in order to avoid having to
provide substantive responses which would require verification by Perez
himself. Moreover, the asserted objections are boilerplate, and Defendant fails
to justify them. Perez therefore must provide further responses as to all
discovery at issue.
 
Accordingly, the motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED. The Court will confer with counsel as to when
defense counsel could secure substantive responses from Perez and then set a
reasonable time frame for compliance.
 
SANCTIONS
 
Sanctions are mandatory. The Court must
sanction any party that unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response, “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (See, e.g., CCP, § 2030.300(d).)  Here, defense counsel is
not able to justify Perez’s objections. However, given Perez’s failure to
participate in litigation, it would be unjust to impose sanctions against
counsel. Therefore, the court will issue sanctions only against Perez. Further,
given the substantial overlap between the Plaintiffs’ motions, the Court finds
the total requested sanctions excessive and duplicative. The Court will
therefore impose sanctions in the reduced amounts as follows.
 
Sanctions are awarded against
Defendant in the total amount of $4,600.00, inclusive of costs. Each Plaintiff
is entitled to a third of those sanctions, i.e., $1,533.33. Sanctions are to be
paid to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 30 days.
 