  Case Number:  21STCV04765    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 21, 2024                      JUDGMENT:
September 13, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Robert Ware v. Department of Public Social Services; County of Los Angeles,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV04765

 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Robert Ware 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant County
of Los Angeles
 
CASE
HISTORY:

02/08/21:
     Complaint filed.
06/01/21:
     First Amended Complaint filed
11/23/21:
     Second Amended Complaint filed
10/10/22:
     Third Amended Complaint filed.
09/13/23:
     Judgment entered on summary judgment against Plaintiff. 

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment action in
which Plaintiff alleges discrimination, harassment, fraudulent
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, and fraudulent concealment
arising from his employment with the Department of Public Social Services.
 
            Plaintiff
moves for reconsideration of the Court’s ruling on the Motion for Summary
Judgment issued August 8, 2023. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff
moves for reconsideration of the Court’s order granting summary judgment for
Defendants issued August 8, 2023. 
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 1008
provides, in relevant part:
 
(a) When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party
of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.
 
* * *
 
(d) A violation
of this section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by
Section 128.7. In addition, an order made contrary to this section may be
revoked by the judge or commissioner who made it, or vacated by a judge of the
court in which the action or proceeding is pending.
 
(e) This section
specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(a), (d), (e) (bold
emphasis added).)
 
            The Court
issued its ruling on the Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative,
Summary Judgment, on August 8, 2023. Notice of that ruling was served by
Defendant County on August 21, 2023 by mail. (Notice of Ruling filed August 21,
2023.) Plaintiff filed a first Notice of Motion for Reconsideration on August
16, 2023, before notice of the ruling was given, but withdrew that motion on
September 8, 2023. (See August 16, 2023 Notice of Motion.) Plaintiff states
that he served the operative Notice of Motion for Reconsideration on September
23, 2023, ten days after entry of judgment and 32 days after service of notice
of the ruling which was challenged. (Declaration of Robert Ware ISO Reply ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff states in his reply declaration that he attempted to file the notice
of motion on that date, but that the filing was rejected, and the Notice of
Motion was only accepted on October 24, 2023. (Id. ¶¶ 4-6.) Plaintiff’s
memorandum of points and authorities was not filed until February 23, 2024. 
 
            A motion
for reconsideration is only available to challenge the Court’s interlocutory rulings
and may not be heard after entry of judgment. (See Sole Energy Co. v.
Petrominerals Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 187, 192.) Although Plaintiff’s
initial Notice of Motion might have been served and filed within 10 days of
notice of the August 8 ruling, he elected to withdraw that filing, and
Plaintiff does not address it either in his moving papers or in his reply
brief. Further, even accepting Plaintiff’s representation that he attempted to
file the operative Notice of Motion on September 23, such a filing would nevertheless
have been both outside the 10-day statutory window and after entry of judgment.
Plaintiff’s motion is therefore doubly untimely and the Court is without
jurisdiction to hear it. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 21, 2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.