 Case Number:  24STCV00859    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 21, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Wilton Holdings & Management LLC v.
8210 Sunset, LLC et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV00859            
 
ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Wilton Holdings & Management LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant 8210
Sunset, LLC; Intervenor Herbalcure Corporation.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/12/24: Complaint filed. 
·        
02/28/24: Complaint in Intervention filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract and wrongful eviction action. Plaintiff
alleges that it subleased a commercial property from Defendants to operate a
cannabis business. The property allegedly had serious structural and
habitability defects which Defendants neither disclosed nor remedied.
Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants subsequently locked Plaintiffs out of
the property without formally terminating the lease agreement.
 
The Court granted Plaintiff’s ex
parte application for a temporary restraining order on January 18, 2024,
and now rules on an Order to Show Cause Re: Preliminary Injunction.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendants
are enjoined from denying Plaintiff access to the subject property, interfering
with Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment and use of the premises, or changing locks or
otherwise obstructing access to the premises pending the conclusion of this
action. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            On January
18, 2024, Plaintiff applied ex parte for a temporary restraining order
enjoining Defendants from denying Plaintiff access to the subject property,
interfering with Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment and use of the premises, or
changing locks or otherwise obstructing access to the premises. The Court granted
the application pending a hearing on a preliminary injunction, and issued an
order to show cause why Defendants should not be so enjoined pending resolution
of this action. (January 19, 2024 Order to Show Cause.) The Court set a
briefing schedule for initial moving papers, which were to be filed on January
25, 2024, with opposition and reply papers to be served and filed per code. (Id.)
The Court subsequently granted Herbalcure Corporation leave to intervene, and
set a supplemental briefing schedule for Intervenor’s opposition and
Plaintiff’s reply brief regarding the injunction. (February 23, 2024 Minute
Order.) All parties complied with the briefing schedule, and the Court now
rules on the Order to Show Cause. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may request a preliminary injunction “by obtaining
and serving an order to show cause,” as Plaintiff has in this case, “when a
temporary restraining order is sought.” (Cal. Rule of Court 3.1150(a).) 
 
“An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 525.) “A preliminary
injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a verified
complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc.§ 527(a).) An injunction may be granted in the
following cases:    
 
(1) When it
appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or
perpetually.  
 
(2)¿When it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action. 
 
(3)¿¿When
it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate
relief.  
 
(5) Where
it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which
would afford adequate relief.  
 
            . . . . 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(1)-(5).) 
 
In deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, two
factors must be considered prior to issuing a preliminary injunction: (1) the
balance of the harm to the applicant should the injunction not issue, compared
to the harm to the enjoined party should the injunction issue; and (2) whether
the applicant is ultimately likely to prevail on the merits. (Common Cause
v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 441-442.)  A trial court
has broad discretionary powers to grant or deny a request for a preliminary
injunction if it does not act capriciously.  The court should exercise its
judgment in favor of the party most likely to be injured. (Robbins v.
Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 205.)  In addition, the two
factors are interrelated: the greater the Plaintiff’s showing as to one of the
factors, the less that must be shown as to the other factor. (Butt v. State
of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) 
 
Analysis
            
            Plaintiff seeks a preliminary
injunction enjoining Defendants from denying Plaintiff access to the
subject property, interfering with Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment and use of the
premises, or changing locks or otherwise obstructing access to the premises.
 
As the central issue here is whether Plaintiff, Defendants, or
Intervenor are entitled to control of a parcel of real property, the Court
first addresses whether Plaintiff is likely to succeed on the merits of its
claims.
 
1.      Likelihood of Success
 
            Plaintiff contends that it is likely
to succeed on the merits of its claim for breach of the assignment agreement
which sublet the property to Plaintiff. 
 
“To prevail on a cause of action
for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
            Defendants, as the master tenants of
the property, entered an agreement with Plaintiff on June 27, 2023 assigning
the rights of subtenancy from Boulevard Nightlife Group, LLC, also a party to
that agreement, to Plaintiff from June 27, 2023 to August 31, 2026.
(Declaration of Brandon Leopoldus ¶¶ 4-5 Exh. 2.) Plaintiff contends that it
complied with the terms of the agreement by delivering a security deposit in
the form of a $16,500 check sent on March 13, 2023 and $16,500 in cash
delivered in person to Defendant Kermani in April 2023. (Declaration of Maria
Camacho ISO Mot. ¶ 5.) 
 
            In opposition, Defendants claim that
Plaintiff did not provide any evidence of insurance coverage, as required by
paragraphs 8.2 and 8.4 of the underlying sublease agreement, before February 7,
2024. (Declaration of Elan Kermani ISO Opp. ¶ 7.) Defendants also claim that
Plaintiff failed to take possession of the premises and failed to pay rent. (Id.
¶ 8.)  Defendant Kermani’s statements are
bare conclusions without specific facts nor supporting documentation. Defendants
concede that they entered a new lease agreement with Herbalcure in October
2023. (Kermani Decl. ¶ 8.) However, although the sublease agreement permits
Defendants to terminate the subtenant’s right to possession for breach of the
sublease, the express language of the sublease states that Defendants may do so
“by any lawful means.” (Kermani Decl. Exh. A. ¶ 13.2(a).) A lessor may
only lawfully retake possession of a leasehold via an action for unlawful
detainer pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1161 et seq. Thus,
even if Defendants had offered evidence to support their claim that Plaintiff
breached the sublease, they have conceded that they did not lawfully terminate
Plaintiff’s subtenancy. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
demonstrated a likelihood of success on the merits. 
 
2.      Balance of Harms
 
            “Irreparable harm” arises when
monetary damages would not be sufficient to remedy the injury. (Wind v.
Herbert (1960) 186 Cal.App.2d 276, 285; Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(4).)
Injuries rising from wrongs of “continuing character” may also constitute
“irreparable harm.” (People ex rel. Gow v. Mitchell Bros.’ Santa Ana Theater
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 863, 871.) An injunction preventing disposal of property
is proper if disposal would render the final judgment ineffectual. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 526(a)(3); Wilkins v. Oken (1958) 157 Cal.App.2d 603, 606-607.)
Real property is presumptively unique such that the loss of possession cannot
be adequately relieved by monetary damages. (See Civ. Code § 3387.) 
 
This case concerns the disposition of a parcel of real property. As
the Court stated, the central issue to be resolved regarding the injunction as
with the action is which of the parties is entitled to possession of the
property. Thus, no matter what ruling the Court issues, one party will be
deprived of control of the property, and thus will suffer an injury to their
right to the property which cannot be remedied by money damages. However,
Herbalcure’s right to the property is based on the claim that Plaintiff’s right
to the property has been terminated. As discussed above, Plaintiff’s right to
the property was not lawfully terminated because no proceeding for unlawful
detainer was ever commenced. Herbalcure therefore received no right to the
property through a sublease because Defendants lacked lawful possession of the
property and, thus, had no possessory rights to convey to Herbalcure via the sublease.
Thus, although Herbalcure might be deprived of possession in fact, the balance
of harms weighs in favor of Plaintiff because, according to the evidence,
Plaintiff is the only party with the right to possession. 
 
//
 
//          
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff
has demonstrated a likelihood of success on the merits of its breach of
contract claim. As the undisputed facts demonstrate that Defendants did not
lawfully terminate Plaintiff’s sublease, the balance of harms weighs in favor
of granting the injunction because Herbalcure has no right to the subject
property. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendants
are enjoined from denying Plaintiff access to the subject property, interfering
with Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment and use of the premises, or changing locks or
otherwise obstructing access to the premises pending the conclusion of this
action. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 21, 2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 