  Case Number:  21STCV19641    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



IVAN CERVANTES, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SUNBELT
   RENTALS, INC.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21STCV19641
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

October
   12, 2023



 
Background
          On May 25, 2021, Plaintiff Ivan
Cervantes (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint alleging causes of action for general
negligence and products liability against Defendant Sunbelt Rentals, Inc.
(“Sunbelt”). Sunbelt subsequently filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff’s
employer, Junior Steel Co. On July 18, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff leave
to file an amended complaint naming Junior Steel Co. as a new defendant and
alleging negligence against Junior Steel Co. On July 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint alleging general negligence against Junior
Steel Co. (“Defendant”) in addition to general negligence and products
liability against Sunbelt. Plaintiff has since dismissed the products liability
cause of action against Sunbelt. 
          Plaintiff alleges that on October 13,
2020, while performing his duties as an employee of Defendant, a steel jib (arm
of a crane) crashed down onto him. Plaintiff was working as an apprentice iron
worker at a Glendale High School jobsite. Sunbelt agreed to provide Defendant
certain equipment, including telehandlers and jibs, for the purpose of
hoisting, moving, and placing large columns and headers. At the time of the
incident, Plaintiff was employed by Defendant to erect a canopy. His job duties
included hoisting, moving, and placing large columns and headers. On October
13, 2020, while unrigging one of the columns, the jib became detached from the
telehandler and crashed down onto Plaintiff. 
          The FAC alleges that Defendant should
have inspected the forklift and jib extension to make sure that the each of the
three points of securement between the jib extension and the forklift were
properly secured and ensured the equipment was safe and ready to use, before it
was used, but did not do so. Plaintiff also alleges Defendant was negligent in
providing inadequate expertise, training, guidance, and instruction leading up
to the incident.  
          On October 6, 2021, Sunbelt filed a
cross-complaint against Defendant for express indemnity, breach of contract,
and declaratory relief. Sunbelt alleged that it entered into an agreement with Defendant
for the rental of equipment on October 12, 2020, that the agreement was
operative at the time of Plaintiff’s injury, and that the agreement contained
an indemnity provision. Sunbelt attached an unsigned copy of the agreement as
an exhibit to its cross-complaint. 
          Defendant demurred on the grounds
that, pursuant to Labor Code section 3864, it could not be held liable for
indemnity without a written agreement. Under California Labor Code section
3864, an employer “shall have no liability to reimburse or hold such third person
harmless on such judgment or settlement in absence of a written agreement to do
so executed prior to the injury.” (Lab. Code, § 3864.) “[A] written agreement
is ‘executed’ when all parties sign the agreement; only then is the written
agreement completed and all necessary formalities performed.” (Hansen
Mechanical, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 722, 731.) 
          The Honorable Jill Feeney sustained Defendant’s
demurrer with leave to amend, finding that there was no enforceable indemnity
agreement between Sunbelt and Defendant. On March 10, 2022, Sunbelt filed a
first amended cross-complaint. On January 3, 2022, Junior Steel filed a
demurrer. On May 19, 2022, Judge Feeney sustained its demurrer to all of
Sunbelt’s causes of action without leave to amend. Judge Feeney again found
that there was no enforceable indemnity agreement between Sunbelt and Defendant.
Defendant was dismissed from Sunbelt’s amended cross-complaint on June 10,
2022.  
          On August 24, 2023, Defendant demurred
to the FAC and and moved to strike portions of the FAC. On September 29, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On October 5, 2023, Defendant filed its reply. 
 
Summary
          Moving
Arguments
                   Demurrer
        Defendant is demurring to Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint as to the general negligence cause of action, the only
action plead against it. The grounds for the demurrer include: 1) the FAC was
filed late, 2) the FAC contains allegations not included in the proposed FAC
submitted along with Defendant’s motion for leave to amend, 3) the FAC is
barred by the statute of limitations, 4) the FAC is barred by Workers’
Compensation exclusivity, and 5) the Court has already ruled that the contract
provisions relied on by the FAC are part of an unsigned and therefore void and
unenforceable contract.                             Motion
to Strike
        Defendant moves to strike:
“1.
Paragraph 1 on Page 1 of the First Amended Complaint – “Junior Steel Company”;
2. Paragraph
5.b. on Page 2 of the First Amended Complaint – “Junior Steel Company”; and
3. The
entire Third Cause of Action for General Negligence, as alleged against Junior
Steel, from Page 10 through page 17 of the First Amended Complaint.”
          Opposing
Arguments
                   Demurrer
 
          Plaintiff first contends that the
demurrer should be overruled because the claim against Defendant for general
negligence alleges sufficient facts to support each element of the claim and is
pled with a high level of specificity. Plaintiff next contends that he was a third-party
beneficiary of the contract entered into between Defendant and Sunbelt and as
such can enforce any provision of the contract intended to benefit him. Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant contractually waived its Workers’ Compensation
defense. 
                   Motion to Strike
          Plaintiff contends that the portions
of the complaint which Defendant seeks to strike are relevant because they all
support Plaintiff's negligence claim. 
          Reply
Arguments
                   Demurrer
          Defendant
contends that the FAC does not relate back to the original complaint and is
thus barred by statute of limitations because it is not a “Doe” amendment. 
          Defendant
further argues that an indemnity provision between a
third party and an employer cannot waive workers compensation exclusivity
between the employee and the employer. 
          Defendant also reiterates that the
indemnity provision is unenforceable because it was not signed by both parties
prior to the injury and stresses that this issue has been decided previously by
this Court and is barred by the doctrine of res judicata. 
          Defendant additionally disputes that
Plaintiff is a third-party beneficiary of the contract. 
                   Motion to Strike
          No further arguments.  
          
Legal
Standard
          Demurrer
          A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216,
1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or by proper judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a).) As is relevant
here, a party may object to a pleading through a demurrer arguing “the pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (CCP §
430.10(e).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d
902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed. (Id.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)
 
The general
rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary
facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All
that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading, even as against a
special demurrer, is that his complaint set forth the essential facts of the
case with reasonable precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint
the defendant with the nature, source and extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard
v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.) “[D]emurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848, fn. 3, citing
Lickiss v. Fin. Indus. Regulatory Auth. (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125,
1135.) In addition, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
courts strictly construe a demurrer for uncertainty “because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Lickiss, ibid.,
citing Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) 
On demurrer,
a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not the …
complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any legal
theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)
Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes of action, where some valid
claim is alleged but “must dispose of an entire cause of action to be
sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.) “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without
leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be
cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
          Motion to Strike
          Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part of the pleading. (CCP, §
435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion
or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2)
strike out all or any part of the pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, §§
436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Schultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
Meet and Confer
          A
party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with
the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).) “The parties shall meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are
not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the responsive
pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day
extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and
serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration
stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer
was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(2).) A failure to meet and confer does not
constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.41 (a)(4).) 
          Defendant
has filed a sufficient meet and confer declaration. (Beal Decl., ¶10.)
Discussion
          Demurrer
          Defendant
demurs to the third cause of action in the FAC for general negligence. 
          Late-Filed
and Improper FAC
          The
Court granted Plaintiff five (5) days leave to file an amended complaint on
July 18, 2023. However, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint on July 25,
2023, two days late. Further, the FAC was not the FAC originally
attached to Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend, but one that was
significantly modified following the tentative and final orders issued by this
Court. 
          On the issue of lateness, the Court
accepts the FAC despite that it was filed two days late. 
          The Court additionally finds that the
FAC is acceptable despite the fact that it is modified from the version
attached as the proposed FAC to Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend. It is
true that the actual FAC contains arguments that may have been better suited
for the opposition to this demurrer. However, these arguments address concerns
expressed by the Court at the July 18, 2023, hearing that the Court
specifically stated that it expected Plaintiff to address (see 07/18/23 Minute
Order).
          Accordingly, the demurrer based on the
timing and form of the FAC is overruled.  
          Workers’
Compensation Exclusivity
          Defendant
contends that Plaintiff is barred from bringing civil claims against Defendant
under the statutorily created doctrine of workers compensation exclusivity,
which makes workers compensation the sole and exclusive remedy for persons
injured in the course of employment.  
          Plaintiff,
meanwhile, contends that according to the contract entered into between
Defendant and Sunbelt for the rental of the equipment that eventually injured
Plaintiff, Defendant agreed to waive its workers’ compensation protection.
Plaintiff points to Section 8 of Sunbelt’s terms and conditions attached to the
contract, where Defendant appears to unequivocally waive its workers’
compensation defense: 
 
  “8. RELEASES AND
INDEMNIFICATION. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, CUSTOMER INDEMNIFIES,
RELEASES, AND HOLDS SUNBELT ENTITIES HARMLESS … FROM AND AGAINST ALL
LIABILITIES, CLAIMS, LOSSES, DAMAGES, AND EXPENSES (INCLUDING ATTORNEY’S AND/OR
LEGAL FEES AND EXPENSES) HOWEVER ARISING OR INCURRED, RELATED TO ANY INCIDENT,
DAMAGE TO PROPERTY, INJURY OR DEATH OF, ANY PERSON …. CUSTOMER ALSO AGREES
TO WAIVE ITS WORKERS’ COMPENSATION IMMUNITY, TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE.”
(FAC, p. 13, Ex. 1, p. 4, emphasis added.)
 
          The Workers’ Compensation Act generally provides the sole and
exclusive remedy to employees who suffer an injury during the course and scope
of their employment.  (Lab. Code, § 3602, subd. (a); Arriaga v. County
of Alameda (1995) 9 Cal.4th 1055, 1058-1059.) There are
some exceptional situations in which the injured employee may maintain a civil
action against his or her employer. These statutory exceptions include: 1)
physical assault by the employer; 2) aggravation of injury by the employer’s
fraudulent concealment; 3) products liability cases, 4) power press guards; and
5) where the employer is uninsured.  (See Lab. Code §§ 3602, 3706, 4553.) Here,
Plaintiff’s injury occurred in the course of a construction job he was performing
for Defendant and none of the statutory exceptions apply. Thus, Plaintiff’s
injury would appear to belong to the category of injuries for which workers’
compensation is the only source of remedies against the employer. 
          In opposition,
Plaintiff contends that Defendant contractually waived its workers compensation
protection, relying on Civil Code § 3513. Civil Code § 3513
states that “Anyone may waive the advantage of a law intended solely for his
benefit. But a law established for a public reason cannot be contravened by a
private agreement.” (Civil Code § 3513.) Under California law, statutory rights
may be waived only if "(1) the statute does not prohibit waiver, (2) the
statute's public purpose is incidental to its primary purpose, and (3) the
waiver does not seriously undermine any public purpose the statute was designed
to serve." (Lanigan v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1020,
1030.) The burden is on the party claiming waiver to prove waiver by
"clear and convincing evidence" that the party who allegedly
relinquished the known legal right, had done so intentionally. (Old Republic
Ins. Co. v. FSR Brokerage (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 666, 678; Waller v. Truck
Ins. Exchange (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1, 31.) 
          Plaintiff contends that the workers'
compensation's exclusive remedy is an affirmative defense to a civil action by
an employee against his employer, and as an affirmative defense, can be waived
by contract pursuant to Cowan v. Superior Court. However, Cowan
is inapplicable as it was a criminal case in which Defendant waived the statute
of limitations in order to accept a lesser included offense in a plea deal. (Cowan
v. Superior Court, (1996) 14 Cal.4th 367, 372.) Cowan has no bearing
on whether a party in a civil case can waive a statutory right via contract. 
          In reply, Defendant contends that
workers’ compensation exclusivity was statutorily created for a public, not
private, purpose. 
          However, without examining this
question, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s attempt to enforce the contractual
waiver on the grounds that there is still no evidence of a signed written
contract between Defendant and Sunbelt regarding the sale of the construction
equipment that injured Plaintiff. 
 
          Defendant
contends that Plaintiff’s continued reliance on provisions in the alleged
contract between Defendant and Sunbelt is improper because it is barred by the
doctrine of res judicata, as the Court has determined multiple times that the
contract is void and unenforceable. 
          Plaintiff,
on the other hand, contends that new evidence shows that a valid, enforceable
contract exists and in fact existed since the action commenced despite the fact
that Defendant and Sunbelt have denied its existence throughout. Plaintiff
attaches a copy of what he claims is the signed contract as Exhibit 1 to the
FAC. Exhibit 1 shows a contract signed on October 14, 2020, by Defendant’s
employee Edward Diaz for a jib extension and a forklift from Sunbelt, as well
as Sunbelt’s terms and conditions, including the workers compensation waiver.
However, the contract shown in Exhibit 1 does not contain a signature from any
Sunbelt employee, agent, or representative. “[A] written agreement is
‘executed’ when all parties sign the agreement; only then is the written
agreement completed and all necessary formalities performed.” (Hansen
Mechanical, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 722, 731.) Here,
only one party signed the contract for the jib and the forklift; therefore, the
contract was not “executed” and is unenforceable.
          Accordingly,
as the Court finds that there is no enforceable contract executed between
Defendant and Sunbelt, the waiver of workers compensation exclusivity is
likewise unenforceable. This means that Plaintiff cannot enforce the waiver in
an effort to bring civil claims against Defendant. Accordingly, Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 
          Motion to Strike
          Given
the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, the motion to strike is MOOT.
Conclusion
          Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED,
with five days leave to amend. The motion to strike is MOOT.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.  
Dated this 12th day of October,
2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 