  Case Number:  22CHCV01523    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 7-17-24
Case # 22CHCV01523, Welding Evolution, Inc., et al.
vs. Selective San Fernando Partners LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTIES: Cross-Defendants Welding Evolution, Inc.,
Margarita Alvara, Mario Alvara, and David Alvara
RESPONDING PARTIES: Cross-Complainants Selective San
Fernando Partners, LLC, and Selective 1111 Harris, LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract
·        
2nd Cause of Action for Express
Indemnity
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Breach of
Guaranty
·        
4th Cause of Action for Declaratory
Relief
 
RULING: The demurrer is overruled.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
This action arises from a commercial industrial lease
signed by the parties on July 22, 2021. The parties to the lease were Cross-Complainants
Selective San Fernando Partners, LLC and Selective 1111 Harris, LLC
(Cross-Complainants) as the Lessor and Cross-Defendant Welding Evolution, Inc.
as the Lessee. The CEO of Welding Evolution, Mario Alvara, is also a Plaintiff
to the case.
 
In Welding Evolution’s complaint, it alleged that in
pre-lease negotiations, Defendants allegedly overstated the power capacity of
the subject premises. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants represented that it had
a capacity of 1200 AMPS, whereas it only had a capacity of 200 AMPS. As a
result, Welding Evolution had to rent portable generators and install
additional permanent capacity at an alleged cost of $700,000, plus ongoing
damages.
 
In Cross-Complainants’ cross-complaint, they allege that Cross-Defendants
breached the contract when they sued Cross-Complainants and failed to indemnify
and defend Cross-Complainants. Cross-Complainants have alleged four causes of
action for (1) breach of contract, (2) express indemnity, (3) breach of
guaranty, and (4) declaratory relief.
 
Cross-Defendants Welding Evolution, Inc., Margarita
Alvara, Mario Alvara, and David Alvara (Cross-Defendants) filed a demurrer to Cross-Complainants’
cross-complaint on April 25, 2024. Cross-Complainants filed their opposition on
June 5, 2024. Cross-Defendants filed their reply on June 12, 2024.
 
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
Cross-Defendants demur to the First Cause of Action on the
basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
“The elements of a breach of contract claim are that a
contract was formed; that the plaintiff did everything required by the
contract; that the defendant did not do something required by the contract; and
that the plaintiff was harmed as a result.” (CSAA Ins. Exchange v. Hodroj
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 272, 276.)
 
The basis for Cross-Complainants’ breach of contract cause
of action appears to be as follows: 
Paragraph 61 of the Lease Agreement requires that “Lessee
agrees to confirm the presence and/or the availability of such electrical
services with Lessee’s electrical contractor and/or with the appropriate city
officials or other such applicable utilities service company and shall
indemnify, defend and hold Broker and Lessor harmless from and against any
costs, liability, and/or damages that arise due to any electrical service
insufficiencies that may exist, including attorneys’ fees and costs. The
indemnity provisions provided by Section 8.7 above shall apply to this
Paragraph 61 and shall be in addition to the indemnities provided in this
Paragraph 61.” (Cross-Comp., Ex. A, ¶ 61.) Cross-Defendants, as the Lessees, were
to hold Lessors, which are Cross-Complainants, harmless from any costs due to
any electrical service insufficiencies that may exist. Because of this indemnity
provision, Cross-Complainants allege that Cross-Defendants breached the Lease
Agreement and failed to indemnify them by filing an action against
Cross-Complainants for the costs of upgrading the electrical service to the
level that Cross-Defendants needed. (Cross-Comp., ¶ 13.) Cross-Complainants
also allege that Cross-Defendants breached the Lease Agreement by failing to confirm
the presence and/or availability of the electrical services with
Cross-Complainants’ electrical contractor and/or with the appropriate city
officials, as required by Paragraph 61 of the lease agreement. (Cross-Comp., ¶ 9.)
Cross-Complainants also allege that they have suffered damages due to Cross-Defendants’
breaches of the Lease Agreement. (Cross-Comp., ¶ 14.)
 
Based on these allegations, it appears that
Cross-Complainants have met the requirements for alleging a breach of contract.
They allege that a contract was formed (the Lease Agreement); that they did everything
required by the Lease Agreement; that Cross-Defendants failed to confirm the
presence of electrical services and failed to indemnify them; and that they
were damaged as a result.
 
As for Cross-Defendants’ arguments that any questions
regarding the indemnity provision were addressed and disposed of when this
Court, Judge Pfahler presiding, overruled Cross-Complainants’ demurrer to
Cross-Defendants’ complaint, that is not the case. Judge Pfahler’s ruling declined
to decide at the demurrer stage that Cross-Defendants’ claims of fraud and
negligent misrepresentation were barred based on the indemnity provision. Instead,
the ruling stated that “the court declines to sua sponte delve further into the
argument at this stage. Thus, even assuming no legal nullification of the
disclaimer clauses under certain case law, examination of reasonableness also
remains a question of fact, or at least beyond the scope of the demurrer for
this court. Thus, the court declines to consider the circumstances as a matter
of law at the demurrer.” (August 29, 2023, Minute Order, p. 7.)
 
At this stage of the proceedings, the Court is not
addressing whether Cross-Defendants are required to indemnify
Cross-Complainants. Rather, the Court is addressing whether Cross-Complainants
have sufficiently alleged a cause of action for breach of contract based on the
terms of the Lease Agreement. “‘While the “allegations [of a complaint] must be
accepted as true for purposes of demurrer,” the “facts appearing in exhibits
attached to the complaint will also be accepted as true¿and, if contrary to the
allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence.”’” (Moran v. Prime
Healthcare Management, Inc. (2016) 3 Cap.App.5th 1131,
1145-1146.) “When interpreting a contract, a court must consider the
‘clear and explicit’ ‘language of [the] contract’ (Civ. Code, § 1638),
generally construing ‘[t]he words ... in their ordinary and popular sense ...
unless used by the parties in a technical sense’ (Civ. Code, § 1644), and
taking ‘[t]he whole of [the] contract ... together, so as to give effect to
every part, if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the
other’ (Civ. Code, § 1641).” (Id. at 1146.)
 
The clear and explicit language of the Lease Agreement
supports Cross-Complainants’ allegations, at least for purposes of demurrer. It
remains to be seen whether the indemnity provision applies in the manner that
they are alleging and to what degree it applies.
 
Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to
Cross-Complainants’ First Cause of Action is overruled. 
 
            Second
Cause of Action for Express Indemnity
Cross-Defendants demur to the Second Cause of Action on the
basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
““Express indemnity refers to an obligation that arises “‘by
virtue of express contractual language establishing a duty in one party to save
another harmless upon the occurrence of specified circumstances’”” and “is
enforced in accordance with the terms of the contracting parties’ agreement.” (Prince
v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1158.)” (C.W.
Howe Partners Inc. v. Mooradian (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 688, 699.)
 
Cross-Complainants allege that Cross-Defendant Welding
Evolution was expressly required to indemnify it pursuant to Paragraph 61 of
the Lease Agreement and Welding Evolution failed to do so. (Cross-Comp., ¶¶
17-18.) Cross-Complainants have demanded that Cross-Defendant Welding Evolution
indemnify them.
 
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to this
cause of action repeats their previous argument that the Court has already
ruled that the Lease Agreement does not permit Cross-Complainants to be
indemnified from Cross-Defendants’ claims of fraudulent wrongdoing. As
discussed above, that is not what this Court previously decided, as the Court
declined to decide that issue as a matter of law.

 
Cross-Complainants have sufficiently alleged a cause of
action for express indemnity. Cross-Defendants demurrer to the Second Cause of
Action is overruled.
 
            Third
Cause of Action for Breach of Guaranty
Cross-Defendants demur to the Third Cause of Action on the
basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
Attached as Exhibit B to Cross-Complainants’
Cross-Complainant is a Guaranty of Lease. The Guaranty provides that “In
consideration of the execution of said Lease by Lessor and as a material
inducement to Lessor to execute said Lease, Guarantors hereby jointly,
severally, unconditionally, and irrevocably guarantee the prompt payment by
Lessee of all rents and all other sums payable by Lessee under said Lease and
the faithful and prompt performance by Lessee of each and every one of the
terms, conditions, and covenants of said Lease to be kept and performed by
Lessee.” (Cross-Comp., Ex. B, p. 1.) The Guarantors are Cross-Defendants
Margarita, Mario, and David Alvara. Cross-Complainants allege that
Cross-Defendants failed to faithfully perform each and every one of the terms,
conditions, and covenants of the Lease by failing to indemnify
Cross-Complainants. (Cross-Comp., ¶¶ 28-29.) Cross-Complainants allege that
they have been damaged due to Cross-Defendants breach of the guaranty.
(Cross-Comp., ¶ 30.)
 
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action once
again repeats their previous argument that the Court has already ruled that the
Lease Agreement does not permit Cross-Complainants to be indemnified from
Cross-Defendants’ claims of fraudulent wrongdoing. As discussed above, that is
not what this Court previously decided, as the Court declined to decide that
issue as a matter of law.
 
Cross-Complainants have sufficiently alleged a breach of
guaranty cause of action. Cross-Defendants demurrer to the Third Cause of
Action is overruled.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
Cross-Defendants demur to the Fourth Cause of Action on the
basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
“The fundamental basis of declaratory relief is the
existence of an actual, present controversy over a proper subject. [Citation
omitted]. The court may sustain a demurrer on the ground that the complaint
fails to allege an actual or present controversy, or that it is not
“justiciable.”” (DeLaura v. Beckett (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 542, 545.)
A cause of action for declaratory relief will not lie where there is an accrued
cause of action for breach of contract. (See Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
366.) However, Osseous concerned one party’s suit for declaratory relief
which was filed in anticipation of the other party filing a breach of contract
action. The court found that the facts, as pleaded, amounted to a breach of
contract dispute (looking to past conduct) rather than a forward-looking
pronouncement of the rights and duties of the parties. (Id. at 360.) 
 
The Supreme Court has confirmed that a defendant may bring a
cross-complaint for indemnity and seek a declaration as to its rights where the
party’s claim for indemnity has not yet accrued. (People ex rel. Dept. of
Transportation v. Superior Court (1980) 26 Cal.3d 744, 748.) A defendant’s
indemnity action does not accrue until it has suffered actual loss through
payment when, and if, the plaintiff recovers a judgment against it. (Id.)
Based on these principles, courts routinely find that a claim for declaratory
relief is ripe even where litigation is still pending to set forth the eventual
right to indemnity. (See Allen v. Southland Plumbing, Inc. (1988) 201
Cal.App.3d 60, 64 (claim for equitable indemnity is proper subject for
declaratory relief, and court may declare party’s rights or duties in
controversy before determining whether there is a breach of obligation with
respect to which declaration is sought).)
 
Declaratory relief is a proper request in this case because
Cross-Complainants are requesting that the Court determine the parties’ rights
and obligations concerning Cross-Complainants’ claim for express indemnity.
That is a forward-looking pronouncement because Cross-Complainants have not yet
had to pay any money judgments to Cross-Defendants. A claim for declaratory
relief is ripe in this case because it is necessary to determine
Cross-Complainants’ right to indemnity.
 
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for
Declaratory Relief is overruled.
 
CONCLUSION
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer is overruled in its entirety.
 
Moving party to give notice.