 Case Number:  24STCP00546    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  86 HEARING PURSUANT TO CORPORATIONS CODE SECTION 709  Date:  12/19/24 (1:30 PM) Case:  Christian Arturo Llamas Corona v. Claudia Llamas et al. (24STCP00546)  TENTATIVE RULING:  All evidentiary objections are OVERRULED. The Court does not rely on any evidence submitted after plaintiff filed a reply. All requests for judicial notice are DENIED as “unnecessary to the resolution” of the issues before the Court. (Martinez v. San Diego County Credit Union (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1075.)  Corporations Code § 709(a) states: “Upon the filing of an action therefor by any shareholder or by any person who claims to have been denied the right to vote, the superior court of the proper county shall try and determine the validity of any election or appointment of any director of any domestic corporation….”   Plaintiff Christian Arturo Llamas Corona alleges that he is the sole shareholder and rightful owner of Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc. (“Yellow Owl”). (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 6.) Plaintiff seeks a determination that defendants are not officers and directors of Yellow Owl. (Compl. ¶ 7; Prayer ¶ 1.) In support of plaintiff’s contention that he is the sole shareholder of Yellow Owl, plaintiff relies on the SS-4 Application for Employer Identification Number form submitted to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) when Yellow Owl was formed. (Llamas Corona Decl. ¶¶ 9, 15 & Ex. 8.) Plaintiff relies on the fact that he is named as the “responsible party” and President of Yellow Owl in the SS-4 form. (Llamas Corona Decl. ¶ 15 & Ex. 9.) “The ‘responsible party” is the person who ultimately owns or controls the entity or who exercises ultimate effective control over the entity. The person identified as the responsible party should have a level of control over, or entitlement to, the funds or assets in the entity that, as a practical matter, enables the person, directly or indirectly, to control, manage, or direct the entity and the disposition of its funds and assets.” (See Instructions for Form SS-4, found at https://www.irs.gov/instructions/iss4.) While ownership may be a factor in determining who is the responsible party, it is not dispositive. Based on the definition of “responsible party” provided by the IRS, control over the entity is the determining factor. Accordingly, plaintiff’s designation as the responsible party and his status as “President” does not necessarily mean that he was a shareholder of Yellow Owl.   Plaintiff also relies on a “copy of the stock certificate issued in [his] name,” which he was able to purportedly locate. (Llamas Corona Decl. ¶ 15 & 9.) The black-and-white certificate is ostensibly for 1,000 shares of Yellow Owl, contains a date of October 30, 2014 on the top of the certificate, contains the signature of an unknown person, and also contains a handwritten date of November 20, 2014. (Llamas Corona Decl. ¶ 15 & 9.) In discovery, plaintiff asserted a “Stock Certificate of Yellow Owl” as the basis for his contention that he is the sole shareholder of Yellow Owl. (Gregory Decl. ¶¶ 2-4 & Exs. 1-3 [response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 with respect to Request for Admission No. 2 and Stock Certificate at page 45 of PDF file].) The certificate provided by plaintiff in discovery is the same as the certificate provided by plaintiff in support of his opening brief. (Compare Gregory Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. 3 at page 45 of PDF file with Llamas Corona Decl. ¶ 15 & 9.)   Both certificates bear copyright notices from “CORPORATE KIT SUPPLY CKS 2.” Defendants issued a subpoena to Corporate Kit Supply (“CKS”) seeking all documents relating to Yellow Owl, including orders placed by plaintiff or Oliver Cisneros, the family accountant who plaintiff contends formed Yellow Owl. (Gregory Decl. ¶ 5 & Ex. 4; Llamas Corona ¶ 9.) Plaintiff filed a motion to quash the subpoena, which the Court denied. (10/3/24 Minute Order.) In response to the subpoena, CKS provided invoices, billing statements, shipping information, and a custodian of records declaration. (Gregory Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 5.) Included in CKS’s production was an invoice #49858 indicating that on December 28, 2023, Cisneros ordered a corporate kit of Yellow Owl for 1,000 shares, with a date of formation of October 30, 2014. (Gregory Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 5 at pages 157, 184 of PDF file.) The order corresponding to invoice #49858 was shipped to Cisneros on December 28, 2023. (Gregory Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 5 at pages 174 of PDF file.)   Plaintiff maintains that he has owned 100% of Yellow Owl shares from the “very beginning.” (Llamas Corona ¶ 10.) Plaintiff claims that a few weeks after October 30, 2014, when Cisneros had prepared and plaintiff had signed the bylaws, minutes, and other corporate documents, plaintiff signed a stock certificate that was placed in the corporate book. (Llamas Corona ¶ 19.) Plaintiff also contends that he “was also able to locate a copy of the stock certificate issued in [his] name.” (Llamas Corona Decl. ¶ 15.) Based on these averments, plaintiff would have the Court believe that the copy of the stock certificate he presented to the Court was issued close to formation of Yellow Owl in 2014. However, the invoices and shipment information provided by CKS in response to defendants’ subpoena indicates that plaintiff is attempting to mislead the Court into believing that the copy of the stock certificate is contemporaneous evidence of his ownership of the company. Plaintiff fails to provide any explanation how a stock certificate ordered almost 10 years from the formation of the company is probative of his ownership. (See Reply at 10:16-18 [“Even without a copy of the stock certificate, the IRS documents prove Christian is the true founder/owner of Yellow Owl because they were submitted to the IRS concurrently with the company’s formation”].) Although plaintiff contends that defendants removed or destroyed the original stock certificate from the corporate book (Biggins Decl. ¶ 6; Opening Br. at 1:23-25), plaintiff’s attempt to portray the post hoc copy of the stock certificate as contemporaneous cast doubt on his assertion. Accordingly, the copy of the stock certificate provided by plaintiff carries no weight.   The Court also notes Cisneros’s averment that plaintiff was “identif[ied] as the owner” of Yellow Owl at the time he prepared the corporate book in 2014. (Cisneros Decl. ¶ 8.) However, this averment is conclusory, as Cisneros does not state how documents in the corporate book provide any indication that plaintiff was the owner. Cisneros’s averment is no more than an ultimate legal conclusion without any adequate basis.   In discovery, plaintiff also cites Bylaws as supporting his assertion that he is the sole shareholder of Yellow Owl. (Gregory Decl. ¶¶ 2-4 & Exs. 1-3 [response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 with respect to Request for Admission No. 2.) However, plaintiff provides no analysis as to how the Bylaws support his contention that he is the sole shareholder of Yellow Owl or that he had any right to vote for directors. Instead, plaintiff disputes the validity of the Bylaws and other documents presented by defendants in support of their assertion that they are the lawful owners and directors of Yellow Owl. (Llamas Corona Decl. ¶¶ 20-28.) As the moving party, plaintiff has the burden of establishing his standing to bring an action under Corporations Code § 709. Plaintiff only relies on the SS-4 form and the copy of the stock certification to establish his contention that he is the “true owner” of Yellow Owl. For the reasons stated above, plaintiff fails to meet his burden.   The Court notes that defendants contend that they are the owners of Yellow Owl based on an amendment to a trust which held Yellow Owl. (C. Llamas Decl. ¶ 5 & Exs. 2, 3.) The amendment stated that defendants Claudia Llamas and Jessica Llamas are beneficiaries of a 50% interest in Yellow Owl. (C. Llamas Decl. ¶ 5 & Ex. 3 at ¶¶ 3, 4.) Plaintiff is disputing the validity of the amendment in a probate proceeding. (Llamas Corona Reply Decl. ¶ 37.) Considering the pendency of the probate proceeding and plaintiff’s slight and insufficient evidence in support of his claim that he is the sole shareholder, the Court cannot make any determination regarding plaintiff’s shareholder status.   Given that petitioner has not demonstrated his standing to bring an action under Corporations Code § 709 as a shareholder, the Court declines to find that plaintiff is a director of Yellow Owl. The Court expresses no opinion on who the shareholders or directors of Yellow Owl are.  The Court does not and need not reach those issues in order to determine the questions presented in this proceeding.  Based on the record before the Court, the Court can only say that plaintiff has not met his initial burden of establishing that he is a shareholder or anyone with the right to vote. 