  Case Number:  23IWUD01503    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
        Thursday, November 21, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                       Calendar No. 22
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
USRE
Trust v. Perry Howell, et al.   
23IWUD01503
1.      USRE Trust’s Motion for Summary Judgment     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            USRE Trust’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is granted.    
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Unlawful
Detainer action on July 7, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Defendant
is the former owner of real property located at 10225 South 7th Avenue,
Inglewood, California 90303. Plaintiff obtained title of the property through a
non-judicial foreclosure sale. 
 
            Motion for Summary Judgment
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment on the ground
that no triable issue of material fact exists and that Plaintiff’s cause of
action for unlawful detainer is meritorious based on Defendant’s failure to
vacate the premises after Plaintiff’s lawful purchase of the property pursuant
to a non-judicial foreclosure sale. 
 
Plaintiff has met its initial burden to show that
there is no defense to the cause of action for unlawful detainer by proving
each element of the cause of action entitling it to judgment on that cause of
action. Thus, the burden shifts to Defendant to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action. CCP § 437c(p)(1).
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1161a states:
“(a) As used in this section:
(1) “Manufactured home” has the same meaning as
provided in Section 18007 of the Health and Safety Code.
(2) “Mobilehome” has the same meaning as provided in
Section 18008 of the Health and Safety Code.
(3) “Floating home” has the same meaning as provided
in subdivision (d) of Section 18075.55 of the Health and Safety Code.
(b) In any of the following cases, a person who holds
over and continues in possession of a manufactured home, mobilehome, floating
home, or real property after a three-day written notice to quit the property
has been served upon the person, or if there is a subtenant in actual
occupation of the premises, also upon such subtenant, as prescribed in Section
1162, may be removed therefrom as prescribed in this chapter:
(1) Where the property has been sold pursuant to a
writ of execution against such person, or a person under whom such person
claims, and the title under the sale has been duly perfected.
(2) Where the property has been sold pursuant to a
writ of sale, upon the foreclosure by proceedings taken as prescribed in this
code of a mortgage, or under an express power of sale contained therein,
executed by such person, or a person under whom such person claims, and the
title under the foreclosure has been duly perfected.
(3) Where the property has been sold in accordance
with Section 2924 of the Civil Code, under a power of sale contained in a deed
of trust executed by such person, or a person under whom such person claims,
and the title under the sale has been duly perfected.
(4) Where the property has been sold by such person,
or a person under whom such person claims, and the title under the sale has
been duly perfected.
(5) Where the property has been sold in accordance
with Section 18037.5 of the Health and Safety Code under the default provisions
of a conditional sale contract or security agreement executed by such person,
or a person under whom such person claims, and the title under the sale has
been duly perfected.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (b),
a tenant or subtenant in possession of a rental housing unit which has been
sold by reason of any of the causes enumerated in subdivision (b), who rents or
leases the rental housing unit either on a periodic basis from week to week,
month to month, or other interval, or for a fixed period of time, shall be
given written notice to quit pursuant to Section 1162, at least as long as the
term of hiring itself but not exceeding 30 days, before the tenant or subtenant
may be removed therefrom as prescribed in this chapter.
(d) For the purpose of subdivision (c), “rental
housing unit” means any structure or any part thereof which is rented or
offered for rent for residential occupancy in this state.”
 
Here, Plaintiff has established each element of the
cause of action. Plaintiff is the purchaser of the subject property and
acquired lawful title pursuant to a non-judicial foreclosure sale. (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 1-7.)  On June 27, 2023, Plaintiff served on
Defendant a 3-Day Notice to Vacate.  (Id.
at 8.)  Defendant failed to vacate the
premises and restore possession of the premises to Plaintiff.  (Id. at 10-11.)   
 
The burden shifts to Defendant to provide evidence to
show the existence of a triable issue of material fact. CCP § 437c(p)(1).
Defendant filed no written opposition. 
 
Therefore, Defendant failed to meet his burden to show
the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s cause of
action. Defendant fails to submit any competent evidence to controvert
Defendant’s evidence. 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is
granted.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.