 Case Number:  23TRCV02313    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                             Thursday, November 21, 2024
Department M                                                                                                         Calendar No. 20
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Claudia Ascencio v. Enterprise
Rent-A-Car Company of Los Angeles, et al.
            23TRCV02313
1.      Claudia Ascencio’s Petition to Appoint Arbitrator 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Claudia Ascencio’s Petition to
Appoint Arbitrator is granted. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on July
18, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. On July 25, 2022, Plaintiff
entered into a transaction with Enterprise for the purchase of a used 2019
Dodge Grand Caravan. The vehicle suffered from numerous defects shortly after
the purchase. The defects were not disclosed to Plaintiff. Bank of America,
N.A. was assigned the contract from Enterprise. Defendant Safeco Insurance
Company of America issued a bond to Enterprise under Vehicle Code § 11710. Defendant
United Service Protection Corporation (“USPC”) provided a service contract for
extra protection beyond Enterprise’s warranty. Plaintiff alleges the following
causes of action: 1. Violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act; 2.
Intentional Misrepresentation; 3. Concealment; 4. Negligent Misrepresentation;
5. Breach of Express Warranty; 6. Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act; 7. Failure to Commence Repairs Within a Reasonable Time and to
Complete Them Within 30 Days; 8. Failure to Promptly Repurchase Product; 9.
Violation of the Unfair Competition Law; 10. Violation of Vehicle Code § 11711.

 
            Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration was granted on June 4, 2024.
 
Petition to
Appoint Arbitrator 
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.6 states:
 
“If
the arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that
method shall be followed. If the arbitration agreement does not provide a
method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seek
arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may agree on a method of
appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be followed. In the absence of
an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be
followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act and his or her successor
has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a party to the arbitration
agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.
 
When
a petition is made to the court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court
shall nominate five persons from lists of persons supplied jointly by the
parties to the arbitration or obtained from a governmental agency concerned
with arbitration or private disinterested association concerned with
arbitration. The parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom
arbitration is sought may within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees
from the court jointly select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is
among the nominees. If the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the
five-day period, the court shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.”
 
Plaintiff
petitions the Court, pursuant to CCP § 1281.6, for an order of appointment of
an arbitrator. Plaintiff requests an order requiring the parties to jointly
submit a list of ten neutral arbitrations to which the Court will nominate five
names. The motion is made on the grounds that the parties have been unable to
agree on an arbitrator. Pursuant to the plain language of the Retail
Installment Sale Contract (“RISC”), Plaintiff may
choose to use the AAA, or a different arbitration organization: “You may choose
the American Arbitration Association [. . .] or any other organization to
conduct the arbitration subject to our approval.” (Plaintiff’s Compendium of
Exhibits (“COE”), Ex. 1.) Plaintiff states that she has not chosen the AAA, but
that Defendants insist on the use of the AAA. Therefore, Plaintiff petitions
the Court to utilize the process mandated in Section 1281.6.
 
Defendants
Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company of Los Angeles (“Enterprise”) and Bank of
America, National Association (“BANA”) filed a written opposition. Defendants
insist that the AAA is the proper forum pursuant to the RISC because Plaintiff
never sent a list of any other alternative arbitrator to which the Defendants
could approve. Defendants also argue that this Court has already ordered the
matter to proceed via AAA. In its opposition, Defendant accurately quotes the
text of the relevant clause: “You may choose the American Arbitration
Association [...] (www.adr.org), or any other organization to conduct the
arbitration subject to our [Enterprise’s] approval.” (Plaintiffs’ Compendium of
Exhibits (“COE”), Ex. 1.)  However,
missing from the language of the clause is the alleged requirement that
Plaintiff must send a list of alternative arbitrators to Defendants to which
the Defendants must then approve. Plaintiff has clearly not chosen the AAA
which is fully within her right under the plain language of the agreement. In
addition, Plaintiff has adequately demonstrated her attempt to reach an
agreement on an alternative forum, but, instead, it was Defendants who
adamantly refused to consider any other alternative than the AAA. (Plaintiff’s
Exs. 3, 4.) 
 
In
addition, the Court notes that Defendants appear to rely on a completely
misguided and mistaken interpretation of the Court’s June 4, 2024 minute order.
The Court simply ruled upon the motion in front of it at the time – to compel
arbitration. The Court did not and could not make any order appointing an
arbitrator. 
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff’s petition for appointment of arbitrator is granted. The parties
shall jointly submit the names of ten proposed arbitrators, five from Plaintiff
and five from Defendants, in alphabetical order and without any reference to
what arbitration organization the arbitrator is affiliated with (if any),
within five (5) days of this order.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.