  Case Number:  23PSCV00879    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  H Alcaraz
v. Arrieta, Case
No. 23PSCV00879


ORDER
ON DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
1.
      Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Jose Luis
Alcaraz’s Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED. 
2.
      Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Jose Luis Alcaraz’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Cross-Complaint
is DENIED.
I.        Background
Plaintiff Jose Luis Alcaraz (“Alcaraz”) alleges as follows:

In 2019, Alcaraz became interested in purchasing the
property located at 1061 Weber Street in Pomona (the “subject property”).
Patricia B. Arrieta (“Arrieta”) told Alcaraz that her friend, Julie Tena
(“Tena”), was a loan officer and would help Alcaraz to secure funds to purchase
the subject property. Tena subsequently told Alcaraz that he would not qualify
for an affordable loan rate on his own and suggested that Arrieta also be
listed on the title to obtain a better rate.
Arrieta agreed to act as a straw person on the condition
that Alcaraz reimburse her for any out-of-pocket expenses; Alcaraz agreed. Alcaraz,
in turn, requested that Arrieta transfer her interest in the subject property
upon his demand; Arrieta agreed. Before escrow closed, Tena suggested that
another person take Alcaraz’s place on title to obtain a desirable loan rate. Alcaraz’s
friend, Ernesto E. Aguirre Morales (“Morales”), agreed to act as the second
straw person on the same terms and conditions to which Arrieta agreed. 
Alcaraz paid the down payment and made all mortgage
payments for the subject property. Neither Arrieta nor Morales resided at the
subject property. In 2022, Morales transferred his interest in the subject
property to Alcaraz when Alcaraz sought to refinance the mortgage on the
subject property. Arrieta has been collecting rent from the tenants residing at
the subject property and refuses to transfer her interest in the subject
property. 
On March 24, 2023, Alcaraz filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Arrieta, Does 1-20, and Does 21-40 for (1) quiet
title, (2) partition of real property, and (3) accounting. 
On August 29, 2024, Arrieta filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint (the “Operative Cross-Complaint” or “FACC”), asserting causes
of action against Alcaraz for (1) fraud, (2) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, (3) partition of real property, and (4) accounting. 
The Final Status Conference is set for December 9, 2024.
Trial is set for December 16, 2024. 
Pending before the Court are (1) Alcaraz’s demurrer to the
first through fourth causes of action in the Operative Cross-Complaint and (2)
Alcaraz’s motion to strike portions of the Operative Cross-Complaint. For the
reasons stated herein, the Court overrules the demurrer and denies the motion
to strike.
 
II.      Legal
Standards
A demurrer
may be made on the grounds that, inter alia, the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) 
“A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) 
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
III.     Discussion
          A.       Alcaraz’s
Demurrer 
Alcaraz demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10(e), to the first through fourth causes of action in the Operative
Cross-Complaint, on the basis that they each fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action. 
 
First Cause of Action (i.e., Fraud)
Alcaraz
asserts that Arrieta has failed to state a cause of action
for fraud. “The elements of fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (or
scienter); (3) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 990.) 
“[F]raud must be pled
specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “This particularity requirement
necessitates facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Id. [internal quotations and citation
omitted].)
Alcaraz complains that Arrieta’s fraud cause of action has not been pled with
the requisite specificity. The Court disagrees. Arrieta has alleged that she
was in a romantic relationship with Alcaraz
(FACC, ¶ 2); that, on several occasions beginning in June
2019 (which was apparently within three months of commencing the relationship),
Alcaraz stated to Arrieta that they should look to buy a property together for
their mutual beneficial use and future financial security and that, once
purchased, they could live in the property together (Id., ¶¶ 5 and 30);
that they went looking at properties in West Covina, Santa Fe Springs and
Pomona over the course of several weeks during which time Alcaraz reiterated that he
wanted to buy the property together so that they could live in it and obtain
value though the increase in price over time (Id., ¶¶ 8 and 30); that Alcaraz suggested that they
purchase the property (Id., ¶ 10); that Arrieta relied on Alcaraz’s repeated and
consistent statements that he wanted to buy a house with her, used her “first
time home buyers” status to obtain the best loan rate, and joined Alcaraz in negotiating the
purchase of the property (Id., ¶¶ 9, 11, 13 and 32); that during the
loan process Alcaraz and Arrieta were advised that an affordable loan rate could not be
obtained with Alcaraz on the loan, so Alcaraz arranged for another first-time buyer, Ernest Aguirre Morales
(“Morales”), to take his place as co-buyer with her (Id., ¶¶ 13 and 14);
that Alcaraz and Arrieta opened a joint bank account to deposit rent and pay the
mortgage and expenses on the property (Id., ¶ 17); that on or about
March 22, 2022, Morales transferred his interest in the property to Alcaraz (Id., ¶ 18);
that within three months of getting his name on the title to the property, Alcaraz unilaterally and
without warning closed the joint account with Arrieta and broke up with Arrieta
(Id., ¶¶ 19 and 21); that Alcaraz never undertook actions for them to move into the property after it was
purchased (Id., ¶ 20); that Alcaraz failed to make Arrieta aware, since March 2022, of the amount of rent
collected and expenses paid on the property and has not provided her with
access to the new account he opened (Id., ¶¶ 22-23); that Alcaraz knew his actions and
representations were false when he made them and intended that Arrieta rely on
them (Id., ¶¶ 33 and 34); that Alcaraz, at all times, never intended to move into the property with Arrieta but
instead wanted to induce her to use her credit and first time home buyer’s
status to obtain the property and then have her removed from title (Id.,
¶¶ 12 and 31); that Arrieta’s reliance on Alcaraz’s representations was a substantial factor in causing her harm (Id.,
¶ 36); that Arrieta does not know what monies have been generated by the
property (Id., ¶ 37); and that Alcaraz is now trying to have Arrieta removed from title (Id., ¶¶ 25 and
37).
The Court overrules Alcaraz’s demurrer to the
first cause of action. 
 
Second Cause of Action (i.e., Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress)
Alcaraz asserts that Arrieta has failed to state a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. “A cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is (1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050 [internal
quotations and citation omitted].) 
The Court believes
Arrieta has now sufficiently pled the elements of this cause of action. (See
above and FACC, ¶¶ 40-46 [alleging, among other things, that Alcaraz “engaged
in a scheme of deceit” to convince Alcaraz to purchase a property and obtain a favorable
loan using her first time home buyer status by repeatedly claiming they would
live in the property together, visiting potential properties together, and
continuing to talk about moving in with Alcaraz only to “immediately” close
their joint bank account and terminate the relationship once he was on the
title].)
The Court overrules Alcaraz’s demurrer to the
second cause of action. 
  
Third Cause of Action (i.e., Partition)
Alcaraz asserts that Arrieta has failed to state a cause of action for partition
of real property. The Court disagrees. The requirements of a partition cause
of action are set forth in Code of Civil Procedure § 872.230 [i.e., “The
complaint shall set forth: (a) A description of the property that is the
subject of the action . . . (b) All interests the plaintiff has or claims in
the property. (c) All interests of record or actually known to the plaintiff
that persons other than the plaintiff have or claim in the property and that
the plaintiff reasonably believes will be materially affected by the action,
whether the names of such persons are known or unknown to the plaintiff. (d)
The estate as to which partition is sought and a prayer for partition of the
interests therein. (e) Where the plaintiff seeks sale of the property, an
allegation of the facts justifying such relief in ordinary and concise
language”].)
Arrieta has alleged that she is a joint tenant and
owner in the property (described at FACC, ¶ 10) with Alcaraz. (FACC, ¶ 49.) 
The Court overrules Alcaraz’s demurrer to the
third cause of action.  
Fourth Cause of Action (i.e., for Accounting) 
Alcaraz asserts that Arrieta
has failed to state a cause of action for accounting. The Court disagrees. “The right to an accounting is derivative and depends on
the validity of a plaintiff's underlying claims.” (Duggal v. G.E. Capital Communications Services, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 81, 95.)
Again, Arrieta has sufficiently pled her underlying
claims. The Court overrules Alcaraz’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action. 
B.       Alcaraz’s
Motion to Strike
Alcaraz
moves the
Court for an order striking out the following portions of the Operative
Cross-Complaint:
1.       Paragraph 38 (i.e., “Cross-Defendant committed the acts alleged herein maliciously,
fraudulently, and oppressively, in bad faith, with the wrongful intention of
injuring Cross-Complainant, and in engaging in said conduct acted from an
improper and evil motive amounting to malice, and in conscious disregard of
Cross-Complainant’s rights. Cross-Complainant thus seeks an award of punitive
and exemplary damages in an amount according to proof at time of trial”); and

2.       Paragraph 47 (i.e., “Cross-Defendant committed the acts alleged herein
maliciously, fraudulently, and oppressively, in bad faith, with the wrongful
intention of injuring Cross-Complainant, and in engaging in said conduct acted
from an improper and evil motive amounting to malice, and in conscious
disregard of Cross-Complainant’s rights. Cross-Complainant thus seeks an award
of punitive and exemplary damages in an amount according to proof”).
Punitive
damages may be awarded upon clear and convincing evidence that a defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)
“Malice” is
defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code
§ 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
“Oppression”
is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit,
or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on
the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal
rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
The Court has determined that Arrieta has adequately
pled causes of action for Fraud and Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, for the reasons set forth above.
Thus, the motion to strike is denied.
In advance of the Final Status Conference on December 9,
2024 and the Court Trial on December 16, 2024, the parties are directed (1) to
review the Department H Case Management Conference Standing Order and (2) to
file and serve trial documents in accordance with that order.