  Case Number:  24STCP00216    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ FANTAWILD ANIMATION, INC., Petitioner, vs. NOWA FILMLATKA DISTRIBUTION SP ZOO, et al., Respondent. Case No.: 24STCP00216 Hearing Date: August 16, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD  I.  BACKGROUND On December 15, 2023, Arbitrator Lorin Brennan, through the International Centre For Dispute Resolution, issued an arbitration award in favor of Petitioner Fantawild Animation, Inc. (“Petitioner”) and against Respondent Nowa Filmlatka Distribution SP. Z.O.O. (“Respondent”) in the amount of $87,000 and for Respondent to deliver to Petitioner all materials for three animated motion pictures (Boonie Bears: Back to Earth, Boonie Bears: Blast Into The Past, and Boonie Bears: The Wild Life) previously delivered to Respondent.  (Pet. ¶¶ 8, 10; Attachment 10(g).) On January 22, 2024, Petitioner filed the instant Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award (“Petition”) against Respondent.  II.  CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD Legal Standard Once arbitration is concluded, “any arbitrator’s award is enforceable only when confirmed as a judgment of the superior court.”¿ (O’Hare v. Municipal Resource Consultants (2003) 107¿Cal.App.4th 267, 278.). Any of the parties may file a petition with the court, which must then “confirm the award, correct and confirm it, vacate it, or dismiss the petition.”¿ (Code¿of¿Civil¿Proc.¿§§¿1285, 1286; EHM Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of Hollywood,¿Inc.¿(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063.) “It is well settled that the scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is extremely narrow.”¿(California Faculty Assn. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.)¿ “Neither the trial court, nor the appellate court, may ‘review the merits of the dispute, the sufficiency of the evidence, or the arbitrator’s reasoning, nor may we correct or review an award because of an arbitrator’s legal or factual error, even if it appears on the award’s face.” (EHM Productions, supra, at p. 1063-64.) Filing Requirements CCP § 1285.4 states: “A petition under this chapter shall:¿(a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement.¿(b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators.¿(c) (c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.”¿ Petitioner submits a summary of the provision in Paragraph V.B. of the agreement providing for an arbitration agreement entered on May 9, 2022. (Pet., ¶ 4.)  The arbitration was conducted by Arbitrator Ashlei Vargas.  (Pet., ¶ 6).) A copy of the arbitration award and written opinion is attached to the petition. (Pet. ¶10(g), Attachment 10(g).)  Petitioner has thus satisfied CCP section 1285.4 requirements. Service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing (CCP § 1290.4) CCP § 1290.4 states in pertinent part:¿¿ ¿“(a) A copy of the petition and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof and any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be served in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice.¿ ¿(b) If the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service shall be made and the person upon whom service is to be made has not previously appeared in the proceeding and has not previously been served in accordance with this subdivision: [¶] (1) Service within this State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the service of summons in an action.”¿ ¿ Here, Petitioner does not state whether the arbitration agreement provides the manner for service of the petition and notice.¿The petition and notice thus must be served in the same manner as a summons in an action. The proof of service filed on April 9, 2024 shows only that the summons, complaint (i.e. the Petition), and notice of case assignment were served on Respondent at a Polish address in reference to CCP Section 1290.4(b)(2), with return receipt for International Registered Mail attached thereto. Here, the Petition did not include a notice of hearing, nor is there any proof of service demonstrating that a notice of hearing was served on Respondent within the timeframe prescribed by CCP § 1005(b). Petitioner is required to give Respondent notice of the time and place of hearing to confirm the arbitration award. Petitioner has thus failed to serve the notice of hearing in compliance with CCP section 1290.4. Service of the Arbitration Award and Timeliness of Petition (CCP §§ 1283.6, 1288, 1288.4) CCP section 1283.6 provides that: “The neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the award on each party to the arbitration personally or by registered or certified mail or as provided in the agreement.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1283.6.)¿Additionally, a party may seek a court judgment confirming an arbitration award by filing and serving a petition no more than four years, but not less than 10 days, after the award is served.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1288, 1288.4.) Petitioner indicates the arbitration award was served on December 15, 2023. (Pet., ¶ 9a.)¿Petitioner has attached only the arbitration Final Award. Petitioner has failed to provide proof of service confirming the arbitration award was served on the parties by the arbitrator on December 15, 2023.¿Without proof of service of the arbitration award, the Court cannot determine that the petition is timely pursuant to CCP sections 1288 and 1288.4.  III. CONCLUSION & ORDER For the foregoing reasons, Petitioner’s Hearing on Motion to Confirm Arbitration Award is CONTINUED to _______________ in Department 78 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. At least 16 court days before the next scheduled hearing, Petitioner must file supplemental papers correcting the errors noted above. Failure to do so may result in the Petition being placed off calendar or denied.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: August 15, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 