 Case Number:  24STCP01404    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  In THE MATTER of: j.g. wentworth originations, llc, Petitioner,  vs.  C.T., Real Party-In-Interest/Transferor. Case No.: 24STCP01404 Hearing Date: August 16, 2024   [TENTATIVE] DENYING Petitioner J.G. WENTWORTH’S PETITION FOR APPROVAL FOR TRANSFER OF PAYMENT RIGHTS.   This matter was reassigned effective July 5, 2024. The petition for approval for transfer of payment rights is DENIED.   This Court and the prior court collectively granted the parties a number of opportunities to provide further explanation as to the issues raised. Since the last continuance, Petitioner has only filed notice of all prior declarations of Payee and all prior petitions for approval. Additionally, Petitioner filed a supplemental declaration of Payee just two court days before the hearing, which does not give this Court appropriate notice prior to the hearing. There is no supplemental declaration by Petitioner. Neither Petitioner nor Payee have made any good faith effort to abide by the prior court’s instructions for both to separately file a declaration addressing the questions raised on June 26, 2024 in a timely manner. The Court can only presume that both Petitioner and Payee are either unwilling or unable to provide further explanation and documentation.  Should Petitioner file a new petition, Petitioner and Payee are instructed to file all relevant or necessary documents no later than nine (9) court days prior to the hearing. The Court has observed that Petitioner, in both this case and other cases this Court has involving the same Petitioner, appears to have a habit of late filings right before the hearing, which fails to give this Court sufficient notice and time to review. The Court will not consider late-filed documents.  Petitioner to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.  Factual Background This is a Petition for Approval for Transfer of Payment Rights. Petitioner J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC alleges that Payee C.T.  (“Payee”) became entitled to certain structured settlement payments in connection with a settlement she had received through a wrongful death lawsuit when she was a minor. (Amended Petition, ¶3.) In 2019, Payee became entitled to future payments through a structured settlement annuity. (Id., ¶¶4-5.) Under this annuity, Payee is set to receive period payments from Omaha Life Insurance Company. (Id. at ¶ 5.) Payee has now entered into a Purchase Agreement with Petitioner for the purpose of transferring the annuity payments to Petitioner in exchange for a lump payment. (Id. at ¶7, Exh. A.)  If the Purchase Agreement is approved by the Court, then Payee will transfer and assign to Petitioner future payments totaling $28,386.36. (Amended Petition, Exh. A, pdf p.22.) In exchange, Petitioner will pay Payee $13,102.90. (Id.)  procedural history Petitioner filed its Petition on May 2, 2024.  On May 3, 2024, Petitioner filed an Amended Petition. On June 17, 2024, the Court continued this matter to allow Petitioner to file a missing declaration. On June 26, 2024, the Court reviewed the missing declaration, and required more information to determine whether the transfer was in the Payee’s best interests. (Min. Order, June 26, 2024.) The Court requested Petitioner to file (1) copies of the four previous petitions and supporting declarations, and (1) that Payee to file a supplemental declaration explaining how the $154,066 received from four separate transactions was spent, why Payee requires more money, and how much of the annuity will remain if the proposed transfer is approved. Further, the Court required Petitioner to file a declaration explaining why the transactions have been broken up the way they have, including an explanation of the calculation of the various percentages paid out or to be paid in each transaction. The additional documents were to be filed by July 17, 2024. The hearing was continued to July 24, 2024.  On July 15, 2024, Petitioner filed Payee’s supplemental declaration.  On July 30, 2024, Petitioner filed a Notice of Filing of All Prior Petitions of Payee.  On July 30, 2024, Petitioner filed a Notice of Filing of All Prior Declarations of Payee.  On August 14, 2024, just two days before the hearing, Petitioner filed a supplemental declaration of Payee.  Discussion Petition for Approval of Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights  A direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not effective unless the transfer has been approved in a final court order based on certain express written findings by the Court.¿ (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a).)¿ The transferee must comply with the notification requirements of subdivision (f)(2).¿ (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).)¿A notice of proposed transfer and petition must be filed and served no later than 20 days before the hearing and must include the items enumerated in Institution Code § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2). Here, the Court already previously found that Petitioner generally complied with the requirements set forth under Institution Code § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2). (Min. Order, June 26, 2025.)  (1) a copy of the transferee’s current petition and any other prior petition;  Previously the Court found that the Petition included a copy of the proposed transfer agreement, disclosure form, and annuity agreement. (Petition, Exhs. A-C.) However, the Payee’s declaration stated that he completed four other petitions in 2023 and 2024 (Todd Decl. ¶9), yet Petitioner failed to provide copies of these prior petitions with this petition. (Min. Order, June 26, 2024.) The Court requested copies of the four prior petitions and supporting declarations be filed, yet Petitioner has not filed them to date.  (2) a copy of the proposed transfer agreement and disclosure form required by section 10139.5, subdivision (a)(3);  These documents were included in Exhibits A-C to the Petition. (3) a listing of each of the payee’s dependents and their ages;  Payee previously testified he was not married, did not have minor children, and did not have court-ordered child support obligations. (Todd Decl., ¶8.) Payee’s supplemental declaration, filed on July 15, 2024, now provides contrary information. Payee now declares that his child was born May 5 (no year provided), and that he and his partner plan to move to Nevada. (Suppl. Todd Decl. ¶ 4.) The supplemental declaration fails to actually specify who are payee’s dependents and their ages.   (4) a copy of the disclosure required in section 10136, subdivision (b);  Attached as Exh. B. (5) a copy of the annuity contract, any qualified assignment agreement, and underlying structured settlement agreement, if available;  The annuity contract is attached as Exhibit C. The settlement agreement begins at pdf p.34.) (6) proof of service showing compliance with the notification requirements; (7) notification that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond to the transferee’s petition by submitting written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing; (8) notification of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner in which and the time by which written responses to the petition must be filed; and (9) notice to the payee’s attorney of record at the time the structured settlement was created, if payee entered into the structured settlement at issue within five years prior to the date of the transfer agreement.¿ (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2).) The Petition includes notification of the time and place of the hearing, notice that interested parties are entitled to respond, notice of the manner in which a written response must be filed, and notice to Payee’s settlement attorney of record.  Whether the Transfer Agreement Complies with Statutory Requirements. The transfer agreement must comply with Insurance Code sections 10136 and 10138.¿ (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).)¿Here, the transfer agreement contains the required text and form. (Motion, Exh. A.) Accordingly, the Court finds that the transfer agreement complies with Insurance Code sections 10136 and 10138.¿ Whether the Petition Contravenes Any Applicable Statute or Order.  The transfer must not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other government authority.¿ (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(4).)¿ The transfer generally complies with statutory requirements, and there is no evidence that it contravenes the order of any court or other government authority.  Accordingly, the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.  Whether Payee Knowingly Waived His Right to Receive Independent Professional Advice. The payee must be advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and either receive that advice or knowingly waive, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.¿ (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(2).)¿ The Transfer Agreement advises that Payee may receive independent legal and financial advice, but Payee knowingly waived the right.¿ (Petition, pdf p. 25.) Accordingly, the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.¿ Whether Payee Received the Required Disclosure Form. The transferee must provide the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Insurance Code section 10136.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).)  The disclosure form must contain specific text, and the transferee must provide the disclosure form at least ten days before the payee executes a transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10136, subd. (b).)  The disclosure form here contains the required text and form.  (Motion, Exh. B.)  Payee received and read the disclosure form at least ten days before signing the transfer agreement.  (Id.) Accordingly, the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied. Whether Payee Declares His Understanding of the Terms.  The payee must understand the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement, and the right to cancel the transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(5)-(6).)  Payee declares that he understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement.  (Todd Decl., ¶13.)  Additionally, Payee signed the Transfer Agreement directly under a statement advising him of his right to cancel the agreement.  (Petition, pdf p.25.)  The Court therefore finds that this requirement is satisfied. Whether the Transfer is in the Best Interest of the Payee. The transfer must be in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(1).)  When determining whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee’s best interests, the Court must consider the totality of the circumstances, including but not limited to:  (1) the reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking into account the payee’s age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level;  (2) the stated purpose of the transfer;  (3) the payee’s financial and economic situation;  (4) the terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her future payments;  (5) whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to pay for the future medical care and treatment of the payee relating to injuries sustained by the payee in the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee still needs those future payments to pay for that future care and treatment;  (6) whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to provide for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs the future structured settlement payments to pay for future necessary living expenses;  (7) whether the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to require future medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee sustained in connection with the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee lacks other resources, including insurance, sufficient to cover those future medical expenses;  (8) whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside from the structured settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer, sufficient to meet the payee’s future financial obligations for maintenance and support of the payee’s dependents, specifically including, but not limited to, the payee’s child support obligations, if any;  (9) whether the financial terms of the transaction, including the discount rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the expenses and costs of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee, the size of the transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee to achieve the payee’s stated objectives, are fair and reasonable;  (10) whether the payee completed previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement payments and the timing and size of the previous transactions and whether the payee was satisfied with any previous transaction;  (11) whether the transferee attempted previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement payments that were denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years;  (12) whether, to the best of the transferee’s knowledge after making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the transferee, that were denied, or which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years;  (13) whether the payee, or his or her family or dependents, are in or are facing a hardship situation;  (14) whether the payee received independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction; and  (15) any other factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or any other interested party calls to the attention of the reviewing court or that the court determines should be considered in reviewing the transfer.   (Ins. Code., § 10139.5, subd. (b).) Previously, Payee testified he is 22 years old, lives in Los Angeles, California, is unmarried, is unemployed, and has no child support obligations. (Todd Decl., ¶8.) Between 2023 and 2024, Payee transferred portions of his original structured settlement and received a total of $154,066 in exchange for these assignments. (Id., ¶9.) Payee testified he was experiencing financial hardship and would use the money from the proposed assignment to fix the engine on his vehicle and pay rent. (Id., ¶11.) At the prior hearing, the Court notes that despite Payee receiving $154,066 from four separate transactions which all occurred within approximately one year, Payee was still facing financial hardship. Payee testified that he was unemployed, but provided no other information explaining his financial situation. The Court noted the unreasonableness of Payee being unable to pay rent or vehicle repair expenses after receipt of money, and that given the lack of information of Payee’s financial status, the Court’s concern that Payee transferred away his original annuity without sufficient understanding. Payee’s supplemental declaration is similarly ambiguous, and fails to address the specific points the Court had requested, namely: explaining how the $154,066 was spent, why Payee requires more money, and how much of the annuity this proposed transfer will leave Payee with. The Court also required Petitioner to file a declaration to explain why five separate petitions had been filed in five separate courtrooms in an approximately one-year period, and for Petitioner to provide an explanation of the calculation of the various percentages paid out or to be paid out in each transaction. No such declaration was filed by Petitioner. Instead, on July 15, 2024, Petitioner re-filed Payee’s supplemental declaration, and then filed a belated second supplemental declaration of Payee on August 14, 2024.  DATED:  ¿August 15, 2024¿  ________________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court 