  Case Number:  23STCV20036    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  74 Silverstein
v. Racing Greent LTD
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File
Corrected Complaint 
 
BACKGROUND  
            The
motion arises from a construction defect complaint.
            Plaintiff
Ali Silverstein (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendant Racing Green
LTD.
            Plaintiff
filed a motion for leave to file a corrected complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may,
in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after
commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will
usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy
favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave
to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend
is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” (Morgan v. Sup. Ct.
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank,
Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).) The motion must also state what allegations are proposed to be
deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line number. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).) Finally, a separate supporting declaration specifying
the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the
reason the request for amendment was not made earlier must also accompany the
motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.134(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
attached a copy of the corrected pleading and identifies the change, correcting
Defendant’s name from “Racing Greent Ltd” to “Racing Green Ltd.”
            Defendant
has not responded to this suit; therefore, there is no prejudice to the
Defendant. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a Corrected Complaint. 
            Plaintiff to give notice.