 Case Number:  22STCV25269    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 22STCV25269
Hearing Date: 02/23/2024 – 9:00am
Trial Date: 12/02/2024
Case Name: CHERYL OLLISON, an individual v. PASADENA
HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION, LTD dba HUNTINGTON HOSPITAL, and DOES 1-25 inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS]
RELIEF REQUESTED


“”Plaintiff,
Cheryl Ollison, moves the Court for an order precluding Defendant, Pasadena
Hospital Association LTD dba Huntington Hospital to pay monetary sanctions for
the misuse of discovery pursuant to CCP §2030.030.
The
motion will be made on the grounds that Defendant has failed to comply with the
Court’s Order on the hearing on Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One. On September 29, 2023, the Court ruled on Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One.
Defendant was ordered to provide responses to Plaintiff’s within 21 days. To
date, Plaintiff has not received responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One.
This
motion will further be made on the grounds that, for the reasons stated in the
Declaration of Lilit Elechyan, the Court should order Defendant to pay
Plaintiff and Plaintiffs counsel's reasonable expenses and attorney's fees in
the amount of $1,811.65.
This
motion is based on this Notice; the Memorandum of Points and Authorities; the
Declaration of Lilit Elechyan, Exhibits to this motion; the pleadings and
records on file herein; and on such other evidence as the court may allow.”
PROCEDURAL 
Moving Party: 
Plaintiff, Cheryl Ollison
Responding Party: Defendant,
Huntington Hospital
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition Papers: Opposition;
Elechyan Declaration
Reply Papers: No Reply
submitted
TENTATIVE RULING

As
a preliminary matter, the language of Plaintiff’s notice of motion doesn’t make
sense. The notice asks for the Court to preclude Defendant to pay monetary
sanctions. Generally speaking, preclude means to prevent. It is unlikely the
Plaintiff is asking for this Court to prevent Defendant from paying sanctions
when the motion also seeks sanctions for $1,811.65.
The notice of motion also moves pursuant to CCP § 2030.030.
This code section has nothing to do with sanctions. CCP § 2030.030 deals with
information as to how a party may propound thirty-five specially prepared
interrogatories. It mentions nothing about sanctions.
The general premise of Plaintiff’s motion as to why
Plaintiff is entitled to sanctions is as follows: (1) On September 29, 2023
this Court ruled that Plaintiff’s motion to compel defendant’s responses to
form interrogatories, set one, was granted; (2) The Court ordered Defendant to
serve responses without objection within 21 days; and (3) To date [presumably
11/7/2023, when Plaintiff’s counsel signed the moving declaration], Plaintiff
has not received responses.
Plaintiff’s memorandum references §§ 2023.030(a)-(e) and
2023.010(g) as its basis for sanctions.
Plaintiff does not specify exactly which subsection it
seeks sanctions under with respect to § 2023.030, but presumably Plaintiff
seeks them under § 2023.030(a) because that subsection pertains to monetary
sanctions. As to § 2023.010(g), that code section states that disobeying a
court order to provide discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.
“The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2023.030(a).)
“Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not
limited to, the following: Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (CCP
§ 2023.010.)
Here, it appears that a monetary sanction would be
authorized because Defendant disobeyed a court order to provide responses
within 21 days of September 29, 2023.
However, Opposition persuasively that a sanction need
not be imposed when the court finds that the party subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (See CCP § 2023.030(a).)
Here, the Court finds that Opposition sufficiently
established that imposition of a sanction would be unjust. Defendant submitted
the declaration of Diana Unti, the Risk, Claims, and Insurance Liaison at
Huntington Hospital. 
Unti stated that Defendant did not learn about its
prior counsel’s death until late November 2023. (Unti Decl. ¶3.) The Court
notes that late November 2023 would be after the responses would have been due.

Unti also states how Defendant immediately sought new
counsel, and once obtaining new counsel, it learned for the first time about
the procedural history of this case. (Unti Decl. ¶5.) Unti states that
Defendant was not made aware by former counsel that discovery had been
propounded by Plaintiff, that motions to compel and requests for sanctions were
filed and granted, that responses were not provided in the time frame ordered
by the Court, and that Plaintiff filed this motion for sanctions. (Unti Decl.
¶6.)
Further, Defendant’s current counsel states that a
substitution of attorney was filed on December 11, 2023. (Liu Decl. ¶4.)
Defendant’s current counsel further states:
Once the substitution of
attorney was signed and filed, Defendant's new attorneys began immediately
working on the file and getting up to speed on the case. Unfortunately, no
prior work had been done by former counsel on the discovery responses and no attempt
had been made to obtain responses from the client. Defendant's current counsel
began working on these responses and Plaintiff gave Defendant a deadline of
January 11, 2024 to provide responses. Given the volume of the discovery
requests, Defendant's Counsel needed more time to complete responses. Plaintiff
granted Defendant an extension to January 26, 2024 to provide responses.
Unfortunately, the attorney working on the discovery responses had a medical
emergency and was unable to serve the responses on January 26,2 024.
Ultimately, responses to the discovery requests at issue in the Motion was
served on February 5, 2024.
 
(Liu Decl. ¶5.)
 
Based on these
circumstances as to why responses were not provided by the date ordered by the
Court at the 9/29/2023 hearing, the Court finds that it would be unjust to
award sanctions.
 
Plaintiff’s motion for
sanctions is DENIED.
 
 
 