 Case Number:  23AVCV00544    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 02/23/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23AVCV00544
Trial Date: 04/28/2025
Case Name: DIETRICH WILHELM GEORGE LUSSE v. FRANCISCO JAVIER MARQUEZ, and DOES
1-30 inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiff,
Dietrich Wilhelm Georg Lusse, will and hereby does move the Court for an order
compelling Defendant, Francisco Javier Marquez, to provide further responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission (Set One), on the following grounds: 
•Plaintiff served straightforward requests for
admission; 
• Requests for admission are designed to narrow the
issues that will be presented at the time of trial; 
• Defendant provided evasive responses filled with
boilerplate objections to each of Plaintiff’s 26 requests for admission; 
• Plaintiff needs the requested discovery to prepare
for trial; 
• Plaintiff will be prejudiced if he is unable to
obtain the requested information; 
• Despite Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts
Defendant has refused to comply; and 
• Defendant forced Plaintiff to incur costs and fees
in bringing the instant motion.
Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.310, 2023.010, subdivisions (d), (e) and
(h), and 2023.030 in the amount of $1,283.33 against Defendant and/or his
attorneys of record, Hanger, Steinberg, Shapiro & Ash, ALC, for forcing
Plaintiff to bring this motion.
This motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2033.220, 2033.290, 2023.010, and 2023.030 and is based on
this notice, the accompanying Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the
pleadings and papers on file in this matter, Plaintiff’s Separate Statement,
Plaintiff’s [Proposed] Order, the Declaration of Curtis J. Crawford and upon
such documentary evidence and oral argument as may be presented at the hearing
of this motion.
BACKGROUND
The
instant action pertains to events surrounding an alleged motor vehicle
accident.
Procedural Analysis
Moving Party: Plaintiff, Dietrich Wilhelm George Lusse
Responding Party: Defendant, Francisco Javier Marquez
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement;
Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition; 
Reply Papers: Reply; Separate Statement
ANALYSIS
45-Day Requirement
“Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to
which the requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (CCP §2033.290(c).)
Here, neither party addresses the timeliness of this
motion. It appears as if this motion is timely considering that initial responses
were provided on November 6, 2023, and the instant motion was filed on
12/19/2023.
Meet and Confer
“A
motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP §2033.290(b)(1).)
Here, Moving Plaintiff’s counsel alleges a meet and
confer letter detailed the deficiencies in Defendant’s responses and sought
further responses. (Crawford Decl. ¶3, Ex. 4.)
LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – RFAs
Under
CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section specifically provides that
“[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery
or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of
the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable
matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition
and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible
thing, or land or other property.”
 
CCP
§2033.290(a) provides that on receipt of a response to requests for admissions,
the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further
response if that party deems that either or both of the following apply:
(1)  
An answer to a particular request is
evasive or incomplete.
(2)  
An objection to a particular request
is without merit or too general.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to RFAs, Set One. Although Plaintiff does not indicate which RFAs he
seeks to compel further responses to, it appears as if Plaintiff moves to
compel further responses as to all RFAs in Set One, which appear to be RFAs
1-26.
Plaintiff states that Defendant
provided responses to the instant discovery on November 6, 2023. 
Although Plaintiff has several
issues with Defendant’s initial responses and seeks to compel further responses,
the Court finds this motion moot as to the responses; however, the motion is
not moot as to sanctions.
This motion was filed on 12/19/2023.
Based on the Opposition, it appears as if further responses were served to the
instant discovery on February 8, 2024, which was after the date of the filing
of this motion. (See Decl. Cohanghadosh ¶7, Ex. E.) 
In Reply, Plaintiff not only argues
that the motion is not moot as to the substance of the initial responses, but
Plaintiff takes issue in its Reply with the further responses that were
provided after the filing of this motion. 
The Court notes that the issues that
Plaintiff has with Defendant’s further responses that were served after the
filing of this motion are not before this Court. Plaintiff’s motion pertains to
compelling further responses based on the initial responses of Defendant. If Plaintiff
has an issue with Defendant’s further responses, Plaintiff needs to follow the
procedural requirements to compel further responses.
In Reply, Plaintiff also argues that
even though Defendant provided further responses after the filing of this
motion, the issue of compelling further responses based on the initial
responses is not moot. Plaintiff attempts to support his argument with Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 408-09. The Court does not find Plaintiff’s argument availing,
as Sinaiko is not on point as the portion of the case that Plaintiff
cited pertains to compelling an initial response, not a motion to compel
further responses when initial responses have already been provided. 
However, the Court does agree with
moving party that the issue of sanctions is not moot.

“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §2033.290(d).)
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act
in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).) 
Plaintiff requests Defendant or his counsel, or both,
pay sanctions in the amount of $1,283.33. 
Plaintiff’s counsel, Crawford, states his billing rate
is $350.00 per hour. Problematic with Crawford’s declaration is that he does
not state specifically how much time was expended on this motion. Crawford
states that he spent approximately 8 hours in total drafting the three motions,
that he anticipates 2 hours reviewing Defendant’s Opposition and drafting
Plaintiff’s replies, and anticipates 1 hour preparing for and attending the
hearing on Plaintiff’s motions to compel. Crawford states that the total fees
and costs incurred in bringing the three motions is $3,850.00, and averaging
that number between the three motions, the instant motion’s sanction requests results
in a request of $1,283.33.
While the Court tentatively agrees that sanctions are
appropriate against Opposition for providing further responses after the filing
of this motion, the Court is unable to fully assess the appropriate level of
sanctions from Crawford’s Declaration. Crawford’s declaration does not provide
the Court with enough information pertaining to this specific motion to
determine how much time was spent on this motion, specifically. 
The other two motions mentioned in the Crawford
declaration were taken off calendar. Crawford provides an average, but Crawford
does not explicitly state how much time was spent on this motion. Further,
Crawford mentions time spent on reviewing the opposition and reply, but this
information does not specify that it was limited to just the time pertaining to
the instant motion. It appears that the declaration with respect to opposition
and reply pertains to all three based on the fact that the entire declaration
assumed there were three motions.
In Opposition, Defendant requests sanctions in the
amount of $1,140.00 pursuant to CCP §2033.290(d). Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s motion has no substantial justification and that Plaintiff misused
the discovery process, and that Plaintiff’s responses were code compliant to
begin with.
The Court does not find Opposition’s argument availing
as to imposing sanctions against Plaintiff. Whether Defendant’s initial
responses were code compliant is moot, as Defendant provided further responses.
Further, Defendant is the one who provided further responses after the
filing of this motion. Therefore, the Court tentatively plans to grant
sanctions in favor of Plaintiff, but the Court will hear argument as to the
appropriate amount.

Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is denied as moot. The issue of
sanctions is not moot, and the Court will hear argument.
 
 