 Case Number:  23VECV05246    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Katy
  E. Weber,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Ford
  Motor Company,
 
        
  Defendant.


   Case
  Number             Department
      23VECV05246  
   107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
Protective
  Order; Request for Sanctions
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
Plaintiff
Katy
E. Weber moves for a protective order and requests monetary sanctions against
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel. In opposition. Defendant Ford Motor Company
requests monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel. This
court denies the motion for a protective order and denies Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions. This court grants Defendant’s request for sanctions in the
reduced amount of $1,200.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On November 27,
2023, plaintiff Katy E. Weber (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint (the “Complaint”)
against defendant Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”) alleging violations of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act arising out of Defendant’s failure to
replace or repurchase a certain 2022 Ford Explorer (the “Vehicle”) that did not
conform to warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts.
 
On March 28, 2024,
Defendant served Plaintiff with a deposition notice that included requests for
production of documents. (Proudfoot Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.)
 
On May 23, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion (the “Motion”) for a protective order, which Defendant
opposed on June 11, 2024. Plaintiff did not timely reply to Defendant’s
opposition.
 
II. LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil
Procedure § 2025.420 provides that “[b]efore, during, or after a deposition,
any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization
may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.420, subd. (a).) 
 
For good cause
shown, courts may enter protective orders regarding unwarranted annoyances, embarrassment,
oppression, undue burden and expense, and commercial information.  (See
Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 1138, 1141
[court abused discretion in compelling responses that may contain sensitive
commercial information, without first reviewing them in camera to ascertain
relevance, and whether sensitive matter should be redacted].)
 
The fact that
information sought is relevant to the subject matter does not preclude relief
via a protective order. A court may make any order that justice requires
to protect a party or other natural person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment or oppression or undue burden and expense.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2025.420, subd. (b).) Unlike other discovery orders, a protective
order may be granted simply on the court’s determination that justice so
requires. The motion is directed to the court’s inherent power to control the
proceedings before it. The granting or denial of relief, therefore, lies within
the sound discretion of the judge and is reviewable only for abuse of
discretion. (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d
255, 379–381, overruled on other grounds.)  
 
The burden of
proof is generally on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause
for whatever order is sought. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) Good cause requires a showing of specific
facts demonstrating undue burden, etc., and justifying the relief sought. (See
Goodman v. Citizens Life & Casualty Ins. Co. (1967) 253 Cal.App.3d 807,
819.) The facts are normally established in declaration by counsel for the
party seeking the protective order. (Ibid.) The declaration
must contain competent evidence—i.e., first-hand knowledge of the facts. (Ibid.) Hearsay
allegations on information and belief and conclusory statements that particular
relief is necessary are not enough. (Ibid.)  
 
Sanctions are
mandatory “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order, unless [the court] finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2025.420, subd. (h).) 
 
III. DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff argues
that Defendants seek to depose her “to do nothing but cause harassment of
Plaintiff” and that “[i]t is burdensome and harassing to demand that witnesses
appear for depositions in person solely because [Plaintiff] noticed the
deposition of its PMK/PMQ and would not accept a 998 that does not ensure
payment.” (Motion p. 4.) Plaintiff further argues that the deposition notice
“contains an extensive request for production of documents,” which evidences
Defendant’s efforts “to circumvent the Court’s order and the notice requirement
in the Code of Civil Procedure § 2031 requirement that a party has thirty days
to respond to a written demand for production of documents by serving
deposition notices with unduly burdensome document production requests.” (Id.
at p. 5.)
 
Defendant attaches
a certified copy of the deposition notice at issue to its opposition.
(Proudfoot Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) The deposition notice at issue states that
the deposition of Plaintiff is to be held “remotely via videoconferencing,” not
in person as Plaintiff alleges. (Id. at Exh. C.)
 
Although Plaintiff
argues that Defendant is attempting to circumvent an order by this court
regarding discovery, it is not clear to what order Plaintiff is referring
because this court has not yet issued any discovery orders in this action. 
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.030, subdivision (c)(2) requires that a party
serving a request for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling permit the
other party at least 30 days to produce the requested documents or things. The
deposition notice at issue was served on Plaintiff on March 28, 2024 and set
the deposition and the time to produce the requested documents and things for
56 days later, on May 23, 2024. (Proudfood Decl. Exh. C.) Because this amount
of time is greater than the minimum 30 days required by California Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.030, subdivision (c)(2), we disagree with
Plaintiff’s argument that the deposition notice’s requests for production of
documents and things circumvents the timing requirements of written discovery.
 
Plaintiff submits
no evidence to support its allegation that Defendant seeks to depose Plaintiff
to harass her. Although Plaintiff alleges that Defendant served its deposition
notice on Plaintiff in retaliation for or response to her service of a deposition
notice of Defendant’s person most knowledgeable, the deposition notices that
Plaintiff certifies and attaches to the Motion were served on Defendant on
April 30, 2024, thirty-three days after Defendant’s service of
its deposition notice on Plaintiff on March 28, 2024. (Whitworth Decl.
¶ 4, Exh. A.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff
fails to meet her burden of showing good cause for the protective order. 
 
Because the Motion
is not successfully brought, Plaintiff is not entitled to sanctions. However,
because it successfully opposed the Motion, sanctions in favor of Defendant are
mandatory. 
 
Defendant seeks
$1,400 in sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel. (Opposition p.
9; Proudfoot Decl. ¶ 8.) This is based on five hours of attorney time
spent preparing the opposition at a rate of $200 per hour and an anticipated
two hours of attorney time spent reviewing any reply to the opposition and
attending the hearing on the Motion at the same rate. (Proudfoot Decl.
¶ 8.) We find the rate at which Defendant’s counsel bills per hour to be
reasonable. We also find the five hours spent preparing the opposition to be
reasonable, but we note that no reply to the opposition was ever filed and
therefore find that only one hour spent attending the hearing on the Motion is
reasonable.
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion and DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. This
court GRANTS Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $1,200.
 
Dated:             June
25, 2024
Judge
Eric P. Harmon 
Judge
of the Superior Court