  Case Number:  21VECV01059    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  107 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIACOUNTY OF LOS ANGELESNORTHWEST DISTRICTChelato Chacon,         Plaintiff,   v. Zeyad Elalami, et al.          Defendants.    Case Number             Department      21VECV01059       107 COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 1) Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One; Request for Sanctions (2) Compel Responses to Requests for Production; Request for Sanctions (3) Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories; Request for Sanctions (4) Deem Requests for Admission Admitted; Request for Sanctions (5) Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two; Request for Sanctions[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:  (1) Grant against Elalami(2) Grant(3) Grant(4) Grant against Elalami(5) Grant against LuxorPlaintiff Chelato Chacon moves to compel responses to discovery requests from and to deem requests for admission admitted by Defendants. This court grants Plaintiff’s motions. Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions, which this court grants in a reduced amount. In opposition, Defendants Zeyad Elalami and Luxor Funding Group, Inc. request sanctions against Plaintiff, which this court denies.I. BACKGROUNDThis is a landlord-tenant case. The following factual allegations are drawn from the Complaint (as defined below).  A. Factual  In November 2014, plaintiff Chelato Chacon (“Plaintiff”) entered a lease agreement (the “Lease”) regarding a certain residential real property (the “Property”) with its prior owner (the “Original Owner”). (Complaint p. 2.) Between then and 2021, Plaintiff and the Original Owner made verbal alterations to the Lease, including rent increases; Plaintiff made timely rent payments, performed under the Lease, and made repairs to the Property without any rent offsets; and many habitability issues arose at the Property, including pest infestations and problems with heating. (Id. at pp. 2–3.)   On January 20, 2021, Plaintiff learned that defendant Zeyad Elalami (“Elalami”) and the corporation in which Elalami holds multiple officer positions, defendant Luxor Funding Group, Inc. (“Luxor” and, together with Elalami, “Defendants”), had acquired the Property from the Original Owner, making Defendants the new owners of the Property. (Complaint pp. 1, 3.) The same day, Elalami informed Plaintiff that he was immediately increasing Plaintiff’s monthly rent by approximately 47.14% although Elalami did not provide Plaintiff with proper notice of any rent increase. (Complaint p. 3.) Plaintiff protested that such a rent increase violated rent control and stabilization laws governing the Property and continued to timely pay rent at his previous rate. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Elalami accepted such payment for the months of February 2021, March 2021, and April 2021, but thereafter returned Plaintiff’s attempted payments to him. (Ibid.) Elalami made verbal and written implied threats to damage Plaintiff’s FICO credit score. (Id. at p. 3.) On February 1, 2021, Elalami attempted to issue Plaintiff a three-day notice to pay or quit via text message, alleging that Plaintiff had failed to make timely rent payments. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Elalami told Plaintiff that he has “no lease for the Property” and Plaintiff received notice that an unlawful detainer action had been filed. (Id. at p. 4.)   B. Procedural  On August 11, 2021, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the warranty of habitability, (3) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (5) retaliatory eviction in violation of Civil Code section 1942.5, (6) declaratory judgment, and (7) injunctive relief. On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff amended the Complaint, adding a cause of action for (8) violation of Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance.On May 3, 2022, Luxor responded to a request for production of documents from Plaintiff, a set of requests for admission from Plaintiff, and form interrogatories from Plaintiff. (Aly Decl. Exh. A.)On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff served Elalami with written discovery requests consisting of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, requests for admission, and requests for production. (Motion p. 3.) On August 18, 2023, Plaintiff served Luxor with supplemental written discovery requests consisting of interrogatories and requests for production. (Id. at p. 4.) On August 21, 2023, Plaintiff served Luxor with a second set of form interrogatories. (Ibid.)On April 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel responses to form interrogatories, set one from each of Defendants (“Motion #1”), a motion to compel responses to requests for production from each of Defendants (“Motion #2”), a motion to compel responses to special interrogatories from each of Defendants (“Motion #3”), a motion to deem requests for admission admitted by each of Defendants (“Motion #4”), and a motion to compel responses to form interrogatories, set two from each of Defendants (“Motion #5” and, together with Motion #1, Motion #2, Motion #3, and Motion #4, the “Motions”). On June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition to the Motions. On June 17, 2024, Defendants filed oppositions (the “Oppositions”) to the Motions, and the same day, Plaintiff filed replies (the “Replies”) to the Oppositions.II. PROCEDURAL MATTERSA. Meet and Confer Efforts“Unlike a¿motion¿to¿compel¿further¿responses, a¿motion¿to¿compel¿responses is not subject to a 45–day time limit, and the propounding party does not have to demonstrate either good cause or that it satisfied a ‘meet¿and¿confer’ requirement.” (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) Because no response has been provided to the instant discovery requests and Plaintiff files motions to compel, not motions to compel further, there is no requirement for Parties to have met and conferred prior to the filing of the Motions.¿ B. Timeliness of FilingsPer California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the set hearing.The Motions and the Replies were timely, and the Oppositions were untimely. Although we do not decline to consider the Oppositions on these grounds, we remind Defendants of the rules for timeliness of filings.III. LEGAL STANDARD“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,…[t]he party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2030.290.) And, “a party's failure to object to interrogatories within 30 days, or such additional time as extended by the court, constitutes a waiver of any right to object.” (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Similarly, “[i]f a party to whom¿a¿demand¿for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling¿is directed fails to serve a timely response to it,… [t]he party to whom the¿demand¿for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling¿is directed waives any objection to the demand [and]… [t]he party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the¿demand.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2031.300.) In the absence of any response to the discovery request, all that a motion to compel need show is that a set of¿interrogatories¿was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (See Leach v. Superior Court, supra, at 905–06.)¿ “Any party may obtain discovery… by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.010.) “Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2033.250, subd. (a).) If a party to whom request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the work product doctrine. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (a).) The requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. (Cal. C. Civ. Proc § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ Sanctions are mandatory against the party, the attorney, or both whose failure to serve a timely response to the discovery request without substantial justification necessitated the motion to compel or motion to deem request for admissions as admitted, unless other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2033.280, subd. (c); see also Cal. Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a) [the court can award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party seeking to compel discovery even though no opposition was filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed].) As to the amount of sanctions, Section¿2023.030, subdivision (a) authorizes the trial court to impose an amount representing “the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result” of a party's misuse of the discovery process. (Parker v. Wolters Kluwer United States, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 285, 294.) IV. DISCUSSIONA. The MotionsPlaintiff submits evidence that he served a set of form interrogatories on Elalami, a set of special interrogatories on Elalami, a set of requests for production of documents on Elalami, and a set of requests for admission on Elalami on August 11, 2023. (Brockmeier Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff submits evidence that he served a supplemental interrogatory request and a supplemental request for production of documents on Luxor on August 18, 2023. (Id. at Exh. B.) Plaintiff submits evidence that he served a second set of form interrogatories on Luxor on August 21, 2023. (Id. at Exh. C.) Plaintiff further submits evidence that no response to any of the discovery at issue had been received by the date that the Motions were filed. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Defendants do not dispute that they did not timely respond to these discovery requests. Although Defendants point out that Luxor responded to previous discovery requests propounded by Plaintiff, this is irrelevant to the Motions, which relate to subsequent discovery requests on both Defendants.Defendants argue that “Plaintiff seems to be requesting that [Elalami] duplicate the discovery responses of [Luxor] from May 3, 2022.” (Opposition p. 6.) Defendants argue, “[i]t would be reasonable to construe the previous discovery responses as responses by both Defendants, given that both Defendants have Answered the Complaint through [Elalami], and given that Plaintiff argues an alter ego theory of liability in the Complaint. [Elalami] signed the verifications on behalf of [Luxor], so it would be unreasonable to assume that he would respond to discovery any differently. Moreover, [Elalami] with these filings adopts those responses.” (Id. at p. 7.) However, each of Defendants is a separate party, and each party on whom a discovery request is served must respond to that discovery request. Plaintiff is not required to assume that Defendants’ responses to discovery requests are the same because the Complaint alleges an alter ego theory of liability or because Elalami is a signatory of Luxor. Additionally, Elalami may not adopt through the Oppositions Luxor’s responses to the discovery requests propounded on it. As Plaintiff points out in the Replies (Reply pp. 4–5), the discovery requests propounded on each of Defendants are different. And, the Oppositions are simply not code-compliant discovery responses.Thus, we find that Plaintiff has met his burden of showing that the discovery requests at issue were properly served on Defendants and that no reply of any kind was received.Accordingly, this court GRANTS Motion #1 against Elalami, GRANTS Motion #2, GRANTS Motion #3, GRANTS Motion #4 against Elalami, and GRANTS Motion #5 against Luxor.B. SanctionsBecause we grant the Motions, we find that bringing them was necessary, and sanctions in favor of Plaintiff are therefore mandatory.Each of the Motions requests sanctions in the amount of $3,911.65 against Defendants and Defendants’ counsel for a total sanctions request of $19,558.25. (Motion p. 7.) This is based on a $61.65 filing fee for each of the Motions, three hours of attorney time spent preparing each of the Motions at a rate of $550.00 per hour, two hours of attorney time reviewing each of the Oppositions and preparing each of the Replies at the same rate, and two hours of attorney time spent travelling to and attending a hearing on each of the Motions at the same rate. (Brockmeier Decl. ¶ 9.)These calculations reveal some duplication in time. The Motions are now being heard together, meaning that Plaintiff’s counsel need only travel to and appear at one hearing. We therefore find it reasonable for Plaintiff’s counsel to bill only two hours of his time travelling to and appearing at the hearing on the Motions. We also note that each of the Motions are largely duplicative of each other, and each contains large sections that are identical to sections in the other Motions. The same is true of the Oppositions and the Replies. We therefore find it reasonable for Plaintiff’s counsel to bill only five hours of his time drafting all of the Motions and only three hours of his time considering the Oppositions and drafting the Replies. Thus, we find it reasonable for Plaintiff’s counsel to bill a total of ten hours bringing and defending the Motions. We find Plaintiff’s counsel’s billing rate to be reasonable. Ten hours of attorney time at a rate of $550.00 per hour totals to $5,500.00. We find it reasonable for Plaintiff to seek to recover the five $61.65 filing fees for the Motions. Five motions at $61.65 each totals to $308.25, and $308.25 and $5,500.00 sum to $5,808.25.Defendants’ counsel substituted in as counsel for Defendants on April 23, 2024, months after the discovery requests at issue were served on Defendants and only three days before the Motions were filed. We find that Defendants’ counsel cannot therefore be said to be responsible for the necessity of the Motions and that it would be unjust to impose sanctions against Defendants’ counsel.Accordingly, this court GRANTS sanctions against only Defendants and in favor of Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $5,808.25.Because Defendants unsuccessfully opposed the Motions, sanctions in favor of Defendants are not warranted.Accordingly, this court DENIES the sanctions requested in the Oppositions.Dated:  June 25, 2024 _______¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬___________________________ Hon. Eric HarmonJudge of the Superior Court