 Case Number:  23VECV02962    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Harris Davis,
 
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
Norms, et al., 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   23VECV02962               107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
  Relieved as Counsel 
 
                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
Plaintiff’s
attorney Gerald L. Marcus (“Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel.
 
Counsel’s
motion is GRANTED.
 
I.
BACKGROUND
 
On
October 25, 2021, plaintiff Harris Davis (“Plaintiff”) tripped and fell over a
door mat at a restaurant owned by defendants Norms and Norms Restaurants, LLC
(“Defendant” and, together with Plaintiff, “Parties”). Plaintiff thereby
incurred injuries. (Complaint pp. 3–4.) 
 
On July
10, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the
“Complaint”) alleging a single cause of action for premises liability —
negligence. 
 
Counsel
filed the instant motion to be relieved as counsel (the “Motion”) on May 15,
2024. No opposition has been filed.
 
II. LEGAL
STANDARD
 
An
attorney in an action may be changed at any time before or after judgment or
final determination upon the order of the court, upon the application of either
client or attorney, after notice from one to the other. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
284, subd. (2)). California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires:
 
1.         Notice of motion and motion to be
directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel Civil form (MC-051));
2.         A declaration stating in general terms,
and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney client
relationship, why a motion under California Code of Civil Procedure § 284,
subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under California Code of
Civil Procedure § 284, subdivision (1) 
(made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel Civil form (MC-052)); 
3.         Service of the notice of motion and
motion and declaration on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and
4.         The proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
Civil form (MC-053)).
 
The
motion should be denied if withdrawal would prejudice the client. (Rules Prof.
Conduct, Rule 3-700(A)(2); Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide: Civ. Proc.
Before Trial, 9:385.2 (2008); 1 Witkin Cal. Pro., Attorneys §72 (2008).) The
motion should be denied if it will cause undue delay in the proceeding or cause
injustice. (Mandell v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.) The
determination whether to grant or deny an attorney’s motion to withdraw as
counsel of record lies within the sound discretion of the trial court, having
in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the handling of the
case. (Lempert v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.) A
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship (or personality clash) is grounds
for withdrawal. (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) An attorney
is not limited to withdrawing from a case for cause and may withdraw when
withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client. (Ramirez
v. Sturdevant (1994) 26 Cal. Rptr. 2d 554, 559.)
 
III.
DISCUSSION
 
(A)
Notice—Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(a)
 
A notice
of motion and motion to be relieved as counsel under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) must be directed to the client and must
be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(form MC-051).
 
The
Motion complies with this requirement.
 
(B)
Declaration—Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(c)
 
The
motion to be relieved as counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(form MC-052). The declaration must state in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought
instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (1).
 
The
Motion complies with this requirement by explaining on form MC-052 that
“[Counsel] and client have a conflict of interest that precludes further
representation of the client. There has been a break down in the client
relationship that precludes further representation. [Counsel] is unable to
represent client as a result of this breakdown and conflict.”
 
(C)
Service—Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d); Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local
Rules, Rule 4.35 
 
The
notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be
served on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case.
The notice may be by personal service or mail. If the notice is served on the
client by mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be
accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either:
 
1.         The service address is the current
residence or business address of the client; or
2.         The service address is the last known
residence or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to
locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within
30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.
 
As used
in this rule, “current” means that the address was confirmed within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely demonstrating that the
notice was sent to the client's last known address and was not returned is not,
by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is current. If the
service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011, subdivision (b)
applies.
 
When an
attorney files a motion to withdraw as attorney of record for a fiduciary,
service must be made by citation. The citation must be served in the manner
provided in Code of Civil Procedure sections 415.10 or 415.30. If the fiduciary
resides outside of California, service may also be made in the manner provided
in Code of Civil Procedure section 415.40. (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local
Rules, rule 4.35.)
 
The
Motion complies with this requirement. Each filing of the Motion includes a
proof of service indicating that it was served on Plaintiff by first-class mail
and by e-mail. Counsel’s declaration on MC-052 states that the filings of the
Motion were served on Plaintiff at Plaintiff’s last-known address and that the
address at which service was effected was confirmed to be Plaintiff’s current
address within the past 30 days by telephone.
 
(D)
Order—Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(e)
 
The
proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting
Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (form MC-053) and must be
lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order must specify all
hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of
trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court may set
one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed, a copy of the
signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared
in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court.
 
The
Motion complies with this requirement.
 
Accordingly,
this court GRANTS the Motion.
 
Dated:             June 25, 2024                                      _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric
Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court