 Case Number:  22STCV05186    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
February 10, 2022, Plaintiff Martin Castro Vela (“Vela”) filed this action
against Defendants State of California (“State”), County of Los Angeles
(“County”), City of Los Angeles (“City”), Vesta Housing Solutions, LLC
(“Vesta”), and Does 1-20 for (“Vesta”) for general negligence and premises
liability. 
On
June 27, 2022, Vesta filed an answer. On June 30, 2022, Vesta filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-100 for implied indemnity,
comparative contribution, total equitable indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
On
August 1, 2022, the Court dismissed the City without prejudice at Vela’s
request. On August 18, 2022, the Court dismissed the County and the State
without prejudice at Vela’s request. 
On
September 6, 2022, Vela amended the complaint to include Defendant Bernards
Bros. Inc. dba Bernards as Doe 1 (“Bernards”). On October 12, 2022, Bernards
filed an answer. 
On
September 11, 2023, Vela amended the complaint to include Defendant TMP
Services, Inc. as Doe 2 (“TMP”). On November 7, 2023, TMP filed an answer and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Bernard Bros. Inc., Vesta, and Moes
1-20 for indemnity, contribution, comparative partial indemnity, and
declaratory relief—apportionment of fault. On November 28, 2023, Bernards and
Vesta filed an answer to TMP’s cross-complaint. On December 18, 2023, TMP
amended its cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant Preferred Modular
Structures, Inc. as Moe 1 (“Preferred”).  On January 25, 2024, the Court dismissed
Bernard Bros. Inc. and Vesta from TMP’s cross- complaint without prejudice at
TMP’s request. 
On
February 16, 2024, Vela amended the complaint to include Defendant Preferred as
Doe 3. On April 22, 2024, Preferred filed an answer to Vela’s complaint. 
On
April 22, 2024, Preferred filed an answer to TMP’s cross-complaint and filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Vela, State, County, City, Vesta,
Bernards, TMP, and Zoes 1-50 for indemnification, contribution, declaratory
relief—apportionment of fault, and comparative partial indemnity. On May 17,
2024, Bernards and Vesta filed an answer to Preferred’s cross-complaint.  On July 29, 2024, the Court dismissed the
County from Preferred’s cross-complaint without prejudice at Preferred’s
request. 
B.   This motion 
On August
16, 2024, Bernards and Vesta (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion for good
faith settlement determination to be heard on September 19, 2024. On September
5, 2024, TMP filed an opposition. On September 6, 2024, Preferred filed an
opposition. On September 12, 2024, Moving Defendants filed replies to TMP’s
opposition and Preferred’s opposition. 
Trial
is currently set for February 6, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to find that their settlement with Vela is in good
faith. 
Preferred
and TMP ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6 provides in part: 
“(a) (1) Any party to an action in which it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a
settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.  Upon
a showing of good cause, the court may shorten the time for giving the required
notice to permit the determination of the issue to be made before the
commencement of the trial of the action, or before the verdict or judgment if
settlement is made after the trial has commenced. 
“(2) In the alternative, a settling party may give
notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.
The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing
of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal
service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good
faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a motion
within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or
within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement. The
notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in the manner provided in
subdivision (b) of Section 1005. However, this paragraph shall not apply to
settlements in which a confidentiality agreement has been entered into
regarding the case or the terms of the settlement. 
“(b) The issue of the good faith of a settlement may
be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served with the notice of
hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its
discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing. 
“(c) A determination by the court that the settlement
was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from
any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault. 
“(d) The party asserting the lack of good faith shall
have the burden of proof on that issue. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (d).) 
In Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt),
our Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts must
consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6:
“a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.” 
When
a non-settling party contests good faith, the party moving for a good faith
settlement determination has the evidentiary burden of making a sufficient showing
of all the Tech-Bilt factors.  (L.
Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(Rutter 2024) ¶ 12:872, p. 12(ll)-104 (Cal.
Practice Guide).)  “Such showing may be
made either in the original moving papers or in counterdeclarations filed after
the nonsettling defendants have filed an opposition challenging the good faith
of the settlement.”  (Ibid.)  “Where ‘good faith’ is contested, conclusory
allegations as to the settling parties’ liability are insufficient” and “[a]n
expert’s opinion must be substantiated by facts.”  (Id., ¶ 12:873, p. 12(ll)-104.) 
“At
the hearing on the motion, the party claiming the settlement was not in good
faith has the burden of proof on this issue.” 
(Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 12:875, p. 12(ll)-105.)  That is, “the nonsettling tortfeasor has the
burden of demonstrating that the settlement is ‘so far “out of the ballpark” in
relation to these [Tech Bilt] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of the statute.”  (Ibid.,
quoting Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499-500.) 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION  
A.   The complaint and cross-complaints 
1.    Vela’s complaint 
Vela’s
complaint alleges that on or about February 10, 2021, at 1060 N. Vignes Street
in Los Angeles (“premises”), Defendants State, County, City, Vesta, and Does
1-20 and their agents/employees negligently owned, controlled, supervised,
managed, designed, constructed, maintained and/or operated the premises,
causing and/or allowing a dangerous condition to exist on the property which
proximately caused Plaintiff to fall from a platform while performing services
on Defendants' property, injuring Plaintiff. 
2.    Vesta’s cross-complaint 
Vesta’s
cross-complaint alleges that if Vela sustained injuries as alleged in his
complaint, the injuries were the result of the negligent, intentional, and/or
reckless acts of Cross-Defendants Roes 1-100. 
3.    TMP’s cross-complaint 
TMP’s
cross-complaint alleges that if it is found liable to Vela or any other party
for negligence, indemnity or any other reason arising out of or relating to the
damages allegedly sustained by Vela, then Bernard Bros. Inc., Vesta, and Moes
1-20 “were also negligent and otherwise at fault in causing [Vela’s] injuries,
if any” and their actions caused Vela’s injuries and damages. 
4.    Preferred’s cross-complaint
Preferred’s
cross-complaint alleges that it is not liable for the events described in
Vela’s complaint and that Vela, State, County, City, Vesta, Bernards, TMP, and
Zoes 1-50 were legally responsible for any damages Vela suffered. 
B.   Moving Defendants’ motion 
1.    Background 
On
or about February 10, 2021, Plaintiff was working as an alarm technician for
A&D Fire Sprinklers (“A&D”) at the Vignes Street Housing Project
construction site in Los Angeles when he fell off a platform, suffering
injuries.  (Motion p. 1.) 
Moving
Defendants also state that, under the prime contract and subcontract, Bernards
is the general contractor, Vesta is the contractor, and A&D is the
subcontractor.  (Motion p. 2.) 
Moving
Defendants do not deny liability but contend that Vela, TMP, and Preferred are
comparatively liable for Vela’s damages. 
Moving Defendants also “dispute the causation, nature and extent of [Vela’s]
injuries resulting from this incident.” 
(Motion p. 2.) 
2.    Settlement terms 
Under
the settlement between Moving Defendants and Vela, Moving Defendants’ insurer Zurich American Insurance Company (“Zurich”) will pay $943,159.00,
less any statutory liens, to Vela and Wilshire Law Firm.  Vela will set aside $120,000 of the settlement
amount to negotiate the outstanding worker’s compensation lien.  Zurich reserves its right to assert its future
credit rights against Vela under Labor Code sections 3858 and 3861.  The settling parties will bear their own
costs, expenses, and attorneys’ fees. 
3.    Tech-Bilt factors 
a.   
Moving
Defendants’ proportionate liability 
Citing
Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 (Privette),
Moving Defendants argue that Bernards is not liable as the general contractor
because Bernards had no control over the A&D’s work and exercised no
supervisory control over the site work.  Moving Defendants provide no evidence to support this
assertion. 
Moving
Defendants also contend that Vesta complied with all workplace safety
guidelines to ensure a safe working environment.  (Motion p. 5.)  Moving Defendants point to the conclusion of
their safety expert John Martinet (“Martinet”), who found that the distance
between the platforms and the ground was 30-36 inches or almost 3 feet.  Martinet concluded that guardrails were not
required because Cal OSHA requires guardrails at a height of 7½ feet and the
federal standard requires guardrails at a height of 6 feet.  Martinet opined that Moving Defendants had
complied with the Cal OSHA standards and Plaintiff was not watching where he
was going.  (Motion p. 4.)  Moving Defendants provide no evidence to support these
assertions. 
In
addition, Moving Defendants argue the allegedly unsafe condition was open and
obvious.  According to Moving Defendants,
Vela was well aware of the construction site and the open nature of the
platforms and was not watching where he was going.  (Motion p. 5.) Moving Defendants provide no evidence to support these assertions. 
Moving
Defendants also assert that TMP was responsible for supplying and installing the
platform which Vela fell from, and TMP retained Preferred to install the
platforms.  Therefore, Moving Defendants
contend, “[i]f something was wrong with the platforms, this would fall under
the responsibility of TMP Services and Preferred Modular Structures, Inc.”  (Motion p. 2.) Moving Defendants provide no evidence to support these assertions. 
b.   
Vela’s
damages 
Moving
Defendants assert that Vela has incurred past medical expenses of $267,998.22.  Moving Defendants provide no evidence to
support this assertion. 
c.   Allocation
of settlement  
Plaintiff
will receive the entire settlement subject to applicable liens and credits. 
d.   Financial
considerations   
“Pursuant
to the contract between A&D Fire Sprinklers and Vesta Housing Solutions and
the prime contract between Vesta and Bernards, A&D is contractually
obligated to provide a defense and indemnity as a subcontractor and to hold the
two General Contractor(s) harmless. Therefore, when Bernards Bros. and Vesta
Housing Solutions tendered their defense and requested indemnity from A&D,
it was accepted by Zurich Insurance.” 
(Motion p. 1.)  Moving Defendants provide no evidence to support these
assertions. 
e.   Collusion
or fraud  
Moving
Defendants assert that the settlement is a result of arms-length negotiations
and there is no evidence of fraud or collusion. 
C.   Preferred’s opposition 
Preferred
argues that Moving Defendants “have failed to provide sufficient authenticated
or admissible evidence to allow [Preferred] and the Court to assess whether the
settlement amount is in good faith pursuant to the Tech-Bilt factors . .
. .”  (Preferred Opposition p. 2.) 
D.   TMP’s opposition 
TMP
argues that Moving Defendants “fail to meet their initial burden to establish ‘a
prima facie showing of a good faith settlement’ with any evidential support.”  (TMP Opposition p. 2, emphasis omitted.) 
E.   Moving Defendants’ replies 
Moving
Defendants argue that Preferred and TMP have not carried their burdens of
proving lack of good faith.  The replies
do not provide any supporting evidence. 
F.    Analysis 
“[Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6] and Tech-Bilt require an evidentiary
showing, through expert declarations or other means, that the proposed
settlement is within the reasonable range permitted by the criterion of good
faith.”  (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur
Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1351 (Mattco Forge).)
 In Mattco
Forge, the Court of Appeal “recognize[d] the party asserting the lack of
good faith has the burden of proof on that issue.  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at p. 1350, fn. 6.)  “Therefore,
in bringing the motion for good faith settlement, [the moving parties] were not
compelled to make a showing as to their proportionate liability. However, after
[the opposing party] attacked the settlement as lacking in good faith, [the
moving parties] were required to file counter-affidavits [citation] to make an
evidentiary showing that the settlement was “in the ballpark.”  (Ibid., citing Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (b).)  “In the absence of
such a showing by [the moving parties], as the parties seeking approval of the
good faith settlement, there is ‘no substantial evidence to support a critical
assumption as to the nature and extent of [the] settling [parties’]
liability[.]’ ” (Ibid., quoting Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. v.
Superior Court (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 864, 871.)   Concluding that the moving parties presented no
substantial evidence regarding their proportionate liability, the Court of
Appeal reversed the trial court’s good faith settlement determination. 
Here
too, Moving Defendants have presented no substantial evidence regarding their
proportional liability, Vela’s damages, or Moving Defendants’ financial
condition and available insurance coverage. 
The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion for good faith settlement determination filed by Defendants
Vesta Housing Solutions, LLC, and Bernards Bros. Inc. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.