  Case Number:  21STCV06066    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
February 16, 2021, Plaintiff D’Cameron Granger (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Alex Emmanuel Azor (“Azor”) and Does 1-10 for negligence. 
On
August 2, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Lyft Inc.
as Doe 1.  On June 30, 2022, Defendant
Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”) filed an answer. 
On
July 19, 2022, the Court continued the trial from August 6, 2022 to May 11, 2023
based on the stipulation of Plaintiff and Lyft.  The Court ordered that discovery and motion cut-off
dates would be based on the new trial date. 
On
April 24, 2023, the Court continued the trial from May 11, 2023 to July 11,
2023 based on the stipulation of
Plaintiff and Lyft.  The Court ordered
that discovery and motion cut-off dates would be based on the new trial date. 
On
May 16, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Hertz
Vehicles LLC as Doe 2 (“Hertz”).   On June 1,
2023, Plaintiff served the amendment and complaint on Hertz. 
On June
27, 2023, the Court continued the trial from July 11, 2023 to November 9, 2023 based on the stipulation of Plaintiff
and Lyft.  The Court ordered that
discovery and motion cut-off dates would be based on the new trial date. 
On
August 31, 2023, Hertz filed an answer. 
On
September 28, 2023, the Court granted Hertz’s unopposed motion to continue the
trial for eleven months.  Hertz asserted
that it “anticipate[d] that the additional time requested will be sufficient to
permit the parties to finalize all other remaining discovery in the matter,
allow any experts to fully evaluate all the issues pertaining to the
litigation, and provide for the opportunity to engage in meaningful settlement
discussions in the hope of resolving the matter without resorting to trial.”  (LaScola dec. ¶ 6.)  The Court continued the trial from November 9, 2023 to October 10, 2024, with related
dates and deadlines to be based on the new trial date. 
On
July 24, 2024, Hertz filed and served a motion for summary judgment.  The motion was set for hearing on December 9,
2024. 
On
August 14, 2024, Hertz filed a motion to continue the trial and trial-related
dates.  The motion was set for hearing on
September 19, 2024.  On September 6,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
September 12, 2024, Hertz filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently set for October 10, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Hertz
asks the Court to continue the trial and related dates. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
DISCUSSION 
Hertz
asks the Court to continue the trial to April 10, 2025 and to continue
trial-related dates.  According to Hertz,
it needs additional time because (1) Plaintiff failed to appear three times for
his deposition (Reply p. 3), (2) a doctor’s unavailability has prevented Hertz
from conducting Plaintiff’s independent medical examination, and (3) Plaintiff
has not provided adequate responses to Hertz’s written discovery requests, requiring
a hearing on Hertz’s motions to compel further responses.  Hertz also argues that a continuance will
allow the parties to engage in mediation and explore settlement. 
Hertz
does not mention its pending summary judgment motion as a reason for asking to
continue the trial.  The summary judgment
motion is currently set for hearing on December 9, 2024, after the October 10,
2024 trial date.  The summary judgment motion appears to
be untimely based on the October 10, 2024 trial date.  (See L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 10:71, p. 10-33 [summary
judgment motions must be served at least 105 days before trial].)  However, “a continuance of the initial trial
date ‘reopens’ the time for [summary judgment] motions.”  (Id., ¶ 10:74, p. 10-33.) 
Plaintiff
opposes Hertz’s motion for a continuance, arguing Hertz could have resolved the
discovery issues without court intervention by engaging in appropriate meet and
confer efforts.  Plaintiff states that he
has agreed to appear for an independent medical examination, is willing to
appear for a deposition on a mutually agreeable date, and has provided further
responses to Hertz’s discovery requests. 
Plaintiff
also asserts that Hertz’s motion does not comply with the requirements for a
motion to reopen discovery under Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050.   As a result, an order continuing the trial
would not address the discovery issues Hertz cites as the basis for its motion. 
Fact
discovery is closed.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a) [“Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery
proceedings on or before the 30th day . . . before the date initially set for the
trial of the action”].)  “Except as
provided in [Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050], a continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020,
subd. (b).)  Although Hertz seeks a trial
continuance to obtain additional discovery, Hertz has not complied with the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, which authorizes the
Court to reopen discovery in appropriate cases. 
(See, e.g., Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a) [meet and confer
declaration required].)   Therefore, a trial continuance would not
accomplish Hertz’s stated goals. 
In
addition, almost one year after the Court granted Hertz’s request to continue
the trial for eleven months, Hertz has not demonstrated that it acted diligently
to obtain the discovery it needs.  Hertz
does not explain why, after Plaintiff failed to appear three times for his
deposition (Reply p. 3), Hertz did not move to compel Plaintiff’s deposition before
expiration of the discovery cut-off.  Hertz
also has not explained why Hertz chose a doctor to conduct Plaintiff’s
independent medical examination who was not available until after the discovery
cut-off date.  And Hertz failed to comply with the Eighth Amended
Standing Order’s Informal Discovery Conference requirement, causing the Court
to take the hearings on Hertz’s motions to compel further discovery responses
off calendar.  
The
Court denies Hertz’s motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Hertz Vehicles LLC’s motion
to continue the trial and related dates. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.