 Case Number:  21STCV21154    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 7, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Ruiz Solano (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants True Loyalty, Inc., Rodrigo Vital, Jr., and Does 1-50 for
negligence/negligence per se and negligent entrustment. 
On
August 2, 2021, Defendants True Loyalty, Inc. and Rodrigo Vital, Jr. (“Defendants”)
filed an answer. 
On
August 20, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition and
for sanctions.  The motion was set for
hearing on September 19, 2024.  Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition. 
On September
18, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 29, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to compel Plaintiff to appear for a deposition and to impose
sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
*
* *
 “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
On April
22, 2024, Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s remote deposition for May 15, 2024.  Plaintiff did not appear for the deposition
and Defendants took a certificate of nonappearance. 
Defendants
contend that Plaintiff also failed to appear for three previously-scheduled
depositions.  (Motion p. 4.)  However, Defendants acknowledge that they
took the previous three depositions off calendar as a courtesy to Plaintiff’s
counsel.  (Motion p. 3.) 
Defendants
do not assert that Plaintiff failed to serve a valid objection before the May
15, 2024 deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  In addition, Defendants have not submitted a
meet and confer declaration or a declaration stating they contacted Plaintiff’s
counsel to inquire about the nonappearance. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)
 The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendants True
Loyalty, Inc. and Rodrigo Vital, Jr. to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Maria
Ruiz Solano. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.