 Case Number:  23STCV14289    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Jeffrey Silverman, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV14289




 
Vs.
 
 


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Stewart Epstein, et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 24, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Cross-Defendant Jeffrey Silverman
Responding Party: Cross-Complainants Arrow Tools,
Fasteners & Saw, Inc. and Stephanie Silverman
 
T/R:     CROSS-DEFENDANT'S DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN
ANSWER TO THE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff Jeffrey
Silverman, individually and derviatively on behalf of Arrow Tools, Fasteners
& Saw, Inc. And Arrow Building Supply, filed the operative third amended
complaint against Defendants Arrow Tools, Fasteners & Saw, Inc., Stephanie
Silverman, Stewart Epstein, and Susan Epstein asserting ten causes of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, wrongful termination, and
equitable and declaratory relief. On January 5, 2024, Arrow Tools, Fasteners
& Saw, Inc., Stephanie Silverman, Stewart Epstein, and Susan Epstein filed
a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Silverman, asserting 16 causes of action
for breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, fraud, conversion, and
declaratory and equitable relief. 
 
Each side alleges the other side
mismanaged Arrow Tools, Fasteners & Saw, Inc. (ATFSI).
 
 
REQUESTS FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The parties’ requests for judicial
notice are GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not has to the
truth of the matters asserted in them.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action stated in it. 
(CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer
challenges only the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its
factual allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Jeffrey Silverman demurs to the FACC’s
fifteenth and sixteenth causes of action for conversion and declaratory relief.
These causes of action concern a 2011 loan made by Jeffrey to ATFSI for
$250,000.00. Cross-Complainant Stephanie, Jeffrey’s former spouse, alleges that
this loan was made with community
property funds. She alleges that she is entitled to 50% of the funds paid by
ATFSI to Jeffrey on the 2011 Note and that Jeffrey has converted her 50% share
of the funds paid by ATFSI on the 2011 Note.
 
A. Fifteenth
Cause of Action for Conversion
 
Jeffrey demurs to the fifteenth cause of action for conversion on the
ground that this Court does not have jurisdiction over the dispute. Jeffrey
asserts that disputes over community property are under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the family court that presided over Jeffrey’s and Stephanie’s
divorce proceedings. In opposition, Stephanie argues that this Court has
jurisdiction over the claim because the Note was not specifically identified in
the divorce judgment. Stephanie also argues that the claim is a compulsory crossclaim
because Jeffrey alleges ATFSI breached the note in the TAC.
 
Generally, “[a]fter a family law
court acquires jurisdiction to divide community property in a dissolution
action, no other department of a superior court may make an order adversely
affecting that division.” (Askew v. Askew (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 942,
961.) Family Code § 2556
provides, “[i]n a proceeding for dissolution of marriage, for nullity of
marriage, or for legal separation of the parties, the court has continuing
jurisdiction to award community estate assets or community estate liabilities
to the parties that have not been previously adjudicated by a judgment in the
proceeding. A party may file a postjudgment motion or order to show cause in
the proceeding in order to obtain adjudication of any community estate asset or
liability omitted or not adjudicated by the judgment. In these cases, the court
shall equally divide the omitted or unadjudicated community estate asset or
liability, unless the court finds upon good cause shown that the interests of
justice require an unequal division of the asset or liability.”
 
This Court does not have jurisdiction over whether the loan was made
with community property. The Family Code states that community assets that were
not previously adjudicated in a divorce proceeding remain under the continuing
jurisdiction of the Family Court. Stephanie does not cite authority directly
stating otherwise. 
 
The demurrer to the fifteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
 
B. Sixteenth
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
Jeffrey demurs to the sixteenth cause of action for declaratory relief
on the ground that there is no ongoing controversy. Cross-Complainants seek
declaratory relief that ATFSI need not pay the remaining balance of the 2011
note because Jeffrey concealed that the note was made with community property
and has not paid Stephanie her share of the loan proceeds. As discussed,
whether the note is community property is not properly before this Court. 
 
The demurrer to the sixteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
 
 
 
 