  Case Number:  23AHCV02915    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  54    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles       Southern California Edison Company,         Plaintiff,     Case No.:       23AHCV02915       Vs.             Tentative Ruling       Diversified Utility Services, Inc.         Defendant.                                Hearing Date: June 24, 2024 Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter Motion to Strike Portions of the First  Amended Complaint Moving Party: Defendant Diversified Utility  Services, Inc. Responding Party: Plaintiff Southern California Edison  Company   T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.   DEFENDANT TO NOTICE   If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please  email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with  notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the  day of the hearing. The Court considers the moving papers,  opposition, and reply.    BACKGROUND   On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff  Southern California Edison Company filed the operative first amended complaint  against Defendant Diversified Utility Services, Inc., asserting causes of  action for (1) express indemnity; (2) equitable indemnity; (3) contribution;  and (4) declaratory relief. Plaintiff seeks indemnity from Defendant for an  underlying personal injury settlement. Decedent Eric Wickstrom was electrocuted  while working for DUSI, who contracts with Edison for electrical work. Decedent’s  family sued Edison in a related case and settled. Edison now seeks indemnity  from DUSI for the settlement.       ANALYSIS   “Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve  and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that  pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to  Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any  pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in  conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the  Court." (CCP § 436.)   Defendant DUSI seeks to strike the Plaintiff’s prayers for  indemnification of “any” and “all” of the costs Plaintiff paid to decedent’s  family in the underlying suit.    Defendant asserts that Plaintiff cannot state claims for equitable  indemnity against Defendant because the worker’s compensation exclusivity rule  bars indemnity, absent an express contract, for an employee’s personal injury  while working. As stated in opposition, Plaintiff does not seek equitable indemnity  against Defendant, only express indemnity under the parties’ Master Services Agreement. The claims for  equitable indemnity are alleged against Does.    Defendant also argues that  Plaintiff is not entitled to indemnification for Plaintiff’s own share of  liability. Plaintiff alleges that it has no share of liability; in this motion the  Court must treat the allegations in the complaint as true.    Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.    