 Case Number:  23CHCV02095    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
5-30-24
Case
#23CHCV02095, Juan Gonzalez Perez vs. FCA US LLC, et al.
Trial
Date: 5-27-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant FCA US LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Juan Gonzalez Perez
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production, as
well as sanctions.
 
RULING:
Motion is denied as moot.
SUMMARY
OF ACTION AND ANALYSIS
On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff Juan Gonzalez Perez (Plaintiff)
filed this lemon law case against Defendant FCA US LLC (Defendant). 
 
Defendant
propounded discovery on Plaintiff on August 18, 2023. On September 18, 2023, Plaintiff
served responses to Defendant’s requests for production. On October 18, 2023,
Defendant’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding
Plaintiff’s response to Request for Production No. 20. After some back and
forth, on November 17, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel indicated that Plaintiff stood
by his objections and would not be supplementing the request. Defendant filed
this motion to compel further response on November 21, 2023. 
 
The
request and response at issue are the following:
 
Request
for Production No. 20:
All DOCUMENTS reflecting any social
media post made by YOU concerning the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
Plaintiff’s
Response to Request for Production No. 20:
Plaintiff objects to this request
on the ground that it is vague, ambiguous, and compound. It is overly broad,
and calls for a legal conclusion, expert witness testimony, and invades privacy
rights, the attorney-client privilege and/or work product doctrine. It also
seeks information contained in the business records, which are equally
available to, or already within the possession of the propounding party;
therefore this interrogatory is also burdensome and oppressive. Plaintiff also
objects to this request as it seeks the legal reasoning and theories of
Plaintiff’s contention. Plaintiff is not required to prepare the defendant’s
case. (Sav-On Drugs, Inc. v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County, supra, 15
Cal.3d at p. 5.) Further, a party is not obligated to perform legal research
for another party. (Ibid.) Plaintiff objects because this interrogatory is not
full and complete in and of itself, contains sub-parts, and/or contains a
conjunctive or disjunctive question and therefore does not comply with Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.060. Plaintiff objects to this request because it
is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Finally, Plaintiff objects on the grounds that the information sought by this
request is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence; as such, it can only be intended to embarrass or harass the Plaintiff.
 
Defendant
argues that further response is necessary because this request only asks
Plaintiff to produce documents reflecting any social media post by Plaintiff
concerning the vehicle. Defendant argues that instead of providing a response,
Plaintiff just gives a list of meritless objections. Defendant also requests
sanctions in the amount of $1,750 against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of
record for having to bring this motion.
 
Plaintiff
argues in opposition that Defendant’s motion is now moot because Plaintiff
served a supplemental response to Request for Production No. 20 on May 16, 2024,
with Plaintiff’s opposition. Plaintiff also argues that sanctions are not
warranted because Defendant failed to meaningfully meet and confer. The Court
will note that Defendant filed this motion only after Plaintiff’s counsel
indicated that Plaintiff would not be supplementing his response. It seems that
further meet and confer would have been fruitless after such a declaration.
 
The
following is Plaintiff’s supplemental response:
 
Plaintiff’s
Supplemental Response to Request for Production No. 20:
Plaintiff maintains all prior
objections, and supplements as follows: Plaintiff has conducted a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry for the documents reflected in this request but
is unable to comply because the requested item(s) never existed. Discovery is
still continuing and Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement or amend this
response should additional information become available.
 
Plaintiff
argues that this response is code-compliant. The Court agrees. Defendant has
not filed any reply arguing that further response is necessary, so the Court
finds that further supplementation is not needed. The motion to compel further
responses is denied as moot.
 
On
the issue of sanctions, it is a misuse of the discovery process to make
unmeritorious objections and evasive responses and such misuse is sanctionable.
(CCP § 2023.010.) Defendant has requested $1,750 in sanctions for bringing this
motion. Because Plaintiff supplemented his response and Defendant has not filed
a reply, the Court will only award $1,000 in sanctions for Defendant having to
bring this motion.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s
motion to compel further responses is denied as moot. However, sanctions will
be awarded for Defendant having to bring this motion. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel of record are ordered to pay $1,000 to Defendant’s counsel within 30
days.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 