  Case Number:  19PSCV00687    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  H Meritage
Homes of California, Inc. v. Michael Baker International, Inc.,

Case No. 19PSCV00687 


TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE [FN1]

I.        Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine
No. 3 to Exclude Any Testimony by Doug Martin, Mark Doty, or Michael Boeck in
Opposition or Rebuttal to Meritage Unless Those Witnesses are Disclosed and
Produced for Testimony During Plaintiff’s Case-in-Chief
As to witness Doug
Martin, the motion is denied as moot, as MBI’s opposition suggests that only
two of the three witnesses—Mark Doty and Michael Boeck—would potentially
provide live testimony.
As to witnesses Mark
Doty and Michael Boeck, the Court is inclined to grant the motion, in the
interests of orderly trial proceedings and avoiding juror confusion that could
result from having to hear both deposition testimony and live testimony from
the same witness. While the Court lacks authority to order out-of-state
witnesses to appear at trial, see, e.g.,
Amoco Chemical Co. v. Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s of London (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th
554, the Court permits
MBI to make a choice: it may either elect to call the witnesses and permit them
to testify in Plaintiff’s case-in-chief or it may rely solely on deposition
testimony. Accordingly, if MBI elects to call Doty or Boeck as live witnesses
in its case, MBI must also allow Plaintiff to call the witnesses in Plaintiff’s
case-in-chief. If MBI does not elect to make the out-of-state witnesses
available for live testimony, both parties may present deposition testimony.
The parties are ordered
to meet and confer further on this issue prior to trial. The Court expects the
parties to work together and be flexible regarding scheduling given that the
witnesses are located out of state.
 
II.      Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 4 to
Exclude Reference to Settlement
The Court is inclined to
grant the motion in large part, particularly in absence of any indication that
the settlement agreement is a sliding scale agreement and/or contains a term
requiring settling defendants to provided continued participation in the trial.
That said, the Court will permit MBI to revisit the issue at trial to the
extent that employees of Boudreau, John Lisee Pumps, and/or Pentiar provide
testimony that is inconsistent with testimony offered prior to the settlement.
(Diamond v. Reshko (2015) 239 Cal. App. 4th 828, 848 (2015) [“While
the testimonial discrepancy itself was revealed, the jury was deprived of
evidence which could have supported a conclusion that Mansouri was biased in
favor of the plaintiffs now that he had settled his case with the Diamonds.”].)
Accordingly, depending
on the testimony presented, the Court may permit limited references to the
settlement for the sole purpose of establishing witness bias, in which case the
Court would provide an appropriate limiting instruction. If MBI wishes to revisit
the issue at trial, it must first raise the issue with the Court outside the
presence of the jury before introducing evidence of the settlement or
referencing the settlement in any way.
 
III.     Plaintiff’s (Amended) Motion in Limine
No. 5 to Exclude Argument and Evidence Referring to and Concerning the “Empty
Chair” Defendants and Any Alleged Proportionate Fault of the Settling
Defendants
The Court defers ruling
on this motion, pending the outcome of Plaintiff’s request for declaratory
relief. Specifically, in Plaintiff’s trial brief, Plaintiff requests that the
Court determine a number of threshold issues relating to the Master
Professional Services Agreement (“MPSA”), including whether, “pursuant to
sections 8.2 and 8.4 of the MPSA,” Plaintiff “need not prove negligence or
‘substantial factor’ causation to prove its right to indemnity from MBI.” 
At the FSC, the parties
should be prepared to address Plaintiff’s request for declaratory relief; the
Court also may request supplemental briefing as to this issue following the
FSC.
 
IV.     Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 6 to
Exclude Reference to Statements Referencing the Term “Fraud” in Describing Any
Non-Settling Party’s Conduct
The Court seeks
clarification as to what Plaintiff is seeking and what evidence is in dispute.
The motion in limine references only “non-settling” parties but both the motion
and opposition seem to contemplate reference to the settling defendants’ alleged
fraudulent conduct. The Court will hear further from the parties in this regard
at the time of the FSC.
 
V.       Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 7 to
Tom Card’s Opinions Regarding the Design of the Lift Station
The Court is inclined to
deny the motion. Mr. Card’s previous testimony appears to be within the scope
of the alleged failure of the sewer lift system and to the extent that
Plaintiff believes the declaration is being taken out of context and/or is
beyond Mr. Card’s expertise, Plaintiff is free to present those arguments at
trial.


