 Case Number:  24SMCV00435    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name: 
FF CA Policy Parternship LP v. Estate of Olga Mellican, et al. 



Case No.:


24SMCV00435


Complaint Filed:


1-26-24           




Hearing Date:


10-1-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


7


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants the Estate of Olga
Mellican, by its Special Administrator, Ingrid Mellican; Ramona Mellican;
Yasmin Gilleran; and Ingrid Mellican
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff FF CA Policy
Partnership LP 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants
Demurrer to the 1st through 4th causes of action for Declaratory
Relief is OVERRULED. Plaintiff alleges the necessary facts to state claims for declaratory
relief. 
 
            Defendants
Demurrer to the 5th cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE
TO AMEND. Plaintiff does not allege the harm Plaintiff incurred resulted from
the alleged breach. 
 
The Court notes that although this motion was filed as a
Demurrer with Motion to Strike, no motion to strike was filed.. 
  
            Defendants
RJN (filed 5-7-2024) No. 1 is DENIED. The Court will not take judicial notice
of email correspondence without evidence those facts meet the elements CCP §452(h).
Defendants RJN Nos 2 and 3 are GRANTED as to the existence of articles, court
documents, and the administrative ruling documents, but not to the “truth of
the hearsay statements in the documents” or the factual finding made in court
orders. (In re Vicks (2013) 56 Cal.4th 274, 314.)  Defendants RJN filed on9-23-2024 with the
reply is denied as untimely. 
 
            
REASONING
 
I.               
Demurrer to the 1st –4th
causes of action for Declaratory Relief—OVERRULED
 
“To allege facts sufficient to
state a cause of action for declaratory relief, the plaintiff must allege two
essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the rights or
obligations of a party.” Childhelp, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2023)
91 Cal.App.5th 224, 235, as modified (May 5, 2023), [internal citations
omitted].) “The “actual controversy” language in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1060 encompasses a probable future controversy relating to the legal
rights and duties of the parties.” (Environmental Defense Project of Sierra
County v. County of Sierra (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 877, 885, as modified
(Jan. 9, 2008).) 
 
“An action for declaratory relief
is authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section 1060, which provides in
pertinent part: “Any person interested under a written instrument, ... may, in
cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the
respective parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior
court for a declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises,
including a determination of any question of construction or validity arising
under the instrument or contract.” (Doan v. State Farm General Ins. Co.
(2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1082, 1094–1095.)
 
Plaintiff FF CA Policy Partnership
LP (“Plaintiff”) alleges the necessary facts to state a cause of action for
declaratory relief in the 1st–4th causes of action.  In the 1st –4th causes
of action for Declaratory Relief Plaintiff alleges a proper subject of
declaratory relief based on the interpretation of policy agreements between
Plaintiff and Defendant. (Compl., ¶¶47–115.) 
 
In the 1st cause of
action for Declaratory Relief – Policy Validity Plaintiff alleges “[t]here
exists an actual, justiciable, and substantial controversy between the parties
concerning the rights to the Policy’s Death Benefit—i.e., whether Plaintiff is
entitled to retain the Policy’s Death Benefit, or whether Defendant Estate is
entitled to “recover” some or all of the Policy’s Death Benefit.” (Compl., ¶
118.) Plaintiff alleges the policy is covered under California Law, the policy
insured the life of a California Resident, and the policy is valid. (Compl., ¶¶
119–122.) Plaintiff alleges an actual controversy by stating that Defendants
made their position clear in a separate Delaware Action that that the Policy is
invalid under Delaware Law, and Plaintiff alleges Defendants Policy theory being
under Delaware Law is wrong. (Id., ¶¶ 126–129.) Plaintiff alleges they
are entitled to a judgment from the Court declaring the rights among Plaintiff
and Defendant, that Plaintiff is the rightful owner of the Policy’s Death Benefit,
and that Defendant is “barred from recovering any portion of the Policy’s Death
Benefit from Plaintiff.” (Id., ¶¶ 139–141.) Plaintiff has successfully
plead a cause of action for declaratory relief – policy validity. 
 
In the 2nd cause of
action for Declaratory Relief – Lack of Standing Plaintiff alleges “[t]here
exists an actual, justiciable, and substantial controversy between the parties
concerning whether Defendant Estate has standing to challenge the Mellican
Policy’s validity for lack of insurable interest.” (Compl., ¶ 144.) Plaintiff
alleges an actual controversy because Defendant “made clear its position that
it has standing to challenge the Mellican Policy as void ab initio for lack of
insurable interest,” however Plaintiff alleges “its position is that Defendant
Estate lacks standing to challenge the validity of the Mellican Policy.” (Id.,
¶¶ 146–147.) Plaintiff requests judgment from the Court “declaring that
Defendant Estate lacks standing to challenge the Mellican Policy’s validity for
lack of insurable interest.” (Id., ¶ 148.) Plaintiff has successfully
plead a cause of action for declaratory relief – lack of standing.
 
In the 3rd cause of
action for Declaratory Relief–statute of limitations Plaintiff alleges there “exists
an actual, justiciable, and substantial controversy between the parties
concerning whether any claims by Defendant Estate to “recover” the Policy’s
Death Benefit under the Delaware Insurable Interest Law are time barred under
either California or Delaware’s one-year statute of limitations for penalties
and forfeitures.” (Compl., ¶ 151.) Plaintiff further alleges an actual
controversy by stating Plaintiff disagrees with Defendants position that the
claims are not time barred. (Id., ¶¶ 153–161.) Plaintiff requests a
judgment from the Court “declaring that any claims by Defendant Estate to
“recover” the Policy’s Death Benefit under a lawsuit brought under the Delaware
Insurable Interest Law are time barred under either California or Delaware’s
one-year statute of limitations for penalties and forfeitures.” (Id., ¶
162.) Plaintiff has successfully plead a cause of action for declaratory relief
– statute of limitations.
 
In the 4th cause of
action for Declaratory Relief- Waiver Plaintiff alleges there “exists an
actual, justiciable, and substantial controversy between the parties concerning
whether, to the extent Delaware law applies, Defendant Estate has waived its
claim to “recover” the Policy’s Death Benefit.” (Compl., ¶ 165.) Plaintiff
further alleges that Plaintiff’s position is that Defendants “waived any and
all claims to “recover” the Policy’s Death Benefit when the Mellican Family
sold the beneficial interest in the Mellican Trust in 2007,” however
Defendant’s position is that is claims have not been waived. (Id., ¶¶
167–177.) Plaintiff requests judgment from the Court “declaring that, to the
extent Delaware law applies, Defendant Estate, Ingrid Mellican, Ramona Mellican
(a/k/a Ramona Schneider), and Yasmin Gilleran have waived any claim to recover
the Policy’s Death Benefit.” (Id., ¶ 178.) Plaintiff has successfully
plead a cause of action for declaratory relief –waiver.
 
Thus, Defendants demurrer to the 1st
through 4th causes of action are OVERRULED. 
 
II.            
Demurrer to 5th cause of action for
Breach of Contract—SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND
 
The essential elements of breach of
contract are “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff." (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United
Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.)
 
Plaintiff alleges the cause of
action as to Defendant Ingrid Mellican (“Ingrid”) alone. Plaintiff alleges there
exists a “valid and binding sale contracts (i.e., the Successor Beneficiary
Agreement and related agreements),” in which Defendant “Ingrid Mellican
consented to the sale of the Policy to Ocean Gate and waived any right to
challenge its validity or claim the Policy’s Death Benefit.” (Compl., ¶ 180;
see also, id., ¶¶ 63, 65–68) Plaintiff does not attach the agreements which
they are alleging were breached, but they do set out some “actual terms of the
contract.” (See id., ¶¶ 63–67; Gautier v. General Tel. Co. (1965)
234 Cal.App.2d 302, 305 [the “law nonetheless requires that there be an allegation
of such verbal agreement by setting forth the substance of its relative terms.”].)
 
Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff has “satisfied
all obligations under any agreements relating to the Mellican family’s sale of
the Policy or the beneficial interest in the Trust that owned the Policy.” (Id.,
¶ 181.) Plaintiff alleges that Ingrid “breached the sale contracts by “seeking
to be appointed as Special Administrator for Defendant Estate in order to file
a lawsuit to “recover” proceeds under life insurance policies that had insured
Olga Mellican’s life and by filing the Delaware Action challenging the validity
of the Policy and claiming the Policy’s Death Benefit.” (Id., ¶ 182.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges they were harmed
by the breach, but they do not specifically state any how they were harmed. (Compl.,
¶ 183; See Comstock v. Coronet Heating Supply Co. (1952) 111 Cal.App.2d
600, 603 [“Where . . . damages do not necessarily result from the wrongful
breach of a contract, an injured party must specifically plead the facts
showing the damage which has resulted to him because of the wrongful act.”].) Plaintiff
fails to allege how the clamed damages were caused by the breach of the
contract. (Compl., ¶ 184.) 