 Case Number:  24STCV11239    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JUSTIN MAYER,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
DANIEL N. GLASSMAN, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV11239
  Hearing Date: November 22, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer to complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff Justin
Mayer filed this action against Defendants Daniel Glassman (Glassman) and
Glassman Technology Group, Inc. (GTG), asserting causes of action for (1)
breach of fiduciary duty, (2) conversion, (3) common count, and (4) accounting.
The complaint arises from the following facts. 
            In 2008, Plaintiff and Glassman
established a joint business venture, which eventually incorporated as Strata
Labs, Inc. (Strata Labs), to develop, market, and sell proprietary software and
related services. (Compl. ¶¶ 10-11.) Plaintiff and Glassman were equal
shareholders in Strata Labs and had equal ownership of all proprietary software
and other intellectual property, though Plaintiff was primarily responsible for
developing the proprietary software. (Id., ¶¶ 11-12.)
            In 2018, Glassman expressed a desire
to dissolve Strata Labs because he was being hired by the company’s biggest
client, Coralisle Group. (Compl. ¶ 14.) Plaintiff agreed on the condition that
he would remain an equal partner in the business and continue to receive an
equal share of proceeds. (Ibid.) This arrangement worked until 2022,
when Glassman expressed a desire to end the business partnership entirely. (Id.,
¶¶ 14-15.) Plaintiff was amenable to this, but requested a proper dissolution
of the business relationship that would ensure he received his fair share. (Id.,
¶ 15.) Glassman never responded to this request and simply stopped paying
Plaintiff his share of the company’s proceeds. (Ibid.) Glassman has used
his wholly-owned company, GTG, to exploit the software and intellectual
property of Strata Labs to service the company’s former clients—including
Coralisle Group—without compensating Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶¶ 17-18.) 
            On August 2, 2024, the case was
removed to federal district court. On October 4, 2024, the district court
issued an order declining jurisdiction and remanding the case back to this
Court. 
On October 18, 2024, Defendants filed the
instant demurrer to the complaint. Plaintiff filed his opposition on November
7, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on November 15, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Serova Decl.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Jurisdiction
            Defendants first argue that the
Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction because Plaintiff’s claims implicate
the work-for-hire doctrine of the Copyright Act and must be adjudicated by a
federal court. However, a federal district court already rejected Defendants’
arguments and remanded the case back to this Court. Specifically, the district
court held that “[w]hen, as here, ownership ‘is the sole question for
consideration,’ the case does not implicate the Copyright Act’s work-for-hire
doctrine.” (Oct. 11, 2024 Notice of Remand, p. 4.) “Here, neither side claims
to have created the copyrighted software. The parties do not dispute that the
software was created by software developers, but they disagree as to whether
the developers created the software for Strata Labs or GTG.” (Ibid.) “The
Court therefore agrees with Plaintiff that this case is a dispute over
contractual and fiduciary rights and belongs in state court.” (Ibid.) 
            “An order remanding a case to
the State court from which it was removed is not reviewable on appeal
or otherwise.” (28 U.S.C. § 1447(d); see also United Airlines, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1085, 1090 [acknowledging “a federal
district court's unreviewable power to remand claims to
state court”].) Citing Landmark Screens, LLC v. Morgan, Lewis & Bockius,
LLP (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 238, Defendants argue that “[t]he mere fact that
federal court has declined jurisdiction does not . . . confer jurisdiction on
this Court.” (Dem. 13:11-12.) Landmark Screens does not stand for this
proposition because that case was never removed to federal court, and no
federal court explicitly declined jurisdiction or expressly found that the case
belongs in state court. “A court's opinion is not authority for a proposition
not considered in it.” (People v. Anderson (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1259,
1275.)
            The plaintiff in Landmark Screens
improperly filed a complaint in state court and also failed to file a timely
complaint in federal court. The plaintiff argued that the state court’s dismissal
for lack of subject matter jurisdiction left it without a remedy. (Landmark
Screens, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at p. 252.) The Court of Appeal rejected
this argument, finding that the plaintiff was not prevented from filing a
timely federal complaint. (Ibid.) In that specific situation, the fact
that a federal remedy was unavailable (by the plaintiff’s own fault) did not
entitle the plaintiff to a remedy in state court. This cannot be extended to
mean that where a federal court expressly declines jurisdiction, a state court
may reverse that holding and find that jurisdiction actually belongs in federal
court. Thus, Landmark Screens is inapposite.  
            In reply, Defendants argue that a “federal
court’s jurisdictional determinations on remand are not binding on state court.”
(Reply 4:9-10.) However, none of the cited caselaw supports the proposition
that a state court may find that a matter belongs in federal court after a
federal court has expressly declined jurisdiction. In Whitman v. Raley's
Inc. (9th Cir. 1989) 886 F.2d 1177, 1180, the court held that “[a]
distinction must be drawn between the inquiry the district court faces in
considering whether a case was properly removed and the inquiry as to whether a
preemption defense exists.” Thus, if a federal court declines subject matter
jurisdiction and remands the matter to state court, that ruling “has no
preclusive effect on the state court's consideration of the substantive
preemption defense.” (Id. at p. 1181.) This does not mean that the state
court may challenge the federal court’s jurisdictional ruling; it merely means
that the federal court’s jurisdictional ruling has no preclusive effect over
the state court’s adjudication of a substantive preemption defense. That preemption
defense will still be litigated in state court.  
            The other cases cited by Defendants
are consistent with this. (See Nutter v. Monongahela Power Co. (4th Cir.
1993) 4 F.3d 319, 321-22 [district court’s preemption findings for purposes of
declining subject matter jurisdiction did not prevent defendant from litigating
preemption defense in state court upon remand]; In re Loudermilch (11th
Cir. 1998) 158 F.3d 1143, 1146 [“a district court's decision on the motion to
remand has no preclusive effect on the state court's resolution of respondents'
preemption defense in the same case”].) None of these cases stands for the
proposition that a state court may relitigate subject matter jurisdiction after
a federal court expressly declines jurisdiction and remands the matter. None of
the cases involved challenging the remand itself. The courts merely held that a
district court’s findings on remand did not have preclusive effect over a
substantive preemption defense to be litigated in state court. Preemption is
not at issue here. Again, a federal court’s remand is unreviewable. (28 U.S.C.
§ 1447(d).) 
Because the case has been heard by a
federal court and remanded under the express finding that the federal court
does not have subject matter jurisdiction, this Court retains subject matter
jurisdiction. 
II.
Sufficiency of the Allegations 
            a. Breach of Fiduciary Duty
            “The elements of a claim for breach
of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its
breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.” (O'Neal v.
Stanislaus County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184,
1215.) 
            The complaint alleges that Glassman,
as an officer, director, and shareholder of Strata Labs, owed Plaintiff, as a
50% shareholder, fiduciary duties including the duty to act in good faith and
with undivided loyalty. (Compl. ¶¶ 21-22.) Glassman allegedly breached his
fiduciary duties by misappropriating proceeds from Strata Labs’ software and
IP, concealing information about the exploitation of Strata Labs’ software and
IP, and converting property developed by Strata Labs, of which Plaintiff has a
50% ownership interest. (Id., ¶ 23.) As a result, Plaintiff has
allegedly suffered damages of over $300,000. (Id., ¶ 25.) These facts
satisfy the elements for breach of fiduciary duty. 
            Defendants argue that equal
shareholders, directors, and officers do not owe fiduciary duties to each
other. It is true that “after a partnership is incorporated, the rights or
obligations which partners can enforce against each other no longer exist.” (Persson
v. Smart Inventions, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1159.) Thus, “[i]n
the absence of a preincorporation agreement or evidence the corporate form was
disregarded, shareholders in a duly formed corporation operating in accordance
with legal requirements do not become de facto partners, and thereby acquire
fiduciary duties to each other, simply because they earn the same salary and
refer to each other for convenience as partners.” (Ibid.) “[C]onsiderable
doubt exists that the obligations that flow from a partnership—including
fiduciary duties among partners—may be imposed on the shareholders of a
corporation duly formed and operated under California statutes.” (Eng v.
Brown (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 675, 695.) 
            However, despite the general rule,
“[p]artners may, by agreement, continue their relations as copartners in
conjunction with their relationship as stockholders of a corporation.” (Persson,
supra, 125 Cal.App.4th at p. 1158.) “[T]he existence of a partnership is a
question of fact.” (Id. at p. 1157.) Thus, it is a factual issue whether
Plaintiff and Glassman owed fiduciary duties to each other as partners despite
incorporating as Strata Labs. Moreover, a director owes a duty of care to the
corporation and its shareholders. (See Corp. Code, § 309(a).) For pleading
purposes, the complaint sufficiently alleges that Glassman, as director, owed
fiduciary duties to Plaintiff, as shareholder. (See Compl. ¶¶ 21-22.)  
            Defendants also argue that Glassman
could not have owed or breached any fiduciary duties after the dissolution of
Strata Labs in 2018. (See Compl. ¶ 14.) However, as discussed above, partners
owe fiduciary duties to one another, and the existence of a partnership is a
question of fact. Despite the dissolution of the Strata Labs corporation,
Plaintiff alleges that the partnership continued, such that Plaintiff and
Glassman agreed to be equal partners and share equally in the business
proceeds. (Ibid.) Thus, the complaint has sufficiently alleged facts to
raise the inference that Glassman owed Plaintiff fiduciary duties. 
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
first cause of action.
b. Conversion
            The elements of conversion are: (1)
the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the personal property; (2)
the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights;
and (3) damages. (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
202, 208.)
            Here,
the complaint alleges that Defendants without consent took possession of or
interfered with Plaintiff’s access to the Strata Labs software and IP, of which
Plaintiff has a 50% interest. (Compl. ¶¶ 28-30.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants failed to compensate Plaintiff for the exploitation of the software
and IP. (Id., ¶ 29.) Plaintiff alleges resulting damages of $300,000. (Id.,
¶ 31.) These facts satisfy the elements of conversion.
            Defendants
argue that conversion does not apply to intangible property unless it is
embodied in a tangible medium. However, “the tort of conversion has expanded
well beyond its original boundaries.” (Welco, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at
p. 210.) “[U]nauthorized use . . . can take many forms,” and courts have
recognized “that the unauthorized taking of an intangible property
interest not merged with or reflected in tangible properly can be an actionable
conversion.” (Id. at pp. 210-11, citing Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119-25.) “California does
not follow the Restatement’s strict requirement that some document must
actually represent the owner’s intangible property right. On the contrary,
courts routinely apply the tort to intangibles without inquiring whether they
are merged in a document.” (Kremen v. Cohen (2003) 337 F.3d 1024, 1033.)

            Defendants
further contend that there are no facts demonstrating an actual interference
with any property right, only that Defendants failed to compensate Plaintiff
for use of the software and IP. However, as discussed above, unauthorized use
can take many forms. For pleading purposes, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
that Defendants exploited the software and IP without his consent and retained
the profits for themselves. (See Compl. ¶¶ 28-30.) Moreover, the facts support
an inference that Plaintiff held an ownership interest in the profits
themselves. This is money in an identifiable sum which may be the subject of
conversion. (See Welco, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 209.) Whether
Plaintiff actually owns any of the alleged software, IP, or money is a factual
matter beyond the purview of a demurrer. Plaintiff has alleged conversion for
pleading purposes. 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the second cause of action.
            c. Common Count
“A common count is not a specific cause of
action, … rather, it is a simplified form of pleading normally used to aver the
existence of various forms of monetary indebtedness, including that arising
from an alleged duty to make restitution under an assumpsit theory.” (McBride
v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394.) 
The complaint alleges that Defendants
obtained profits from the exploitation of software and IP, which Plaintiff had
a 50% interest in, and failed to compensate Plaintiff accordingly. Thus,
Plaintiff has pled facts supporting monetary indebtedness justifying
restitution. Plaintiff’s failure to plead the elements of fraud is not
dispositive, as Plaintiff does not assert a fraud claim and the common count is
not solely based on fraud. The common count claim incorporates all previous
allegations (Compl. ¶ 34), and those facts support a common count claim apart
from fraudulent inducement. 
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third
cause of action.
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 