  Case Number:  22AHCV00484    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDERI.               
Background
This consolidated case
arises out of a construction subcontract related to the Los Encinas Hospital
Project, located in Pasadena, California.
Jokake Construction
Services, Inc., an Arizona corporation (“Jokake”), has retained attorney Jason
Ebe, a partner at Snell & Wilmer LLP. Mr. Ebe is licensed to practice law
in Arizona but is not licensed to practice in California. Jokake seeks the Court's
permission for Mr. Ebe to appear pro hac vice in this matter pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40. This motion is unopposed.
II.            
Legal
Standard
California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 contains the
requirements for a pro hac vice application.
Subdivision
(a) mandates that to be eligible for pro hac vice admission, the
applicant must be an attorney of good standing and eligible to practice in any
bar of the United States court or the highest court of any state, who has been
retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of this state. Such
person may in the court’s discretion be permitted to appear pro hac vice
upon written application. The applicant must not be a resident of California,
regularly employed in California, or regularly engaged in substantial business
in California. 
Pursuant
to subdivision (c), the applicant must submit a verified application for pro
hac vice admission with notice of hearing provided to all parties. 
Pursuant
to subdivision (d) the application must state:
-
the applicant’s residence and office address;
-
the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission;
-
that the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;
-
that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
-
the title of each court and cause of action in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two
years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted;
-
the name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record. 
Pursuant
to subdivision (e) the applicant must pay a reasonable fee not to exceed $500
to the State Bar along with a copy of the application that is served on the
State Bar.
 
 
III.          
Discussion

            Attorney Jason Ebe, a partner at Snell & Wilmer LLP,
seeks admission to appear pro hac vice in the instant matter on behalf of Jokake. Upon review, the Court finds that Mr. Ebe
satisfies the requirements set forth in California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40,
and therefore GRANTS his application.
Mr.
Ebe declares he is a resident of Arizona and has not engaged in substantial or
regular business, professional, or other activities within the State of
California, as required by Rule 9.40(a). His residential address is 1731 West
Prescott Drive, Chandler, Arizona 85248, and his office address is One East
Washington Street, Suite 2700, Phoenix, Arizona 85004. (Ebe Decl., ¶¶ 2–3)
Mr.
Ebe is admitted to practice law in Arizona and has been a member in good
standing of the Arizona State Bar since October 19, 1996. He is also admitted
and in good standing with the following courts:

United
     States District Court, District of Arizona - admitted October 19, 1996;
Ninth
     Circuit Court of Appeals - admitted February 22, 1999;
State
     of Hawaii - admitted
     June 14, 2024, and
United
     States District Court, District of Hawaii - admitted June 14, 2024. 

Mr. Ebe has never been
suspended or disbarred from practicing law before any court or tribunal. (Ebe
Decl., ¶ 4)
In
compliance with Rule 9.40(d)(4), Mr. Ebe disclosed his prior appearances pro
hac vice in California. 

He was admitted pro hac vice by this Court on
     October 8, 2021, in the consolidated case of Huntington Glazing, Inc.
     v. Jokake Construction Services, Inc. (Case No. 20GDCV00713), which
     remains pending.
 He was also admitted pro hac vice on
     February 4, 2019, in the related case of RIKA Construction v. Jokake
     Construction Services, Inc., et al. (Case No. EC068916), which has
     since been resolved.

Mr. Ebe declares that he has
not sought pro hac vice admission in California in the last two years beyond
these disclosed instances. (Ebe Decl., ¶ 5)
In
compliance with Rule 9.40(d)(5), Mr. Ebe has identified Anthony J. Carucci, an
active member of the California State Bar, as local counsel. Mr. Carucci’s
office address is 600 Anton Boulevard, Suite 1400, Costa Mesa, California
92626, and his telephone number is (714) 427-7000. (Ebe Decl., ¶ 6)
Additionally,
Mr. Ebe has complied with the fee requirement under Rule 9.40(e). On November
8, 2024, Mr. Ebe submitted his verified pro hac vice application and the
accompanying Notice of Motion and Motion for Order Granting Pro Hac Vice
Admission through the State Bar of California’s online portal for pro hac vice
applications. At the time of submission, the required $500 fee was paid to the
State Bar of California. Attached as Exhibit 1 to the application is a receipt
confirming payment and acknowledgment from the State Bar that Mr. Ebe’s pro hac
vice application was received on November 8, 2024. (Carucci Decl., ¶ 2; Exh.1)
The
Court finds that Mr. Ebe’s application is procedurally proper and satisfies the
requirements of California Rule of Court 9.40. 
Accordingly,
the application is GRANTED. Mr. Ebe may appear pro hac vice on behalf of Jokake
with Anthony J. Carucci as local counsel.Dated: December 9, 2024 JARED D. MOSES     JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT