 Case Number:  24STCV00774    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  26 8/01/2024 
Dept. 26
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CANMAR PROMO CORP. v. BMO BANK, N.A. (24STCV00774)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Aiden Butler 
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Mancy
Pendergrass 
 
demurrer TO FIRST AMENDED complaint (filed 7/08/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff Canmar Promo Corp. filed this action. On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant BMO Bank, N.A. (“Defendant”
or “BMO”) alleging the following causes of action: 
C/A
1:  Conversion; 
C/A
2:  Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; 
C/A
3:  Declaratory Relief; 
C/A
4:  Money Had and Received; and
C/A
5:  Tortious Interference
 
The FAC alleges the following. In 2023, Plaintiff owned a business
checking account with Bank of the West, which in or around February, 2023,
became part of BMO. (FAC, ¶ 7.) At all times relevant herein, Plaintiff was
current on its payments to BMO, and used its deposit accounts consistent with
its contractual obligations to BMO, and consistent with all applicable state
and federal laws. (FAC, ¶ 8.)
 
In a letter dated April 10, 2023, Defendant wrote to Plaintiff
that Defendant had “elected to place an investigative freeze” on Plaintiff’s
account without providing a reason for the freeze. (FAC, ¶ 9.) At the time
freeze was imposed, Plaintiff had already submitted certain checks to some of
its vendors. The checks did not clear due to the freeze. By restricting
Plaintiff’s access to its money, the freeze essentially undermined Plaintiff’s
ability to conduct business, and pay its creditors, causing Plaintiff extensive
and irreparable harm to existing business relationships and contracts. (FAC, ¶
10.) Plaintiff alleges that BMO never provided an explanation for any freeze
and never returned its funds on deposit. (FAC, ¶11.) At the time of the freeze,
Plaintiff’s account held $444,357.49. That entire amount has been withheld from
Plaintiff, and is now in the possession of the Defendants. Defendants’ freeze
of Plaintiff’s funds – and Defendants’ continued refusal to explain the freeze
and return the funds – were unjustified, baseless, willful and reckless.
Defendants’ wrongdoing has caused – and continues to cause – substantial and
irreparable harm to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 12.)
 
On July 8, 2024, Defendant BMO filed the instant demurrer, arguing:
·       Each of
Plaintiff’s causes of action fail for failure to state a claim. 
·       Plaintiff’s
deposit account at BMO is governed by the parties’ agreement, in which
Plaintiff agreed that BMO could close or freeze its account and that any
withdrawals on the account could be blocked while the account is frozen. (RJN,
Ex. 2-3, p. 58.) In addition, the Account Disclosures also provide that the
bank “shall not be liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential
damages which arise under this Agreement or by law with respect to [the]
Account.” (RJN, Ex. 2 and 3, p. 6.)
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff
opposes Defendant’s request for judicial notice. Defendant’s request judicial
notice of Plaintiff’s signature card and the
Deposit Account Disclosure Agreements. The documents do not prove consent to or
acceptance of the terms included in the alleged contract. 
·       Defendant’s arguments virtually all
hinge on the Court granting judicial notice of documents for which judicial
notice cannot be granted, and further, accepting the contents of those
documents.
·       The FAC sufficiently sets forth facts
to constitute a cause of action. It alleges Defendant took a substantial amount
of money from Plaintiff’s account, closed the account, and refused to refund
the money – or even to explain the seizure of money.
o  
As
for the tortious interference claim, Plaintiff has in fact alleged that “BMO
was aware of those [disrupted] relationships” (FAC, ¶ 30), and “was further
reminded repeatedly after the initial imposition of the freeze, that without
access to its own money, BMO [sic] would not be able to fulfill its business
obligations, or continue to function commercially” (FAC, ¶31). Apart from the disruption
of the business relationships, Defendant’s actions were independently wrongful
in that Plaintiff’s money was withheld without cause for a substantial period
of time. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-12.)
 
Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·       Taking judicial
notice of the parties’ agreement is proper. The law is clear that documents
referenced in a plaintiff’s claim are subject to judicial notice. (See
Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
457, 468 [the contents of writings referenced in the pleading prevail over
allegations of a complaint.]
·       While BMO strongly
contends that judicial notice is proper under these circumstances, the demurrer
does not hinge on the Court granting the Request. The opposition does not
dispute that, regardless of the parties’ agreement to the contrary, Plaintiff’s
claims for conversion, breach of good faith and fair dealing, interference,
common count, and declaratory relief fail as a matter of law. Indeed, by
failing to argue the contrary, Plaintiff effectively concedes all of these
issues. (See DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 78
Cal.App.4th 562, 566.)  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant’s counsel submitted a declaration stating she telephonically met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel on June 5, 2024 and June 18, 2024. (Pendergrass
Decl., ¶ 3.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its obligation to
meet and confer. Thus, the Court proceeds on the merits.
 
B.     Request for Judicial
Notice
 
Defendant
requests the Court take judicial notice of the following:
1.     Canmar Promo
Corp.’s Signature Card dated July 2, 2020 (redacted); 
2.     Deposit
Account Disclosure Agreement effective December 1, 2019; 
3.     Deposit
Account Disclosure Agreement effective February 2, 2023.
 
Evidence Code
§452(h) provides that a court may take judicial notice of “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.”  Additionally, “a
court may take judicial notice of the fact of a document’s recordation, the
date the document was recorded and executed, the parties to the transaction
reflected in a recorded document, and the document’s legally operative
language, assuming there is no genuine dispute regarding the document’s
authenticity.”  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256,
265.) Moreover, “[f]rom this, the court may deduce and rely upon the legal
effect of the recorded document, when that effect is clear from its face.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant asserts judicial notice is
proper because courts may take judicial notice of agreements where the pleading
references the agreements. (Performance Plastering v. Richmond American
Homes of California, Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 659, 666, fn. 2.)
 
In Plaintiff’s opposition, it asserts
that judicial notice should be denied. However, Plaintiff cites to inapposite
cases that don’t concern documents referenced in the pleading. For example, Day
v. Sharp (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914 relates to taking judicial notice of
court records. In addition, Bach v. McNeil (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 852
relates to taking judicial notice of facts in an affidavit filed in court, not
the terms of a written agreement referenced in a complaint. Thus, Plaintiff
fails to cite to any authority that supports its argument that judicial notice
should be denied.
The
Court grants Defendant’s requests for judicial notice. (See Salvaty v. Falcon Cable TV (1985)
165 Cal.App.3d 798, 800; Performance Plastering v. Richmond American
Homes of California, Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 659, 666, fn. 2.)
 
C.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
D.     First Cause
of Action: Conversion
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for
conversion fails because Defendant had title to the funds on the deposit and
thus cannot be liable for conversion. 
 
To plead a
cause of action for conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership
or right to possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the
property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  
 
“‘Conversion
is any act of dominion wrongfully exerted over another’s personal property in
denial of or inconsistent with his rights therein.’” (Enterprise Leasing
Corp. v. Shugart Corp. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 737, 747 (quoting Messerall
v. Fulwider (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1329).) “‘It is not necessary that
there be a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an
assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged
converter has applied the property to his own use.’” (Id.) 
 
The
FAC alleges “Defendants, and each of them, have misappropriated money owned by
solely by Plaintiff. Defendants’ taking of the money was wrongful. At the time
that Defendants seized the money, that money belonged solely to Plaintiff.”
(FAC, ¶ 14.) “Defendants have converted that entire sum to their own use and,
despite repeated demands by Plaintiff, have refused to return the money
wrongfully taken from Plaintiff.” (FAC, ¶ 15.)
 
Defendant argues that Defendant, not Plaintiff, owned the funds
upon deposit and therefore Plaintiff’s conversion claim fails as a matter of
law. Defendant asserts that ownership of the funds passes to the bank on
deposit. (Bank of America, etc. Assn. v. California Sav. & Commercial
Bank (1933) 218 Cal. 261, 273-274 [“In the case of a general deposit in a
bank, the relationship of the bank and depositor is that of debtor and
creditor, and the funds deposited become a part of the general assets of the
bank, which it may use in making loans and investments and otherwise conducting
a general banking business”]; see also Lee v. Bank of Am. (1990) 218
Cal.App.3d 914, 919 [holding that title to deposited funds passes immediately
to bank, which consequently cannot be charged with converting the deposit to
its own use].) “Title to the deposited funds passes immediately to the bank
which may use the funds for its own business purposes... The bank does not
hereby act as a trustee and cannot be charged with converting the deposit to
its own use.” (Morse v. Crocker National Bank (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 228,
232 (citations omitted).
 
Plaintiff does not address this argument in its opposition. 
 
The Court does not find that Plaintiff has pled a conversion
claim. As Defendant contends, ownership of the funds passes to the bank on
deposit. Plaintiff has not shown Plaintiff had ownership of the funds after
deposit. Therefore, Plaintiff’s claim fails. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer as to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
E.     Second Cause
of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Next,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails to state a cause of action. 
 
“A breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty
itself and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than
mistaken judgment.”  (Careau & Co.
v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,
1394.)  “If the allegations do not go
beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged
acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated . . . . 
[T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.”  (Id. at 1394-95.) To recover in tort
for breach of the implied covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably
or without proper cause.” (Id. at 1395, cleaned
up.)
 
The FAC alleges “A
legally binding contract existed between Plaintiffs and BMO, pursuant to which
Plaintiffs would keep on deposit at BMO a sum of money which BMO would, for a
fee, hold for Plaintiff, but pay to other persons and/or entities as directed
by Plaintiffs through written checks, etc.” (FAC, ¶ 19.) “BMO has breached the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, as a direct and proximate of
which, Plaintiff has suffered harm subject to proof at the time of trial, but
within the jurisdictional limits of this Court.” (FAC, ¶ 20.)
 
The
Court does not find that Plaintiff has sufficiently pled a breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing claim. Plaintiff states in a conclusory
manner that Defendant breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, but does not specify how. The FAC does not allege what contract terms
Defendant purportedly breached or how Defendant’s actions involved something beyond
the breach of the contractual duty itself. Therefore, Plaintiff’s claim fails. The
Court notes that Plaintiff does not address Defendant’s argument in its
opposition. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer as to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
F.      Fifth Cause
of Action: Tortious Interference 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for tortious interference fails
to state a cause of action.
 
The elements of a cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations are “(1) a valid contract
between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this
contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.”  (I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram
Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257, 289.)
 
The FAC alleges Plaintiff had relationships with other entities in its line of
work, including both contractual and non-contractual relationships. (FAC, ¶
29.) BMO was aware of those relationships. (FAC, ¶ 30.) BMO knowingly,
intentionally and/or recklessly permanently disrupted those relationships by
imposing an unwarranted and baseless freeze on Plaintiff’s money on deposit
with BMO. (FAC, ¶ 31.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues it has sufficiently alleged that Defendant was
aware of Plaintiff’s other  relationships
and was further reminded repeatedly after the initial imposition of the freeze,
that without access to its own money, Plaintiff would not be able to fulfill
its business obligations, or continue to function commercially. Plaintiff
further argues that apart from the disruption of the business relationships,
Defendant’s actions were independently wrongful in that Plaintiff’s money was
withheld without cause for a substantial period of time. 
 
The Court does not find that Plaintiff
has sufficiently pled a tortious interference cause of action. Plaintiff
alleges in a conclusory manner that Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s
relationships with third party entities. Plaintiff does not specify the
identities of the parties, how Defendant knew or when Defendant became aware of
Plaintiff’s other relationships. Plaintiff also does not specify how
Defendant’s actions were intentionally designed to induce a breach or
disruption of Plaintiff’s relationships. Since Plaintiff only pleads conclusory
allegations, Plaintiff’s claim fails. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer as to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
A.     Third and
Fourth Causes of Action: Declaratory Relief and Money Had and Received
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s third and fourth causes of action fail to state causes
of action.
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party
would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a
proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, cleaned up.) 
“[T]here is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved.”  (Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
366, cleaned up.)
 
“A cause of action for money had and received
is stated if it is alleged [that] the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in
a certain sum for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the
plaintiff. . . .  The claim is viable
wherever one person has received money which belongs to another, and which in
equity and good conscience should be paid over to the latter.”  (Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460, cleaned up.)
 
The FAC
alleges “an actual
and existing controversy now exists between the parties hereto, in that
Plaintiff contends that Defendants’ seizure and subsequent retention of its
money is unjustified. Defendants apparently contend that they acted properly in
absorbing Plaintiff’s money, though no coherent explanation for such action has
been provided. Alternatively, Defendants appear to contend that Plaintiff’s
money is not being held by them. A judicial declaration of the parties’
respective rights and obligations is therefore appropriate, in order to avoid
multiplicity of litigation, and to effectuate judicial economy.” (FAC, ¶¶
23-24.) The FAC further alleges that for its money had and received cause of
action, Defendants became indebted to Plaintiffs in the approximate sum of
$444,357.49 by refusing to return the money in Plaintiff’s account. (FAC, ¶¶ 26-27.)
 
As discussed
above, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s conversion, implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and tortious interference causes of
action. Thus, the Court finds demurrers to the common count and declaratory
relief causes of action should be sustained as well. “When a common count is
used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery demanded in a specific
cause of action, and is based on the same facts, the common count is demurrable
if the cause of action is demurrable.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 379, 394.) Similarly, when the issues raised in a declaratory
relief action are duplicative of or encompassed by other causes of action in
the same pleading, the declaratory relief cause of action is unnecessary and
superfluous. (Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319.)
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer as to the third and fourth causes of action are SUSTAINED with
leave to amend. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.