  Case Number:  19STCV16452    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  26 08/01/2024
Dept. 73
Rolf M. Treu, Judge presiding
 
Andrew Mahoney v. City of Los Angeles
(19STCV16452)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Matthew McNicholas, Douglas Winter, & Jeffrey
Lamb   
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Natalie Price, Hydee Soto, Denise Mills, Scott Marcus,
and Aneta Freeman   
 
Defendant city of los angeles’s motion to
compel plAintiff’s medical records
(Filed on 07/08/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s medical
records is DENIED. Defendant must first propound discovery for
the records, then may refile a motion to compel if necessary.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 13, 2019, Andrew Mahoney (Plaintiff) filed the instant
action against City of Los Angeles (Defendant) and Does 1 through 100. The
Complaint asserts cause of action for: 
 

Failure
     to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940(m));
Discrimination
     in Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940, et seq.);
Harassment
     in Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940, et seq.); and
Retaliation
     in Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940, et seq.). 

              
              The Complaint
stems from allegations that Plaintiff was removed from his post as a police
officer from the Los Angeles Police Department because of his epilepsy
diagnosis. The motion now before the Court is Defendant City of Los Angeles’
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s medical records (the Motion). Plaintiff opposes
the Motion; no reply was filed. 
 
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
              “If
a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall
apply: (a) The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4…(b) The party
making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (c)
Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc. §2031.300)
 
Analysis
              In their moving papers
Defendant contends that they are entitled to the medical records because it is
in fact the central issue of the case. In order for there to be discovery into
an injury or health condition, it must first be placed at issue or “in controversy”
in the action. (See CAPI CH 6-C and CCP § 2032.020.) Plaintiff has done so here
as the principal claim is that Plaintiff was discriminated on account of his
physical disability. However, Plaintiff contends that the Motion fails on
procedural ground, Defendant never propounded discovery of Plaintiff’s medical
records. (Opposing Papers, 2:7-9.) As articulated in Code Civ. Proc. §2031.300, a motion to compel these records lies with
the failure of the opposing party to produce them,
however, no initial request was ever made.   
 

III. DISPOSITION
              Accordingly, Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s medical records is DENIED. Defendant must
first propound discovery for the records,  then may refile a motion to compel if
necessary. 
              
Moving Party to give notice.
 