  Case Number:  23STCV14022    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  14 CW Owner vs. MasitbiCase Background   Plaintiff alleges that Defendants  rented space from it in Michigan, but have failed to pay rent.   On June 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed its  Complaint for (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Breach of Guaranty against Defendants  Masitbi, LLC (“Masitbi”), Tarick Kamal Smaili aka Tarick Smiley (“Tarick”), Fathi  Karkoukli (“Karkoukli”), Mike Smaili (“Mike”), M.A. Smaili aka Mike Smaili (“M.A.”),  Jihad Smaili (“Jihad”), and DOES 1-20.    On August 30, 2023, Defendant Jihad  filed his Answer.   On September 5, 2023, the defaults  of Defendants Masitbi and Tarick were entered.   On January 9, 2024, the default of  Defendant Karkoukli was entered.               No trial  date has yet been set.   Instant Motion               Plaintiff  now moves this court for an order compelling Defendant to provide further  responses to its Form Interrogatories, Set No. One. Plaintiff also seeks  sanctions of $5,461.25.   Decision               The motion  is DENIED as MOOT. The request for sanctions is DENIED.   Discussion               Plaintiff  served the Form Interrogatories on September 11, 2023. Defendant served  responses on October 16, 2023.               In the  month of November, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel sent two emails to Defense counsel  about the responses. Receiving no response, Plaintiff filed the instant motion.               The court  held an Informal Discovery Conference on February 9, 2024. After the  conference, counsel engaged in further discussions.               On February  23, 2024, Defense counsel served supplemental responses concurrently with the  opposition to this motion.                In the  Reply, Plaintiff urges this court to grant the motion because the initial  responses were deficient and the supplemental responses contain some of the  same asserted deficiencies. The court declines this invitation, for three reasons.  First, Plaintiff failed to file the exhibits referenced in his moving papers,  and this deficiency cannot be cured by attaching the evidence to the reply.  Second, the court does not view two form emails, spaced out over several weeks,  as a proper attempt to meet and confer. See Code of Civil Procedure  §§ 2030.300(b) & 2016.040. Third, it is an idle act to compel further  responses when further responses have already been provided. See Civil Code  § 3532.               With that  said, the opposition speculates on how the court would have ruled if the motion  were heard on its merits. While the court ordinarily would let such speculation  pass, these particular comments seem to reveal a misunderstanding of the court’s  comments at the IDC. A brief discussion is necessary to correct that issue and  prevent the miscommunication from recurring.               It is common  practice to preface discovery responses with a “Preliminary Statement” and a  series of “General Objections” which purport to apply to all the questions  posed. This practice is, commonality notwithstanding, improper. No portion of  the Discovery Act authorizes the use of Preliminary Statements or General  Objections and (as Defense concedes) neither has any real effect. Applying the  ancient rule of “no harm no foul,” Defense suggests that there is no reason to  bother about these portions of their responses. But there is: they do not  belong.                It is  likewise common practice to begin each individual response with a series of  objections, then close by offering a substantive answer “notwithstanding” and “consistent  with” the objections. And this practice is likewise improper. The lawyer  reading such responses has no way of telling whether or not any material is  being withheld, and if so, based on which objection.   Where an objection results in the  withholding of information, there should either be (a) no substantive response  at all, or (b) the response should indicate what precisely is being withheld.  Further, objections based on privilege or privacy should always be accompanied  by a privilege log (see Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.240) so that  counsel – and later the court, if necessary – can meaningfully evaluate the  objection.   Given the deficiencies and  misunderstandings on both sides, the imposition of sanctions under these circumstances  would be unjust. Therefore, none are imposed.