 Case Number:  23STCV2667    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  14 Baltzer v. Equity Residential ManagementCase Background
 
Plaintiffs submitted an application
to rent an apartment at a complex managed by Defendant. As part of the application
process, they agreed to allow Defendant to run a credit check. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant used the information provided to perform a complete
background and general character investigation, and that Defendants failed to
provide Plaintiffs with the results of the investigation, in violation of a
state statute known as the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act
(“ICRAA”).
 
            On June 5,
2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint for (1) Violations of ICRAA, (2)
Invasion of Privacy, and (3) Declaratory Relief against Defendants Equity
Residential Management, Inc. (“Equity Residential”) and DOES 1-10. 
 
            On July 20,
2023, Plaintiffs filed an “Amendment to Complaint” substituting Defendant
Transunion Rental Screening Solutions, Inc. (“Transunion”) in lieu of DOE 1.
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
(1)        Equity
Residential Demurrer
 
            Defendant
Equity Residential now demurs to the second and third causes of action, on the
grounds that Plaintiffs have failed to state sufficient facts to support either
claim.
 
Decision
 
            Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice, filed August 18, 2023, is DENIED. Trial court
rulings in other cases are not relevant to the facts of this case and cannot be
cited as precedent. See Budrow v. Dave & Buster’s of California,
Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 875, 884-885.
 
            The demurrer
is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Invasion of Privacy
 
            “The
elements of a common law invasion of privacy claim are [1] intrusion into a
private place, conversation, or matter, [2] in a manner highly offensive to a
reasonable person.” Mezger v. Bick (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 76,
86.
 
            The first
element is only satisfied if the defendant has intruded on a “legally
recognized privacy interest.” Id. at 87. The presence of such an
interest is a matter of law for the court to decide. Id. However, the
second element presents “mixed questions” of law and fact. Id. 
 
            Plaintiff
has not attempted to meet or grapple with these elements. Only one paragraph in
the complaint (No. 63) is devoted to this cause of action, and that paragraph
simply repeats the charge that Defendants have violated ICRAA. The opposition
argues simply that a violation of ICRAA, by definition, constitutes an actionable
invasion of privacy. But even if the court accepted Plaintiff’s argument, the
result is a wholly duplicative cause of action, and the claim would still be
subject to challenge on demurrer. See Award Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135
 
Third Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
            The analysis of a declaratory relief claim proceeds
in two stages. First, the court must determine if the controversy presented is
sufficiently ripe to present an actual controversy within the meaning of Code
of Civil Procedure § 1060. Artus v. Gramercy Towers Condominium Association
(2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 923, 930. 
Second, the court must determine whether the actual controversy merits
declaratory relief as necessary and proper under Section 1061. Id. 
 
If no actual controversy exists, the inquiry is over and the second step
is irrelevant. Communities for a Better Environment v. State Energy
Resources Conservation and Development Commission (2017) 19 Cal.App.5th
725, 739 fn.8. If the controversy presented is
ripe, then the court must decide, in its discretion, “[w]hether such actual
controversy merits declaratory relief as necessary and proper (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1061).” Steinberg v. Chiang (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 338,
343. Declaratory relief will not be necessary or proper when the rights of the
complaining party have crystallized into a cause of action for past wrongs, all
relationship between the parties has ceased and there is no conduct of the
parties subject to regulation by the Court. Osseous Technologies of America
v. Discovery Ortho Partners (2010)
191 Cal.App.4th 357, 367. 
 
            Plaintiffs’
claim on this point appears to be that there is an ongoing controversy because
the violation is likely to happen again. In an analog of the “capable of
repetition yet evading review” principle of federal standing, the Defendants
require a renewal of leases and applications every year, but refuse to change
their forms to comply with ICRAA. (Complaint ¶¶ 65-68). Plainitffs are
seeking a “judicial declaration that runs with the land” to “prevent…continued
violations.” (Complaint ¶ 68).
 
            What
Plaintiffs want is not a declaration but an injunction. ICRAA is already
painstakingly clear about the requirements to be followed. Declaratory relief
exists to allow the court to settle disputed questions of legal interpretation,
not as a means for the court to compel compliance with a law which is already
clear. That is what injunctions are for. Of course, an injunction is not an
independent cause of action as declaratory relief is. Ivanoff v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 734. An injunction must
attach to some cause of action. The suggestion that such a request could attach
to the ICRAA claim is discussed below.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiffs
have failed to properly plead a common law claim for invasion of privacy. And
they have failed to plead a claim for declarative relief that gives the court a
clear picture of what it is supposed to declare, or what controversy of legal
interpretation it is being asked to resolve. Therefore, the demurrer to the
second and third causes of action is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
(2)        Transunion
Demurrer
 
            Defendant
Transunion now demurs to the entire complaint on the grounds that Plaintiffs
have failed to state sufficient facts to support any claim against them.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
Transunion was added to this case by way of a DOE Amendment. For that reason,
the Complaint contains no allegations directed specifically against them, and
no description of their alleged wrongdoing. They may fairly wonder what they
are supposed to respond to. Plaintiffs should amend their complaint to describe
the facts that bring Defendant Transunion into this case.
 
(3)        Equity
Residential Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant
Equity Residential now moves this court for orders striking Plaintiffs’
requests for punitive damages, declaratory relief, and injunctive relief.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED.
 
Discussion
 
            Given the
ruling on the demurrer, above, the request to strike the prayer for declaratory
relief is MOOT.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 1786.50(b) permits the recovery of punitive damages in
an ICRAA case if “the violation was grossly negligent or willful.” What Section
1786.50(b) does not do is condition the recovery of punitive damages on
satisfying Civil Code § 3294. In fact, Section 1786.50 does not even
mention Section 3294. Nothing in the language of Section 3294 requires that its
provisions be met before punitive damages can be awarded under any other
statute. Civil Code § 3294 is simply one way – albeit by far the most
common way – to obtain punitive damages. Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1786.50(b) is another.
 
            Moving to
the final issue, neither party cites any binding authority on the availability
of injunctive relief as a remedy in an ICRAA claim. Defendants point out that
no express authorization for such a remedy is found in ICRAA, and suggest in the
reply that there is no case law to support such a remedy either. But in the
opening memorandum, Defendant themselves cited Poinsignon v. Imperva, Inc.
(N.D. Cal. 2018) 2018 WL 1709942 at *4-5, which held that injunctive relief was
available to an ICRAA plaintiff, so long as the ICRAA claim was well-pled. California
law describes an injunction as an equitable remedy which may be sought by a
person aggrieved by a wrongful act. See Connerly v. Schwarzenegger
(2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 739, 748. There is no particular reason to
think that ICRAA constitutes an exception to that general rule.
 
(4)        Transunion
Motion to Strike
 
            Given the
outcome on the demurrers above, the motion to strike filed by Defendant
Transunion is TAKEN OFF-CALENDAR as MOOT.