 Case Number:  23SMCV02534    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  I The court has granted the stipulation to continue the motion
to 3/22/24.  In the meantime, the parties
might want to discuss resolving this issue. 
The court agrees that Montano is entitled to know that no one—not even a
third party—reviews privileged materials. 
Similarly, there could be third party materials that ought not to be
reviewed, such as real estate transactions having nothing to do with this case
or the theories raised therein.  Handing
over credentials gives the person access to a lot of material that is not
responsive to the document request by any stretch of the imagination or is
plainly privileged, and the court can understand why Montano would not be
thrilled with just a promise that no one will peek.  At the same time, it would seem that some
safeguards may be possible such that what the vendor receives is not the emails
or documents themselves, but just some meta-data about them—such as recipient
or the like.  It could also be that the
parties agree to use particular search terms such that all documents between
particular individuals—such as Montano, Vasek, and Giraudo—be produced and if
attorneys are included such that the documents are privileged, that they be
logged.  While that would require a new
document request, it would be less intrusive and, especially if overseen by
Montano’s counsel, one can presume it will be done honestly.
In other words, the court’s general view is that this is
very intrusive and casts a very wide net that will capture many documents that
ought not be produced.  The court is
unlikely to give even a third party vendor free access to Montano’s email
accounts with a third party employer. 
There may be alternative ways, however, in which the documents that
concern plaintiff can be provided, perhaps by making the request broader so
that creative interpretations will not cabin the production.  Or, perhaps, plaintiff might elect to serve a
new set of discovery that is more carefully worded so as to avoid ambiguity
rather than pursue motion practice.