 Case Number:  23SMCV03541    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to disqualify defense counsel.  It is DENIED AS NOT RIPE.  
This is an action against various members of an HOA board
and those who performed work on the condominiums.  A demurrer to an earlier version of the
complaint was sustained because (in part) it was unclear which causes of action
were direct and which were derivative. 
Leave to amend was granted and the newest version of the complaint has
not yet been filed.  Plaintiffs also note
that there is another action where they have sued the contractors directly,
suggesting that the new version might be derivative only.
A derivative complaint is one where members of an entity sue
the entity and also the alleged wrongdoers. 
The entity, however, is only a “nominal defendant.”  It is being sued because it is controlled by
others who have chosen not to bring the suit that the plaintiff wants to
prosecute.  The key, though, is that any
recovery will go to the entity, not the named plaintiff.  To take a common example, a shareholder might
sue a corporation, its executives, and its directors for paying excessive
compensation to its executives.  If the
suit is successful, the executives will have to return the excessive
compensation (and the directors may have to pony up), but the money will go
back to the corporation; the shareholders will receive no recovery directly,
although the value of the stock might increase. 
In that case, the corporation (or here, the HOA) is really more of a
plaintiff than a defendant.  It will not
have to pay any judgment; rather it will receive the benefits of the
judgment.  For that reason, there is a
potential conflict where the entity and the alleged wrongdoers are represented
by the same counsel.  In essence, counsel
is representing the true plaintiff and the defense in the same litigation, and
that is a conflict of interest.  In some
jurisdictions, in order to prevent abuse, the named plaintiff must survive any
pleading motions to claim this problem, or at least demonstrate some likelihood
of success.  In California, though, the
rule is different.  Here, the entity and
the alleged wrongdoers cannot be represented by the same attorney and the
conflict must be resolved before a merits hearing.  (Forrest v. Baeza (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 65.)  Thus, upon the filing
of the new amended complaint, if the case is derivative then plaintiffs’ motion
would appear to have “legs.”  Defense
counsel can choose whether to represent the entity or the alleged wrongdoers,
but not both.  The court does not believe
that plaintiffs have made a showing that defense counsel must be removed from
the case entirely.  Presumably, at least
to the extent that counsel represents the alleged wrongdoers, it would have
received whatever information it has from those whom it represents.  Absent some actual showing of prejudice to
the HOA, it would be appropriate for the HOA to retain separate, independent
counsel going forward but for current counsel to continue to represent the
individuals being sued.
That said, the matter is not yet ripe.  Currently, there is no operative complaint on
file.  It could well be that the next
iteration is not derivative at all.  If
that is the case, then the court is not sure that there is a conflict.  But lest there be some misunderstanding, if
the next version of the complaint is in fact derivative in nature, the court
would expect the HOA to retain new counsel; no demurrer ought to be filed while
defense counsel has this conflict, nor would the court expect to see even a
demand motion until new counsel comes on board.
