 Case Number:  23SMCV02150    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is OVERRULED. 
The motion to strike is DENIED. 
Plaintiff Corby and Corby,
an accountancy corporation (“C&C”) filed this common counts action against
defendant Barry Maiten (“Maiten”). 
Maiten later filed a cross-complaint against C&C.  According to the operative First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”), Maiten hired C&C in 2000 to provide accounting
and bookkeeping services.  (FAXC, ¶4.)  C&C had their employee, David Hahn, work
at Maiten’s office.  (Id. at
¶5.)  Maiten asserts a billing dispute
arose because C&C had been overbilling for more than four years.  (Id. at ¶6.)  Around the same time, Hahn’s laptop became
infected with viruses and an IT consultant told Maiten that Hahn was
downloading programs for personal use.  (Id.
at ¶7.)  Maiten contends he asked Hahn to
stop but Hahn did not.  (Ibid.)  C&C allegedly hired Hahn but before he
left—his last day was March 17, 2020—Hahn deleted the contents of the laptop
entirely, including all the work he performed for Maiten during the last 20
years, along with bookkeeping records.  (Id.
at ¶8.)
C&C demurs to the FAXC
on the ground of failure to state sufficient facts, and further demurs to the
second cause of action on the ground of uncertainty.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e),
(f).)  “[D]emurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond.”  (Lickiss
v. Fin. Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125,
1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty does
not address whether the pleading fails to “incorporate sufficient facts in the
pleading but is directed at the uncertainty existing in the allegations
actually made.”  (Butler v. Sequeira
(1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) 
Rather, a demurrer is intended to address whether a pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot understand the allegations actually
made.  (Id. at p. 146.)  The only arguments asserted by C&C
pertain to the ground of failure to state sufficient facts.  Thus, the demurrer for uncertainty is
unsubstantiated and OVERRULED.
C&C asserts that
Maiten has not properly alleged a claim for breach of fiduciary duty and goes
through each alleged breach, arguing it is insufficient.  The court does not need to spend long on this
argument.  The claim for breach of
fiduciary duty reads as a claim for professional negligence, and these acts
implicate negligence on the part of C&C in its work, via its
employees.  “If the complaint states a
cause of action under any theory, regardless of the title under which the
factual basis for relief is stated, that aspect of the complaint is good
against a demurrer.”  (Quelimane Co.
v. Steward Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.)
The court notes that
C&C does not raise the statute of limitations in its moving papers.  (MPA, p. 3:10-11 [“Setting aside dripping
statute of limitations issues, . . .”].) 
Maiten’s argument on that point is therefore disregarded, as is the new
argument in reply on that basis.  The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
The motion to strike is
DENIED as unsubstantiated. There is no memorandum of points and authorities
filed with the court, and the court cannot address the sufficiency of the
arguments in opposition and reply without that filing.
Cross-defendant has 30
days to answer.