 Case Number:  21STCV02151    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ELIS ISMAEL CASTRO, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ROBERT M. MAGID LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV02151  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 27, 2023  I. Background Defendants Roberta Magid aka Roberta A. Magid and Gregory Philip Segal (“Defendants”) move to compel the deposition of in pro per Plaintiff Elis Ismael Castro (“Plaintiff”). Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for February 17, 2023, and after receiving no objections, Plaintiff failed to appear for his deposition. Defendants further seek monetary sanctions, or evidentiary sanctions in the alternative. The motion is unopposed.   II. Motion to Compel Deposition CCP § 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  CCP § 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under §2025.410. There is no evidence that Plaintiff served any valid objections to the deposition notice, and Plaintiff does not oppose the motion. Further, there is no evidence that Plaintiff’s deposition has proceeded since the filing of the instant motion on March 7, 2023.  Therefore, the motion to compel is GRANTED.  (CCP § 2025.450(a).) Plaintiff is ordered to appear for his deposition at a date, time, and location to be noticed by Defendants. Defendants must give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service).  III. Sanctions CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the court to impose sanctions unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) At this time, the Court declines to issue evidentiary sanctions. However, monetary sanctions are warranted here. Defendants request $2,144.65 in connection with the instant motion. The Court awards Defendants two hours for the motion, and one hour to appear at the hearing, at the requested rate of $195 per hour, for a total attorney’s fees award of $585. Further, Defendants are awarded one filing fee of $61.65 as costs.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $646.65, within twenty (20) days.  Moving Defendants are ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 26th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   