 Case Number:  20STCV48143    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  REINA RESNIK, Plaintiff(s), vs.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV48143  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO DISMISS    Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 27, 2023  Plaintiff Reina Resnik (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, State of California, Cherry Street Garage, Los Angeles Convention Center, Staples Center for a slip and fall incident. A multitude of cross-complaints were filed. Trial is currently set for January 24, 2024. As relevant to the instant motion, Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant Gabriel's Cleaning Maintenance and Pressure Washing, LLC ("Gabriel's Cleaning") filed its Answer to Plaintiff's Complaint on March 30, 2022. On the same day, Gabriel's Cleaning filed its Cross-Complaint against Moes 1-50.  On July 15, 2022, Gabriel's Cleaning filed an amendment to cross-complaint naming Classic Parking, Inc. as Moe 1.  On July 31, 2023, Gabriel's Cleaning filed an amendment to cross-complaint naming City of Los Angeles (“City”) as Moe 2 and La Arena Company (“La Arena”), LLC as Moe 3. At this time, defendant the City moves to dismiss Gabriel's Cleaning’s amendment to cross-complaint on the grounds that Gabriel's Cleaning did not first seek leave to amend, and that the amendment was untimely filed. Defendant La Arena joins the motion. The motion is unopposed. First, the Court will address the City’s argument regarding leave to amend. The City cites to CCP § 428.50, which provides that a cross-complaint shall be filed before or at the same time as the Answer to a complaint or cross-complaint. Here, Gabriel's Cleaning filed a cross-complaint against Moes 1-50 at the same time it filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint on March 30, 2022. Therefore, Gabriel's Cleaning’s filing of the cross-complaint is proper, and not at issue.  Second, the City argues that Gabriel's Cleaning unduly delayed in filing its amendment to the cross-complaint because Gabriel's Cleaning waited over a year to name the City. The City argues it has been prejudiced by the amendment, and that therefore the amendment should be dismissed with prejudice.  However, the City does not identify any actual prejudice it suffered as a result of the Moe amendment. As the City avers, it has been a party to this matter since August 18, 2021, and the City filed its a cross-complaint against Gabriel's Cleaning on November 2, 2021. Gabriel's Cleaning did not appear in the action until March 30, 2022. The Court presumes the City has been actively litigating this case, and that discovery has long since commenced between the City and Gabriel's Cleaning, considering the City’s own cross-complaint against Gabriel's Cleaning. The City cites to CCP §583.130, emphasizing that “It is the policy of the state that a plaintiff shall proceed with reasonable diligence in the prosecution of an action but that all parties shall cooperate in bringing the action to trial or other disposition.”  The legislative intent of CCP §583.130 pertains to the five-year statutory deadline for bringing a civil action to trial. In construing the statute authorizing dismissal for failure to bring an action to trial within five years, the policy favoring trial or other resolution on the merits is generally to be preferred over the policy requiring dismissal for failure to prosecute with reasonable diligence. (Dowling v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (App. 2 Dist. 2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 685.) The City does not properly explain the applicability of CCP §583.130 to Gabriel's Cleaning’s Moe amendment to the cross-complaint. Furthermore, as to CCP §583.410(a), the City fails to demonstrate that Gabriel's Cleaning failed to exercise diligence in pursuing discovery or other pretrial proceeding. Gabriel's Cleaning filing its Moe amendment one year after appearing in the action, alone, is insufficient reason to dismiss the Moe amendment. Furthermore, trial is currently set for January 24, 2024. There is still time prior to trial to complete any outstanding discovery.   Based on the foregoing, the motion is DENIED.   Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 26th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  