 Case Number:  22STCV16975    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  31 DEPT:  31 HEARING DATE: 10/27/2023 CASE NAME/NUMBER: Maria E. Meza, et al. v. Freddy Torres, et al./ 22STCV16975 PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF PENDING ACTION OF A PERSON WITH DISABILITY Maria E. Meza, 60 years old RECOMMENDATION: DENY  TENTATIVE¿ ¿ The Court excuses the personal appearance of Claimant and the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference call.¿¿  The Court has reviewed the Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Person with Disability, Maria E. Meza (“Claimant”).   The parties have agreed to settle all claims for the total amount of $6,015,000, with $5,965,000 being apportioned to Claimant. Pertaining to Claimant, if the settlement is approved, $243,872.46 will be used for medical expenses, $41,268.94 for expenses, and $1,988,333.33 for attorneys’ fees. The net balance of $3,691,525.27 will be transferred into a special needs trust (“SNT”).    The Court has reviewed the settlement and finds it fair and reasonable.¿After reviewing counsel’s declaration in support of 33% of Claimant’s settlement, the Court finds the attorneys’ fees fair and reasonable in light of Counsel’s representations.¿   However, there are issues with the proposed SNT, which Petitioner must resolve before the Court is able to grant the petition.    PROPOSED SPECIAL NEEDS TRUST    NOTICE TO STATE AGENCIES WHEN PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT:  When seeking approval of a special needs trust (SNT), notice of the hearing and service of the petition must be made upon three state agencies including the Dept. of Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services, and Dept. of Health Care Services.  (Probate Code sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). There is no proof of service in the file that indicates service on the state agencies and notice is incomplete.  The court will continue the hearing for notice of hearing with proof of service (15 days by mail) on the three state agencies.    PLAINTIFF:     Maria Meza, age 60, disabled  PETITIONER:     Bernice Meza, conservator of person and estate, daughter    GROSS AND NET SETTLEMENT (Petition, p. 6, sections 15 and 16f):     Gross $5,965,000, Net $3,691,525.27  PROPOSED RECIPIENT OF SETTLEMENT PROCEEDS (Petition, pp. 8-9, sec. 18):  Petitioner proposes to fund the entire proceeds to a special needs trust (SNT).    An SNT is used to receive the settlement funds in these situations so that plaintiff does not lose benefits eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and other benefits.  Historically, a person receiving Medi-Cal or SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt assets, and any additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss of benefits eligibility under the relevant federal and state law.  Funds held in a valid SNT, however, are exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of calculating benefits eligibility.  On July 1, 2022, the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was raised to $130,000 for individuals while the asset qualification for other benefits, like SSI, did not change.   BRIEFING REGARDING TRUST ISSUES:  Petitioner provides briefing regarding trust issue at Attachment 18a(3)(e), court’s pdf at p. 146.  PROPOSED TRUST INSTRUMENT:  Petitioner provides the proposed trust instrument at Exhibit A to Attachment 18a(3)(e), court’s pdf at p. 158.  The trust instrument includes a mandatory payback provision to require, upon the death of the trust beneficiary, that the trust pay back states that have provided medical assistance to the trust beneficiary, up to the amount of remaining trust assets:  Yes  The trust instrument provides that upon the death of the trust beneficiary/plaintiff, any trust assets remaining after payback of medical assistance to the states shall be distributed to the trust beneficiary’s heirs at law and not to any specific persons:  Yes  The trust makes itself subject to the continuing jurisdiction and supervision of the court:  Yes  The main requirements for court created or funded trusts are set forth at California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and LASC rule 4.116(b).    The proposed trust instrument meets the requirements meets the requirements of CRC rule 7.903 but does not does not contain the following terms as required by LASC rule 4.116(b), labelled by quoted subsection, and the court will continue the hearing for a new proposed SNT instrument:  (b)(4) The trustee may not borrow money, lend money, give security, lease, convey, or exchange any property of the estate without prior authorization of the court. (Prob. Code, § 2550.)  FINDINGS WHEN THE PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT:  When approving the establishment or funding of a SNT from settlement proceeds, the court must make the following findings pursuant to Probate Code section 3604(b) (there are factual allegations in the Petition to Approve Compromise and its attachments supporting the settlement that generally cover the requisite findings):  The SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs the individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap; The SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not be met without the trust;  The money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.  TRUSTE AND BOND:  The proposed initial trustee is Berenice Frausto-Meza.  Normally, bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is a corporate fiduciary.  (California Rules of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section 2320.)  The proposed trustee does not meet the definition of a corporate fiduciary.    Petitioner requests $222,200 bond.  That calculation, however, is based upon a request to place the majority of the $3,691,525.27 settlement proceeds in a blocked account except $200,000.  The use of a blocked account is not appropriate for a special needs trust because millions of dollars of trust cash would be in a bank account and not in investments for long term returns.  Trustee therefore would not meet her fiduciary duty to prudently invest trust assets.  Also, the trustee would need to return to the court every time it sought to release and spend funds for the trust beneficiary/plaintiff’s benefit.  The court will deny the request to order any funds to blocked accounts and instead will order bond to cover the full amount of the net settlement proceeds to be funded into the SNT.  A proper bond calculation based upon the assets to be funded into the trust, plus anticipated annual income from investments and any annuity, plus an additional amount required for the costs of any recovery on the bond, would be $4,044,000.  When the petition is approved, the court will require $4,044,000 bond submitted by trustee to this department (which will later be resubmitted to the Probate court in any trust supervision action).       ORDERS/PROPOSED ORDER:  Proposed Order received stamp date:  8/30/23 General trust orders:  None Trust terms included in order as required (Probate Code section 3604(a):  No Required Probate Code 3604(b) findings made in order:  No Order provides for satisfaction of state liens (Order p. 3, sec. 8b(3)):  Yes Order provides for court jurisdiction over trust: No Order requires first trust accounting in one year and sets 14 month calendar due date: No Order requires filing of a Notice of Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust on LASC Form PRO 044 within 60 days:  No Order sets OSC in this civil department in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, submission of bond if required, purchase of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate:  No Order does not state bond amount – need to add at Section 11 or in general trust orders when modified.    THE COURT ORDERS:  The hearing continued for required notice to state agencies.  An amended trust instrument.   Trustee bond will be required: $4,044,000 Proposed Order: Corrections Needed    Moving party is ordered to give notice. 