  Case Number:  22STCV14150    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
Moving Party: Starline
Tours of Hollywood, Inc. 
Resp. Party:    Big Bus Tours Los Angeles, Inc.
 
        
The Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
 
        
BACKGROUND:
 
On April 28, 2022,
Big Bus Tours Los Angeles, Inc. (“BBTLA”) filed its Complaint against Starline
Tours of Hollywood, Inc. (“Starline”) on causes of action for unfair
competition (statutory and common law), intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, and false advertising. 
 
On June 8, 2022, the
Court found related cases 19STCV36480 and 22STCV14150, and designated
19STCV36480 as the lead case. 
 
On October 31, 2022,
the Court sustained Starline’s Demurrer to the Complaint’s third cause of
action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage. 
 
On December 7, 2022,
Starline filed: (1) Answer to the Complaint; and (2) Cross-Complaint against
BBTLA, Vector Media South, LLC, Vector Media Holding Corp., Big Bus Tours,
Ltd., Julia Conway, Patrick Waterman, Marc Borzykowski, Justin Steinfelder,
Robert Gutierrez, Open Top Sightseeing USA, and Sprint. 
 
On April 20, 2023,
Starline filed its First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC). 
 
On July 13, 2023, the
Court dismissed with prejudice Big Bus Tours, Ltd., Julia Conway, Patrick
Waterman, Open Top Sightseeing USA, Vector Media South, LLC, Vector Media
Holding Corp., Marc Borzykowski, Justin Steinfelder, and Robert Gutierrez from
the FACC. The Court also sustained BBTLA’s Demurrer to the FACC’s sixth cause
of action for fraud and conspiracy, abating that cause of action because there
was another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action. 
 
On April 2, 2024,
BBTLA filed its Answer to the FACC.
 
On April 9, 2024,
Starline filed its Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings (“MJOP”). In support of
its MJOP, Starline concurrently filed: (1) Request for Judicial Notice; and (2)
Judicial Council Form CIV-140, Declaration of Demurring or Moving Party
Regarding Meet and Confer. 
 
On April 22, 2024,
BBTLA filed its Opposition to the MJOP. In support of its Opposition, BBTLA
concurrently filed Declaration of Joseph B. Weiner. 
 
On April 26, 2024,
Starline filed its Reply in support of its MJOP. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Starline requests that the Court
take judicial notice of: (1) the Complaint filed in this matter; and (2) the
Court’s Minute Order dated August 24, 2022. 
 
The Court DENIES as superfluous judicial
notice of these items. Any party that wishes to draw the Court’s attention to
an item filed in this action may simply cite directly to the document by
execution and filing date. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(d).)
 
II.      
Legal
Standard
 
“A party may move for judgment on the pleadings.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The motion provided for in this section may only be made
on one of the following grounds: . . . (B) If the moving party is a defendant,
that either of the following conditions exist: (i) The court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint.
(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B).)
 
“A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999, citations omitted.) 
 
“In deciding or
reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts are
deemed to be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from
those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Super. Ct. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)
 
III.    
Discussion
 
A. 
    The Parties’ Arguments
 
Starline moves the Court for judgment on the pleadings regarding the
first cause of action for unfair competition in BBTLA’s Complaint. (MJOP, p.
8:2–4.)
 
Starline argues: (1) that the Complaint does not allege facts sufficient
to state a cognizable claim; (2) that the Court already ruled on this issue,
finding that an “obey the law” injunction is impermissible in this case; (3)
that the Court also rejected BBTLA’s request that the Court become the
regulator for California Air Resources Board (CARB) compliance; (4) that a
request for damages under the unfair competition law is unsuccessful as a
matter of law; and (5) that it is too late for BBTLA to amend its Complaint.
(MJOP, pp. 6:22–7:27.)
 
BBTLA disagrees, arguing: (1) that based on the statute and case law, the
request for injunctive relief in the Complaint is proper; (2) that Starline
mischaracterizes BBTLA’s pleading and the substance of the Court’s Minute Order
dated August 24, 2022; (3) that the MJOP should also be denied because it is
solely based on BBTLA’s requested relief; and (4) that the cause of action also
encompasses restitution. (Opposition, pp. 8:22–23, 9:3–4, 12:10–11, 14:11–13,
15:18.)
 
In its Reply, Starline argues: (1) that BBTLA has not pleaded any facts
that could support a lawful permanent injunction; (2) that Starline is seeking
judgment on the pleadings as to the entire first cause of action in the
Complaint, not just as to the requested relief; (3) that BBTLA did not seek and
cannot obtain restitution; and (4) that the MJOP should be granted without
leave to amend. (Reply, pp. 2:12–13, 4:10–11, 5:10, 7:9–10.)
 
B. 
    Legal Standard for Unfair Competition
 
“As used in this chapter, unfair
competition shall mean and include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business
act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising and any
act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500) of Part 3 of
Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
17200.)
 
“As used in this chapter, the term
person shall mean and include natural persons, corporations, firms,
partnerships, joint stock companies, associations and other organizations of
persons.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17201.)
 
“Any person who engages, has
engaged, or proposes to engage in unfair competition may be enjoined in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The court may make such orders or judgments,
including the appointment of a receiver, as may be necessary to prevent the use
or employment by any person of any practice which constitutes unfair
competition, as defined in this chapter, or as may be necessary to restore to
any person in interest any money or property, real or personal, which may have
been acquired by means of such unfair competition. . . .” (Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17203.)
 
“Actions for relief pursuant to this
chapter shall be prosecuted exclusively in a court of competent jurisdiction by
. . . a person who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property
as a result of the unfair competition.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204.)
 
“Unless otherwise expressly
provided, the remedies or penalties provided by this chapter are cumulative to
each other and to the remedies or penalties available under all other laws of
this state.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17205.)
 
“This chapter shall be liberally
construed that its beneficial purposes may be subserved.” (Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17002.)
 
C. 
    Discussion
 
Regardless of where one starts, Starline’s arguments regarding the MJOP
all end by asking the same question: does the Court have the authority to
enjoin Starline if a trier of fact finds that Starline engaged in unfair
competition in violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, et
seq.?
 
The answer to this question is “yes.”
 
The Court’s authority comes directly from Business and Professions Code
section 17203. 
 
Further, BBTLA has standing to seek this relief because it alleges that
it is “a person who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property
as a result of the unfair competition.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, §§ 17204; see
also Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17201, including corporations in the definition
of “person.”)
 
BBTLA alleges in its pleading that Starline engaged in unfair competition
by: (1) violating CARB regulations, while its competitors (such as BBTLA)
complied with CARB regulations; (2) lowering prices through savings from
violations of CARB regulations, which disadvantaged its competitors (such as
BBTLA); and (3) engaging in false advertising concerning its services, which is
a violation of Business and Professions Code section 17500. (Complaint, ¶¶
48–51.)
 
For the purposes of a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court
must assume the truth of the allegations pleaded. These allegations are
sufficient for the pleading to withstand judgment. (Bus. & Prof. Code, §§
17200, 17203; see also Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17002, 17205.) 
 
The Court makes two additional comments: 
 
First, as correctly noted by BBTLA, the standard and issues considered by
the Court on August 24, 2022 regarding the Motion for Preliminary Injunction
were different than the standard and issues considered by the Court today.
Unlike here, where the Court is concerned solely with whether BBTLA can prevail
as a matter of law on an unfair competition claim, the Court previously
considered: (1) the likelihood that BBTLA would prevail on the merits at trial;
and (2) the comparative interim harms to the Parties if the injunction were
granted or denied. (IT Corp. v. Cnty. of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63,
69–70.) Also unlike today’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings where the
Court does not consider evidence, the Court previously considered evidence
regarding the Motion for Preliminary Injunction. Thus the Court’s ruling on the
previous motion is not binding on the instant motion. 
 
        Second, the remainder of the arguments,
which involve issues such as restitution, leave to amend, and so on are
unnecessary to address to resolve the MJOP. The Court does not address them. 
 
IV.     
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
           