  Case Number:  21STCV35740    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/28/24     Case    Name:  Victor Irene Lopez v. 1000    Palms Associates Group, et al.      Case    #: 21STCV35740      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    MARCH 28,  2024    MOTION FOR MANDATORY RELIEF, OR  IN THE ALTERNATIVE, DISCRETIONARY RELIEF, TO SET ASIDE JUDGMENT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 21STCV35740    Motion  filed: 2/27/24  (superseded by amendments filed on 3/4/24)   MOVING PARTY: Defendant 1000 Palms Associates Group (“1000  Palms” or the “Moving Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Victor Irene Lopez  (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from the Court to grant the Moving Defendant’s motion to set aside the  Court’s January 12, 2024, Judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section  473 subdivision (b).   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   On September 28, 2021, Plaintiff initiated this action  against Defendants 1000 Palms, 59th Equity Investors LLC, Equimax, Theresa  Nicolas, Karabel & Sons Investments, and Does 1 to 25 (collectively,  “Defendants”). Following this, Plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal as to  Defendant Theresa Nicolas, which was subsequently entered on December 23, 2021.   On March 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed his operative first  amended complaint (“FAC”) against all Defendants, alleging general negligence,  premises liability, and other causes of action according to proof. (Complaint,  at 3.) The FAC alleges that Defendants’ negligent operation and management of  their property resulted in personal injuries to Plaintiff. (Id., at 5.)   On November 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Request for  Dismissal as to Defendant Karabel & Son Investments. The request was  subsequently entered on December 1, 2022.    On January 12, 2024, the Court entered judgment (the “Judgment”) following  a non-jury trial that took place from January 9 to January 11, 2024. The  Court’s Minute Orders indicate that Defendants 1000 Palms, 59th Equity  Invenstors LLC, Equimax, and their counsel made no appearances. (1/9/24 Minute  Order, 1/11/24 Minute Order.)   On February 27, 2024, Defendant 1000 Palms filed its Motion to Set  Aside the Judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b).  Subsequently, on March 4, 1000 Palms filed its amended Motion to Set Aside (the  “Motion”).    On March 7, 2024, Defendants 59th Equity Inventors LLC and Equimax  filed their Notice of Joinder, joining in the Motion filed by 1000 Palms.   On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to the Motion.  Subsequently, 1000 Palms replied on March 21, 2024.   ANALYSIS   In certain  cases of attorney fault, Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b)  requires the trial court to grant relief. The mandatory relief provision states  in pertinent part: “Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the  court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months  after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's  sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or  neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or  her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2)  resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client,  unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by  the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”    The first  portion of Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) vests the trial  court with the discretion to vacate a judgment on a party’s or attorney’s  excusable neglect. (Todd v. Thrifty Corp. (1995) 34 Cal.App.986, 991.)  It states in pertinent part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,  relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,  order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall  be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed  therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made  within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,  dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.  (b).)   A.     Mandatory  Relief    The mandatory relief  provision under Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) “applies  only to defaults, default judgments, and dismissals.” (Shayan v. Spine Care  & Orthopedic Physicians (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 167, 169 (Shayan).)   The Shayan case involves  an interpleader action. On the trial date, two named defendants, Spine Care  & Orthopedic Physicians (“Spine Care”) and C&C, failed to appear. Similar  to the present case, the trial court in Shayan proceeded with the trial,  heard evidence, and subsequently rendered judgment against the non-appearing  defendants, Spine Care and C&C, ordering the interpleaded funds in the  amount of $19,365 to be distributed to the third named defendant Angelica  Mazariegos (“Mazariegos”).  (Shayan,  supra, 44 Cal.App.5th at 169.)   The Court of Appeal in Shayan affirmed the trial court’s denial  of the motion for relief, under the mandatory provision of Code of Civil  Procedure section 473 subdivision (b), filed by the two non-appearing defendants.     Here, Defendant 1000 Palms contends  that the ruling in Shayan is completely inapplicable and inapposite because  (1) unlike in Shayan, where only two of the three named defendants  failed to appear at trial, in this present case, none of Defendants appeared  (Reply, at 5), and (2) the Shayan court explicitly acknowledged its  deviation from a series of prior cases that applied the mandatory relief  provision under Code of Civil Procedure section 437 subdivision (b) to judgments  analogous to defaults or default judgments. (Id., at 6.) However, the  Court finds these arguments to be without merit.   First, upon closely examining  the facts of the Shayan case, it becomes evident that there are  significant similarities with the present case, despite the difference in the  number of defendants who failed to appear. In Shayan, the plaintiff,  acting as a lawyer for his client Mazariegos, represented her in an underlying  personal injury action that resulted in a settlement of $30,000 in favor of  Mazariegos. After deducting $10,000 in attorney’s fees, Spine Care and C&C asserted  liens on the remaining recovery of $19,365. (Shayan, supra, 44  Cal.App.5th at 169.) Mazariegos’s attorney then initiated the interpleader  action, depositing the disputed funds with the court to resolve the competing  claims to the funds.   Here, 1000 Palms’s claim  that Shayan must be distinguished on the basis that “the third named  defendant [Mazariegos] appeared at trial, contested plaintiff’s contentions,  and was permitted to challenge plaintiff’s evidence, cross examine witnesses,  and have its affirmative defense adjudication on the merits” does not hold up  under scrutiny.   Despite Mazariegos also being  a named defendant, her interests in the recovery directly opposed those of the  two absent defendants. This opposition in interest mirrors the dynamics in the  present case, where Plaintiff appeared, contested, and presented evidence during  the trial from January 9 to January 11, 2024, while the  respective opposing parties failed to appear. The  Court of Appeal in Shayan reasoned that there had been a trial on the  merits, rather than a default, a default judgment, or a dismissal; and  therefore, the mandatory relief provision was not applicable. (Ibid.)   Consequently, the ruling of the Shayan  court is highly instructive, emphasizing that such a judgment is based on the  merits of the case, rather than constituting a default or default judgment, despite  the non-appearance of opposing parties. Therefore, the mandatory relief  provision does not apply to this case.   Second, Defendant 1000 Palms  argues that the Court should follow another line of cases that held that  judgments functionally equivalent to a default, in situations where a party  failed to appear, should be afforded the mandatory relief under Code of Civil  Procedure section 473 subdivision (b).   The Shayan Court has  also addressed this argument, stating, “we join these more recent cases.... We  agree with Urban and the treatise: The plain language of the statute is  unambiguous and controlling. It would be a disservice to embroider this  language with freedom extensions to ‘analogous’ situations.” (Shayan, supra,  44 Cal.App.5th at 170.)   In The Urban Wildlands  Group, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 993 (Urban),  the Court of Appeal differentiated between two lines of cases, quoting a range  of authorities. “The first line of cases holds that ‘dismissal’ and ‘default  judgment’ mean only that, and should not be expanded to include other  judgments.” (Urban, at 998.) “The second much less numerous line of  cases ... use a more expansive definition of the term default judgment.” (Id.,  at 1000.)   Furthermore, the Urban  decision resolves the divergence in authority. It notes, “in the trial court’s  defense, it was entitled to rely on our prior opinion in Avila [Avila  v. Chua (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 860], and Hock [both follow the second  line of cases] as legally controlling authority. When there is a division in  Court of Appeal opinions, a trial court chooses which line of authority to  follow. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (2013) 218  Cal.App.4th 96, 101, fn. 7) However, upon reconsideration, we conclude our  analysis in Avila and Hock broadly construing the section 473, subdivision (b)  default, default judgment, or dismissal language was incorrect.” (Urban,  supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at 1002.)   Consequently, 1000 Palms’s  reliance on the second line of cases, including Avila (Reply, at 6), which  has been disapproved by Urban, is found to be unpersuasive.     Accordingly, in line with  the rationale and instructions provided in Shayan, the Court concludes  that Defendant 1000 Palm is not entitled to mandatory relief under Code of  Civil Procedure subdivision (b). The Judgement sought to be vacated is not a  default or default judgment, rendering Defendant’s cited authority under this  section inapplicable.    B.      Discretionary  Relief   Defendant further argues  that its nonappearance at trial was due to its counsel’s excusable neglect,  which Defendant argues, qualifies for the Court’s discretionary relief, under  Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b), to set aside the judgment.   “In contrast  to the mandatory portion of section 473(b), ‘discretionary relief under the  statute is not limited to defaults, default judgments, and dismissals....’ (Citation)  As the California Supreme Court recently observed: ‘The discretionary relief  provision of section 473, subdivision (b) applies to any  ‘judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding. (Citation.)’” (Huh v. Wang (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 1406,  1419.)     “To warrant  discretionary relief here, the proffered evidence must show that the attorney's  error was excusable. (Citation.) Neglect is excusable only if a reasonably  prudent person in similar circumstances might have made the same error. (Bettencourt v. Los Rios Community College Dist. (1986)  42 Cal.3d 270, 276.)” (Huh v. Wang, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at  1423.)    Courts  consider relevant factors in assessing counsel’s error, include: “(1) the  nature of the mistake or neglect; and (2) whether counsel was otherwise  diligent in investigating and pursuing the claim (Bettencourt v. Los Rios  Community College Dist., at p. 276, 228);” and “Conduct falling  below the professional standard of care, such as failure to timely object or to  properly advance an argument, is not therefore excusable.” (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 682.) Additionally,  the fact that counsel “was busy with other matters during the relevant period  ... standing alone would not constitute excusable neglect.” (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227,  234; see also, e.g., Ambrose v. Michelin North America  (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1355; Garcia v. Hejmadi, supra,  at 684.)    Here, Defendant acknowledges  that “to obtain discretionary relief under section 473, the moving party must  show the requisite mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Mot., at 9, Bonzer  v. City of Huntington Park (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1478.) However,  Defendant fails to meet this burden.   Defendant cites excusable  neglect due to an error in calendaring the trial date (Mot., at 9, Reply, at  8). Furthermore, in its Reply, Defendant’s counsel argues that his failure to  heed the notices is reasonable, given the circumstances he encountered during  the relevant period. (Reply, at 9.)   The Court notes that the  mistakes by counsel were not attributed to a clerk or legal assistant, nor were  they due to extraordinary circumstances. It is also noted that even assuming  true that counsel made a calendaring error, there have been multiple properly  served notices of trial on Defendant, and there is no Notice of Unavailability filed  by Defendant’s counsel at any point when notices were properly served. Consequently,  the Court concludes that Defendant has not demonstrated excusable neglect. This  conclusion aligns with established precedents. (See, e.g., Yeap v. Leake  (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th, 591, 603 [“Discretionary relief need not be granted for  ‘errors by [counsel] ... in failing to calendar and appear” at a hearing.]; Huh  v. Wang, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at 1423 [the court found the counsel  failed to demonstrate excusable attorney neglect by declaring “[counsel] was  overwhelmed and disorganized” ... he misfiled the summary judgment motion among  “completed items” and “did not calendar the hearing date or the due date of the  opposition.”])   Consequently, the Court  DENIES Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Judgment under Code of Civil Procedure  section 473 subdivision (b).   CONCLUSION   Defendant  1000 Palms Associates Group’s Motion for Mandatory Relief, or in the  Alternative, Discretionary Relief to Set Aside Judgment is DENIED.   Moving  party to give notice.*********************************************************************************************************************************************************   Dept.    F49      Date:    3/28/24     Case    Name:  Victor Irene Lopez v. 1000    Palms Associates Group, et al.      Case    #: 21STCV35740      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    MARCH 28,  2024    MOTION TO SET ASIDE JUDGMENT  BASED UPON ABANDONMENT OF ATTORNEY  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 21STCV35740    Motion  filed: 2/22/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants 59th Equity Investors, LLC,  and Equimax (the “Moving Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Victor Irene Lopez (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from the Court to grant the Moving Defendants’ motion to set aside the  Court’s January 12, 2024, Judgment based upon abandonment of attorney.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   On September 28, 2021, Plaintiff initiated this action  against Defendants 1000 Palms Associates Group, 59th Equity Investors LLC,  Equimax, Theresa Nicolas, Karabel & Sons Investments, and Does 1 to 25  (collectively, “Defendants”). Following this, Plaintiff filed a Request for  Dismissal as to Defendant Theresa Nicolas, which was subsequently entered on  December 23, 2021.   On March 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed his operative first  amended complaint (“FAC”) against all Defendants, alleging general negligence,  premises liability, and other causes of action according to proof. (Complaint,  at 3.) The FAC alleges that Defendants’ negligent operation and management of  their property resulted in personal injuries to Plaintiff. (Id., at 5.)   On November 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Request for  Dismissal as to Defendant Karabel & Son Investments. The request was  subsequently entered on December 1, 2022.    On January 12, 2024, the Court entered judgment (the “Judgment”) following  a non-jury trial that took place from January 9 to January 11, 2024. The  Court’s Minute Orders indicate that Defendants 1000 Palms, 59th Equity  Investors LLC, Equimax, and their counsel made no appearances. (1/9/24 Minute  Order, 1/11/24 Minute Order.)   On February 22, 2024, Defendants 59th  Equity Investors, LLC, and Equimax filed their Motion to  Set Aside the Judgment based on abandonment of attorney (the “Motion”).    On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to the Motion.  Subsequently, the Moving Defendants replied on March 21, 2024.   On the same day, March 21, 2024, Defendant 1000 Palm Associates Group  filed its Notice of Joinder, joining in Moving Defendants’ Motion.   ANALYSIS   The first  portion of Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) vests the trial  court with the discretion to vacate a judgment on a party’s or attorney’s  excusable neglect. (Todd v. Thrifty Corp. (1995) 34 Cal.App.986, 991.)  It states in pertinent part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,  relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,  order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall  be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed  therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made  within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,  dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.  (b).)   The Supreme  Court of California held that in situations where “[an] attorney’s conduct  [effectively] obliterates the existence of the attorney-client relationship  [attorney abandonment] ... his negligence should not be imputed to the client.”  (Carroll v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (1982) 32 Cal.3d 892, 898 (Carroll).)  “In the case of an attorney’s abandonment of a client, the injured client’s  remedy is to bring a motion for discretionary relief under section 473.” (Las  Vegas Land & Development Co., LLC v. Wilkie Way, LLC (2013) 219  Cal.App.4th 1086, 1092.)   A.     Evidence  Objections   Moving Defendants’ evidence  objections: The Court sustains: 1.               Plaintiff’s  evidence objections: The Court sustains: 1, 7, 9,  10, 12. The Court overrules: 2, 3,  4, 5, 6, 8, 11.    B.      Judicial  Notice   Moving Defendants request that the Court take judicial  notice of the Worker’s Compensation Public Information file for Plaintiff.   Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d) permits the court  in its discretion to take judicial notice of the records of any court in this  state. Upon taking notice of court records, the court accepts as true only that  (1) they were filed and (2) the assertions therein were made; the court does  not take notice of the truth of their contents. (See Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins.  Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374-375; see also Day v. Sharp  (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 916.)   The court GRANTS Moving Defendants’ request for judicial  notice, but only to the extent that is consistent with the above code section  and the rulings in the precedents.    C.     Discretionary  Relief    The Motion  does not claim that the Moving Defendants are entitled to mandatory relief under  Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b). This issue is addressed separately  during Defendant 1000 Palms Associates Group’s Motion to Set Aside, pursuant to  the same code section, where the Court concludes that mandatory relief is not warranted  in the present case. For the instant Motion, the Court’s analysis is focused on  the issue of discretionary relief, specifically within the narrow context of  attorney abandonment, as argued herein.   “In contrast  to the mandatory portion of section 473(b), ‘discretionary relief under the  statute is not limited to defaults, default judgments, and dismissals....’  (Citation) As the California Supreme Court recently observed: ‘The  discretionary relief provision of section 473, subdivision (b) applies to any ‘judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding.  (Citation.)’” (Huh v. Wang (2007)  158 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1419.)     1)       Attorney  Abandonment   [I]n the event  of an attorney's unilateral withdrawal or abandonment of the client, the  representation ends when the client actually has or reasonably should have no  expectation that the attorney will provide further legal services. [Citations.]  That may occur upon the attorney's express notification to the client that the  attorney will perform no further services.... Absent actual notice to the  client that the attorney will perform no further legal services or  circumstances that reasonably should cause the client to so conclude[.]” (GoTek  Energy, Inc. v. SoCal IP Law Group, LLP (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1240, 1247.)   “The issue,  therefore, becomes whether counsel’s conduct amounted to ‘positive misconduct’  by which plaintiff was ‘effectually and unknowingly deprived of  representation.” (Carroll, supra, 32 Cal.3d at 898, 899, citing Daley  v. County of Butte (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d, 380, 391 (Daley).)   In Daley,  positive misconduct was identified where the plaintiff’s counsel neglected to  serve plaintiff’s son to join him as a party, leading to repeated postponement  of trial. The counsel also failed to appear at successive pretrial conferences,  did not communicate with court, client or other counsel, and delayed signing a  substitution of attorney for over five months. (Daley, supra, 227  Cal.App.2d at 392.)   In Buckert  v. Briggs (1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 296 (Buckert), the attorney’s failure  to notify plaintiffs regarding a new trial date, despite assurances, and absence  at the trial constituted misconduct. Despite promises to seek to have the  judgment set aside and to update plaintiffs, the attorney ceased all contact. The  Buckert court concluded that the attorney in question was in fact not  representing plaintiffs, and “obliterated the existence of the attorney-client  relationship” with a “preconceived intention not to act on their behalf.” (Buckert,  at 301.)   Orange Empire  Nat. Bank v. Kirk (1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 347 further illustrates  positive misconduct, where the defendant’s attorney failed to file an  appearance in the case, missed the trial leading to a substantial judgment  against the client, and failed to seek relief within the statutory period, all while  repeatedly misleading the client about the case’s status.    In contrast, “discretionary  relief need not be granted for ‘errors by [counsel] ... in failing to calendar  and appear” at a hearing. (Yeap  v. Leake (1997)  60 Cal.App.4th, 591, 603.) Also, grossly mishandling a  routine discovery matter does not constitute an abandonment of the client (Carroll,  supra, 32 Cal.3d at 900.) Despite the counsel’s apparent failure to  effectively manage document production, the Carroll court held that this  does not amount to a total failure of representation that would “obliterate the  existence of the attorney-client relationship,” as the counsel remained engaged  by propounding discovery requests, obtaining multiple extensions of time, and  starting a rescue operation which resulted in the favorable judgment. (Ibid.)               Here,  Moving Defendants contend that their prior counsel, Mr. Malczynski, abandoned their  defense by failing to appear at trial, not filing necessary trial documents, inadequately  responding to discovery requests leading to motions to compel, and not securing  a signed fee agreement with the parties. (Mot., at 2.)               Consistent  with precedent on identifying positive misconduct, the Court seeks to ascertain  whether Mr. Malczynski completely failed to represent the client, or if he had  de facto substituted himself out of the case. The case record reveals that prior  to his nonappearance at the trial, Mr. Malczynski made efforts to delay the  proceedings, including filing an ex parte application to continue the trial  from September 20 to November 20, 2023, and another on November 8, 2023, to  extend it further to January 5, 2024. On December 22, 2023, Mr. Malczynski attended  the Final Status Conference, which was then continued by the Court to December  29, 2023. Mr. Malczynski did not attend the rescheduled Final Status Conference  or the subsequent non-jury trial from January 9 and January 11, 2024. After the  Court’s January 12, 2024, Judgment, Mr. Malczynski signed two Substitution of  Attorney stipulations for the Moving Defendants. However, Mr. Malczynski continued  as counsel of record for Defendant 1000 Palms Associates Group, on behalf of  whom, Mr. Malczynski filed a Motion to Set Aside on February 27, 2024. In his  own Motion to Set Aside, Mr. Malczynski seeks mandatory or discretionary relief  based on his mistake in making calendaring errors and overlooking multiple  properly served notices of trial from Plaintiff.                When reviewing  Mr. Malczynski’s actions in their entirety, the Court does not find that he has  “obliterated the existence of  the attorney-client relationship” with a “preconceived intention not to act on  their behalf,” nor does it find that he has effectively withdrawn himself from  the case.               Insufficient  representation by counsel does not equate to positive misconduct. Established precedents,  as demonstrated in Daley, Orange Empire National Bank, and Buckert,  necessitate a total failure in representation for it to be considered positive  misconduct. Unlike the attorneys in Buckert and Orange Empire  National Bank, Mr. Malczynski did not  repeatedly assure his clients about managing the case without taking action,  which would indicate a preconceived  intention not to act. Additionally, contrary to the situation in Daley, he  neither delayed a request from his client to be substituted with new counsel  nor failed to timely file a remedial motion.                Despite  Mr. Malczynski’s actions may fall below the professional  standards of care expected of an attorney, the Court has nonetheless determined  that the Moving Defendants failed to establish positive misconduct, which  necessitates “extreme degree of neglect” and amount to a “total failure” that “obliterated the existence of the  attorney-client relationship” with a “preconceived intention not to act on  their behalf.”   2)       Prejudice  to the Opposing Party   “[W]here the  attorney's failure to represent the client amounts to positive misconduct[,] (Citation)  [a]n attorney's authority to bind his client does not permit him to impair or  destroy the client's cause of action or defense.... The  client will not be charged with responsibility for the misconduct of nominal  counsel of record, providing the client acts with due diligence in moving for  relief after discovery of the attorney's neglect, and the opposing party's  rights will not be prejudiced nor suffer injustice as a result of the granting  of relief.” (Orange Empire Nat. Bank v. Kirk, supra, 259 Cal.App.2d  at 353.)   Even with a  determination of positive misconduct, the established authority mandates that the  party seeking to set aside the judgment must also show that the opposing  party’s rights will not be prejudiced nor suffered injustice as a result.   However, the  Moving Defendants have not met this burden. Instead, their Motion attempts to highlight  the prejudice they would face if the Motion is denied. (Reply, at 10.) This focus  is misplaced and lacks relevance to the required argument.   Furthermore, the  Moving Defendants suggest that outcome of the January trial might have been  different had the Court been informed of Plaintiff’s prior worker’s  compensation issues. Yes, this argument, flawed by the lack of proper evidence,  is also considered irrelevant. It fails to meet the preliminary requirement of  demonstrating that granting relief would not prejudice Plaintiff. As a result, the  Court dismisses this line of argument.               Consequently,  the Court DENIES the Motion to Set Aside Judgment based upon abandonment of  attorney.   CONCLUSION   The  Motion to Set Aside Judgment based upon Abandonment of Attorney is DENIED   Moving  party to give notice.