 Case Number:  23SMCV00262    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles – West District
Beverly Hills
Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
MAEVE CROMMIE, et
  al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
AILEEN LEITJEN, et
  al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23SMCV00262
 
  Hearing Date:  October 23, 2024
 
 
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:
  DEFENDANT AILEEN
  LEIJTEN’S 
  MOTION TO CONTINUE
  TRIAL AND 
  ALL TRIAL-RELATED DATES



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute between
neighbors.  Plaintiff owns the property
located at 12618 Brooklake St. Los Angeles, CA. 90066 (“Plaintiff’s Property”).
 (Compl. ¶1.)  Defendant Aileen Leitjen own the property
located at 12612 Brooklake St. Los Angeles, California (“Defendant’s Property”).
 (Id. ¶2.)  The properties are next to each another,
separated by a wooden fence which ends at the east wall of Plaintiff’s garage.  (Id. ¶6.)  
Defendant’s Property has various plantings
including bamboo and palm trees, which roots have grown into Plaintiff’s Property
through the wooden fence and garage wall. 
(Id. ¶8.)  The roots have
burrowed through Plaintiff’s garage foundation and garage wall, causing severe
water intrusion, vertical displacement, and cracks.  (Id. ¶¶ 8-10.)    
Additionally, Defendant had created an
ADU in her original garage and installed an outdoor shower directly onto the
southeast corner outer wall of Plaintiff’s garage. The shower was not outfitted
with the proper drainage devices, and as a result, water runs down Plaintiff’s outer
garage wall and saturates the ground along the bottom of the garage wall,
contributing to further degradation of Plaintiff’s garage wall and stucco. (Id.
¶11.)  
In addition to the root encroachment,
the canopy of the bamboo trees and palm tree extends well over the property
line and overhangs Plaintiff’s Property and directly over the garage.  Leaves, branches, and other debris from the bamboo
and palm trees fall onto Plaintiff’s Property, fowling the yard, clogging
drainage equipment, and creating an unsightly condition which requires
continuous maintenance by Plaintiff.  (Id.
¶14.)  
On several occasions, Plaintiff has
asked Defendant to remove or reduce the bamboo trees and plants, but Defendant
has declined to so, and Plaintiff’s more recent attempts to bring the matter to
Defendants’ attention were rebuffed, resulting in this suit.  (Id. ¶15.)  
The operative complaint alleges five
claims for (1) trespass, (2) negligence, (3) private nuisance, (4) interference
with quiet enjoyment of real property and (5) declaratory relief.  
After the complaint was filed,
Plaintiff had her home renovated by HGTV’s Property Brothers.  The garage was completely dismantled.  Defendant propounded discovery related to the
renovations, to which Plaintiff objected, citing a non-disclosure agreement
with the television production company.  Plaintiff
indicated that she would provide discovery responses after the show aired on
August 26, 2024, but Defendant claims no such responses have been provided.  
This hearing is on Defendant’s motion
to continue trial and all trial-related dates. 
The trial is currently scheduled for November 25, 2024.  Defendant seeks a trial continuance of “at
least 180 days.”  Defendant argues that a
continuance is necessary because of Plaintiff’s lack of cooperation in the
discovery process; her refusal to pay for mediation, and her destruction of
evidence.  The parties previously
stipulated to a continuance, which the Court rejected based on mediation not
being scheduled.  Defendant argues that
she cannot schedule a mediation because Plaintiff will not agree to pay for one
or consider a free mediation program.  
LEGAL
STANDARD
Trial
dates are firm to ensure prompt disposition of civil cases. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (a).) 
Continuances are thus generally disfavored.  (See id., rule 3.1332, subd.
(b).)  Nevertheless, the trial court has
discretion to continue trial dates.  (Hernandez
v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246.)  Each request for continuance must be
considered on its own merits and is granted upon an affirmative showing of good
cause.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (c); Hernandez, supra, 115 Cal.App.4th at p.
1246.)  
Circumstances
that may indicate good cause include: (1) the unavailability of an essential
lay or expert witness due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2) the unavailability of a party due to death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; (3) the unavailability of trial counsel due to death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; (4) the substitution of trial counsel where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice; (5) the addition of a new party if (A) the new party has
not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial, or
(B) the other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s involvement in the
case; (6) a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or (7) a significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).) 
The
court must also consider such relevant factors as: (1) the proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time,
or delay of trial caused by any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) if the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for
that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; (7) the court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on
other pending trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9) whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.  (Id., rule 3.1332,
subd. (d).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant requests a 180 day
continuance so that it may pursue discovery, because Defendant claims Plaintiff
has not cooperated with discovery and indeed, has now destroyed the garage that
is the subject of her complaint.  At the
time of the destruction, Defendant’s expert had not yet inspected the
foundation.  But the solution to
Plaintiff’s alleged intransigence and destruction of evidence is a motion to compel,
a motion for terminating or issue sanctions, or even a motion in limine
for adverse inferences.  Defendant has
not shown that the current trial date of November 25, 2024 precludes her from
filing any of these motions.  Indeed,
Defendant has filed a pending motion for issue or terminating sanctions.  Defendant’s claim that “[t]he only redress
Defendant has is [a] trial continuance” is simply wrong.  Accordingly, the Court denies the motion for
continuance.  
CONCLUSION
            Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to continue trial
and all trial-related dates.  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 23, 2024                           ___________________________
                                                                                    Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court