  Case Number:  19STCV21428    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
On
June 19, 2019, Plaintiff Kwang Ho Lee (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Restaurant Depot, LLC and Does 1-50 for premises liability and
negligence. 
On
July 25, 2019, Defendant RD America, LLC (erroneously sued as Restaurant Depot,
LLC) (“Defendant”) filed an answer. 
On
December 28, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion to Submit Tardy Supplemental Expert
Witness Designation of a Neuroradiologist to be heard on March 5, 2024.  On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
untimely opposition. On February 28, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.  On March 4, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s
ex parte application for relief from the late filing of the opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 11, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to rule that Defendant’s supplemental designation of expert
witness served December 21, 2023 is timely. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.610 provides in
part: 
“(a) On
motion of any party who has engaged in a timely exchange of expert witness
information, the court may grant leave to do either or both of the following: 
“(1) Augment
that party’s expert witness list and declaration by adding the name and address
of any expert witness whom that party has subsequently retained. 
* * *
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be made at a
sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery
under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of
any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken within that time limit.  Under exceptional circumstances, the court may
permit the motion to be made at a later time. 
“(c) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.610, subds. (a)(1), (b), (c).) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.620 provides: 
“The court
shall grant leave to augment or amend an expert witness list or declaration
only if all of the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(a) The
court has taken into account the extent to which the opposing party has relied
on the list of expert witnesses. 
“(b) The
court has determined that any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced
in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits. 
“(c) The
court has determined either of the following: 
“(1) The
moving party would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined
to call that expert witness or have decided to offer the different or
additional testimony of that expert witness. 
“(2) The
moving party failed to determine to call that expert witness, or to offer the
different or additional testimony of that expert witness as a result of
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party has
done both of the following: 
“(A) Sought
leave to augment or amend promptly after deciding to call the expert witness or
to offer the different or additional testimony. 
“(B) Promptly
thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness information concerning
the expert or the testimony described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties
who have appeared in the action. 
“(d) Leave to
augment or amend is conditioned on the moving party making the expert available
immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section
2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited
to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert
witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a
continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of
costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.620.)  
DISCUSSION 
A.   Background 
On September 11, 2023, the parties exchanged expert
witness information.  Afterward, on
October 10, 2023, the Court continued the trial from October 31, 2023 to
January 16, 2024 in response to Plaintiff’s ex parte application.  However, the Court denied Plaintiff’s
request to continue or reopen discovery without prejudice.  On December 28, 2023, the Court continued the
trial to February 26, 2024 in response to Plaintiff’s ex parte application but
again denied the request to continue or reopen discovery without
prejudice.  On February 22, 2024, based
on the parties’ stipulation, the Court continued the trial to March 11, 2024,
but did not reopen discovery.  As a result,
discovery and related dates remained tied to the previous October 31, 2023
trial date. 
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff served an amended
expert witness designation adding neuroradiologist Ammar Chaudhry, M.D. (“Dr. Chaudhry”).  The parties scheduled Dr. Chaudhry’s deposition
for November 27, 2023.  A few minutes before
the deposition began, Plaintiff provided several thousand MRI images from Dr. Chaudhry’s
case file to Defendant.  The scans had
been completed two years before the deposition and were the basis for Dr. Chaudhry’s
conclusion that Plaintiff suffered a traumatic brain injury. 
Defendant subsequently retained neuroradiologist Barry
Pressman, M.D. (“Dr. Pressman”) to review the scans and respond to Dr. Chaudhry’s
opinions.  On December 21, 2023, Defendant
served a supplemental expert designation of Dr. Pressman.  Defendant offered to make Dr. Pressman
available for deposition at Plaintiff’s request. 
B.   Timeliness 
A motion to augment a party’s expert witness list “shall
be made at a sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of
discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to permit the
deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken within that
time limit . . . .” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.610, subd. (b).)  However, “[u]nder
exceptional circumstances, the court may permit the motion to be made at a
later time.”  (Ibid.) 
Defendant filed its motion to augment the expert
witness list after the close of discovery. 
Therefore, Defendant was required to establish the existence of
exceptional circumstances.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.610, subd. (b).)  Defendant
does not address the requirement that a moving party show exceptional
circumstances to file a motion to augment an expert witness list after the
close of discovery. 
Plaintiff’s October 25, 2023 amended designation
adding Dr. Chaudhry and Plaintiff's production of MRI images at Dr. Chaudhry’s November 27,
2023 deposition do not constitute exceptional circumstances justifying the filing
of Defendant's motion after the close of discovery. 
Defendant could have objected to Plaintiff’s designation of Dr. Chaudhry under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.300 and sought to exclude his testimony.  Defendant also could have filed a noticed
motion to reopen discovery.  Because
Defendant had alternative means of addressing Plaintiff's amended expert witness designation and production of MRI images, the Court finds
they do not constitute exceptional circumstances for purposes of Code of Civil
Procedure section 2034.610, subdivision (b). 
The Court denies the motion as untimely. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Defendant RD America, LLC’s
Motion to Submit Tardy Supplemental Expert
Witness Designation of a Neuroradiologist. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.