  Case Number:  19STCV28303    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Paul Van Kleef,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV28303




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Clean Concept, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 2, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Sanctions
Moving Party: Plaintiff Paul Van Kleef
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No
opposition has been received. 
BACKGROUND 
  
On September 17, 2019, Plaintiff Paul
Van Kleef filed the operative first amended complaint against
Defendants Clean Concept, LLC, the Estate of Max Azria,
Yasmine Hanane, Robert McFarlane, and Lubov Azria,
asserting twenty causes of action for issues relating to the parties’ business
dealings.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
It is a misuse of the discovery process
to fail “to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” (CCP §
2023.010(d)) or to disobey “a court order to provide discovery.”  (CCP § 2023.010(g).)  Under CCP § 2023.030, courts have the
authority to issue monetary sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, or terminating
sanctions after giving parties proper notice and the opportunity to be heard.
 
In determining whether sanctions should be
imposed, courts consider the totality of the circumstances, including the
“conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment
to the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to
obtain the discovery.”  (Lang v.
Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   “The penalty should be appropriate to the
dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.”  (Wilson v. Jefferson (1985) 163 Cal.
App. 3d 952, 959.)
Plaintiff moves for evidentiary, issue, and
monetary sanctions against Defendant Robert McFarlane on the ground that
Defendant has failed to comply with the Court’s August 2020 order requiring
Defendant serve further responses to interrogatories. Plaintiff asserts
Defendant served inadequate supplemental responses on March 20, 2021.
Plaintiff previously moved for sanctions
against Defendant. Because the sanctions requested would prohibit Defendant
from defending this action, the Court denied the motion and ordered Defendant
to provide supplemental responses to discovery within 20 days of the hearing.
If Defendant failed to do so, the Court noted that it would impose sanctions. Plaintiff
now represents that Defendant did not serve any supplemental responses.
The Court finds that the issue, evidence, and
monetary sanctions requested by Plaintiff are appropriate. Defendant is not
participating in discovery and has now violated two Court orders. Defendant has
not opposed this motion to show why sanctions should not be imposed.
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.