 Case Number:  24VECV00467    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  W MB KINETOPLAY, LLC, et al. vs NATIONAL
CINEMEDIA, INC., et al.
 
APPLICATION FOR pro hac vice
 
Date of Hearing:        April
26, 2024                                     Trial Date:       None set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV00467 
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs
MB Kinetoplay, LLC, Eric Lavanchy, and Laurence Tobin
Responding Party:     None.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 2, 2024, Plaintiffs MB
Kinetoplay, LLC, Eric Lavanchy, and Laurence Tobin filed a complaint against
Defendants National Cinemedia, Inc., Thomas Lesinski, and Richard Butler for
conversion, civil theft, intentional interference with contract, violation of
wage act, conspiracy, and unfair business practices. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling: GRANT 
 
David Olsky, Esq. submits an
application for admission pro hac vice as counsel for Plaintiffs MB
Kinetoplay, LLC, Eric Lavanchy, and Laurence Tobin alongside Shartsis Friese
LLP. 
 
Mr. Olsky is a member of the Colorado
State Bar, District of Columbia Bar, New York State Bar as well as U.S.
District Court, Colorado, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, District
of Columbia Court of Appeals, U.S. Court of Appeals, Washington, D.C., U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York, and U.S. District Court, Western District of Michigan.
Mr. Olsky also has inactive status in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Pursuant to
California Rules of Court 9.40, an application for appearance pro hac vice must be served on all
parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its
San Francisco Office. Additionally, the application must state:
 
(1)  
The applicant's residence and office
address;
(2)  
The courts to which the applicant has
been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)  
That the applicant is a member in good
standing in those courts;
(4)  
That the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5)  
The title of court and cause in which
the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and
(6)  
The name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
 
Mr. Olsky has fulfilled these
requirements. (See Olsky Decl. ¶¶1-11.) Co-Counsel, Mr. Munzinger, also testifies
he has sent the $50.00 fee to the State Bar and provides proof of payment. (Munzinger
Decl. ¶2.)   
 
The motion is GRANTED.   
 
 
 