 Case Number:  23VECV05137    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  W ALLAN MARTIA,
et al. vs S.B.S. TRUST DEED NETWORK (SBS), et al.
 
PLAINTIFF
ALLAN MARTIA'S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date of Hearing:        April
26, 2024                                    Trial
Date:       None
Set
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV05137
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Allan Martia  
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiff Allan
Martia and Knolton, Inc. filed a complaint against Defendants S.B.S. Trust Deed
Network (SBS), Bryan Russolesi, Daymon Harris, Barbara Chiling, and Timothy
Glasserand for (1) Violation of CC 2924.11 (d); (2) Breach of Contract; (3)
Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business and Professions Code §§ 17200
et seq.; (4) Tortuous Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (5)
Interference with Contract; (6) Quiet Title. (7) Declaratory Relief; (8)
Temporary and Permanent Injunction; (9) Fraud; (10) Wrongful foreclosure
(threatening to wrongfully foreclose); and (11) Cancellation of Instrument. 
 
On January 22, 2024, Bryan Russolesi
filed Cross-Complaint against Allan Martia, Knolton, Inc., and Reel West, Inc.
for (1) Fraud; (2) Judicial Foreclosure; (3) Breach of Contract; and (4)
Declaratory Relief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff
Allan Martia move for an order granting leave to file a First Amended Complaint
and to add a new party, Reel West, Inc., on the grounds Plaintiff was not
consulted in drafting the complaint and the new claims/allegations are
appropriate. 
 
Motions for
leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the court.
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading . . . .” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP § 576.)
Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed matters
between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the
court may permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings,
up to and including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) Where leave is sought to add
entirely new claims, the court may grant leave to amend if the new claims are
based on the same general set of facts, and the amendment will not prejudice
the opposing party. (Austin v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961)
56 Cal.2d 596, 600-602; Glaser v. Meyers (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 770, 777
[holding trial court did not abuse its discretion in permitting amendment of
complaint, which originally alleged constructive eviction, to allege
retaliatory eviction where the new claim was based on the same general set of
facts].) 
 
A motion for
leave to amend a pleading must also comply with the procedural requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration
to set forth explicitly what allegations are to be added and where, and
explicitly stating what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment
and why the amendment was not made earlier. The motion must also include (1) a
copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to
pages and lines the allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a
declaration specifying the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments,
date of discovery and reasons for delay. (See CRC, rule 3.1324(a), (b).)
 
Plaintiff
seeks to i) replace the complaint in its entirety as to Mr. Martia’s causes of
action and prayers for relief; ii) delete the eleven causes of action; iii) add
one new cause of action for quiet title and two new causes of action for
cancellation of instrument; iv) remove all existing Defendants; v) name
Knolton, Inc. as a defendant as their interests are adverse to Plaintiff’s; vi)
name new defendant, Reel West, Inc.; vii) eliminate all legal prayers for
relief; and viii) add equitable prayers for relief: quiet title, cancellation
of two instruments; and attorney fees and costs. Plaintiff contends he was not consulted
during the drafting of the complaint nor was he ever asked to review it for factual
accuracy or to verify the truth of the allegations as is required for
complaints to quiet title. 
 
The court
finds Plaintiff has fulfilled the requirements of California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324(a) and (b). Plaintiff submits the declaration of Counsel David
Fleck who provides the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary
and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Fleck
Decl. ¶¶3-5.) Plaintiff also attaches a copy of the proposed amendment. (Fleck
Decl. Exh. A.) 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend is GRANTED. 
 