 Case Number:  24VECV00461    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  W NANCY SHAWISH
vs HOMEGOODS, INC.
 
DEMURRER to plaintiff’s
complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        April
26, 2024                         Trial Date:       None
set.
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        24VECV00461
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Homegoods, Inc.  
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Nancy Shawish  
Meet and Confer:      Yes (Thompson Decl. ¶¶2-5.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff Nancy
Shawish filed a complaint against Defendant Homegoods, Inc. for assault,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional
distress, and negligence. Plaintiff alleges while on the premises of Homegoods,
Inc., located at Reseda Boulevard in Tarzana, California, DOE employee of
Defendant was following Plaintiff around the store, making her feel
uncomfortable to shop. When Plaintiff wanted to leave the store, she noticed
the DOE employee was touching himself, fully erected. Plaintiff further alleges
she went to the front desk to complain about the incident. The DOE employee
then approached the Plaintiff, and Plaintiff pulled a knife to scare him away. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Homegoods, Inc.’s Demurrer to
the Complaint is OVERRULED in Part and SUSTAINED, IN PART, WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.

 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Homegoods, Inc. demurs to the
complaint of Plaintiff Nancy Shawish on the grounds the complaint fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendant and
moreover, is uncertain, ambiguous and unintelligible as Plaintiff has not
stated any facts or allegations. 
 
Vicarious Liability
 
Defendant Homegoods, Inc. demurs to the
complaint on the grounds Plaintiff has failed to allege that the acts by Doe
Defendant were committed within the course and scope of his employment for  which HomeGoods, Inc. would be vicariously
liable. 
 
An employer may be vicariously liable
for an employee’s tort, even if it was malicious, willful, or criminal if the
employee’s acts was an “outgrowth” of his employment, “inherent in the working
environment,” “typical of or broadly incidental to” the employer’s business,
or, in a general way, foreseeable from his duties.  (Yamaguchi v.
Harnsmut (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 472, 482.  See also Flores
v. Autozone West, Inc. (2008) 161 Cal. App. 4th 373, 379; Lisa
M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal. 4th
291, 300-301 [assaults that were not committed to further the employer’s
interests have been considered outgrowths of employment if they originated in a
work-related dispute].) 
 
“The rule of respondeat superior is
familiar and simply stated: an employer is vicariously liable for the torts of
its employees committed within the scope of the employment.  (Perez v.
Van Groningen & Sons, Inc. (1986) 41 Cal. 3d 962, 967.)  Equally
well established, if somewhat surprising on first encounter, is the principle
that an employee’s willful, malicious and even criminal torts may fall within
the scope of his or her employment for purposes of respondeat superior, even
though the employer has not authorized the employee to commit crimes or
intentional torts.”  (Lisa M., supra, 12 Cal. 4th at 296-97.) 
“While the employee . . . need not have intended to further the employer’s
interests, the employer will not be held liable for an assault or other
intentional tort that did not have a causal nexus to the employee’s work.” 
(Id. at 297.)  “The nexus required for respondeat superior
liability—that the tort be engendered by or arise from the work—is to be
distinguished from ‘but for’ causation.  That the employment brought
tortfeasor and victim together in time and place is not enough. . . . [T]he
incident leading to injury must be an ‘outgrowth’ of the employment; the risk
of tortious injury must be ‘inherent in the working environment’ or ‘typical of
or broadly incidental to the enterprise [the employer] has undertaken.’” 
(Id. at 298 [citations omitted].)  “California courts have also
asked whether the tort was, in a general way, foreseeable from the employee's
duties.   Respondeat superior liability should apply only to the
types of injuries that ‘as a practical matter are sure to occur in the conduct
of the employer’s enterprise.’  The employment, in other words, must be
such as predictably to create the risk employees will commit intentional torts
of the type for which liability is sought.”  (Id. at 299.) 
 
The determination of whether an
employee was acting within the scope of their employment is a question of fact
to be decided by a jury.  However, when the facts are undisputed, it
becomes a question of law.  (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant argues the rule of respondeat
superior does not apply to HomeGoods given the complaint fails to allege any
causal nexus between Doe Defendant’s alleged act of “touching himself, fully
erected” and his job duties or HomeGoods’s business enterprise. Moreover, Plaintiff
has not alleged any facts showing a meaningful difference between Doe
Defendant’s alleged conduct and the case law which holds that an employee’s
sexual misconduct does not occur within the scope of employment. Rather, the
allegations made in Plaintiff’s complaint fall within the line of cases finding
that an employee’s sexual tort is fairly attributable only to the employee’s
own “propinquity and lust,” not to work-related conditions or events. (See,
e.g., Lisa M., supra, 12 Cal.4th at pp. 301-303.) Lastly,
Defendant contends Plaintiff is required to allege facts which establish that
Doe Defendant’s act of assaulting Plaintiff was foreseeable in light of
HomeGoods’ enterprise.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues contrary
to Defendant’s assertions, Plaintiff has alleged that the acts by Doe Defendant
were committed within the course and scope of his employment. Moreover, the
complaint alleges that HomeGoods had knowledge of and ratified Doe Defendant’s
misconduct, which legally renders HomeGoods vicariously liable for Doe
Defendant’s acts. 
 
For the purposes of a demurrer, the
court finds the conduct complained thereof occurred in the scope of employment
or, as alleged, was ratified by the employer which was aware of this employee
engaging in unusual conduct towards customers on the floor.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the entire
complaint on respondeat superior grounds is overruled.  
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds
Plaintiff’s complaint is completely void of any facts to support a claim of
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
The elements for a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an actual and proximate
causal link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress.  (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)   
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff only makes the
conclusory allegations that HomeGoods conduct was “extreme and outrageous.”
Moreover, Plaintiff has not alleged any facts that HomeGoods’ conduct, rather
than Doe Defendant’s conduct, was extreme and outrageous or that HomeGoods
acted intentionally or recklessly. 
 
Plaintiff does not address this
contention in their opposition. Upon review of the complaint, Plaintiff alleges
Defendant HomeGoods conduct was extreme and outrageous when it acted without
regard to Plaintiff’s rights and safety and with the intent to cause severe and
permanent emotional distress. These allegations are too conclusory. They do not
allege specifically what conduct of HomeGoods was extreme and outrageous. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress 
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of
action for negligent infliction of emotional distress on the grounds Plaintiff
has failed to state a cause of action. 
 
California courts have repeatedly
recognized that negligent infliction of emotional distress is not an
independent tort, but the tort of negligence such that the traditional elements
of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply.  (See, e.g., Spates
v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213.) 
Thus, to plead negligent infliction of emotional distress, negligence must be
established. “The tort is negligence, a cause of action in which a duty to the
plaintiff is an essential element.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire &
Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984.)   A legal duty may be
imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special
relationship.  (Id. at 985.)  There is no duty to avoid
negligently causing emotional distress to another, “unless the defendant has
assumed a duty to plaintiff in which the emotional condition of the plaintiff
is an object, recovery is available only if the emotional distress arises out
of the defendant's breach of some other legal duty and the emotional distress
is proximately caused by that breach of duty.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff has pled
negligence twice in her complaint. Specifically, Plaintiff’s cause of action
for NIED merely contains the conclusory statement that HomeGoods’ conduct was
negligent and resulted in severe emotional distress. (Compl. ¶¶20-21.) However,
Plaintiff does not identify the negligent conduct, does not allege any facts
identifying the resulting emotional injuries, and does not allege the existence
of any special preexisting relationship between herself and HomeGoods.
 
The court agrees that plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that she was a customer in the store, that defendant had a
general duty to ensure the safe treatment in the store of its customers, that
it was aware of the Doe Defendant’s improper conduct toward customers and that
it failed to control him such that he did not engage in such conduct toward
plaintiff.  Accordingly, the demurrer to
the third cause of action is overruled. 