  Case Number:  23VECV03837    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  W PATRICE
KAUFMAN VS ANTHONY JOHNSON, ET AL.
 
MOTION TO QUASH
SERVICE OF SUMMONS OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        April 26, 2024                                    Trial Date:       None set   
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03837
 
Moving
Party:            Specially Appearing Defendant
JJC Construction, Inc.
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Patrice Kaufman  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff Patrice Kaufman filed
a complaint against Defendants Anthony Johnson and JJC Construction, Inc. for 1)
Negligence (Breach of Implied Duty of Care); 2) Breach of Contract; 3)
Recission of Contract; and 4) Statutory Abandonment (B&P Code §§ 7107 &
7113). Plaintiff hired a contractor to help with new floors and walls, paint,
new kitchen (cabinets, countertops, appliances, water heater), and to install
two toilets after Plaintiff’s pipes burst. Plaintiff alleges the contractor
performed defective work that will cost in excess of $114,000 to correct and
complete. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendant JJC Construction,
Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint is DENIED. 


DISCUSSION
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant JJC Construction, Inc. moves the court for an order
quashing service of summons and complaint to avoid an irresponsible request for
default. JJC Construction also seeks relief based on mistake, error, surprise,
inadvertence, and/or excusable neglect. 
 
JJC
Construction argues they were never properly served the summons and complaint.
Specifically, JJC Construction contends service occurred upon an unknown and
unauthorized California Secretary of State, Designee, and not defendant's known
and authorized agent for service of process, Anthony Johnson, as plaintiff was
previously advised, but refused to recognize. Said Designee is not known nor an
employee, nor in charge, nor an officer, nor authorized to accept service for
defendant JJC. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Contractor’s claims are completely without merit.
Plaintiff contends they made numerous attempts to serve Contractor’s agent,
Johnson. However, the addresses provided were either false or outdated. Being
such, Plaintiff has clearly demonstrated reasonable diligence to serve
Contractor’s designated agent, Johnson, and this court, in fact, already found
that Plaintiff demonstrated Defendant could not be served despite reasonable diligence
and granted the Application to serve Defendant through the Secretary of State. 
 
The
court finds service proper. As with domestic corporations, an out-of-state corporation
may properly be served by service of process on the California Secretary of
State pursuant to a court order. (See Corp. Code, § 2111(b).) As such,
Plaintiff was permitted to personally serve the California Secretary of State
pursuant to this court’s January 2, 2024 Order. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons and complaint is DENIED. 
 
 