 Case Number:  23BBCV00532    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 14, 2024

MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00532

 



MP:  


Arsen Hovanesyan M.D.
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Natalie Gold, Inc. dba
  Burbank Tower Pharmacy, Karina Nazarian, Artin Aghakhani and Linda Nguyen (Defendants/Cross-Complainants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Rima
Shafrazian, Gevik Shafrazian, and Greta Shafrazian, individually and as
successor in interest of the estate of Joseph Shafrazian (Decedent) (collectively
Plaintiffs) bring this action against Natalie Gold, Inc. dba Burbank Tower Pharmacy, WellRx, Inc. dba Wellness Lab, Jivan Melikian,
M.D., Artin Aghakhani, R.PH., Karina Nazarian, Linda Nguyen, R.PH., Aram
Manoukian, and Arsen Hovanesyan, M.D. (Hovanesyan) (collectively Defendants). Plaintiffs allege
Defendants negligently failed to deliver Decedent’s prescriptions for a heart
condition, ultimately resulting in his death. 
 
Before
the Court is a Motion for Summary Judgment brought by Hovanesyan.
Plaintiff asserts two causes of action against Hovanesyan for (1) Wrongful
Death by Medical Negligence and (2) Survival Action. Plaintiffs have rendered
no opposition; however, an opposition was filed by
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Natalie
Gold, Inc. dba Burbank Tower Pharmacy, Karina Nazarian, Artin Aghakhani and
Linda Nguyen. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party
may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (C.C.P. § 437c(a).)
“[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to
summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.)
 
The
moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he
does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing
of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord C.C.P. § 437c(p)(2).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangsterv. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The
Court finds that Hovanesyan’s motion is not complaint with CRC Rule 3.1350. CRC
Rule 3.1350(d) expressly requires the Separate Statement to set forth each
cause of action and each supporting material fact claimed to be without
dispute. As the moving party, it is Hovanesyan’s burden to state the applicable
cause of action for each fact appearing in his Separate Statement. Hovanesyan’s
Separate Statement does not do this.  
 
Further,
CRC Rule 3.1350(d)(3) provides “[c]itation to the evidence in support of each
material fact must include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line
numbers.” Hovanesyan’s motion fails to comply with this requirement. As an
illustrative example, Undisputed Fact No. 8 cites to the “Declaration of
Michael L. Chaikin, M.D. ¶ 9 and Exhibits A, F, G, H, I, and J attached to the
Appendix to the Motion for Summary Judgment, as well as the depositions taken
in this matter.” 
 
The
Court does not view this statement as adhering to the requirements of CRC Rule
3.1350(d)(3). Hovanesyan does not list the title, page, or line numbers for any
of the six exhibits cited. This is particularly salient as Hovanesyan’s Exhibit
List totals 2,825 pages of material. It is not incumbent upon the Court to sift
through nearly three thousand pages of exhibits to find evidence in support of
Hovanesyan’s motion. The blanket reference to “depositions taken in this
matter” is similarly insufficient. The Court is not privy to what depositions
were taken in this matter or if they are all relevant to the Undisputed Fact in
question. Even if all depositions are relevant, Hovanesyan provides no title or
location information as required by CRC Rule 3.1350(d)(3).
 
“Section
437c is a complicated statute. There is little flexibility in the procedural
imperatives of the section, and the issues raised by a motion for summary
judgment (or summary adjudication) are pure questions of law. As a result,
section 437c is unforgiving; a failure to comply with any one of its myriad
requirements is likely to be fatal to the offending party.” (Hawkins v.
Wilton (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 936, 949.) 
 
The
Court finds that Defendant has not met his burden to show that he is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law on both of his causes of action by failing to
file with the Court and serve on Plaintiffs a Separate Statement that meets the
requirements set forth in statute and the CRC. This failure violates
Plaintiffs’ due process rights to be apprised of the facts and evidence on
which Defendant moves for summary judgment against them. (Zimmerman,
Rosenfeld, Gersh & Leeds LLP v. Larson (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th
1466, 1477.)
 
In
short, the Court finds that Hovanesyan failed to file code complaint motions
and the matter will be continued for the parties to file code compliant briefs.
The Court is not requesting additions to the papers other than presenting them
in a code compliant manner. The matter is continued to July 26, 2024, at 9:00
AM. Code compliant papers shall be received by the Court no later than July 5,
2024, by 4:00 PM.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Arsen
Hovanesyan
M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment came on regularly for hearing on June 14, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS CONTINUED TO JULY 26, 2024 AT 9:00 AM. 
 
HOVANESYAN
IS ORDERED TO FILE CODE COMPLAINT DOCUMENTS NO LATER THAN JULY 5, 2024 BY 4:00
PM. 
 
COURTESY
COPIES ARE TO BE FILED WITH THE COURT. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: June
14, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 