  Case Number:  22BBCV00262    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 14, 2024

MOTION TO
STRIKE & MOTION TO TAX COSTS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00262

 



MP:  


Anthony Bouyer (Plaintiff)




RP:  


FAAS Properties, LLC (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anthony Bouyer
(Plaintiff) brought this action against FAAS Properties, LLC (Defendant),
alleging Defendant’s property contained conditions which discriminated against
Plaintiff as a disabled person. The case proceeded to trial and the jury
rendered a special verdict judgment in favor of Defendant. 
 
On April 18, 2024
Defendant filed a memorandum of costs sought after judgment was entered in their
favor. Plaintiff now moves to strike that memorandum as untimely. In the
alternative, Plaintiff moves to tax various costs presented. Defendant opposes
and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“The
right to recover any of the costs of a civil action is determined entirely by
statute. In the absence of an authorizing statute, no costs can be recovered by
either party. Section 1032 governs the award of costs of trial court
litigation.” (Charton v. Harkey (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 730, 737
[internal citations and quotation marks omitted].)  
 
“Except
as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is
entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or
proceeding.”  (C.C.P. § 1032(b).) 
 
C.C.P. §
1032(a) defines a “prevailing party” as “[1] the party with a net monetary
recovery, [2] a defendant in whose favor dismissal is entered, [3] a defendant
where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and [4] a defendant
as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that
defendant.”  
  
“If the
items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on
the party seeking to tax costs to show that were not reasonable or necessary.
On the other hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue
and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.” (Ladas v.
California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774.) 
 
Any
motion to strike or tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service of
the memorandum, plus an additional 5 days if served by mail or 2 days if served
electronically.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(b)(1).) “Unless
objection is made to the entire cost memorandum, the motion to strike or tax
costs must refer to each item objected to by the same number and appear in the
same order as the corresponding cost item claimed on the memorandum of costs
and must state why the item is objectionable.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1700(b)(2).) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendant’s
Memorandum of Costs (MOC) as untimely filed. Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(a) provides the following: 
 
A prevailing party claiming prejudgment costs
must file and serve a memorandum of costs either (1) within 15 days after the
date of service of a notice of entry of judgment or dismissal by the clerk
under C.C.P. § 664.5, (2) 15 days after the service of written notice of entry
of judgment or dismissal, or (3) within 180 days after entry of judgment,
whichever is first. (.)  
 
 
As a preliminary matter, it does not
appear that the clerk served any notice of entry of judgment in this case. As
such, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1700(a)(1) does not apply to this case. 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant filed
their MOC after 15 days had elapsed from service of the notice of entry of
judgment pursuant to Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(a)(2).
Plaintiff contends that the 15-day time limit began to run after the jury
verdict was filed on December 7, 2023 upon conclusion of the trial. (See
Fitzgerald Decl. ¶2, Exh. 1.) The Court disagrees that the filing of the
special verdict constitutes “service of written notice of entry of judgment”. If the rules of court
intended the time limit to begin upon entry of a jury verdict, they would so
state. Instead, the rules very specifically require service of a notice of
entry of judgment, logically entailing that a document entitled “Notice of
Entry of Judgment” must be served. 
 
Further, the December 7,
2023 jury verdict could not constitute service of such notice because the Court
did not enter judgment pursuant to the verdict until January 2, 2024. (See
Fitzgerald Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) On this note, the Court takes some issue
with Plaintiff presenting two separate documents as Exhibit 1 to his motion.
Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1 consists of an email documenting service of the jury
verdict on December 7, 2023, as well as a copy of the Court’s “Judgment on
Special Verdict” dated January 2, 2024. The implication in including both
documents in the same Exhibit number is that they both serve as proof of
“service of entry of judgment”. 
 
Plaintiff’s also argues
that his inclusion of the “Judgment on Special Verdict” as an exhibit in his
Motion for Attorney’s Fees constitutes service of notice of entry of judgment.
Plaintiff states, “Defendant did, in fact, serve Plaintiff with the fully
executed, judge-signed, judgment on or about February 29, 2024, in Exhibit F of
its Motion for Attorney’s Fees.” (See Reply p. 3.) The Court notes that it
appears the parties are incorrectly identified in this statement and that
Plaintiff intended to argue he had provided service. 
 
The Court finds the above
argument unpersuasive. Service of Notice in the context of litigation refers to
the particular act of serving a document for the express purpose of noticing
that particular document. For example, in filing his motion for Attorney’s Fees
Plaintiff specifically filed and served on Defendant a “Notice of Motion for
Attorney’s Fees”. This is a commonplace occurrence and a bare necessity for the
effective proceeding of litigation. Plaintiff’s contention that inclusion of
the “Judgment on Special Verdict” as an exhibit to a motion equates to service
of notice is simply incorrect. 
 
Having established that
service of notice of entry of judgment never occurred in this instance, the
only remaining time period provided by Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(a) is
the 180 days after entry of judgment. As judgment was entered on January 2,
2024, Defendant’s filing of this motion on April 18, 2024 was timely. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
strike is DENIED. 
 
Motion to Tax Costs 
 
Plaintiff also moves to tax
various costs appearing in Defendant’s MOC on grounds that they were not
reasonably necessary within the meaning of C.C.P. § 1033.5.  C.C.P. § 1033.5(c)(2) provides allowable
costs must be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than
merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation. “Whether a cost item was
reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for the
trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion.” (Sanford
v. Rasnick (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1121, 1128.) 
 
A verified memorandum of
costs is prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses, and services therein
listed were necessarily incurred. (Rappenecker v. Sea-Land Serv., Inc.
(1979) 93 Cal. App. 3d 256, 266.) A party seeking to tax costs must provide
evidence to rebut this prima facie showing. (Jones v. Dumrichob (1998)
63 Cal. App. 4th 1258, 1266.)
 
Copies
 
Plaintiff first moves to
tax Defendant’s MOC as concerns the entry labeled “Copies”. Plaintiff presents
no argument as to why these costs are not necessary to the litigation. Mere
statements unsupported by facts are insufficient to rebut the prima facie
showing that costs were necessarily incurred. (Id.) Here, Plaintiff
presents no facts as to the unnecessary nature of these costs. Accordingly,
Plaintiff has failed to uphold his burden upon the motion and the Court
declines to tax these costs. 
 
Transcripts
 
Plaintiff then moves to tax
Defendant’s MOC as concerns “Transcripts” Plaintiff argues these costa re not
recoverable because the Court did not order transcripts. Defendant disputes
Plaintiff’s argument that transcripts were not ordered by the Court. Defendant
argues that because the Court ordered realtime transcription, at least a
portion of these costs were necessary by virtue of Court order. (Golden Decl.
¶ 8.) Defendant further states that the transcripts not ordered by the
Court were necessary in preparation for the second day of trial and closing
arguments. (Id.) The Court is satisfied that Defendant has demonstrated
the reasonable necessity of the transcript costs. In the Court’s view access to
the exact statements made in the course of a trial is not a mere convenience or
benefit. Accordingly, the Court declines to tax these costs. 
 
Lodging
 
Plaintiff also moves to tax
Defendant’s “Lodging Expenses” on grounds that they were not incurred in the
course of a deposition. “The only travel expenses authorized by section 1033.5
are those to attend depositions.” (Ladas supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at 776.)
As such, any costs for lodging expenses are discretionary pursuant to C.C.P. §
1033.5. 
 
As the moving party,
Plaintiff bears the burden of presenting facts which show the items presented
in the MOC are not reasonably necessary. Plaintiff’s argument that lodging
costs were not reasonably necessary because Defendant chose a non-local
attorney are unavailing. The Court is evaluating whether the invoiced activity
was reasonably necessary to the litigation, not whether Defendant’s choice of
attorney was convenient for Plaintiff. The Court does not see how lodging for
Defendant’s Fresno based attorney are not reasonably necessary to defending a
case at trial in Burbank. Plaintiff further argues that the $720 per night
hotel fees are exorbitant, but he does not present any facts establishing this.
Plaintiff presents no evidence of actual rates of hotels or any other evidence
to dispute Defendant’s prima facie showing of necessity. 
 
The Court notes that
Defendant concedes this amount to be erroneous in that it should be $3,252.64
rather than the listed $3,600.77. (Golden Decl. ¶ 9.) Accordingly, the
Court taxes these costs in the amount of $348.13. 
 
Expert Fees
 
Plaintiff moves to tax
Defendants MOC as concerns “Expert Fees”. Plaintiff argues that such costs are
improper in their entirety as expert fees not ordered by the court are
prohibited under C.C.P. § 1033.5(b)(1). The Court notes that C.C.P. §
1033.5(b)(1) prohibits expert fees not ordered by the Court “except when
expressly authorized by law”. Here, Defendants request for expert fees is
specifically grounded in C.C.P. § 998(c)(1) which provides: 
 
If an offer made by a defendant is not accepted and the plaintiff
fails to obtain a more favorable judgment or award, the plaintiff shall not
recover his or her postoffer costs and shall pay the defendant's costs from the
time of the offer. In addition, in any action or proceeding other than an
eminent domain action, the court or arbitrator, in its discretion, may
require the plaintiff to pay a reasonable sum to
cover postoffer costs of the services of expert witnesses, who are
not regular employees of any party, actually incurred and reasonably necessary
in either, or both, preparation for trial or arbitration, or during trial or
arbitration, of the case by the defendant.
 
Here, Defendant rendered a
998 settlement offer on June 7, 2023. (Fitzgerald Decl. Exh. 3.) As such, the
statute vests recovery of post-offer costs within the discretion of the Court.
The Court finds the presentation of Defendant’s Expert Witness was reasonably
necessary in providing an inspection of Defendant’s property for disability
compliance and testifying to her findings at trial. 
 
However, the Court does
find the amount billed for trial testimony to be excessive. Plaintiff offers a
declaration from Defendant’s counsel in a prior motion which includes expert
Karen Haney’s fee schedule. (Fitzgerald
Decl. Exh. 5.) A review of this fee schedule shows Haney’s hourly rate as an
expert witness at trial to be $350. (Id.) Despite the fact that Haney’s
testimony was only presented for a few hours on one day of the trial, Defendant
list her testimony expenses as $11,637.50. Defendant provides no explanation
for this discrepancy in their Opposition papers. Accordingly, the Court
exercises its discretion to tax a portion of these costs as unreasonable. The
Court agrees with Plaintiff that the correct billing should be $1,050
representing the three hours of trial testimony by Haney. Accordingly, these
costs are taxed in the amount of $ 10,587.50.

 
Costs Prior to 998 Offer 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the costs
for “Copies”, “Jury Fees”, and “Postage” on page three of the MOC are
impermissible because they are dated before Defendant’s § 998 offer. The Court
finds this argument unpersuasive. C.C.P. § 998 explicitly authorizes recovery
of costs in circumstances such as these, but it contains no limiting language.
Defendant is still entitled to pursue pre-offer costs pursuant to the Court’s
discretion under C.C.P. § 1033.5 so long as they are reasonably necessary.
Here, Plaintiff has provided no argument nor any facts which suggest these
costs were not necessary. Accordingly, the Court declines to tax these costs. 
 
Conclusion
 
The motion to tax costs is GRANTED in
part and DENIED in part. The Court grants the motion and taxes the total costs
requested in the amount of $10,935.63. This amount reflects the erroneous
billing for lodging and the unexplained fees for expert witness testimony
beyond the day she testified. As such, Defendant’s costs now total $23,170.62 ($34,106.25
- $10,935.63= $23,170.62). 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Anthony Bouyer’s
Motion to Strike and Motion to Tax Costs came on
regularly for hearing on June 14, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO TAX COSTS IS GRANTED IN
PART AND DENIED IN PART. 
 
DEFENDANT’S COSTS ARE TAXED IN THE
AMOUNT OF $10,935.63, REUSLTING IN TOTAL COSTS OF $23,170.62.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 14, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 