 Case Number:  23BBCV03012    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 14, 2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY & TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV03012

 



MP:  


Cri-Help, Inc. & 13 Individual
  Defendants (Defendants)




RP:  


Timothy Goeke Jr. (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Timothy Goeke Jr.
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Cri-Help, Inc. (Cri-Help), Brandon
Fernandez, Gary Horejsi, Mitchell Jordan, Charles Burstin, Junie Gonzalez, Kim
Long, Diane Baker, Mary Grayson, Renee Brazell, Emma Corell, Marlene Nadel,
Emmy Olea, and Harrison Bloom (Individual Defendants) (collectively
Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that he was assaulted while staying at a
facility owned and operated by Cri-Help. 
 
Before the Court are
a total of 12 motions to compel Plaintiff’s response to various discovery
demands. 
 
Three of these
motions are brought by Cri-Help and seek responses to their Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents (RFPD). Cri-Help also moves for an order deeming matters contained in
their Request for Admissions (RFA) admitted by virtue of Plaintiff’s
nonresponse. 
 
Three of these
motions are brought by Defendants Brandon Fernandez, Gary Horejsi, Mitchell
Jordan, Charles Burstin, Junie Gonzalez, and Kim Long (hereinafter Fernandez et
al.). These motions seek responses to their Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents (RFPD). These
defendants also move for an order deeming matters contained in their Request
for Admissions (RFA) admitted by virtue of Plaintiff’s nonresponse. 
 
Three of these
motions are brought by Defendants Diane Baker, Mary Grayson, Renee Brazell,
Emma Corell, Marlene Nadel, Emmy Olea, and Harrison Bloom (hereinafter Baker et
al.). These motions seek responses to their Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents (RFPD). These
defendants also move for an order deeming matters contained in their Request
for Admissions (RFA) admitted by virtue of Plaintiff’s nonresponse. 
 
Defendants also
request $15,400 in sanctions, $1,100 per motion.  This includes $940 for each of the 14
motions. ($220 x 4 + $60 filing fee = $940 per motion) and an hour attending
the hearing.  The Court notes that all 14
Defendants in this matter are represented by the same counsel of Wood, Smith,
Henning & Berman LLP. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff’s Late
Filed Opposition 
 
On June 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a declaration in opposition to these 12 motions. Plaintiff’s
opposition consists only of a request that the hearing for these motions be
continued 30 days to allow him time to secure counsel. 
 
The Court declines to
consider Plaintiff’s late opposition, as Plaintiff has had sufficient time to
obtain counsel, comply with the discovery request or to timely communicate with
defense counsel to request a continuance prior to counsel incurring the time
and expense of filing motions. A court has broad discretion to accept or reject
late filed papers. (CRC 3.1300(d).) Here, Plaintiff filed a late opposition
without requesting leave to file a late response. A party should at least
attempt to seek leave to file their opposition late and/or attempt to
demonstrate good cause for having failed to adhere to the applicable deadline.”
(Rancho Mirage Country Club Homeowners Assn v. Hazelbaker (2016) 2 Cal App
5th 252, 262.) Further, the circumstance of appearing in propria persona does not
establish good cause for failure to adhere to a motion deadline. (Id.)  This is especially true when the party has
not timely communicated with counsel resulting in unnecessary work and expense,
and further has not set forth good cause for the delay. 
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff has not sought leave to file a late opposition nor demonstrated good
cause. Plaintiff provides no adequate explanation as to why he has been unable
to either respond to discovery or substantively oppose these motions in the
nearly two months since they have been filed. To the extent that Plaintiff
states he was overwhelmed by the amount of discovery, the Court notes that this
is Plaintiff’s case to prosecute. Any litigant Plaintiff naming 14 Defendants should
reasonably expect that discovery demands would be rather sizeable. Plaintiff
has had five months from the service of discovery in which to secure counsel to
assist him in answering and he has failed to do so. 
 
Discussion
 
On February 16, 2024,
Cri-Help propounded their discovery demands upon Plaintiff via email at the
address tigoeke80@gmail.com. (Asiryan Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) On February 20, 2024,
Fernandez et al. propounded their discovery demands upon Plaintiff via email at
the same address. (Asiryan Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) On February 21, 2024, Baker et
al. prop propounded their discovery demands upon Plaintiff via email at the
same address. (Asiryan Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) 
 
Counsel for
Defendants states that no responses were received by the March 19, 2024
deadline. (Asiryan Decl. ¶ 2.) On March 28, 2024, counsel for Defendants sent a
meet and confer letter to Plaintiff requesting responses without objection as
to all outstanding discovery demands. (Asiryan Decl. ¶¶ 3-4, Exh. B.)
Defendants state they have received no responses as of the filing of this
motion. (Asiryan Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.) 
 
Based on
the foregoing, defendant Cri-Help’s motions to compel initial response to their
Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. The motion
to deem RFA matters admitted is also GRANTED.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the motions of Fernandez et al.’s to compel initial response to their Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. The motion to deem RFA matters
admitted is also GRANTED.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the motions of Baker et al.’s to compel initial response to their Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. The motion to deem RFA matters
admitted is also GRANTED.
 
Sanctions

 
The Court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) 
 
The Court shall
impose monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for
admission unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the
circumstances render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction
on the party or attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission
responses necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
Here,
Defendants have drafted and filed 14 total motions. However, many of the
motions simply build upon the initial motions created for the first client,
with time needed to proof and modify each subsequent motion.  The Court awards total sanctions of $4,100;
calculated at 15 hours of attorney time ($220 x 15 = $3,300) plus filing fees
of $840 ($60 x 14) at a rate of $220 per hour (Asiryan Decl. ¶ 6.). Given
the Court’s experience with motions of this type, this amount of sanctions
appears appropriate to compensate Defendants in compelling responses. Given
that Defendants are all represented by the same counsel, sanctions are payable
to Wood, Smith, Henning & Berman LLP.
 
This Court is always cognizant
of the impact of financial sanction on a pro per plaintiff; however, these
sanctions are a fraction of what is being requested - $15,400, as a result of
Plaintiff’s inaction in responding to the discovery, hiring an attorney if so
desired or simply requesting additional time if needed to comply with the
discovery.   Plaintiff has had months to
respond or seek an extension and failed to do so.   That decision should not result in
additional costs incurred by Defendants without consequences to the Plaintiff for
those costs.
  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Cri-Help, Inc. &
13 Individual Defendants’ Motions to Compel Discovery Responses and Motions to
Deem RFA Matters Admitted came on regularly for
hearing on June 14, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE
GRANTED AS TO ALL DEFENDANTS. 
 
THE MOTIONS TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED ARE
GRANTED AS TO ALL DEFENDANTS. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED AGAINST PLAINTIFF IN THE
AMOUNT OF $4,100. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE TO BE PAID TO COUNSEL FOR
DEFENDANTS WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CRI-HELP TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 14, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 