  Case Number:  23AHCV00927    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



NATALIE MARIE DIAZ, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
DANIELLE
   BRITTANY VAFA, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00927
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT DANIELLE BRITTANY VAFA’S MOTION FOR DETERMINATION
   OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

November
   3, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On April 26, 2023, plaintiff Natalie
Marie Diaz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Danielle Brittany
Vafa (“Vafa”), the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation (“State”), the County of Los Angeles, and City of Monrovia
asserting causes of action for general negligence and dangerous condition of
public property. 
Plaintiff alleges that on July 7, 2022,
she was a passenger in Vafa’s vehicle and traveling westbound on Interstate
210. As the two approached the intersection of Interstate 210 and Monterey
Avenue, Vafa veered in a northerly direction off the roadway, which had no
guardrail or other barrier, and down an adjacent embankment with numerous large
trees less than 40 feet from the edge of the roadway; Vafa’s vehicle crashed
into one of the trees located on the embankment and Plaintiff suffered multiple
injuries including an open fracture of her left femur, avulsion of her left
knee, a fracture of her right medial orbital wall and floor, a nasal fracture,
and facial lacerations.  
The State filed an answer on June 5,
2023, and after obtaining leave of court, filed a cross-complaint against Vafa
on September 27, 2023. In the meantime, on September 26, 2023, Vafa filed a
notice of settlement and a motion for determination of good faith settlement
pursuant to CCP 877.6. On October 23, 2023, the State filed an opposition brief
in response to Vafa’s motion. Vafa filed a reply brief on October 27, 2023. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
If a settlement entered into by less
than all joint tortfeasors or co-obligors is made in good faith, the Court
“shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims
against the settling tortfeasor . . . for equitable comparative contribution,
or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (c).) “A determination as to the good faith of a settlement,
within the meaning of section 877.6, necessarily requires the trial court to
examine and weigh a number of relevant factors, one of the most important of
which is the settling party’s proportionate liability. In making such
examination, the court must look at the state of the evidence as it exists at
the time the motion for a good faith determination is heard. [Citation.] If . .
. there is no substantial evidence to support a critical assumption as to the
nature and extent of a settling defendant’s liability, then a determination of
good faith based upon such assumption is an abuse of discretion.” (Toyota
Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. v. Superior Court (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 864, 871; L.C.
Rudd & Son, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.)
On a motion for determination of good
faith settlement, the non-settling tortfeasors or obligors bear the burden of
demonstrating the absence of good faith in the settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)  To demonstrate a lack of good faith, the
non-settling party must show that the settlement is so far “out of the
ballpark” as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of Section
877.6.  (Nutrition Now, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209, 213.)  The Court will typically consider: (1) the
plaintiff’s (roughly) approximated total recovery; (2) the settlor’s share of
liability; (3) the size of the settlement at issue; (4) the distribution of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (5) the usual discount value when
plaintiffs settle before trial; the settlor’s financial condition and insurance
policy limits; and (6) whether there is evidence of “collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) 
These factors will be evaluated accordingly to what information is
available at the time of settlement.  (Ibid.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
The
Settlement Between Plaintiff and Vafa 
 
Plaintiff has agreed to settle her
claims against Vafa for the full insurance policy limit of $500,000. Vafa argues
that this amount is “within the ballpark” fair because she has no assets and this
was the sole insurance policy in force providing coverage for Vafa and the vehicle.
(Schmid v. Superior Court (1998) 205 Cal.App.3d 1244, 1245 [good faith
found where defendant pays limit of insurance policy and has no other assets].)
Vafa declares the following:
“I have not, nor has anyone on my behalf, transferred to any
other person any assets (including cash in whatever form held) over $100,000
since the July 7, 2022 collision. I do not own any assets (including cash in
whatever form held, equity, stocks, bonds, real estate, notes, etc.) worth
$100,000 or more.” (Kingston Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 11.) 
In opposition, the State argues that motion
should be denied because the settlement is disproportionately low compared to
Vafa’s alleged liability and Vafa’s financial condition was only partially
disclosed and should be subject to discovery. (Opp., p. 1.) In the alternative,
the State requests a 90-day continuance to conduct discovery regarding the good
faith of the settlement and a briefing schedule to allow the State to present
further evidence and briefing following discovery. (Ibid.) The State claims
that the $500,000 settlement amounts to less than 2% of Plaintiff’s claimed
damages and is grossly disproportionate, especially because Vafa’s declaration
is ambiguous. (Opp., p. 4.) The State argues that it is unclear from Vafa’s
declaration whether she possesses less than $100,000 in collective total
assets, or if she has numerous assets that are not by themselves worth more
than $100,000 each. (Ibid.) If the latter is true, the State argues, the
potential value of Vafa’s assets would be much greater and the payment of the
policy limit is not in good faith. (Ibid.) Also, while the State insists
that it is not accusing either Vafa or Plaintiff of collusion, it nonetheless requests
an opportunity to question them about the nature of their past and present
relationship. (Id. at p. 5.) Lastly, the State points out that Vafa did
not mention any insurance proceeds she herself received as a result of the
subject accident. (Ibid.)
On reply, Vafa argues that the State
has failed to meet its burden to show that the settlement is not in good faith.
Vafa argues that a particular settlement may be in good faith even if it is for
a sum grossly disproportionate to the damages prayed for in the complaint, if
it is not disproportionate to what the trial court might have considered the
probable recovery of the plaintiff from the settling tortfeasor. A plaintiff’s
rough approximated total recovery is based on information known at the time of
settlement.  (Dole Food Company, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 894, 904 [“a plaintiff’s claims
for damages are not determinative in finding good faith; rather the court is
called upon ‘to make a rough approximation’ of what the plaintiff would
actually recover’ . . . with the evaluation being made ‘on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement”].) “In order to encourage
settlement, it is quite proper for a settling defendant to pay less than his
proportionate share of the anticipated damages. 
What is required is simply that the settlement not be grossly disproportionate
to the settlor’s fair share.”  (Abbott
Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858, 874-875.)
Here, Vafa provides no evidence which
allows the Court to approximate Plaintiff’s total recovery or whether the
settlement is disproportionate to Vafa’s fair share of Plaintiff’s anticipated
damages. Nevertheless, given that Plaintiff’s alleged injuries are severe, Plaintiff
was allegedly Vafa’s passenger, and Vafa, for unknown reasons, allegedly veered
off the freeway into an embankment, the probability of recovering against Vafa
for negligence appears high. And, according to the State, $500,000 is only 2%
of Plaintiff’s claimed damages. This amount of anticipated damages, along with the
high probability of recovery against Vafa, leads the Court to conclude that a
determination of good faith is inappropriate on this record. The Court additionally
notes that Vafa failed to submit any supplemental declaration to address the
State’s concerns with her declaration. 
However, in lieu of denying the motion,
the Court grants the State’s request for a 90-day continuance so that the
parties may conduct discovery regarding Vafa’s financial condition and any
other topics relevant to determining the good faith of Vafa and Plaintiff’s
settlement. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The
hearing on this motion is continued to February 1, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. 
Dated this 3rd day of November,
2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 