 Case Number:  23AHCV01788    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



HIPILITO-DIEP FAMILY TRUST, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
J.D.C.
   INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01788
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT J.D.C. INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.’S DEMURRER TO
   PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

November
   3, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On August 8, 2023, plaintiff Hipilito-Diep
Family Trust (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant J.D.C. Insurance
Services, Inc. (“Defendant”) asserting a cause of action for breach of
contract. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached a written agreement by
failing to provide insurance coverage and as a result, Plaintiff suffered emotional
distress, as well as costs and legal fees to defend Los Angeles County Superior
Court Case No. 23AHCV00949. 
On October 10, 2023, Defendant filed a
demurrer and a request for judicial notice.
On October 25, 2023, Defendant filed a
notice of non-opposition. No opposition brief is on file with the Court. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are
stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.          
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant requests the Court judicially
notice of the Complaint filed in this case. The request is GRANTED. (Evid. Code,
§ 452(d).) 
B.          
Demurrer
Defendant argues that the Complaint
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is fatally
uncertain. The Court agrees. First, Plaintiff fails to list both parties to the
alleged breached agreement, instead only naming “Hipolito-Diep Family Trust (Cipriano
Rey Hipolito/Nancy Diep).” Second, Plaintiff fails to identify any specific
provisions or material terms of the contract that Defendant purportedly
breached. Third, Plaintiff fails to attach a copy of the alleged agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant to the Complaint. Instead, Plaintiff only
attached to the Complaint an incomplete copy of the declaration page of the
Bamboo Insurance Policy. There is no copy of the policy or any indication that
an agreement existed between Defendant and Plaintiff with terms which were
purportedly breached. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is
sustained on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action. 
Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) 
However, the burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff did not
oppose this demurrer and did not meet its burden of showing how amendment is
possible. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
Dated this 3rd day of November,
2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 