  Case Number:  21SMCV00101    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Springlife LLC, et al., v. Mobbil Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                21SMCV00101
MOTION:                  Motion to Bifurcate Trial
Motion to Enforce Settlement
HEARING DATE:   5/20/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Motion to Enforce
Settlement
 
 
(a) If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms
of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain
jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in
full of the terms of the settlement.
 
(b) For purposes of this section, a
writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any of the     following: [¶] (1) The party. [¶] (2) An
attorney who represents the party.
 
(CCP, §
664.6(a), (b)(1)-(2).)
 
“Because of its summary nature, strict compliance with
the requirements of section 664.6 is prerequisite to invoking the power of the
court to impose a settlement agreement.” (Sully-Miller Contracting Co. v.
Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 37.) In
ruling on a motion under section 664.6, the trial judge may receive oral
testimony, or may determine the motion upon declarations alone. (Corkland v.
Boscoe (1984) 156 Cal.App.3d 989, 994.) Where the agreement was reached at
a court hearing, the court can resolve the dispute on the basis of its own
notes or recollection of what was agreed to (as well as any transcripts of the
proceedings). (Richardson v. Richardson (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 91, 97.)
 
Motion to Bifurcate
 
“The court may, when
the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby [. . .] make an
order [. . .] that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the
trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case [. . .]  The court,
on its own motion, may make such an order at any time. [. . .]”  (CCP §
598.)
 
“The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause
of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any
separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the
right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state
or of the United States.”  (CCP § 1048(b).
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Mobbil Inc. and Behrouz Bozorgnia move for a determination
of settlement based on the doctrine of judicial estoppel, and further move to
bifurcate trial into issues of: (1) liability, compensatory damages, and
liability for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294; (2) amounts of
punitive damages at trial (if any); and (3) request to preclude evidence of
Defendants' financial condition during Phase I of Trial and any specific
amounts of punitive damages.
 
Enforce Settlement
 
Defendants fail to show that the
Court has the equitable power to enforce the purported settlement agreement. In
their motion, Defendants rely upon the principle of judicial estoppel.  Judicial
estoppel prevents a party from asserting a position in a legal proceeding that
is contrary to a position previously taken in the same or some earlier
proceeding. (Gottlieb v. Kest (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 110, 130-31.) “In
California, courts consider five factors in determining whether to apply
judicial estoppel: ‘The doctrine [most appropriately] applies when (1) the same
party has taken two positions; (2) the positions were taken in judicial or
quasi-judicial administrative proceedings; (3) the party was successful in
asserting the first position (i.e., the tribunal adopted the position or
accepted it as true); (4) the two positions are totally inconsistent; and (5)
the first position was not taken as a result of ignorance, fraud, or mistake.’”  (Id. at 131.) 
 
Defendants fail to establish these elements. Defendants
do not show that Plaintiff has taken an inconsistent position regarding the
purported settlement. Simply put, Plaintiffs have never taken a position on settlement
prior to this motion. Thus, Plaintiffs could not have taken an inconsistent
position on the settlement. Further, the Court never adopted or accepted
Plaintiffs’ position on settlement. Thus, Plaintiffs were never successful in
asserting any inconsistent positions and there are no grounds to apply judicial
estoppel to this settlement agreement.
 
Furthermore, to enforce the settlement on noticed motion,
Defendants must comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. Defendants,
however, have not presented a writing signed by the parties outside of
the presence of the court for settlement of the case. Thus, the settlement is
not enforceable on noticed motion.  This does not mean that the settlement
would be unenforceable. Section 664.6 was enacted to provide a summary
procedure for specifically enforcing a settlement contract, without needing
to file a new lawsuit. Prior to the enactment of section 664.6, when a
settlement broke down, the party seeking to enforce it either had to file a
separate lawsuit for breach of contract or seek leave to file a supplemental
pleading to allege the settlement as a new claim or defense. (Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 808.)  Section 666.4 did not supersede these
alternative remedies available for breach of a settlement agreement. (Smith
v. Golden Eagle Ins. Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1371, 1374.) Therefore, even
if a settlement agreement is not enforceable via this summary procedure, the
party may still seek to enforce the settlement agreement through a supplemental
pleading, or a separate lawsuit for breach of contract. (Id.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion to enforce the alleged settlement
is DENIED.
 
Bifurcate
 
The Court concurs that the trial should be bifurcated
between a liability phase and a punitive damages phase. In Phase 1, the jury
would decide all causes of action and damages for those causes of action, and
whether there is malice, fraud, or oppression. 
In Phase 2, the jury would determine the amount of punitive damages, if
any. The Court agrees that bifurcating will promote judicial efficiency and
economy, will simplify the issues for the jurors, will be more convenient for
the parties and witnesses. 
 
Accordingly, the unopposed motion for bifurcation is
GRANTED.