 Case Number:  24STCP01308    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



IN RE Petition of:
 
PEACHTREE SETTLEMENT FUNDING, LLC,
  
 
                                  Petitioner,
  
         and
 
 
ANGELANN MANUEL,
 
                                  Transferor
  and Real Party-In-Interest.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCP01308
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 30, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Petitioner Peachtree Settlement Funding, LLC (“Petitioner”)
requests approval of the transfer of certain structured settlement payment
rights from payee and transferor Angelann Manuel (“Payee”).
 
The Court DENIES the petition. Petitioner has not provided a
copy of the underlying settlement agreement.
 
 
Background
 
On October 15, 1992, Payee, by and through their Guardian ad
Litem, Filadelfo Brillante, became entitled to a series of structured
settlement payments for a wrongful death claim. The settlement obligor is
Prudential Structured Settlement Company. The annuity issuer is Prudential
Insurance Company of America. 
 
Payee seeks to transfer, and Petitioner seeks to obtain, the
rights to 252 monthly payments of $2,063.17 each, increasing at 3% annually,
beginning on November 22, 2036 and ending on October 22, 2057. Payee will
receive a lump sum of $75,000.00 from Petitioner in exchange for the transfer.
 
Petitioner filed this petition on April 24, 2024. Petitioner
filed an amended petition on May 3, 2024. Plaintiff filed additional exhibits
to the amended petition on May 14, 2024. No party has filed an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
Procedural Requirements
 
The majority of the documents submitted in support of the
petition – specifically, Exhibits A, B, and C – were not formally
authenticated. Based on the totality of the circumstances and the fact that no
party served with the papers has objected, the Court draws the conclusion that
all documents are authentic and agreed upon. The Court admonishes Petitioner to
make sure in the future that all documents are presented to the Court in
unredacted form and that all documents submitted be properly identified.
 
A.  A copy of the transferee’s current and any
prior petitions. 
B.    A
copy of the transfer agreement. 
C.    A
listing of each of the payee’s dependents, together with each dependent's
age. 
D.    A
copy of the disclosure required in subdivision (b) of section 10136. 
E.     A
copy of the annuity contract. 
F.     A
copy of any qualified assignment agreement. 
G.    A
copy of the underlying structured settlement agreement. 
H.    Notification
that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond
to the transferee’s application, either in person or by counsel, by submitting
written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing. 
I.       Notification
of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner in which
and the time by which written responses to the application must be filed, which
may not be less than 15 days after service of the transferee’s notice, in order
to be considered by the court. 
J.       If
the payee entered into the structured settlement at issue within five years
prior to the date of the transfer agreement, then the transferee shall provide
notice to the payee’s attorney of record at the time the structured settlement
was created, if the attorney is licensed to practice in California, at the
attorney’s address on file with the State Bar of California. The notice shall
be delivered by regular mail. 
K.    Proof
of service showing compliance with the notification requirements of this
section.
 
Further, at the time of filing such a petition, the
transferee shall file a copy of the petition with the California Attorney
General.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.)  Lastly, the court shall retain
continuing jurisdiction to interpret and monitor the implementation of the
transfer agreement as justice requires.  (Id., § 10139.5(i).) 
 
Substantive Requirements
 
This Petition is governed by Insurance Code sections 10134
through 10139.5. (See 321 Henderson Receivables Origination LLC v. Sioteco (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1059, 1066.) Under Insurance Code (“Ins. Code”), section 10137,
a transfer of structured settlement payment rights is void unless a court
reviews and approves the transfer and finds the following conditions are
met: 
 
a.      The
transfer of the structured settlement payment rights is fair and reasonable and
in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support
of his or her dependents. 
b.      The
transfer complies with the requirements of this article and will not contravene
other applicable law, and the court has reviewed and approved the transfer as
provided in Section 10139.5. 
 
Pursuant to Insurance Code, section 10139.5, subdivision
(a), the Court must make the following express findings as to a transfer of
structured settlement payment rights: 
 
1.     
The transfer is in the best interest of the payee,
taking into account the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents. 

2.      The
payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent
professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received that advice
or knowingly waived receipt of that advice in writing. 
3.      The
transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with
Section 10136 and the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and
10138. 
4.      The
transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court
or other government authority. 
5.      The
payee reasonably understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the
terms set forth in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136. 
6.      The
payee understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the
transfer agreement. 
 
The transfer agreement is effective only upon approval in a
final court order. (Ins. Code, § 10139.5(a).)   
 
Discussion
 
Procedural Requirements
 
The majority of the documents submitted in support of the
petition – specifically, Exhibits A, B, and C – were not formally
authenticated. Based on the totality of the circumstances and the fact that no
party served with the papers has objected, the Court draws the conclusion that
all documents are authentic and agreed upon. The Court admonishes Petitioner to
make sure in the future that all documents are presented to the Court in
unredacted form and that all documents submitted be properly identified.
 
A.  A copy of the transferee’s current and any
prior petitions. 
 
Petitioner submits a copy of the instant petition.
Petitioner provides the information and case numbers for prior petitions for
transfers of payment right by Payee. (Manuel Decl. ¶ 9.) Payee has entered into
seven prior transfer agreements, all of which were with Petitioner. No previous
attempted transactions by Patee involving the settlement payments were denied.
 
C.    A
copy of the transfer agreement. 
 
Petitioner submits a copy of the transfer agreement as
Amended Exhibit A to the Amended Petition. Petitioner does not provide
verification for the amended versions of Exhibit A or Exhibit B.
 
D.    A
listing of each of the payee’s dependents, together with each dependent's
age. 
 
Petitioner is married and has one minor child, L.P., who is
13 years old and resides with petitioner. (Manuel Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
E.     A
copy of the disclosure required in subdivision (b) of section 10136. 
 
Petitioner submits a copy of the disclosure as Exhibit B.
Exhibit B is not authenticated.
 
F.     A
copy of the annuity contract. 
 
Petitioner submits a copy of the annuity contract as Exhibit
C. Exhibit C is not authenticated.
 
G.    A
copy of any qualified assignment agreement. 
 
Petitioner refers to Exhibit C for this requirement, which
does not include any qualified assignments. Exhibit C is not authenticated.
 
H.    A
copy of the underlying structured settlement agreement. 
 
Petitioner attaches as Exhibit D a copy of the order
approving then-minor Payee’s compromise in the underlying action. The order
lays out some of the key terms of the underlying settlement agreement. However,
Exhibit D does not include a copy of the underlying structured settlement
agreement. Exhibit D does not even include a verbatim recitation of the
agreement’s terms, although that on its own would be insufficient.
 
Because this procedural requirement is not met, the Court
must deny the motion.
 
I.       Notification
that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond
to the transferee’s application, either in person or by counsel, by submitting
written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing. 
 
Petitioner has provided a proof of service for both the
initial and amended petition, as well as the related exhibits and declaration.
 
J.       Notification
of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner in which
and the time by which written responses to the application must be filed, which
may not be less than 15 days after service of the transferee’s notice, in order
to be considered by the court. 
 
Petitioner has provided a proof of service for the notice of
the original petition. Because Petitioner also served the amended petition and
related documents, the Court concludes that notice has been satisfied.
 
K.    If
the payee entered into the structured settlement at issue within five years
prior to the date of the transfer agreement, then the transferee shall provide
notice to the payee’s attorney of record at the time the structured settlement
was created, if the attorney is licensed to practice in California, at the
attorney’s address on file with the State Bar of California. The notice shall
be delivered by regular mail. 
 
The settlement is
more than five years old.
 
L.     Proof
of service showing compliance with the notification requirements of this
section.
 
Petitioner has provided a proof of service for both the
initial and amended petition, as well as the related documents.
 
 
Conclusion
 
Because the procedural have not been met, the Court denies
the petition.