  Case Number:  22STCV06395    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



TERESA FORSHEE, PERSONAL
  REPRESENTATIVE OF THE ESTATE OF MAGDALENA BURGER, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
SYDNEY ATKINS, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV06395
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 30, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Plaintiff Teresa Forshee moves for an order imposing
terminating sanctions against Defendant Millett & Dominguez, LLC (“Millett”),
striking Millett’s answer, and entering default against Millett. Plaintiff also
seeks $2,160.00 in monetary sanctions against Millett in addition to previous
sanctions.
 
The Court CONTINUES Plaintiff’s motion for terminating
sanctions to July 2, 2024. If Millett does not comply with all previous
discovery orders and sanctions by that time, the Court will issue terminating
sanctions.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for monetary sanctions
IN PART. Millett shall pay $1,635.00 in sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within
30 days of the issuance of this order.
 
Background
 
This is an elder abuse and fraud case.
 
Plaintiff is the representative of the estate of Magdalena
Burger. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants forged a grant deed to 14900 Rhinestone
Drive, Sherman Oaks, California 91403 (the “Property”), which purported to
transfer the Property from Plaintiff to Defendants.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on February 22, 2022 against
Defendants Sydney Atkins, Millet, Sara Irene Daniels, Larry Donnell Ford,
Merchants Bonding Company (“Merchants”), Godrick Williams III, and Blue
Royalties Trucking LLC.
 
Plaintiff was faced with significant challenges in effecting
service on Millett. Millett was eventually served. Millett filed an answer on
March 29, 2023.
 
On August 18, 2023, Plaintiff served a set of written
discovery on Millett, namely: Form Interrogatories, Set No. One, Special
Interrogatories, Set No. One, Request for Production of Documents, Set No. One,
and Request for Admissions, Set No. One.
 
Millett did not serve responses on Plaintiff, and Millett’s
counsel was nonresponsive to communications from Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
On October 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions to compel with
respect to each of the discovery items served on Millett.
 
An IDC was held on January 22, 2024. At the IDC, counsel for
Millett represented that he was in contact with representatives of Millett and
that responses would be provided. (Jackman Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Plaintiff did not receive any subsequent communication from
Millett’s counsel. Millett did not file oppositions to Plaintiff’s motions.
 
On February 1, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motions
to compel. The Court ordered that all responses were due within 30 days of the
Court’s order. The Court ordered Millett to produce a person most qualified for
deposition. The Court ordered Millett to pay $1,800.00 in sanctions to
Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of the order. Millett appeared at the
hearing via new counsel, although it had not substituted counsel. This new
counsel never substituted in, and informed Plaintiff’s counsel after the hearing
that they would not be substituted in. (Jackson Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff served a notice of the ruling
on the discovery motions on Millett’s counsel. (Jackman Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed
Defendant’s counsel, informing him that responses and depositions were to be
completed within 30 days of the court order and requesting deposition dates. (Jackman
Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
As of the time when this motion was filed, Millett had not
provided discovery responses, produced a PMK for deposition, or paid the
court-ordered sanctions.
 
Plaintiff filed this motion on April 11, 2024. Millett did
not file an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
Where a party misuses the discovery process, courts have
discretion to impose terminating, issue, evidence, or monetary sanctions. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(g), 2030.290(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative
Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495.) Misuse of the discovery
process includes failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery or
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.010(d), (g).)        
 
Monetary sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…unless [the Court] finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a).) 
 
Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified where there is a
willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and evidence showing
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules. (Van
Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.) “[A] penalty as
severe as dismissal or default is not authorized where noncompliance with
discovery is caused by an inability to comply rather than willfulness or bad
faith.” (Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.) Further, preventing
parties from presenting their cases on the merits is a drastic measure;
terminating sanctions should only be ordered when there has been previous
noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a less severe sanction would
not be effective. (Link v. Cater (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1315,
1326.) 
 
Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must make an
express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to serve the
required answers. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County
(1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) Lack of diligence may be deemed willful where
the party understood its obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed to
comply. (Deyo v. Killbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 787.) The party
who failed to comply with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that
the failure was not willful. (Id. at 788.) 
 
Discussion
 
Terminating Sanctions
 
As discussed above, terminating
sanctions are justified where there is a willful discovery order violation, a
history of abuse, and evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with discovery rules. (Van Sickle v. Gilbert, supra,
196 Cal.App.4th at p. 1516.) Furthermore, terminating sanctions should only be
ordered when there has been previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it
appears a less severe sanction would not be effective. (Link v. Cater, supra,
60 Cal.App.4th at p. 1326.) 
 
“[T]he trial court may impose terminating sanctions as a
first measure in extreme cases, or where the record shows lesser sanctions
would be ineffective. (Department of Forestry & Fire Protection v.
Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191–192.) In Department of Forestry
& Fire Protection v. Howell, the trial court found that “[the party’s]
willful, repeated and egregious misuses of the discovery process permeated
nearly every single significant issue in this case to an extent that threatened
the integrity of the judicial process and made it implausible that defendants
could ever receive a fair trial. (Id. at 197 [internal quotations
omitted].)
 
Here, Millett has provided Plaintiff with no discovery in
this action, despite having answered over a year ago. Furthermore, Millett’s
discovery behavior appears to have primarily consisted of stone-walling
Plaintiff’s counsel. Millett’s counsel did not respond to Plaintiff’s counsel
when Plaintiff initially attempted to meet and confer, or after the IDC.
Millett’s counsel’s representation at the IDC appears to have been
unintentionally misleading at best, and deliberately misleading at worst, given
the lack of follow-up communication. 
 
Millett’s continued unresponsiveness following the Court’s
order does not improve matters. Plaintiff’s counsel repeatedly attempted to
communicate with Millett’s counsel regarding the court order to no avail. If
Millett’s counsel was unable to contact Millett, he could have communicated
that to Plaintiff’s counsel, but did not. In any event, nearly four months
later, Millett has not complied with any of the discovery orders or sanctions
issued by the Court on February 1. The Court believes that terminating sanctions
are warranted. However, out of an abundance of caution, the Court will continue
the hearing on this motion for approximately 30 days to give Millett as much of
an opportunity as possible to comply with the prior orders.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
The Court finds that monetary sanctions for failure to
comply are warranted. 
 
Plaintiff requests an hourly rate of $350.00 for attorney
Ryan Jackman. The Court finds this rate to be reasonable based on Jackman’s
experience.
 
Plaintiff requests 6 hours for Jackman, including 1.5 for
preparing a reply to an opposition. The Court reduces this amount to 4.5 hours
because no opposition was filed. The Court awards $1,575.00 in attorney’s fees.
 
Plaintiff requests $60.00 in filing fees for this motion.
The Court approves this request.
 
The Court awards a total of $1,635.00 in attorney’s fees and
costs.