 Case Number:  23STCV27439    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
BAIRD
  A. BROWN, an individual and as sole owner of BAIRD BROWN, a Professional Law
  Corporation, and ANN BROWN,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
DONALD
  G. NORRIS, an individual, DONALD G. NORRIS, a Law Corporation, MICHELLE PAK,
  an individual, TAURIN ROBINSON, an individual, and DOES 1 through 10,
  inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.
______________________________________
 
AND RELATED
  CROSS-ACTION
 


Case No.:  23STCV27439
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  11/08/23
Amended
  1st Complaint: 08/22/24
Cross-Complaint
  Filed:   01/12/24
Cross-Complaint
  Filed: 02/05/24
Trial
  Date:  None set



 
Hearing
date:  November 8, 2024
Moving
Party:  Defendant Donald G. Norris, an
individual
Responding
Party:  Plaintiffs Baird A. Brown, Baird
Brown, a Professional Law Corporation, and Ann Brown
Motions
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Admissions (Set One) and Request for
Production (Set One) and Requests for Sanctions
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            
            The
Motions to Compel Further Responses to
Request for Admissions and Genuineness of Documents (Set One) and Request for
Production (Set One) are DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
            Defendant’s
request for sanctions against Plaintiff Baird Brown, a Professional Law
Corporation is GRANTED in the amount of $1,248.00, payable to Defendant
Norris within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Background
            On
November 8, 2023, plaintiffs Baird A. Brown, an individual and as sole owner of
Baird Brown, a Professional Corporation, and Ann Brown (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
Complaint against defendants Donald G. Norris, an individual; Donald G. Norris,
a Law Corporation (“Norris Defendants”); Michelle Pak (“Pak”), an individual; and
Taurin Robinson (“Robinson”), an individual (collectively, “Defendants”), and
DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) Elder Financial
Abuse – CA Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et seq; (2) Theft & Conversion –
CA Penal Code § 496(c); (3) Unfair Competition – CA Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200
et seq; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (5) Conspiracy.
            The
Complaint alleges in pertinent part as follows. Pak, Mr. Brown’s former office
manager and Robinson, Mr. Brown’s former legal assistant conspired with Norris
Defendants to transfer Mr. Brown’s clients and his practice to Norris
Defendants. (Compl., ¶¶12-14.) Furthermore, defendants conspired to divert Mr.
Brown’s legal fees and breached ethical responsibilities to timely sent two of
Mr. Brown’s clients shares of their settlement funds. (Id. at ¶17.)
            On
January 12, 2024, Norris Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs;
Andrew M. White, an individual; Jonathan N. White, an individual
(“Cross-Defendants”), and ROES 1-10, inclusive, alleging causes of action
for  (1) Conversion; (2) Violation of CA
Penal Code § 502; (3) Unfair Practices Act – CA Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et
seq; (4) Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; and (5) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty.
            On
February 5, 2024, Pak filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs; Andrew M.
White, an individual; Jonathan N. White, an individual (“Cross-Defendants”),
and ROES 1-10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract;
(2) Money Had and Received; (3) Common Count - Open Book Account; (4) Common
Count - Account Stated; (5) Conversion; (6) Unauthorized Access to Computer
Files and Documents (Violation of CA Penal Code § 502); (7) Violation of the
Unfair Practices Act – CA Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq; (8) Battery; (9)
Assault; (10) Sexual Battery; (11) Sexual Harassment in Violation of FEHA,
Gov’t Code 12940, et seq; (12) Failure to Prevent Sexual Harassment in
Violation of FEHA, Gov’t Code Sec. 12940(k); (13) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; and (14) Violations of the Elder And Dependent Adult Civil
Protection Act) (Wel. & Inst. § 15600, et seq.).
            On
May 23, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Donald G. Norris (“Norris”) filed the
instant motions to compel further responses from plaintiff Baird A. Brown, a
Professional Law Corporation (“Brown Law”) to (1) Request for Admissions and
Genuineness of Documents (Set One) and (2) Request for Production of Documents (Set
One). Plaintiffs filed oppositions to the motions on October 14, 2024, and
September 20, 2024. Donald G. Norris filed his replies on November 1, 2024. 
 
Legal
Standard
            Request
for Admissions
Where responses
to requests for admissions have been served but requesting party believes that
they are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete or because an
objection is without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a
further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a).) 
            Requests
for Production
Code of Civil
Procedure § 2031.310(a) permits a party to move the court to compel further
responses where the party requesting responses deems that “a statement of
compliance with a demand is incomplete.” Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure §
2031.310(b) permits a party to move the court to compel further responses where
the responding parties’ representation of “inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete or evasive.”
The motion must
be made within 45 days after service of the verified response or any
supplemental verified response. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2033.290, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (c).)
Finally, California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving
further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request,
the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling
further responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3)).¿
 
Meet and Confer 
The motion must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).)
Norris advances
the declaration of his counsel of record, Seungjai Oh, attesting to meet and
confer made prior to the filing of the instant motions. Attorney Oh sent a meet
and confer letter on April 29, 2024. (Oh Decl., ¶10, Ex. 15.) On May 3, 2024,
Plaintiffs’ counsel, Jonathan White, requested an extension to respond to the
meet and confer and Norris’ deadline to file motions. (Id. at ¶11, Ex.
16.) Attorney White sent a response to the meet and confer letter refusing to
amend and provide code-complaint responses. (Id. at ¶13, Ex. 18.)
Additionally,
Plaintiffs do not dispute that they engaged in a meet and confer. Thus, Norris
sufficiently met and conferred in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2016.040. 
 
Discussion
            Request for Admissions and Genuineness
of Documents (Set One)
Norris moves to compel further responses from Mr. Brown to Request for
Admissions (Set One) Nos. 44, 45, 46, 47, 66, 67, 68, and 69. Norris also moves
to compel further genuineness of documents as to No.4. 
 
The
Request for Admissions are stated as follows:
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 44: Admit that, in 2023, YOU were in possession of
case files of clients represented by NORRIS.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 45: Admit that, in 2023, YOU were in possession of
case files of clients represented by NORRIS LAW.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 46: Admit that YOU are currently in possession of case
files of clients represented by NORRIS.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 47: Admit that YOU are currently in possession of case
files of clients represented by NORRIS LAW.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 66: Admit that, at any time between October 2023 and
the present, YOU accessed computers containing case files of clients
represented by NORRIS.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 67: Admit that, at any time between October 2023 and
the present, YOU accessed computers containing case files of clients
represented by NORRIS Law.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 68: Admit that, at any time between October 2023 and
the present, YOU made copies (physical or electronic) of case files of clients
represented by NORRIS.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 69: Admit that, at any time between October 2023 and
the present, YOU made copies (physical or electronic) of case files of clients
represented by NORRIS LAW.
In response to each of these Request for Admissions, Plaintiffs state “Plaintiff
incorporates herein his General Statement and Objections. Plaintiff further
object to this Request for Admission on the basis that it is impermissibly and
deliberately vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible, particularly in its use of
the phrase “case files of clients represented by NORRIS [or NORRIS LAW].”
“[N]either ambiguity nor burden are of themselves sufficient grounds
for denying the right to discovery in
toto, although
either may, if present in sufficient degree, constitute an abuse of the
discovery process which can and should be limited or eliminated under the
court's discretionary power to make any order consistent with justice.” (Cembrook v. Superior Court In and
For City and County of San Francisco (1961) 56 Cal.2d 423, 428.) “If [the court] finds some requests too
ambiguous to allow intelligent reply, it may sustain objection to them or, more
consistently with justice, it may order such questions to be rephrased.” (Id. at 430.)
On October 7, 2024, Brown Law argues that it served on Defendants
code-compliant supplemental responses to Norris’ Requests for Admission and
Request for Genuineness of Documents which are the subjects of this motion.
(White Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. F.) However, Defendant Norris does not dispute that he
received supplemental responses on October 7, 2024.  
Thus, the Court DENIES as MOOT the Request for Admission Set One. 
 
The
Request for Genuineness of Documents are stated as follows:
REQUEST FOR GENUINENESS OF DOCUMENTS, SET NO. 4: Admit that the genuineness of the April 24, 2020
email from dnorrislaw@gmail.com to bairdbrownlaw@gmail.com; cc’ing brownlaw@pacbell.net,
michelle16@gmail.com; containing file attachments: “Notice to Client – April
24.docx,” “April 30 Notice to Clients.docx,” and
“Updated_FiledCases_Consolidated.xlsx;” attached hereto as Exhibit D.
In response to this request for genuineness of documents, Mr. Brown
answered “Plaintiff incorporates herein his General Statement and Objections.
Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections and limitations,
Plaintiff responds: Neither admit nor deny.” (Oh Decl., Ex. 8B at p. 22.)
On October 7, 2024, Brown Law served on Defendants code-compliant
supplemental responses to Norris’ Request for Genuineness of Documents. (White
Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. F.)
            Thus, the Court DENIES the request
as MOOT. 
 
Requests for Production of Documents (Set One)
Norris also
moves to compel further responses from
Brown Law to Requests for Production of Documents (Set One) Nos. 1-36. 
            In
response to each of these requests, Plaintiffs stated “Plaintiff incorporates
his Preliminary Statement and General Objections as if set forth fully herein.
Plaintiff further objects to the Request on the grounds that it is vague and
ambiguous. Plaintiff further objects to the Request on the grounds that it is
overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive. Plaintiff further objects to the
Request on the grounds that the phrases “anyone on your behalf” and “anyone on
its behalf” are vague, ambiguous, and overbroad and seek information from
persons and entities other than Plaintiff. Plaintiff further objects to the
Request on the grounds that it seeks documents and information that are neither
relevant nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Plaintiff further objects to this Request to the extent that it seeks
documents and information that are within Defendant’s possession, custody, or
control, not Plaintiffs. Plaintiff further objects to the Request to the extent
that it calls for the disclosure of information protected by the attorney client
privilege, the attorney work product doctrine, the joint defense privilege, the
common interest privilege, and/or any other legally cognizable privilege
against disclosure….”
            Nevertheless,
Defendant Norris concedes that on September 19, 2024, “Plaintiffs amended the
discovery responses and produced substantial discovery production.” (Reply at
p. 2.) 
            Thus,
the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production Set One is
DENIED as MOOT. 
 
Request for
Monetary Sanctions  
The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to request for admissions and
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
Attorney Oh
seeks $6,240.00 for a total of 20.8 hours spent on drafting 10 motions to
compel further, 10 separate statements, 10 proposed orders, 1 declaration,
compiling exhibits, notice of lodging, lodged exhibit, finalizing all
documents, drafting 10 reply papers, and attending the hearing on the motion at
an hourly rate of $300.00. The amount requested is reasonable provided the
amount of time expended and in relation to the fee charged. Furthermore, Brown
Law fails to provide any substantial justification or other circumstances that
would make imposing sanctions unjust. However, given that the present motions
before this court are the Request for Admissions (Set One) and Requests for
Production (Set One), the Court will impose sanctions apportioned to these two
only. 
Thus, the Court GRANTS
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,248.00 against Brown Law. 
Plaintiffs seek
monetary sanctions against Defendant Norris in the amount of $600.00 for each
motion. “A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify
every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and
specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be supported by
a memorandum of points and authorities and accompanied by a declaration setting
forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.040.) Here, Plaintiffs have failed to
submit a notice of motion that requests monetary sanctions and thus failed to
comply with the section 2023.040 notice requirement. Thus, sanctions against
Defendant Norris are not warranted. 
The Court DENIES
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: November 8, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 