  Case Number:  20STCV17331    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 20, 2023




CASE NUMBER


20STCV17331




MOTION


Motion for Leave to File Amended Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Cross-Complainants Zalman N., Inc. and Zalman T. Nemtzov




OPPOSING PARTIES


Cross-Defendants MRB Construction, Inc. and Marvin Ramos



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from an accident during the construction of a new
home in early 2019.[1]  Plaintiff, who suffered a fall during the
construction, initiated the lawsuit against the project owners on May 6,
2020.  On February 16, 2021, Plaintiff
amended the complaint to substitute Defendant MRB Construction, Inc. (“MRB”)
for DOE 1.  Cross-Defendant Marvin Ramos
(“Ramos”) is the principal for MRB.  
 
Defendant and Cross-complainant Zalman N., Inc. is the general
contractor for the construction. 
Defendant and Cross-complainant Zalman T. Nemtzov is the sole
shareholder and president of Zalman N., Inc.[2]  
 
On November 15, 2021, Cross-complainants filed a cross-complaint for
indemnity against MRB, Ramos, and others. 
MRB is allegedly the framing subcontractor, although Cross-complainants
apparently failed to produce a subcontract agreement in discovery.  Discovery closed in January 2023.
 
In May 2023, MRB and Ramos agreed to settle with Plaintiff, and on
June 30, 2023, MRB and Ramos filed a good faith settlement motion.  Cross-complainants did not oppose the good
faith settlement motion.  On July 25,
2023, the Court granted the good faith settlement motion, barring Cross-complainants’
indemnity and contribution claims against MRB and Ramos.  Accordingly, on August 8, the Court dismissed
the cross-complaint with prejudice. 
Trial is currently set for early November 2023, as to the parties and claims
remaining in the lawsuit.
 
Cross-complainants now seek leave to amend the cross-complaint to add
four new causes of action against MRB and Ramos arising from the accident and
subsequent lawsuit: (1) breach of contract; (2) negligent misrepresentation;
(3) disgorgement of payments made; and (4) express indemnity and to attach the
subcontractor agreement to the amended cross-complaint.
 
EVIDENCE
 
            MRB and Ramos request the Court take
judicial notice of the United States District Court’s April 7, 2023 ruling on
Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment in Voyager Indemnity Insurance Co.
v. Zalman N., Inc., et al., No. 22-cv-3010 PA (MARx).  
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of (1) any court in this state or (2) any court of record of the
United States or of any state of the United States.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].) Similarly, a court may not take judicial notice of the truth
of any factual assertions appearing within court documents.  (Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 1548, 1564.)  
 
Therefore, the Court takes
judicial notice of the document as a court record of a court of the United
States, but the Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of any factual
assertions appearing therein.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
 
To wit, without notice to the other party the Court has wide
discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike the name of a party or
(ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a mistake in any other
respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as may be proper.” (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage of Liss (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to the other party, the
Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend pleadings “upon any
terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).
Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge, at any time
before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon
such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or
pretrial conference order.”
 
Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the
parties and, therefore, leave to amend is liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg
(1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an established policy in California
since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter (1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas
v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150, 155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan
v. Superior Court held “If the motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover,
“it is an abuse of discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the
opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).) Denial of a
motion to amend is rarely justified if the motion is timely made and granting
the motion will not prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639,
citations omitted.) However, if the party seeking the amendment has been
dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion
to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent
prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial. “If the delay in
seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal
policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to
deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the time of trial. (Id.
at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558,
564-565).) “Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of
trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation,
increased burden of discovery, etc. . . . But the fact that the amendment
involves a change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging
to the opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶
6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court may cause the party seeking
the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for trial. (Id.
at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400,
404).)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the
amendment;
(2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Good
Faith Settlements
 
A good faith settlement
between Plaintiff and one or more (but not all) Defendant(s) discharges the
settling defendant(s) from liability to other defendants for equitable
contribution or comparative indemnity, but not contractual indemnity.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.)  Unlike equitable or implied indemnity, “an
indemnity claim against a co-defendant based on express contract survives a
good faith section 877.6 settlement.”  (C.
L. Peck Contractors v. Superior Court (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 828, 834.)  Thus, a good faith settlement does “not
preclude an indemnity action based on an express indemnity agreement.”  (Bay Development, Ltd. v. Superior Court
(1990) 50 Cal.3d 1012, 1032.)
 
For example, “in cases
involving multiple policies covering the same loss, the courts have allocated
the burden of paying among several insurers without reference to questions of
the comparative fault or negligence of such insurers, because their obligation
to protect the insured arises from a contract, not because the insurers were
negligent or at fault.”  (Hartford
Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Superior Court (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 435,
440.)
 
Moreover, “[a] claim by a
joint tortfeasor seeking neither indemnity nor contribution and which the trial
court would not contemplate in determining the proportionate liability of a
settling tortfeasor is not a claim for indemnity and hence survives a good
faith settlement under section 877.6.”  (Cal-Jones
Properties v. Evans Pacific Corp. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 324, 328.)  But a tortfeasor may not “bring an
affirmative claim for damages that is actually an artfully pleaded claim for
indemnity,” and the court has discretion “to ferret out those claims that are
in fact claims for indemnity.”  (Id.
at pp. 327-328.)

 
DISCUSSION
 
            The original cross-complaint alleged
causes of action for implied indemnity, comparative indemnity, equitable
indemnity, and contribution in connection with an accident Plaintiff suffered
in connection with the construction of a new home.  Cross-complainants’ claims were dismissed
with prejudice in connection with the good faith settlement.  
 
Cross-complainants now seek to file an amended complaint alleging new causes
of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3)
disgorgement of payments [Cross-complainants made to MRB under the subcontract
agreement]; and (4) express indemnity. 
The proposed amended cross-complaint is based on the subcontract
agreement between Cross-complainants and MRB, indicating that MRB was to
provide Cross-complainants general liability insurance coverage on the project,
but failed to do so.
 
            Because the new cross-claims all
arise from the express terms of a contractual agreement between Cross-complainants
and MRB, they are not equitable or implied contribution or comparative
indemnity claims determined on the basis of fault, encompassed by the good
faith settlement.  Rather, they are
separate, express, contractual claims.  Therefore,
the good faith settlement does not bar these claims.  
 
MRB and Ramos argue that granting leave to file the proposed amended
complaint will prejudice them in two ways: (1) at this late stage of the
litigation, MRB and Ramos are unable to conduct discovery with respect to the
newly asserted claims, or to file a motion for summary adjudication without
delaying trial and increasing their discovery burden and expense; and (2)
because the insurer already has a declaratory ruling from the federal district
court that MRB is not insured under the policy, due to Cross-complainants’
failure to produce the subcontract agreement in discovery, MRB would be
financially responsible for the entirety of Cross-claimants’ insurance claim.
 
With regard to the untimeliness of the proposed amendments presented
on the eve of trial, Cross-complainants argue that they were previously unable
assert these claims, because MRB and Ramos insisted throughout the lawsuit that
there was no subcontractor agreement between MRB and Cross-complainants, and
that MRB did not do any framing work on the home.  However, according to Cross-complainants, MRB
and Ramos recently had “an epiphany” and finally admitted that the
subcontractor agreement did exist and MRB did do framing work on the
house.  (Motion at p. 5:8-16.)  
 
However, as parties to the subcontractor agreement, Cross-complainants
should have been aware of the facts underlying these causes of action at the
time they filed the cross-complaint, regardless of MRB and Ramos’ denials.  
 
Nonetheless, in light of the liberal policy favoring amendment, and of
the public policy to decide cases on the merits, the Court is inclined to
exercise its discretion to grant Cross-complainants leave to file the proposed
amended cross-complaint.  The Court may
issue orders, if requested by the parties, to continue trial, re-open limited
discovery, or to grant other procedural requests to allow all parties to fairly
litigate their issues on the merits and to mitigate any prejudice to the
parties.
 
MRB and Ramos’ second argument challenges the merits of the proposed
cross-claims, as opposed to addressing any procedural issues or prejudice they
will suffer if the amendment allowed.  Those
arguments are therefore more properly brought in a substantive challenge to the
amended cross-complaint, rather than in opposition to the motion for leave to
amend.  (See Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“even if the proposed legal theory is a novel one,
the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties
to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings
or other appropriate proceedings”].)   
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            The Court grants Cross-complainants’
motion for leave to file the proposed amended cross-complaint to assert their
claims against Ramos and MRB stemming from the subcontract agreement between
them.
 
            Cross-complainants shall file and
serve the proposed cross-complaint on or before  September 27, 2023.   Further,
Cross-complainants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.   
 
 
DATED:  September 20, 2023                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


