 Case Number:  22STCV10330    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September
  20, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22STCV10330




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Sound Equity Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Ginger Drinkwater



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Adjudication
Notice
     of Errata re Sound Equity’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities
Declaration
     of Kenneth Hansen in Support of Motion for Summary Adjudication
Index
     of Exhibits
Request
     for Judicial Notice
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Adjudication

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition
     to Motion for Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Declaration
     of Carlos E. Garcia in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s
     Motion for Summary Adjudication
Separate
     Statement of Additional Disputed Issues of Material Fact in Opposition to
     Motion for Summary Adjudication

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Adjudication
Objection
     to Plaintiff’s Evidence in support of Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Adjudication
Response
     to Separate Statement in Opposition to Motion for Summary Adjudication
Declaration
     of Joshua D. Franklin

                     
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Ginger Drinkwater (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Stewart
Title of California; Sound Equity, Inc.; Palms Blvd Venice Beach, LLC; Gold
Constructors; Wiltchik Appraisers; Andre Wegner; Douglas Sanchez; Dee Brothers;
Jed Wiltchik; and DOES 1 to 99 (collectively, “Defendants”); alleging elder
financial abuse in connection with the sale of her residential home in January
2020.  
 
Defendant Sound Equity (“Sound Equity”) moves for summary adjudication
as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for breach of the duty of good faith
and fair dealing; Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action for wrongful foreclosure;
and Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages as to Sound Equity.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.  Sound Equity has replied.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.
583.)  
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
(hereafter Aguilar).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar,
“[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged
causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of
fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)
 
EVIDENCE
            
            Sound Equity’s Request for Judicial
Notice
            
A motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication may be supported by matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(1).)  
 
Sound Equity requests the
Court take Judicial Notice of (1) the Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents,
Security Agreement and Fixture Filing, dated January 7, 2020, recorded in the
Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on January 10, 2020, bearing document number
20200040778; (2) the Grant Deed, dated January 6, 2020, recorded in the Los
Angeles County Recorder’s Office on January 10, 2020, bearing document number
20200040777; (3) the Notice of Trustee’s Sale, dated December 22, 2021,
recorded in the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on December 27, 2021,
bearing document number 20211907543; (4) the Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale, dated
March 30, 2022, recorded in the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on June 6,
2022, bearing document number 20220599028; and (5) the Complaint for Damages
filed by Plaintiff on March 24, 2022 in this action.
 
With respect to the deeds and
notice of trustee’s sale, courts can take judicial notice of the existence and
recordation of real property records, including deeds, if authenticity is not
reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.)  “The official act of recordation and the
common use of a notary public in the execution of such documents assure their
reliability, and the maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office
makes their existence and text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing
such documents beyond reasonable dispute.” 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, courts
can take judicial notice not only of the existence and recordation of recorded
documents but also matters that can be deduced from the documents, including
the parties, dates, and legal consequences of recorded documents relating to
real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)
            
Each of the recorded documents
bears the stamps of the recorder and of a notary public.  Therefore, the Court grants the request and
takes judicial notice of the deeds and notice of trustee’s sale, requests 1-4.
 
With respect to the complaint,
Judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because the complaint is part of the Court’s
record for this case, the Court may take judicial notice.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require formal
proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office of
Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned
up].)  Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the complaint filed in this matter as a
court record, but not the truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
            Sound Equity’s Objections to Plaintiff’s
Evidence in Support of the Opposition
 
The Court overrules Sound
Equity’s Objections 1-4.
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.        ISSUE 1: THIRD CAUSE OF
ACTION FOR BREACH OF THE DUTY OF 
GOOD FAITH AND FAIR DEALING
 
Every contract “imposes upon
each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its
enforcement.”  (McClain v. Octagon
Plaza, LLC (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 784, 798.)  “A third party should not be permitted to
enforce covenants made not for his benefit, but rather for others . . . .”  (Gulf Ins. Co. v. TIG Ins. Co. (2001)
86 Cal.App.4th 422, 430.)
 
1.      Sound Equity’s Evidence
 
Sound Equity has provided
evidence that there was no contractual relationship between Plaintiff and Sound
Equity, nor was Plaintiff named as the beneficiary of any of the agreements
between Sound Equity and other parties regarding the subject properties.  Sound Equity, a lender, issued Defendant
Andre Wegner (“Wegner”) on behalf of Defendant Palms Blvd (“Palms”) a
promissory note, secured by the property at issue, wherein Sound Equity would
loan Palms $2,279,700 to purchase and renovate the properties.  (UMF 1.) 
Wegner also executed a Deed of Trust in favor of FCI Lender Services,
Inc. for the benefit of Sound Equity that refers to the properties as security
for repayment of the $2,279,700 debt.  (UMF
4.)  These documents do not reference
Plaintiff.  
 
Thus, Sound Equity has met its
burden of production and persuasion that it is entitled to summary adjudication
as to the third cause of action for breach of the duty of good faith and fair
dealing.
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff has not provided any
evidence that she was a party to the underlying loan agreement.  Rather, Plaintiff argues that because the
documents indicate that the loan amount from Sound Equity to Palms was meant to
go toward Palms’ purchase (and renovation) of the property, and because
Plaintiff is the “seller” of the property, she is a beneficiary of the loan
agreement between Palms and Sound Equity.
 
Yet, the Grant Deed from
Plaintiff to Palms was executed on January 6, 2020, the day before Palms
executed the promissory note and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents, Security
Agreement and Fixture Filing, on January 7, 2020.  Thus, Plaintiff was no longer the property
owner when Palms took out the loan.  
 
As such, Plaintiff has failed
to meet her burden of production to raise a triable issue of material fact.  Therefore, the Court grants Sound Equity’s
motion for summary adjudication as to Issue 1: the Third Cause of Action for
breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing.
 
 
B.        ISSUE 2: TENTH CAUSE OF
ACTION FOR WRONGFUL 
FORECLOSURE

            “The basic elements of a tort
cause of action for wrongful foreclosure […] are: (1) the trustee or mortgagee
caused an illegal, fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property
pursuant to a power of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party
attacking the sale (usually but not always the trustor or mortgagor) was
prejudiced or harmed; and (3) in cases where the trustor or mortgagor
challenges the sale, the trustor or mortgagor tendered the amount of the
secured indebtedness or was excused from tendering.”  (Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 408.)
 
1.      Sound Equity’s Evidence
 
Sound Equity contends
Plaintiff lacks standing to bring a wrongful foreclosure action because
Plaintiff is not the trustor or mortgagor and did not tender the amount owed on
the debt.  
 
In support, Sound Equity
points to the Grant Deed conveying the property from Plaintiff to Defendant
Palms, to establish that Plaintiff has not been the owner of the property since
January 2020, and that Palms has been the sole record title owner since that
time.  (UMF 21, 29.)  Sound Equity also points to the nonjudicial
foreclosure it initiated after Palms defaulted on its loan.  (UMF 22-23.) 
Those foreclosure proceedings demonstrate Sound Equity was the
beneficiary, Palms was the borrower/trustor/mortgagor, and Plaintiff was not
listed or named in those documents.  (UMF
15, 18.)  Plaintiff also did not tender
payment on the loan.  (UMF 25.)
 
Thus, Sound Equity has met its
burden of production and persuasion that Plaintiff lacks standing to sue for
wrongful foreclosure.
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff does not submit
evidence that she is the trustor or mortgagor or that she tendered the amount
owed on the debt.  Instead, Plaintiff
argues that she is still the lawful owner of the property because the Grant
Deed from Plaintiff to Palms, executed on January 6, is void.
 
But Plaintiff has not produced
any evidence that Sound Equity caused an illegal, fraudulent, or willfully
oppressive sale of the property pursuant to the power of sale in the January 7
Deed of Trust executed by Palms, that she is a party to that Deed of Trust, or
that she tendered the debt amount or the debt was otherwise excused from
tendering, as is required to establish wrongful foreclosure.
 
As such, Sound Equity has met
its burden of production and persuasion, and Plaintiff has not created any triable
issue of material fact, and the Court grants Sound Equity’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Issue 2.
 
C.        ISSUE 3: PUNITIVE DAMAGES
            
Civil Code section 3294,
subdivision (a), provides for punitive damages “where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice[.]”  “Malice” is “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
(Id., subd. (b)(1).) 
“Oppression” is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Id., subd. (b)(2).)  “Fraud” is “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
 
Additionally, Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15657.5, subdivision (c) requires the standards set
forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code to be satisfied
before punitive damages may be imposed against an employer found liable for
financial abuse.  Civil Code Section
3294, subdivision (b) provides:
 
An employer shall not be liable for [punitive damages] based upon acts of
an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.  With respect to an
employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
 
1.      Sound Equity’s Evidence
 
Sound Equity has produced
evidence establishing that it is a corporation that provides commercial real
estate loans (UMF 30.)  Sound Equity was,
thus, merely the lender who extended a loan at arm’s length to Palms, secured
by the subject property.  (UMF
31-44.)  When Palms defaulted on that
loan, Sound Equity foreclosed on the property, pursuant to the terms of the
loan.  (UMF 46-47.)  
 
Thus, Sound Equity has met its
burden of production and persuasion, establishing that it was merely the
lender, who foreclosed upon the property once Palms defaulted on the loan, and
there is no evidence of “advanced knowledge, approval, or ratification of any
malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent conduct.” 
(Opp. at 10:15-18.)  
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff has not produced any
evidence demonstrating that Sound Equity engaged in any oppression, fraud, or
malice.  Rather, Plaintiff argues that
discovery is still ongoing.  But
Plaintiff has not requested the Court continue the hearing on Sound Equity’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication to allow time to conduct discovery as to Sound
Equity’s oppression, fraud, or malice. 
Nor has Plaintiff identified what evidence she expects to uncover.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(h).)  
 
Therefore, Sound Equity has
met its burden of production, and Plaintiff has not created any triable issue
of material fact.  Thus, the Court grants
Sound Equity’s motion for summary adjudication as to Issue 3.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
In considering the competent
evidence proffered by Plaintiff and Sound Equity, and viewing such evidence
most favorably to Plaintiff, the Court finds that there are no triable issues
of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Breach of the
Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Tenth Cause of Action for Wrongful
Foreclosure and Claim for Punitive Damages.  
  
 
Consequently, the Court grants
Sound Equity’s motion for summary adjudication in its entirety.  
 
The Court orders Sound Equity
to give notice of the Court’s ruling and to file a proof of service of such.   
 
 
 
DATED:  September 20, 2023                                               ___________________________
                                                                                                Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                                Judge
of the Superior Court