 Case Number:  24LBCV00080    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTMICHAEL NATHAN BROWN, Plaintiff(s), vs. ALAMITOS ASSOCIATES MANAGEMENT, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 24LBCV00080 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT; CMC; OSC Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 8, 2024Moving Party: Defendants. Alamitos Associates Management and Christopher Mata GustavoOpposing Party: None filedNotice: OK1. Background FactsPlaintiff, Michael Nathan Brown filed this action against Defendants, Alamitos Associates Management and Christopher Mata Gustavo on 1/17/24. The purported complaint consists of the first two pages of a standard judicial council from complaint, but contains no causes of action and no factual allegations.2. Demurrera. Legal Standard on DemurrerA demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of thedemurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may be.A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39 Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action within]. Specifically, a demurrer may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. Per CCP §430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. CCP § 430.10(f).However, in construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v. Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)Finally, CCP section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)b. Meet and ConferDefense Counsel declares he and Plaintiff spoke on multiple occasions, but were unable to resolve the issues that form the basis of the demurrer.c. AnalysisDefendants correctly note that Plaintiff’s complaint lacks any factual allegations and does not even indicate what causes of action are being asserted. The complaint therefore fails to state a claim under California law, and the demurrer is sustained.d. Leave to AmendIt is not up to the Court to figure out how the complaint can be amended to state a cause of action. Rather, the burden is on the plaintiff to show in what manner he or she can amend the complaint, and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading. Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.In light of the lack of opposition, Plaintiff has not met his burden to show he could amend if given leave to do so. The demurrer is therefore sustained without leave to amend.3. Case Management Conference and OSC re: Defense Counsel’s Failure to AppearThere is a CMC and OSC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer today. The Court asks the parties to make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer, CMC, and OSC.DATED: October 8, 2024 _____________________________________MARK C. KIM Judge of the Superior Court