 Case Number:  24SMCV03240    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   ERIN HASKELL,  Plaintiff, v.  FLOYD JOY MAYWEATHER, JR., et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  24SMCV03240     Hearing Date:  January 10, 2025   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   DEFENDANT floyd JOY    MAYWEATHER jr.’s demurrer to    AND MOTION TO STRIKE complaint   BACKGROUND  This is a breach of contract and fraud case.  Plaintiff Erin Haskell made a series of payments to her longtime friend, Defendant Burrell Lee Wilks, purportedly for investments in Defendant MW Fitness Holdings, LLC (“MWF”).  Defendant James Williams is the co-founder of MWF.   Wilks and Williams purportedly told Plaintiff she will get a special ‘friends and family’ deal on her investment before they raise the next round of money and take the company public. Williams told Plaintiff they will double the amount of shares if she invests now.  Wilks signed a personal guaranty for Plaintiff’s investment amounts.  Based on these representations, Plaintiff wired hundreds of thousands of dollars to Wilks’ personal account.   Plaintiff then demanded repayment.  Wilks made various excuses and forged several documents purportedly showing repayment, but no payment was actually made.  This action ensued.  The operative complaint alleges claims for (1) fraud and intentional misrepresentation, (2) breach of contract, (3) conspiracy, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) negligent misrepresentation, and (6) wire fraud.  In addition to Wilks, Williams and MWF, Plaintiff names Floyd Mayweather Jr. (“Moving Defendant”) as a defendant.     This hearing is on Moving Defendant’s demurrer to and motion to strike the Complaint.  Moving Defendant argues that the Complaint does not allege any agreement with Plaintiff to which Moving Defendant was a party, nor that Moving Defendant made any affirmative misrepresentations or material omissions to Plaintiff.  There is also no allegation that Moving Defendant was involved in a conspiracy or owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff.  Moreover, the Complaint does not allege facts showing that Moving Defendant is otherwise vicariously liable for the alleged wrongdoing of the other Defendants, including that Moving Defendant is the alter ego of the other Defendants.  As to his motion to strike, Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to attorneys’ fees, and her prayer for such fees should be stricken.     MEET AND CONFER   Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, 435.5 requires that before the filing of a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a), 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(2), 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).)   Moving Defendant submits the Declaration of Benjamin Cutchshaw which attests he emailed counsel for Plaintiff for availability to meet and confer.  Plaintiff’s counsel indicated he was available on November 11 or 12, but the parties were unable to connect on either date.  On November 19, defense counsel asked Plaintiff’s counsel to call him the following day but again the parties were unable to connect.  On November 23, defense counsel called Plaintiff’s counsel to make a final attempt to meet and confer but was only able to leave a voicemail message.  On these facts, the Court concludes Moving Defendant has met his meet and confer obligations pursuant to § 430.41. LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer to a complaint may be general or special.¿ A general demurrer challenges the legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿ A special demurrer challenges other defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).)¿ The term uncertain means “ambiguous and unintelligible.”¿ (Id.)¿ A demurrer for uncertainty should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿ A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) DISCUSSION Fraud Claims Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for fraud and fifth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation fail to plead actual facts against the Moving Defendant, that meet the heightened pleading requirement for intentional and negligent misrepresentation.  The Court agrees.   The elements of fraud are “(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) A negligent misrepresentation cause of action requires the same elements as fraud, except the statement need only be made “without reasonable ground for believing it to be true” rather than knowledge of its falsity. (Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)  “Causes of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud and, therefore, each element must be pleaded with specificity.” (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 231; Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made[.]”  (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.) The specificity requirement serves two purposes: “to apprise the defendant of the specific grounds for the charge and enable the court to determine whether there is any basis for the cause of action.” (Chapman, 220 Cal.App.4th at 231; Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166–67.)  Here, the Complaint falls woefully short of meeting this heightened standard as to the Moving Defendant.  Plaintiff’s factual allegations throughout the Complaint (incorporated by reference into the fraud claims at ¶¶ 57, 89) demonstrate that her misrepresentation claims are based on statements exclusively made by Defendants Wilks and Williams.  There are no specific allegations as to any misrepresentations made by Moving Defendant to Plaintiff.  The Complaint does not allege facts that specify: (1) what specific misrepresentation Moving Defendant allegedly made to Plaintiff; (2) if or how Moving Defendant knew the alleged misrepresentation was false; (3) whether Moving Defendant had the requisite intent to defraud Plaintiff; (4) that Plaintiff justifiably relied upon any statement made by Moving Defendant; or (5) how Plaintiff’s resultant damage was due to an alleged misrepresentation by Moving Defendant.  Without these essential facts, the Complaint fails to meet the heightened pleading standard for fraud or negligent misrepresentation against Moving Defendant.  Instead, the Complaint lumps Moving Defendant with other defendants.  This group pleading fails to put the Moving Defendant on notice of the basis for the claims against him, rendering the misrepresentation claims inherently uncertain. The Complaint merely alleges that, at the time the representations were made: “Mayweather knew these representations were false and that his partners were lying to investors….” (Compl. ¶ 91.)  However, Plaintiff offers no facts suggesting how Mayweather purportedly knew the false statements were being made.  Blanket allegations that a defendant “knew” that representations he was communicating to a plaintiff were false and untrue are not enough to survive a demurrer in California.  (See Wilheim v. Pray, Price, Williams, and Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332.)  Standing alone, the allegations in the Complaint are entirely insufficient to satisfy the heightened pleading requirements for a cause of action for fraud or negligent misrepresentation.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the first and fifth causes of action against Moving Defendant, with 20 days’ leave to amend.   Contract Claim Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged any contract with him, and therefore, cannot state a claim for breach of contract.  The Court agrees. To plead a cause of action for breach of contract, the Complaint must allege: (1) the terms of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom. (Acoustics, Inc. v. Trepte Constr. Co. (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 887, 913; Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1352.) More importantly, under California law, it is axiomatic that a defendant must have been a party to the contract to actually be sued for breach of that contract. (Boyson v. Thorn (1893) 98 Cal. 578, 580 (“The general rule is that only those who are parties to, or in some manner bound by a contract, are liable for a breach of it.”).) A non-party to a contract cannot be liable for its breach. (Gold v. Gibbons (1960) 178 Cal.App.2d 517, 519 (“Breach of contract cannot be made the basis of an action for damages against defendants who did not execute it and who did nothing to assume its obligations.”).)  Here, Plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach of contract is predicated on the allegation of “both written and oral contracts with the Defendants.” (Compl. ¶ 78.) There are no allegations of an oral contract with Moving Defendant. Moreover, the Loan Agreement attached to the Complaint shows that only Wilks, and not Moving Defendant, is a party to the contract. “To the extent the factual allegations conflict with the content of the exhibits to the complaint, we rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.” (Barnett, 90 Cal.App.4th at 505.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has no basis for her contract-based claims alleged against Moving Defendant.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the contract claim against Moving Defendant, with 20 days’ leave to amend.  Conspiracy Claim Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s conspiracy claim fails because the Complaint makes no allegations that he was involved in a conspiracy.  The Court agrees. A claim for conspiracy must be properly pleaded, and conclusory allegations of conspiracy will not withstand demurrer. (Daniels, 246 Cal.App.4th at 1173.) To allege a conspiracy, a plaintiff must plead “(1) the formation and operation of the conspiracy; (2) the wrongful act or acts done pursuant thereto; and (3) the damage resulting.” (Mosier v. Southern California Physicians Ins. Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1022, 1048.) A plaintiff must also allege a defendant had “actual knowledge that a tort was planned and concurred in the tortious scheme with knowledge of its unlawful purpose.” (Kidron v. Movie Acquisition Corp. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1582.)  Here, Plaintiff’s third cause of action for conspiracy consists solely of general and conclusory allegations. There are no factual allegations demonstrating Moving Defendant’s involvement in the formation and operation of the alleged conspiracy or showing that Moving Defendant had actual knowledge that a tort was planned. (Compl. ¶¶ 82–85.)  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the conspiracy claim against Moving Defendant with 20 days’ leave to amend. Fiduciary Duty Claim Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s breach of fiduciary duty claim against him fails because there is no allegation supporting the fact that he owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff.  The Court agrees but for a different reason.    Whether a fiduciary duty exists is a question of law. (Marzec v. California Public Employees Retirement System (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 889, 915.) “A fiduciary relationship is ‘any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party. Such a relation ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party without the latter’s knowledge or consent....’” (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.)  Here, Plaintiff has alleged a fiduciary relationship was created with Moving Defendant.  Plaintiff alleges “Mayweather as Chairman … had a fiduciary duty to Haskell to ensure her money was properly invested with the company and deliver her the promised shares.” (Compl. ¶ 87.)  Under California law, corporate directors, officers, and controlling shareholders, “in the exercise of powers that are theirs by virtue of their position,” owe fiduciary duties to the corporation and minority shareholders. (Jones, 1 Cal.3d at 110; see Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 179 (it is “well established in California law” that directors, officers, and controlling shareholders owe fiduciary duties to shareholders).) These duties are, generally, “to act with honesty, loyalty, and good faith.”  (Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1037; Remillard Brick Co. v. Remillard-Dandini Co. (1952) 109 Cal.App.2d 405, 419 (“[d]irectors owe a duty of highest good faith to the corporation and its stockholders”).)  This is sufficient to establish that Moving Defendant owed Plaintiff a fiduciary duty.  However, Plaintiff has not shown how Moving Defendant breached any fiduciary duty.  Plaintiff does not even allege that Moving Defendant knew Plaintiff or knew about her alleged investments.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the breach of fiduciary duty claim against Moving Defendant, with 20 days’ leave to amend.   Alter Ego Liability Moving Defendant argues that to the extent Plaintiff intends to hold him vicariously liable for these claims based on an alter ego theory, the Complaint is hopelessly uncertain.  The Court agrees.   Under California law, there are two basic requirements for alleging alter ego: (1) unity of interest—the shareholders sought to be held liable have treated the corporation as their “alter ego” rather than as a separate entity; and (2) resulting injustice to the party claiming alter ego—it would “sanction a fraud or promote an injustice” to uphold the corporate entity and allow the shareholders to escape personal liability for its debts.  (Automotriz Del Golfo De California S. A. De C. V. v. Resnick (1957) 47 Cal.2d 792, 796; Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 300; Las Palmas Associates v. Las Palmas Center Associates (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1249.)  Alter ego liability will not be imposed unless upholding the corporate shield under the facts would result in an injustice.  A plaintiff seeking to pierce the corporate veil must show the manner in which they were harmed by a shareholder’s abusive conduct toward the corporation or some other “injustice” or “inequity” that would result from recognition of the corporate entity under the circumstances.  (See Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 539.)  Once again, the Complaint fails to plead any actual facts that establish how Moving Defendant could be considered the alter ego of the other Defendants and, instead, contains mere conclusory claims against him.  Plaintiff does not plead a single fact that establishes how or why the corporate veil should be pierced to hold Moving Defendant liable as the purported alter ego of any other defendant.  There is no allegation showing either a unity of interest between the Defendants or that there will be resulting injustice if Moving Defendant is not deemed an alter ego of any other Defendant.  Accordingly, the Complaint fails to state claims against Moving Defendant on an alter ego theory.   Attorneys’ Fees Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot recover attorneys’ fees as there is no contract or statute which authorizes such an award.  In Opposition, Plaintiff argues California law permits the recovery of attorneys’ fees as part of equitable relief in connection with claims for fraud and breach of fiduciary duty.  The Court agrees with Moving Defendant.   In limited circumstances, it is permissible for a plaintiff to recover attorney’s fees as damages under the “tort of another” theory.  The tort of another doctrine holds that a person who through the tort of another has been required to act in the protection of his interests by bringing or defending an action against a third person is entitled to recover compensation for the reasonably necessary loss of time, attorney’s fees, and other expenditures thereby suffered or incurred.  (Prentice v. North American Title Guaranty Corp. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 618, 620.) The tort of another doctrine is not really an exception to the American rule, but simply “an application of the usual measure of tort damages.” (Sooy v. Peter (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1305, 1310.) The doctrine does not apply here as Plaintiff is not seeking attorneys’ fees in connection with a separate litigation against a third party.     As to Plaintiff’s claim that she is entitled to attorneys’ fees as damages for a fraud or breach of fiduciary duty claim even absent a statute or contractual provision, the cases hold the contrary.  (Cal-Jones Properties v. Evans Pac. Corp. (1989) 216 Cal. App. 3d 324, 329 (attorney fees are not recoverable in an action for breach of fiduciary duty, absent a statutory or contractual provision); Pederson v. Kennedy (1982) 128 Cal. App. 3d 976, 979-980 (reversing judgment awarding attorneys’ fees as an element of compensatory damages against a fiduciary based upon a finding of fraud and concluding that Code Civ. Proc., § 1021, providing that each party to a lawsuit is responsible for his or her own attorney fees in the absence of an agreement between the parties for fees or a statute specifically authorizing fees, precludes such an award).) CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS Floyd Mayweather’s demurrer to the Complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend and GRANTS the motion to strike without leave to amend.    DATED:  January 10, 2025   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 