  Case Number:  24LBCP00033    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  S25 TENATIVE RULING: The Court GRANTS the Petition for Approval for Transfer of Structure Settlement Payment Rights.BackgroundPetitioner Secure Transfer, LLC (“Petitioner” or “Transferee”) filed the First Amended Verified Petition for Approval for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights (“Petition”) on March 13, 2024. Petitioner seeks to have the structured settlement payments made by Mutual of Omaha Structured Settlement Company (“Obligor”) to Elizabeth Gomez (“Transferor”) assigned to Petitioner. Transferor entered into an agreement to settle a personal injury claim that restricted and/or prohibited the right and/or power to assign the Assigned Payments in question. (Petition ¶ 7.) Transferor has agreed to sell and Transferee has agreed to purchase lump sum payments. (Petition ¶ 9.)AnalysisThe transfer of structured settlement payment rights is governed by Insurance Code, sections 10134 – 10139.5. The transfer of any structured settlement payment rights is not effective unless the transfer has been approved in advance by the court. (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a).) The express written findings that the court must make to approve the transfer of structured settlement payments are as follows:(1) The transfer is in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents.(2) The payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received that advice or knowingly waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.(3) The transferee has complied with the notification requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Section 10136, and the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138.(4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other government authority.(5) The payee understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136.(6) The payee understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the transfer agreement.” (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subds. (a)(1) – (a)(6).)To determine if the transfer should be approved, including if the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the transferee’s best interest, the court shall consider the totality of the circumstances.(1) The transfer is in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's dependents.The declaration of Transferor Gomez states that she is a 24 year old single woman with no children, is currently unemployed and she has no child support or maintenance obligations. (Pet., Exhib. D, Gomez Decl. ¶ 4 and ¶ 5.) Transferor states that while the original settlement was intended as compensation for personal injuries suffered, she is no longer being treated for those injuries and she has no continuing need to provide for future medical expenses. (Id. ¶ 3.) Transferor states that she intends to purchase a home or put a large down payment on a home from the proceeds of this transaction. (Id. ¶ 6.)Transferor is agreeing to sell future payments consisting of 3 semi-annual payments of $10,000.00 beginning on May 24, 2024 through and including May 24, 2025; 2 semi- annual payments each in the amount of $37,500.00 beginning on November 24, 2028 through and including May 24, 2029; 2 semi-annual payments each in the amount of $37,500.00 beginning on November 24, 2031 through and including May 24, 2032; Lump Sum Payment in the amount of $461,836.43 due on November 24, 2034. (Pet., Exhib. B., Disclosure Statement.) This payment structure would not allow Transferor to place a down payment on a house for many years. The aggregate amount of payments to be sold and transferred to Secure Transfer, LLC totals $641,836.43. (Id.) The discounted present value of the aggregate payments sold and transferred at 5.2% is $402,080.00. (Id.) In exchange for these payments, Transferor will receive the gross amount of $253,061.66. (Id.) The lump-sum payment that Transferor will be receiving would allow her to immediately place a down payment on a house. Additionally, Transferor does not have any dependents, minors, child support payments, or spousal support payments so the welfare and support of Transferor’s dependents is not a limiting factor. The Court finds that this transfer is in the best interest of the Transferor.(2) The payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received that advice or knowingly waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.The California Transfer Disclosure, Disclosure Notice Required by Law, signed by Transferor, states in paragraph 10: “The Payee has been advised to consult with Payee's own attorney, certified public accountant, actuary, or other professional adviser concerning the legal, tax, and financial implications of a sale and transfer of structured settlement payment rights, including the federal and state income tax consequences of a sale and transfer.” (Pet., Exhib. B., Disclosure Statement.) The Absolute Sale and Security Agreement states also states as such. (Pet., Exhib. C, Gomez Decl. ¶ 10.) Transferor also declares that she was advised to seek independent professional advice. (Pet., Exhib. D, Gomez Decl. ¶ 10.) Finally, Transferor executed a Statement of Independent Professional Representation in which Transferor states that Transferee advised her to seek independent professional advice and that Transferor has knowingly waived the right to receive independent professional advice for the legal, tax, and financial implications of the transaction. (Petition, Exhib. E.) The Court finds that Transferor was properly notified, in writing, by Transferee to seek independent professional advice about the transaction and Transferor knowingly waived such right in writing.(3) The transferee has complied with the notification requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Section 10136, and the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138.Insurance Code, section 10139.5, subdivision (f)(2) states “Not less than 20 days prior to the scheduled hearing on any petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights under this article, the transferee shall file with the court and serve on all interested parties a notice of the proposed transfer and the petition for its authorization.” Transferee shall also include copies of several documents in the notice as listed in Insurance Code, section 10139.5, subdivisions (f)(2)(A) – (f)(2)(L).On February 14, 2024, Transferee filed Proof of Service of Petition that states the Notice of Motion for Order Approving Petition for Approval for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights (“Notice”), Verified Petition, and Proof of Service of Petition were served on United of Omaha Life Insurance Company and Mutual of Omaha Structured Settlement Company on February 12, 2024. (Proof of Service of Petition.) The Notice and Petition were filed with the court on February 14, 2024. The filing and service were both completed more than 20 days before the hearing date of May 1, 2024.The documents attached to the Petition are redacted and as follows: (1) Settlement Agreement and Mutual General Release between Transferor and Third Party; (2) the Order Approving Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor issued by the Los Angeles Superior Court; (3) California Transfer Disclosure Disclosure Notice Required by Law; (4) the Absolute Sale and Security Agreement between Transferee and Transferor; (5) the Declaration of Transferor evidencing that she has no minors, dependents, child support obligations, or spousal support obligations; (6) Statement of Independent Professional Representation; and (7) List of Dependents.On March 13, 2024, Transferee filed Proof of Service of Petition that states the First Verified Amended Petition were served on Transferor, United of Omaha Life Insurance Company and Mutual of Omaha Structured Settlement Company on March 11, 2024. (Proof of Service of First Amended Petition.) The Notice and Petition were filed with the court on March 13, 2024. The filing and service were both completed more than 20 days before the hearing date of May 1, 2024.The documents attached to the First Amended Petition are as follows: (1) Settlement Agreement and Mutual General Release between Transferor and Third Party; (2) the Order Approving Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor issued by the Los Angeles Superior Court filed on May 9, 2016; (3) California Transfer Disclosure Disclosure Notice Required by Law; (4) the Absolute Sale and Security Agreement between Transferee and Transferor; (5) the Declaration of Transferor evidencing that she has no minors, dependents, child support obligations, or spousal support obligations; (6) Statement of Independent Professional Representation; and (7) List of Dependents.Transferee must file and serve with the notice a copy of the annuity contract, qualified assignment agreement, or underlying structured settlement agreement. (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2)(E), (F), and (G).) If none of these documents cannot be located, they do not need to be attached if the transferee satisfies the court that reasonable efforts were made to locate and secure a copy. (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2)(H).) Here, the underlying structured settlement agreement is attachedto the First Amended Petition. The Court finds that Transferee complies with Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (f)(2)(E), (F), (G), and (H).Insurance Code, section 10136, subdivision (b), provides that a transferee shall provide to the transferor a separate written disclosure statement 10 or more days before the transfer agreement is executed. A template and language that must be used for the separate written disclosure statement are provided. Here, Transferee provided the California Transfer Disclosure Disclosure Notice Required by Law to Transferee. (Petition, Exhibit C.) First, there is no evidence that these disclosures were provided to Transferee 10 or more days before the transfer agreement was executed. Second, Insurance Code, section 10136, specifically provides what words in the notice should be bolded. Here, the entirety of the California Transfer Disclosure Disclosure Notice Required by Law to Transferee is written in bold-face type. (Petition, Exhibit C.) The disclosure statement must be “in substantially the following form, in at least 12-point type unless otherwise indicated (bracketed instructions shall not appear in the form).” (Ins. Code, § 10136, subd. (b).)The Court notes that the separate written disclosure statement provided to the Transferee is is not in strict compliance with the type-face format requirements of Insurance Code, section 10136, subdivision (b), which require certain words and statements to be in 14-point type. However, the words and phrases that need to be in the 14-point typeface are in bold, and thereby sufficiently distinguished. Thus, Transferee substantially complied with this requirement.Insurance Code, section 10136, subdivision (c), lists 13 required items that must be set forth clearly and conspicuously in the transfer agreement. Here, the Absolute Assignment and Security Agreement is provided in the Petition. (Pet., Exhib. C.) Section B of the Absolute Sale and Security Agreement makes 12 of the 13 required disclosures and, in accordance with Insurance Code, section 10136, subdivision (c)(13), a box directly above the section for Transferor to sign states “You have the right to cancel this agreement without any cost or obligation until the date the court approves this agreement. You will receive notice of the court hearing date when approval may occur. You must cancel in writing and send your cancellation to: Secure Transfer, LLC, 621 NW 53rd Street #355, Boca Raton, FL 33487.” (Pet., Exhib. C.) The Court finds that Transferee has complied with Insurance Code, section 10136, subdivision (c).Insurance Code, section 10138, subdivision (a), provides 12 provisions that shall not be included in the transfer agreement. One provision that is void and unenforceable is “Any provision that waives the seller's right to sue under any law, or in which the seller agrees not to sue, or that waives jurisdiction or standing to sue under the contract.” (Ins. Code, § 10138, subd. (a)(1).) The Court finds that Transferee has complied with Insurance Code, section 10138, subdivision (a).(4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other government authority.The Court finds Transferee has complied with all applicable statutes.(5) The payee understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136.Transferor has declared (1) she received the disclosure statement required by Insurance Code, section 10136, and (2) she fully understands the terms. (Gomez Decl. ¶¶ 9, 12, 13.)(6) The payee understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the transfer agreement.Transferor has not filed any objections or requests to cancel the agreement.RulingHaving fully considered the arguments in support of this Petition for Approval for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights, the Court GRANTS the Petition for Approval for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights.