 Case Number:  24STCV00739    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



DEAN HARPER, ALMA MENDEZ SALAZAR, AUGUSTINE ADKINS, SPENCER
  ANDERSON, JAMAUL WHITE, ANTHONY REGINALA, KAREEM DAVIS, JOHN HILLARD, KHASAY
  TESFAGHIORGHIS, RONALD SMITH, LADELL HILL, LEE MAUPIN, JOSE TREJO, JOANN
  GULLEY, MICHAEL STANDBERRY, JAMES POWELL, ELVIS MATHEWS, CLEMETH BANKS, DON
  MANUEL,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ST. MARK’S FIFTH STREET PARTNERS, a California limited
  partnership, SRHT PROPERTY MANAGEMENT COMPANY, a California Public Benefit
  Corporation, and DOES 1 through 30, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          24STCV00739
 Hearing Date:   4/16/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant St.
  Mark’s Fifth Street Partners and SRHT Property Management Company’s Motion to
  Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Dean Harper,
Alma Mendez Salazar, Augustine Adkins, Spencer Anderson, Jamaul White, Anthony
Reginala, Kareen Davis, John Hillard, Khasay Tesfaghiorghis, Ronald Smith,
Ladell Hill, Lee Maupin, Jose Trejo, Joann Gulley, Michael Standberry, James
Powell, Elvis Matthews, Clemeth Banks, and Don Manuel sue Defendants St. Mark’s
Fifth Street Partners, SRHT Property Management Company, and Does 1 through 30
pursuant to a January 10, 2024, Complaint.
The Complaint alleges
claims of (1) Breach of Contract/Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment/Warranty of
Habitability, (2) Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability, (3)
Negligence, (4) Violation of California Civil Code Section 1942.4, (5)
Violation of Unfair Business Practices, and (6) Tenant Harassment.
The claims arise from
Defendants’ alleged failure to remedy slum-housing and untenantable conditions in
premises rented by Plaintiffs by Defendants, including inadequate weather
protection, inadequate plumbing, dampness and mold, inadequate sanitation, lack
of heating and ventilation, vermin infestation, structural hazards, nuisance,
inadequate mechanical equipment, failure to maintain premises in a good and
safe condition, and harassment.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On March 5, 2024, Defendants
filed a motion to strike punitive damages allegations and prayers from the
Complaint.
On April 3, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed an opposition to Defendants’ motion to strike.
On April 9, 2024,
Defendants filed a reply to Plaintiffs’ opposition.
Defendants’ motion to
strike is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Strike

A. Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
B. Motion to Strike, Complaint,
Punitive Damages: DENIED. 
1. Relevant Law
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a); College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725 (College Hospital) [explaining amendments requiring
“despicable” conduct for malice and oppression].)
When the defendant is a
corporation, ‘[a]n award of punitive damages … must rest on the malice of the
corporation’s employees’” specifically, “the oppression, fraud, or malice
perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation,” where a managing agent “include[s] only
those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent authority and
judgment in their corporate decisionmaking so that their decisions ultimately
determine corporate policy.’” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co.
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164, citations omitted.)
A motion to strike is properly
granted when a complaint fails to allege facts to state a prima facie claim for
punitive damages under the standards of the statute. (Turman v. Turning
Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) Alleging an
intentional tort alone is not enough to support a claim for punitive damages,
nor are conclusory allegations that merely parrot the language of the statute.
(Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166; Blegen v.
Superior Court (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 959, 963.)
2. Court’s Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiffs.
In Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920, the court of appeal determined that where a tenant alleged that a defendant had actual notice
of defective conditions in the premises, including leaking sewage and other
unsafe and dangerous conditions, the tenant had “pleaded sufficient facts to
support [a] prayer for exemplary damages.”
Here, the Complaint sufficiently
alleges the knowing and willful failure to correct defective conditions on the
Premises, including failure to remediate plumbing issues, mold contamination,
and vermin infestations, despite inspections of the premises by county
authorities. (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 33-49.)
And the Complaint’s allegations of
Defendants’ failure to remedy untenantable conditions after notice from tenants
and from county housing authorities implies the approval or ratification of the
wrongful conduct by a decisionmaker at St. Mark’s Fifth Street Partners and
SRHT Property Management Company. (Complaint, ¶ 35.)
Defendants’ motion is thus DENIED. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant St. Mark’s Fifth Street
Partners and SRHT Property Management Company’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiffs’ Complaint is DENIED.