 Case Number:  24PSCV00529    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Hilario
Yuriar, et al. v. Ford Motor Company, et al. 
Defendants
Ford Motor Company’s and Puente Hills Ford’s Demurrer to the Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court SUSTSAINS the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action with
20 days’ leave to amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of
Action. 
              Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a lemon law case. On February 20, 2024, plaintiffs Hilario
Yuriar and Norma Jean Yuriar (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action
against defendants Ford Motor Company (Ford), Puente Hills Ford (Puente Hills)
(collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for
violation of subdivision (d) of Civil Code section 1793.2, violation of
subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1793.2, violation of subdivision (a)(3)
of Civil Code section 1793.2, breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability, negligent repair, and fraudulent inducement – concealment. 
On March 22, 2024, Defendants demurred to the complaint. On May 8,
2024, Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. On May 13, 2024, Defendants replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of
other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function
of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A demurrer
can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Defendants
were required to meet and confer in person or by telephone before bringing this
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendants’
meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Liu Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Fifth
Cause of Action – Negligent Repair 
To
state a cause of action for negligence, the plaintiff must allege facts
demonstrating the existence of a duty, breach of that duty, causation, and
damages. (Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1202.) 
Defendant
Puente Hills demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action for negligent repair on the
grounds that it fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action and
is barred by the economic loss rule. Defendant Puente Hills contends the
complaint does not allege that Plaintiffs paid out-of-pocket for any repairs
performed by Defendant Puente Hills. Defendant Puente Hills then contends the
economic loss rule bars this cause of action because it arises from and is not
independent of the warranty contract.  Defendant
Puente Hills contends the complaint does not allege intentional conduct by
Puente Hills or any physical damage to property or personal injury, but instead
only seeks damages for the cost of the repair to the subject vehicle. Defendant
Puente Hills also contends the economic loss rule applies to service contracts. 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs contend the complaint alleges sufficient facts to state
a cause of action for negligent repair, such as delivering the subject vehicle
to Defendant Puente Hills for repairs. Plaintiffs contend whether Plaintiffs
paid out-of-pocket for the work is irrelevant and that they do not need to
plead facts necessarily in the control of Puente Hills. Plaintiffs further
contend the economic loss rule does not bar their negligence claim, contending
that, based on federal district courts in California, the economic loss rule
does not apply to negligent repair claims where subcomponents of a vehicle
cause damage to a larger component or where the component causes damage to the
vehicle in which it was incorporated. 
The
Court finds the complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of
action for negligent repair. The complaint alleges in a conclusory manner that Puente
Hills owed Plaintiffs a duty of care, that it breached that duty, and that the
breach damaged Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶¶ 58-59.) The complaint does not allege facts
showing that Puente Hills owed Plaintiffs a duty of care independent of the
warranty agreement. (Compl., ¶ 11; see also Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002)
97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1202 [“Any duty of the repairer
arises out of its contract with the owner to repair the equipment for a
specified fee and no justification exists to extend that contractual duty
beyond the intent of the contracting parties. That the repairer has superior
knowledge and may recognize the design defect is not sufficient in and of
itself to create a duty to third parties.”]) The complaint alleges that Puente
Hills did not cause the transmission defect. (Compl., ¶¶ 26-32.) The complaint
also does not allege facts demonstrating any damages different than that sought
under the lemon law statutory violations. (See Compl., ¶¶ 58-59.) 
The Court also agrees with Defendant Puente Hills
that this cause of action would be barred by the economic loss rule. “Not all
tort claims for monetary losses between contractual parties are barred by the
economic loss rule. But such claims are barred when they arise from — or are
not independent of — the parties’ underlying contracts. [Citation.]” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
923.) As noted above, the complaint does not allege Puente Hills owed
Plaintiffs a duty independent of the warranty agreement. (Compl., ¶ 11.) In
fact, the complaint expressly alleges that Plaintiffs’ causes of action are predicated
upon those warranty obligations. (Id.) Therefore, the complaint fails to
state a cause of action for negligent repair. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the
demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action with leave to amend. 
Sixth Cause of Action – Fraudulent
Inducement-Concealment 
To plead a cause of action for fraudulent concealment, the
plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) concealment or suppression of a
material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact. [Citation.]” (Hambrick v.
Healthcare Partners Med. Grp., Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) “There
are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]’
[Citation.]” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.)
Defendant FMC demurs to the Sixth Cause of Action for fraudulent
inducement-concealment on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action
and is barred by the economic loss rule. Defendant FMC contends Plaintiffs fail
to plead the defect that Defendant Ford allegedly concealed. Defendant FMC
contends Plaintiffs fail to allege a duty to disclose, such as a direct
transactional relationship, Ford’s exclusive knowledge, active concealment, or
that Ford made partial representations while suppressing material facts.
Defendant FMC further contends this cause of action is barred by
the economic loss rule. Defendant FMC argues the complaint does not contain any
allegations that Ford did not intend to honor its contractual promises when
Plaintiffs entered into the warranty agreement. Defendant FMC contends
Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is the same as their warranty claims.
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that the heightened pleading
standard for fraud claims is relaxed in cases of fraudulent concealment. Plaintiffs
contend they have alleged sufficient facts to comply with Dhital v. Nissan
North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 for purposes of a fraudulent
concealment claim. Plaintiffs contend a direct transactional relationship is
not required for the manufacturer to have a duty to disclose. Plaintiffs also argue
that the transmission defect is a material fact, that the transmission defect
poses safety risks, and that the transmission defect arose during the warranty
period. Plaintiffs further contend that the economic loss rule does not bar a
fraudulent concealment claim because the duty of fair dealing is independent of
the contract and because the tortious conduct occurs before contract formation.
 
The Court finds Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts to state a
cause of action for fraudulent concealment. First, the heightened pleading
standard for fraud claims is relaxed for fraudulent concealment claims. (See Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System Planning Assn. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) Either way, the complaint alleges fraudulent
concealment with sufficient specificity. The complaint identifies the material
defects and facts that Ford allegedly knew and withheld from Plaintiffs before
they bought the subject vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 62-75.) The complaint alleges
facts showing that Ford had superior knowledge of the facts and how such
knowledge was obtained (Compl., ¶¶ 23-34, 62-75); the safety risks posed by the
transmission defect (Compl., ¶¶ 13, 33, 64, 66, 68); the materiality of
that information (Compl., ¶ 70); that Plaintiffs were unaware of the concealed
defect and that they would not have purchased the subject vehicle had they known
of the concealed defect (Compl., ¶¶ 33, 66, 68, 70); and that Ford
intended to defraud Plaintiffs by selling the subject vehicle to Plaintiffs
with its known transmission defects without disclosing them to Plaintiffs,
resulting in damages to Plaintiffs (Compl., ¶¶ 69, 75).
Second, with respect to a relationship imposing a
duty to disclose, the Court finds the complaint adequately alleges the
existence of a transactional relationship. (See LiMandri, supra, 52
Cal.App.4th at p. 336.) The complaint alleges that Plaintiffs and Ford entered
into a warranty agreement for the subject vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 7-8, Ex. A.) As
noted above, the complaint alleges that Ford was aware of the transmission
defect before the subject vehicle was sold to Plaintiffs but did not disclose that
knowledge to Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶¶ 33, 66, 68, 69, 70.) The Court also finds
that OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007)
157 Cal.App.4th 835 stands for the proposition that a manufacturer has a duty
to disclose material facts to subsequent purchasers when the manufacturer has
reason to expect that the item will be resold, which the Court finds applicable
in the context of a manufacturer selling vehicles through a dealership. (See Id.,
at p. 851.) 
Third, the Court finds that the economic loss rule
does not bar this cause of action as the economic loss rule does not bar
intentional misrepresentation claims. (See Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v.
Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) The California Supreme Court in Robinson
Helicopter stated that part of the reason for reaching this conclusion was that
“’the duty that gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent
of the contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional and
intended to harm.’” (Id. at p. 990, internal citations omitted.) Here,
the economic loss rule does not apply because Plaintiffs have alleged a cause
of action for fraudulent concealment, which is an intentional misrepresentation
claim. (See Hambrick, supra, 238 Cal.App.4th at p. 162 [element of
intent required].)[1] 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs relied extensively on
Dhital v. Nissan North America (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 in their
opposition. The Court declines to rely on Dhital given it is currently
pending review before the California Supreme Court and is therefore not binding
authority. (See Dhital v. Nissan North America (2023) 523 P.3d 392; Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subd. (e)(1).) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the
demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court SUSTSAINS the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action with
20 days’ leave to amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of
Action. 
              Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.


