 Case Number:  22PSCV02241    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Omolara  Osinowo v. Doe 1, et al.  Defendant  Chart Oak Unified School District’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES the motion for judgment on the pleadings without  prejudice.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a childhood sexual assault case. On December 2, 2022, plaintiff  Omolara Osinowo (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Doe 1 and Does  2 through 25. On January 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended  Complaint (FAC), in which defendant Charter Oak Unified School District (Defendant)  was substituted for Doe 1, alleging causes of action for negligence (Defendant),  negligence (Does 2 through 25), negligent hiring, retention, and supervision (Defendant),  and negligent hiring, retention, and supervision (Does 2 through 25).  On March 7, 2024, Defendant moved for judgment on the pleadings. On  April 25, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On May 1, 2024, Defendant  replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD                A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings when the  “complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action  against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (b)(1),  (c)(1)(B)(ii).)   A  motion for judgment on the pleadings tests the legal sufficiency of the  complaint and is analyzed in all material respects as though it were a  demurrer.  (Wise v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2005) 132  Cal.App.4th 725, 738; Kapsimallis v. Allstate Insurance Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 667, 672.)  “A  motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general  demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings  or by matters that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v. Northrop  Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 [citations omitted].)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE               The Court GRANTS  Defendant’s request for judicial notice submitted with its moving papers and reply  papers. (Evid.  Code § 452, subds. (a)-(d).)               The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request  for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (a)-(d).)  The Court takes  judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content  and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not  take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those  documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 439, subdivision (a), Defendant  was required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference  before bringing this motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., §  439, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s meet-and-confer efforts  sufficient. (Gibbs Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Defendant’s Arguments  Defendant  moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the First and Third Causes of Action in  the FAC for negligence and negligent hiring, retention, and supervision, on the  grounds that AB 218, which amended Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 to  revive previously barred childhood sexual assault claims, is unconstitutional  for violating Article XVI, § 6 of the California Constitution, i.e., the “Gifts  Clause.” Defendant notes the amendments to Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41 opened a three-year window for plaintiffs to file suit regardless of  when the assaults occurred, and that the claims presentation requirement was  also retroactively eliminated.  Defendant  contends Plaintiff never had an enforceable claim against Defendant at any time  before the passage of AB 218 because Plaintiff never complied with the claims  presentation requirement for public entities. Defendant contends that,  notwithstanding the lack of specific date allegations in the FAC regarding the  alleged assaults, the latest Plaintiff had to present her claims was in  approximately 1999. Defendant contends that before 2009, Plaintiff was required  to comply with the claims presentation requirement, that the law was clear then  that the timely claim presentation requirement was a substantive element of any  claim against a public entity, and that Plaintiff could never allege all of the  substantive elements necessary for her claim.  Defendant  cites to multiple cases to support the argument that the California Supreme  Court has repeatedly held the legislature has no power to impose liability on a  public entity for a past occurrence where there was no enforceable claim before  the law was passed. Specifically, Defendants cites the cases of Bourn v.  Hart (1982) 93 Cal. 321, Conlin v. Board of Supervisors (1893) 99  Cal. 17, Powell v. Phelan (1903) 138 Cal. 271, and Heron v. Riley  (1930) 209 Cal. 507.  Defendant  then contends the legislature did not have a reasonable basis to waive  sovereign immunity as the imposition of liability for an unenforceable claim  serves no public purpose. Defendant contends that while the Legislature clearly  has the authority to extend and revive statutes of limitations against private  actors, public entities are different. Defendant contends the only inquiry  regarding whether something entails a public purpose is whether the underlying  legal claims were valid at the time the Legislature made the appropriation,  citing Orange County Foundation v. Irvine Co. (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 195.  Defendant then cites Jordan v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2002) 100  Cal.App.4th 431 for the contention that there is no public purpose as to any  payments beyond a public entity’s maximum exposure. Defendant contends the  legislative history shows a motive for these retroactive amendments, but it  does not show discussion of a public purpose. Defendant argues Plaintiff never  had the elements to sue on these claims against Defendant and therefore  Defendant’s maximum exposure was zero. Defendant also argues that liability of  current school districts for former public school district students does not  support a public purpose of preventing future abuse.  Defendant  further argues that the Legislature’s attempt to compel public entities to pay  legal claims previously barred is an abrogation of public entities’ rights  under the California Constitution. Defendant contends that by retroactively  removing the claims presentation requirement for all public entities in  California, the Legislature appropriated public money to pay past legal claims  where no enforceable claims existed under the law, and therefore constitutes an  unconstitutional gift. Defendant anticipates that Plaintiff will cite the case  of Coats v. New Haven Unified School District (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415 and  preemptively argues that that case is inapposite here because it was decided  before the passage of AB 218 and never raised the issue of AB 218’s  constitutionality under the Gift Clause. Defendant also argues Coats is  factually distinguishable since it involves abuse in 2014, i.e., after the  Legislature had amended Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 and prospectively  eliminated the claims presentation requirement in 2009, whereas Plaintiff’s claims  are from decades ago.  Finally,  Defendant argues the courts are precluded from carrying out legislative intent  where the Constitution forbids such action, citing Perez v. Roe 1 (2006)  146 Cal.App.4th 171 and decisions rendered in other superior courts in  California agreeing with Defendant’s position.  Plaintiff’s  Arguments  In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that the retroactive elimination of the claims  presentation requirement in AB 218 is constitutional and does not violate the  Gift Clause because it has a clear and established public purpose. Plaintiff  argues that an appropriation of public funds that benefits particular  individuals does not violate the Gift Clause if it is found that the funds are  to be used for a public purpose. Plaintiff contends that the legislative  history for AB 218 makes clear that it was enacted for a public purpose, namely  that it enables victims of childhood sexual assault to seek compensation from  private and public entities. Plaintiff cites to various changes in Code of  Civil Procedure section 340.1 over the years, wherein the rights of childhood  sexual assault survivors has been expanded through the years, such as in 1986  when the statute of limitations was extended and in 2008 when the Legislature  eliminated the claims presentation requirement.              Plaintiff contends the public  purpose in AB 218 is further reflected in its legislative history by helping to  prevent future assaults through raising the costs for this abuse and applying  this law equally against all types of entities, whether public or private. Plaintiff  then contends it has been held that retroactive relief from a government claims  filing requirement does not violate the Gift Clause. Plaintiff also cites Coats  for the contention that the courts have already determined that the  Legislature’s motives were to alleviate the hardships of victims of childhood  sexual assault by enabling them to bring their claims, as well as preventing  future childhood sexual assaults, and that these motives present a public  purpose and reasonable basis.              Analysis  At the time this action was filed, Code of Civil Procedure section  340.1, subdivision (q), provided that:  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any claim  for damages described in paragraphs (1) through (3), inclusive, of subdivision  (a) that has not been litigated to finality and that would otherwise be barred  as of January 1, 2020, because the applicable statute of limitations, claim  presentation deadline, or any other time limit had expired, is revived, and  these claims may be commenced within three years of January 1, 2020. A  plaintiff shall have the later of the three-year time period under this subdivision  or the time period under subdivision (a) as amended by the act that added this  subdivision.  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (q).)              Government Code section 905,  subdivisions (m) and (p) provide as follows:  There shall be presented in accordance with Chapter 1 (commencing  with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) all claims for  money or damages against local public entities except any of the following…  (m) Claims made pursuant to Section 340.1 of the Code of Civil  Procedure for the recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault…  (p) The  changes made to this section by the act that added this subdivision are  retroactive and apply to any action commenced on or after the date of enactment  of that act, and to any action filed before the date of enactment and still  pending on that date, including any action or causes of action that would have  been barred by the laws in effect before the date of enactment.  (Gov.  Code, § 905, subds. (m), (p).)  The  Court finds that AB 218 is constitutional and does not violate the Gift Clause.  First, Defendant’s arguments regarding Coats  are unpersuasive. While the Court agrees that Coats does not address  the Gift Clause, that does not necessarily change the outcome here. Coats  explicitly states that the Legislature has the power to revive claims  previously barred by the claim presentation requirement, not just the statute  of limitations. (Id., at p. 428, italics added [“The present case, of  course, involves revival of a cause of action barred by a claim presentation  requirement, not a statute of limitations. But we are aware of no reason the  Legislature should be any less able to revive claims in this context, as it  expressly did in Assembly Bill 218…”]) Coats is on point since it addressed  Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1, subdivision (q)[1],  which expressly provided that the claims presentation requirement was not  required for a childhood sexual assault claim under section 340.1. (Id.)  Second, the cases Defendant cites in support of the contention  that the Gift Clause invalidates Plaintiff’s claims are inapposite and  distinguishable. In Conlin v. Board of Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal. 17,  the plaintiff had waived his claim, and the effect of the statute would have  been to pay him for that which he had waived. (Id., at p. 23.) In Bourn  v. Hart (1892) 93 Cal. 321, the state could not be sued at the time of the  plaintiff’s injuries. (Id., at p. 327.) In Powell v. Phelan (1903)  138 Cal. 271, the law at the time the plaintiff performed juror services did  not provide for the payment of such services. (Id., at p. 276.) As for Heron  v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 507, the California Supreme Court specifically stated  that the State can consent to liability, which it did when the Legislature enacted  the Government Tort Claims Act in 1963, i.e., after Heron was decided  and well before Plaintiff’s claims arose. (Id., at p. 517; see Stats. 1963, c.  1681, p. 3268, § 1.) Heron also held that appropriations to pay  judgments after due process requirements were met are not gifts of public  money. (Id., at p. 517.)  Other cases Defendant cited, such as Jordan v. Department of  Motor Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 431 and Orange County Foundation  v. Irvine Co. (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 195, are similarly unavailing since  they are cited primarily for the argument that the legislature may not use  public monies to compensate for an unenforceable claim. As noted above, the  Court finds that the Legislature has the power to revive claims previously  barred by the claims presentation requirement, which it did when enacting AB  218, so Plaintiff’s claim is not unenforceable for lack of complying with the  claims presentation requirement. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (q); Gov.  Code, § 905, subd. (m).) Perez v. Roe 1 (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 171 is  inapplicable because it dealt with a prior version of Code of Civil Procedure  section 340.1, which revived claims where a final judgment had been entered  based on the statute of limitations. (Id., at p. 188.)  Finally, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that AB 218  was enacted for a public purpose and that it had a reasonable basis for doing  so, namely, to benefit victims of childhood sexual assault, prevent further assaults,  and hold accountable perpetrators and enablers of abuse who benefit from  statutes of limitations. (See Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 1 [“AB  218 would also confront the pervasive problem of cover ups in institutions,  from schools to sports league… This reform is clearly needed both to compensate  victims who never should have been victims- and would not have been if past  sexual assault had been properly brought to light- and also as an effective  deterrent against individuals and entities who have chosen to protect the  perpetrators of sexual assault over the victims.’”].) Just because Plaintiff  may benefit personally and Defendant may be held liable does not necessarily  mean AB 218 was enacted without a public purpose.  It is generally held that in determining whether an  appropriation of public funds is to be considered a gift, the primary question  is whether the funds are to be used for a ‘public’ or ‘private’ purpose; the  benefit to the state from an expenditure for a public purpose is in the nature  of consideration and the funds expended are therefore not a gift even though  private persons are benefited therefrom. [Citation]. The determination of what  constitutes a public purpose is primarily a matter for the Legislature to  determine, and its discretion will not be disturbed by the courts so long as  that determination has a reasonable basis.  (Cnty. of Alameda v. Carleson  (1971) 5 Cal.3d 730, 745-746.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion.  The Court notes, however, that there are cases currently pending before the  First and Second District of the Court of Appeal, which may reach a different  conclusion on the constitutionality of AB 218, i.e., West Contra Costa  Unified School District v. Superior Court, Case No. A169314, and Roe #  2, A Public Elementary School District v. The Superior Court of Santa Barbara, Case  No. B334707.) Accordingly, the Court will deny this motion without prejudice to  Defendant refiling it if the Court of Appeal finds AB 218 unconstitutional.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES the motion for judgment on the pleadings without  prejudice.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     