 Case Number:  23PSCV00285    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Jane  Doe, et al. v. Glendora Unified School District, et al.  1  - Plaintiff Jane GA Doe’s Motion to Compel Defendant GUSD’s Responses to Plaintiff  Jane Doe’s Form Interrogatories (Set One); 2  - Plaintiff Jane GA Doe’s Motion to Compel Defendant GUSD’s Responses to Plaintiff  Jane Doe’s Special Interrogatories (Set One); 3  - Plaintiff Jane GA Doe’s Motion to Compel Defendant GUSD’s Responses to Plaintiff  Jane Doe’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One); and 4  - Plaintiff Jane GA Doe’s Motion for Order to Deem Plaintiff’s Requests for  Admission Set One to Defendant GUSD Admitted  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court will  wait until the hearing to inquire as to whether verified responses were served  and will thereafter decide the motions.  The  Court GRANTS Mother’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of  $660.00 for the motion to deem requests admitted. GUSD and its counsel must pay  said monetary sanctions to counsel for Mother within 30 days of the Court’s  order. The Court otherwise DENIES Mother’s requests for monetary sanctions.                Mother is ordered to give notice of  the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This case arises from a sexual assault. On January 1, 2023,  Plaintiffs Jane Doe (Daughter), a minor by and through her guardian ad litem,  Jane GA Doe, and Jane GA Doe, individually (Mother) (collectively, Plaintiffs),  filed this action. On July 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First  Amended Complaint against Defendants Glendora Unified School District (GUSD),  Cullen Elementary School, Sandberg Elementary School, Cheryl Bonner (Bonner),  Virginia Kelsen (Kelsen)[1],  and Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for negligent supervision of  students, negligent hiring, supervision, training, and retention, intentional  infliction of emotional distress (x 2), and negligent infliction of emotional  distress (x 2).  On April 26, 2024, Mother moved to compel responses to Form  Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), Request for  Production of Documents (Set One), and to deem admitted Request for Admission  (Set One) against Defendant GUSD. On May 8, 2024, GUSD opposed the motions. No  replies were filed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an  order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party  who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one  based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order  compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to a request for admission, the party propounding the request for admission may  move for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any  matters specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §  2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that  the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,  before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for  admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is  mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction… on the party or attorney,  or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission  necessitated this motion.” (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              The Court notes that Mother’s  motions were filed on April 26, 2024, even though the deadline to file them was  April 25, 2024, i.e., the same day they were electronically served. (Proofs of  Service (4/26/24); Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) The Court also  notes, however, that Defendant GUSD did not raise this issue in its  oppositions. The Court therefore exercises its discretion to still consider Mother’s  motions, but admonishes Mother to comply with the requirements of the Code of  Civil Procedure going forward. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d).)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although meeting and conferring is not required before bringing  motions to compel initial responses, (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.  Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404), Mother  indicates having attempted to resolve this matter before bringing these motions,  albeit only by email. (Romero Decls., ¶¶ 4-5.)              Summary of Arguments  Mother  contends to have served written discovery on GUSD on March 20, 2024, comprised  of Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), Request  for Production of Documents (Set One), and Request for Admissions (Set One).  (Romero Decls., ¶ 3.) Mother contends GUSD’s discovery responses were due on or  before April 23, 2024. (Romero Decls., ¶ 3.) After not receiving any responses,  Mother indicates, on April 24, 2024, having requested complete, verified  responses without objections by April 26, 2024. (Romero Decls., ¶ 4.) According  to Mother, Counsel for GUSD responded by indicating his office did not see the  emails containing the original discovery requests due to a recent change in his  office’s email system. (Romero Decls., ¶ 5.) Mother contends that no responses  were received by the time these motions were filed on April 26, 2024. (Romero  Decls., ¶ 6.)  In  opposition, counsel for GUSD, Mr. Danforth, contends that the original  discovery requests were not seen due to a recent change in his firm’s email  system and counsel for Mother not having cc’d Mr. Danforth’s assistant.  (Danforth Decls., ¶ 4.) GUSD contends the inadvertently missed discovery  requests should be grounds for excusing waiver of objections and that GUSD  intended to provide proper responses, but that it needed 30 days to do so and  requested such time from Mother. (Danforth Decls., ¶ 7.) GUSD contends that Mother  refused to give GUSD more time to respond and would not budge regarding the  waiver of objections. (Danforth Decl., ¶¶ 3, 8.) The parties were at an  impasse, and Mother filed these motions. (Danforth Decl., ¶ 8.)  GUSD  further indicates that it would serve code-compliant responses to these written  discovery requests on or before May 10, 2024. GUSD contends its failure to  timely respond was the result of excusable neglect and that Plaintiffs will  have received code compliant responses before the hearing on these motions, and  that the requested relief should be denied. GUSD also contends Mother failed to  comply with this particular Court’s rules regarding meeting and conferring  either in person, telephonically, or by video conference, and regarding  informal discovery conferences.  Analysis              The Court takes issue with Mother’s  motions. Although not raised in GUSD’s oppositions, the Court notes that the  declarations of Sage Romero show that Mother had given GUSD until April 26,  2024 to provide complete, verified responses without objections. (Romero  Decls., ¶ 4.) But Mother served these motions to compel on April 25, 2024,  i.e., just two days after the original deadline to respond and one day before  the extended deadline, and then filed the motions on April 26, 2024, i.e., the deadline  to respond. (See Proofs of Service (4/26/24); Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.270,  2031.270, 2033.260 [parties may agree to extend time to respond to written  discovery request].) Accordingly, Mother’s motions are arguably premature. (But  see Sadlier v. Superior Court (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1050, 1054 [motion for  summary judgment properly permitted even though filed less than 60 days after  general appearance where hearing occurred after the 60-day period].)  The  Court also finds problematic Mother’s refusal to resolve this dispute in good  faith by giving GUSD only two days to respond to Mother’s extensive discovery  requests. (See Romero Decls., ¶ 4; Chapter 3, Civil Division, Appendix 3.A, Guidelines  for Civility in Litigation [“(a) First requests for reasonable extensions of time to respond to litigation  deadlines, whether relating to pleadings, discovery or motions, should  ordinarily be granted as a matter of courtesy unless time is of the essence.”])  Nevertheless,  GUSD’s oppositions concede that it did not provide timely responses to any of  the subject discovery requests. (Opps., p. 7.) While the Court finds GUSD’s  failure to timely respond to be understandable, it still is a failure to timely  respond. If GUSD wishes to obtain relief from the waivers, GUSD must file a  noticed motion and otherwise provide responses in substantial compliance. (See  Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a); Id., § 2031.300, subd. (a); Id.,  § 2033.280, subd. (a).) Additionally, the Court declines to rely on GUSD’s  promise to produce the responses by May 10, 2024, as there is no evidence  before the Court at this time that GUSD did in fact provide responses by that  date, and the Court will not speculate that GUSD did provide those responses by  that date.              Accordingly, the Court will wait  until the hearing to inquire as to whether verified responses were served and  will thereafter decide the motions.              With respect to monetary sanctions,  the Court will award only $660.00 for the Request for Admissions since those sanctions  are mandatory. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) This is comprised of  1.5 hours for preparing the motion to deem requests admitted and appearing at  the hearing on that motion, multiplied by the hourly rate of $400.00, plus  $60.00 for the filing fee. GUSD and its counsel must pay said monetary  sanctions to counsel for Mother within 30 days of the Court’s order.  The  Court otherwise DENIES the requests for monetary sanctions, finding that Mother’s  actions in connection with these motions would make the imposition of sanctions  unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c); Id., § 2031.300, subd.  (c).)  CONCLUSION  The Court will  wait until the hearing to inquire as to whether verified responses were served  and will thereafter decide the motions.  The  Court GRANTS Mother’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of  $660.00 for the motion to deem requests admitted. GUSD and its counsel must pay  said monetary sanctions to counsel for Mother within 30 days of the Court’s  order. The Court otherwise DENIES Mother’s requests for monetary sanctions.                Mother is ordered to give notice of  the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     