  Case Number:  20STCV44809    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
9-26-23
Case
#20STCV44809
TRIAL
DATE: (vacated 11-13-23 c/f 11-14-22)
 
FURTHER RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Associated Tank Constructor, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Katarina Ford, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiffs,
Katarina Ford, et al. own and/or occupy certain homes in Stevenson Ranch and
Valencia. From approximately June 2020 to October 2020, Defendant Associated
Tank sandblasted a water tank in proximity to the homes, thereby causing the
disbursement of “abrasives, particulates, and other toxins into the air” into
the community. Plaintiffs allege the manifestation of physical symptoms,
property damage, and emotional impacts, as well as interference/loss of use of
property.
 
The
work was contracted by Defendants Five Point Holdings, LLC, et al., who are
developing an adjacent community and were required to construct said water tank
for service to the new community. Occasion 
 
On
November 23, 2020, Plaintiffs filed their complaint for Trespass, Private
Nuisance – Continuing, Public Nuisance – Continuing, Negligence, Inverse
Condemnation, Strict Liability for Ultrahazardous Activity, Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Fraudulent Concealment. On May 3, 2021, Plaintiffs
filed their first amended complaint. On July 29, 2021, Plaintiffs filed their
261 paragraph second amended complaint. On January 10, 2022, Plaintiffs filed
their third amended complaint. (All amended complaints were filed via
stipulation.)
 
On
May 27, 2022, the court denied plaintiff Sandra Enerle’s motion for leave to
file a late government claim against the City of Santa Clarita/Santa Clarita
Water Agency.
 
Dozens
of requests for dismissals by Plaintiffs have been filed since September 10,
2021. On April 20, 2023, the court entered the order for terminating sanctions
dismissing Shelitta Castille, Paul Chun, Kimlien Do, Jason VanBennekum, Jessica
Thompson, Jason Thompson, David Nguyen, Kimberly Kim, and Kyung Kim with
prejudice. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Defendant
Associated Tank Constructors, Inc. (Tank) moves to compel further responses to
Request for production of documents sanctions against all remaining plaintiffs
identified in the motion. Tank contends the responses lack a proper statement
of compliance, the responses contain improperly redacted items, challenges the
validity of the objections, and at a minimum, contends Plaintiffs should
produce a privilege log. Plaintiffs in opposition challenge the motion as
failing to meet the burden showing a deficiency in the responses, the separate
statement lacks sufficient information regarding the dispute, and on the
merits, contends the responses are both code compliant and the objections
meritorious. Tank in reply denies seeking any attorney product privileged
documents, and even if attorney work product, good cause for production exists.
Tank reiterates the lack of code compliant responses, and maintains its
separate statement complies with California Rule of Court rule 3.1345.
 
On
compliance with the responses, the parties dispute the required language.
Plaintiffs present objections and “without waiving” said objections, identify
certain documents, but fail to confirm a promise of actual production pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210. Plaintiffs counter that the
responses comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240, whereby the
basis of the objections were stated and production was implicitly completely of
non-privileged documents. It appears from the substance of the motion itself
that documents were in fact produced. Plaintiffs also represent production of a
privilege log notwithstanding the argument for production of a privilege log in
the motion. The response represents standard practices for a response regarding
reservation of objections, and production. A requirement for an additional
statement requiring confirmation places form over substance. Tank may serve a
demand for supplemental production in case of concern for any additional
withheld information. The responses are sufficiently code compliant.
 
The
court cannot otherwise verify production of a privilege log. Counsel only
addresses a privilege log associated with the deposition of David Gold.
[Declaration of Maria Weitz, ¶ 8, Ex. 7.] The court declines to determine how
and whether said privilege log overlaps with the subject request. 
 
On
the separate statement, the court finds the separate statement sufficiently
addresses the dispute and complies with statutory requirements. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(c).)
 
The
parties dispute over objections involves two specific areas: attorney work
product and premature expert disclosure. 
 
The work product privilege applies where the sought-after
documents contain Defendant’s “impressions, conclusions, opinions or legal
research or theories,” the information is protected by the work product
doctrine. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030(c).) “An
objecting party may be entitled to protection if it can make a preliminary or
foundational showing that answering the interrogatory would reveal the
attorney's tactics, impressions, or evaluation of the case, or would result in
opposing counsel taking undue advantage of the attorney's industry or
efforts”].) (Coito v.
Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th
480, 502.) Notes, statements, and impressions of the case are protected
by the work product doctrine. A list of potential witnesses is not work
product. (Id., at p. 495; Nacht &
Lewis Architects, Inc. v. Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214,
217–218.)
 
The objection addresses sought
after testing information done by the above referenced expert David Gold.
Expert work conducted at the request of an attorney constitutes attorney work
product privileged information. (DeLuca
v. State Fish Co., Inc. (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 671, 688.) The court finds no basis of waiver simply based on the
announcement of testing itself in that there is no evidence of any disclosure
of any results with persons outside the scope of the attorney sphere of
protection. (Regents of University of
California v. Superior Court (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 672, 679.) Tank in reply denies it seeks any such commissioned
materials, and otherwise challenges the basis of the privilege in that
Plaintiffs supplied samples which were then tested at third party laboratories.
Tank maintains prejudice in attempting to replicate the tests, due to the
change in conditions following the initial gathering of samples. 
 
Nothing in the reply establishes that the commissioned lab
work was anything other than ordered by counsel. The court finds the lab tests
therefore remain protected by the work product privilege. 
 
The parties otherwise agree that any and all test results
will be disclosed during expert witness testimony, if applicable. Tank
challenges waiting for this period of time, and argues a shorter period of time
should apply. The court finds no basis for a showing of prejudice as a result of
waiting. (Armenta v. Superior Court (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 525, 536.) The court therefore also
concludes no showing of support for imposing a shorter time period thereby
overruling the objection to premature expert disclosure. (Hernandez v. Superior Court
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 295.) 
 
The motion is denied. No sanctions requested by Plaintiffs.
 
Motion to Quash set for February 16, 2024.
 
Moving parties to give notice.
 