 Case Number:  BC709434    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
9-26-23
Case:
BC709434
Trial
Date: N/A
 
STRIKE LIEN/TAX COSTS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Natasha Robinson and David Maxim, Pro Per
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants, Farouk Riad, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Adjudicate Lien
 
Motion
to Tax Costs
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiffs
Natasha Robinson and David Maxim are “residents” at Paseo Dorena Townhomes. The
property is governed by Defendant Paseo Dorena Owners Association. Defendants
Dina Marie Gordon, Louie Bryan Gonzalez and Monique Gordon are also residents
at the property. Defendants Warren Davidoff, Melissa Lopez and Mike Dukoff are
member of the Owners Association board
 
Plaintiffs
allege that defendants Gordon and Gonzalez acted in a verbally and physically
abusive manner to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege that owner association rules
impose a duty of care for “protection and quiet enjoyment of [residents’]
property.” Plaintiff allege seeking assistance from the Owners Association
board members, but said members took no protective action.
 
Plaintiffs
also contend that Defendants made and repeated false accusations against
Plaintiff Maxim regarding his conduct toward Defendant Gordon.
 
On
June 8, 2018, Plaintiffs filed their complaint for Negligence (twice),
Defamation (twice), Defamation Per Se, Breach of Covenant for Quiet Enjoyment,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (twice), Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, Assault &
Battery (twice), Nuisance, Discrimination, Abuse of Process and Slander. The
action was reassigned to Department 49 on October 24, 2018.
 
On
February 11, 2019, the court sustained the demurrer to the complaint as to one
of the negligence causes of action, the intentional infliction of emotional
distress cause of action, one of the negligent infliction of emotional distress
causes of action, and the discrimination cause of action.  The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend as to the 6th cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. The
court sustained the demurrer to the breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment
cause of action without leave to amend. The court overruled the demurrer to the
defamation, defamation per se, and slander causes of action. 
 
The
court granted the motion to strike the punitive damage allegations in all
causes of action not rendered moot by the demurrer.   
 
On
March 8, 2019, Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint for Negligence
(twice), Defamation (twice), Defamation Per Se, Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (twice), Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, Assault & Battery (twice),
Nuisance, Discrimination, Abuse of Process and Slander. On May 6, 2019, the
court sustained the demurrer to the first cause of action for negligence, the
sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, eighth
cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress, and Discrimination
cause of action without leave to amend. The court overruled the demurrer to the
nuisance cause of action. Defendants answered the first amended complaint on
May 15, 2019.
 
On
November 23, 2022, the court granted the motion of Plaintiffs’ counsel to be
relieved as attorney of record. On January 10, 2023, the court granted the
motion for judgment on the pleadings brought by Farouk and Mary Riad. The Riads
were subsequently dismissed from the action. On February 28, 2023, the court
entered judgment in favor of the Riads.
 
On
May 10, 2023, the court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiffs for $11,500 and
$72,240.71, as to David Maxim and Natasha Robinson, against defendants Paseo
Dorena HOA, Warren Davidoff, Melissa Lopez, and Mike Dukoff.
 
RULING: Denied as to
Attorney Lien/Granted as to Expert Fees
Plaintiffs,
Natasha Robinson and David Maxim, in pro per, move to “adjudicate” the attorney
lien filed by prior counsel for plaintiffs I. Donald Weissman, and to strike
the request for expert fees presented in the memorandum of costs from dismissed
defendants Farouk and Mary Riad. While the motion notices both defendants, the
motion is only signed by Natasha Robinson. The motion also improperly combines
two separate and disparate requests for relief into a single motion. The motion
is improperly formatted in single space, notwithstanding the use of pleading
paper. The court, in its discretion, considers both items as to Robinson only.
 
Robinson
challenges any lien recovery by former counsel I. Donald Weissman essentially
on grounds of no entitlement to any recovery of fees from the judgment due to
client “abandonment” and “incompetence” in the handling of the action. On the
costs item, Robinson seeks to strike the $15,500 cost item for expert witness
fees. Robinson contends the withdrawal by former counsel led to the dismissal
of the Riads thereby leading to the entry of fees. Robinson challenges any
attempted recovery of said fees on grounds that the court never awarded said
expert fees. The court electronic filing system shows no opposition on the
expert fee portion of the motion, or a reply to either item, at the time of the
tentative ruling publication cutoff.
 
Attorney
Lien
Robinson
challenges the propriety of any attorney lien. Attorney Weissman in opposition
defends in the incurred lien based on four years of prior representation and
the contingency fee agreement. Weissman defends the withdrawal from
representation, and also maintains the motion is untimely.
 
Notwithstanding
the extensive argument on the conduct leading to the lien, the court remains
barred from any proactive consideration of the attorney lien. Attorney Weissman
must seek collection on the lien for any court to consider the right to
collect.
 
“Appellate
courts have consistently held that the trial court in the underlying action has
no jurisdiction to determine the existence or validity of an attorney's lien on the
judgment. (Citations.) The trial court does have fundamental jurisdiction over
the subject matter and over the parties. Nevertheless, because the attorney is not
a party to the underlying action and has no right to intervene, the trial court
acts in excess of its jurisdiction when it purports to determine whether the attorney is
entitled to foreclose a lien
on the judgment. (Citations.) Nor can the court entertain a motion to terminate the lien. (Citation.) After the client
obtains a judgment, the attorney
must bring a separate, independent action against the client to establish the
existence of the lien,
to determine the amount of the lien, and to enforce it. (Citations.) An order within
the underlying action purporting to affect an attorney's lien is void. (Citation.)” (Carroll v. Interstate Brands Corp. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1168, 1173.)
 
The
motion to strike the attorney lien is denied.
 
Strike
Expert Fees
Expert
witness fees are not recoverable unless ordered by the court. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1033.5, subd. (a)(8). Nothing in the order dismissing the Riads or the
judgment in the action awarded the recovery of expert witness fees. Expert
witness fees “must be specially pleaded and proven at trial rather than
included in a memorandum of costs.” Inclusion and sought after recovery in a
memorandum of costs without prior court approval constitutes an error in any
fee award. (Ripley v. Pappadopoulos (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1616, 1627.)
 
The court
grants the unopposed motion to strike the $15,500 in expert witness fees.
 
Robinson to give notice to all parties.
 