  Case Number:  19STCV20803    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ELVA SALDIVAR, et al.,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
STEVE
   LEE, et al., 
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19STCV20803
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT SEAN LEE’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
  OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION AS TO PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST AMENDED
  COMPLAINT
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   15, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On June 14,
2019, plaintiffs Elva Zaldivar, Stephanie Zaldivar, and Marina Zaldivar
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”), individually and as successors in interest to
Jose Zaldivar (“Zaldivar”) filed this action against Steve Lee and Tracy Lee
for negligence (pursuant to Labor Code section 3706), premises liability, and
wrongful death. 
On December
6, 2021, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
Plaintiffs amended the FAC on December 8, 2021, to add Sean Lee (“Defendant”)
as a Doe defendant. 
The action
arises out of Zaldivar’s death while performing improvements at a frozen
desserts factory owned by non-party Sweety Novelty, Inc. (“Sweety”) on March 4,
2018 (the “Incident”). The factory is located on property owned by Steve Lee
and Tracy Lee (the “Subject Premises”) and was leased to Sweety. 
Defendant
filed this motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication on the grounds that: (1) he owed no duty of care to Zaldivar, (2)
Plaintiffs’ claims were barred by the Privette doctrine, and (3) he was
not Zaldivar’s statutory employer. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may
not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
III.       
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
Plaintiffs “object”
to paragraphs 2, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14 of the Declaration of Sean Lee on the
grounds that they contradict his prior testimony at his deposition. These
contradictions do not eliminate the evidentiary value of the declaration and the
rule expressed in D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d
1 does not involve the admissibility of evidence, but whether evidence is
sufficient to create a triable issue of material fact. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
objections are OVERRULED. 
IV.        
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s
request for the Court to take judicial notice of the FAC is GRANTED. 
V.          
DISCUSSION
A.  
Defendant’s Duty of Care 
To prevail on a cause of action
for negligence, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant owed a duty of
care, the defendant breached that duty of care, the breach proximately caused
injury to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff suffered damages. (Ladd v. Cty of
San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917- 918.) Generally speaking, all persons
have a duty to take reasonable care in their activities to avoid causing
injury, though particular policy considerations may weigh in favor of limiting
that duty in certain circumstances. (Civ. Code, § 1714; Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.) If it is found that the defendant owed no duty of care
to the plaintiff, negligence cannot be established. (Hamilton v. Gage Bowl,
Inc. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1706, 1711 [citation omitted].) 
Plaintiffs allege in the First
Amended Complaint that Defendant had a “duty to safeguard [Zaldivar]’s safety
and use ordinary care when requesting their employee perform work on the
[Subject Premises].” (FAC, ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs allege Defendant “had the supervision,
control, and ownership of the subject property and had hired [Zaldivar] to
perform repair on the insulative ceiling tiles.” (FAC, ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs also
allege that Defendant had a “duty to exercise reasonable care when hiring and
requesting work be performed by [Zaldivar] on the [Subject Premises].” (FAC, ¶
51.) 
Defendant argues did not owe a
duty of care to Zaldivar because  he did
not own or control the Subject Premises or the equipment used by Zaldivar at
the time of the Incident. (Motion, p. 6.) Defendant also argues that he cannot
be liable as an officer, director, or shareholder of Sweety because he is only
Sweety’s general manager. (Motion, p. 7.) Defendant declares that in his role
as General Manager, he was “generally responsible for overseeing Sweety’s
business operations.” (Declaration of Sean Lee (“S. Lee Decl.”), ¶ 2.) He also
visited Sweety’s facility between 3 to 7 times a month. (Ex. C-1, p. 36:1-2.) In
March 2017, he decided that the business would benefit from a Safe Quality Food
(SQF) certification. (Id., ¶• 6.) He understood that as part of the
certification process, the Subject Premises needed to meet a certain standard and
would require certain general maintenance and repairs. (Ibid.) In
February 2018, Defendant “instructed, appointed and authorized Sweety’s
maintenance mechanic John Woods (“Woods”), an independent contractor, to
prepare the Subject Premises for its upcomng SQF inspection. (Id., ¶ 7.)
They did not discuss the specifics of any repairs or the individuals that would
be working. (Id., ¶ 8.) Defendant further declares that he never owned
the forklift or safety cage used by Zaldivar and was not involved in Sweety’s
purchase of those items. (Id., ¶ 13.) He had also never inspected,
assessed, or evaluated the forklift and metal safety cage at any time “because [he]
had no reason to” and had no understanding prior to the Incident whether they
were operational or in good repair. (Id., ¶ 14.) 
Defendant does not address the
underlying issue which he brings before the Court: whether he owed Zaldivar a
duty of care. Determining a duty's existence and scope requires considering
several factors including: “the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the
degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the
connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral
blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future
harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the
community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for
breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk
involved.” (Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113.) Defendant’s
brief does not contain any analysis of these factors. 
The Court notes that Defendant
cites to Dillon v. Wallace (1957) 148 Cal.App.2d 447, which involved an
appeal from a jury verdict in favor of a plaintiff who was injured by slipping
on a piece of parsely on the floor of the grocery department of a market. The appellant
general manager of the market argued that he could not be liable for “mere
non-feasance” and in response, the court of appeal stated, “The true question
is whether the agent owes a duty to the third person as well as to his
principal. If he owes a duty to the third person to act he will be liable for
his failure to act. Here Kent [the general manager of a market] was in charge
of the market and under a duty to protect its customers from injury by the
exercise of ordinary care. He owed that duty to the customers as well as to his
employer.” (Dillon, 148 Cal.App.2d at 455.) This unremarkable passage
does not stand for the suggested proposition that a general manager does not
owe a duty to a third party, only that a duty of care is required before
liability may be imposed and that a general manager may owe a duty of care to
its customers. 
Defendant also cites to Frances
T. v. Village Green Owners Assn. (1986)42 Cal.3d 490, 503-504 and asserts
that“to maintain a tort claim against a director in his or her personal
capacity, a plaintiff must first show that the director specifically
authorized, directed or participated in the allegedly tortious conduct. However,
the court in Frances T. later adds that a plantiff may also show that a director
is liable in tort if the director the director “specifically knew or reasonably
should have known that some hazardous condition or activity under their control
could injure plaintiff” and “negligently failed to take or order appropriate
action to avoid the harm.” (Id. at p. 508.) 
Here, Defendant’s declaration
and deposition testimony raises triable issues of fact regarding the extent of
Defendant’s control over Sweety’s business and the Subject Premises. Defendant
admits that he authorized Woods to “prepare the Subject Premises” for the SQF
inspection and, generally, to pursue the SQF certification in the first place,
which would necessarily require changes to the Subject Premises. (S. Lee Decl.,
¶¶ 6-7; Ex. C-3, 50:20-24, 51:10-25.) Defendant provides evidence of actions he
did not take and facts of which he was unaware, but he does not address whether
he should have known that the equipment was defective.
B.  
Privette Doctrine and Labor Code section 3607
Defendant alternatively argues that Plaintiffs’ claims are
barred by the doctrine expressed in Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689. In Privette, the
California Supreme Court held that, generally, a non-negligent party cannot be liable for tort to
its independent contractor’s employees. (Privette
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 702.) Privette “renders the hirer of an independent contractor immune
from liability to the independent contractor’s employee even when the basis for
liability was that the hirer failed to provide in the contract that the
contractor must take special precautions to avert the risks of work.
[Citation.] Privette also bars
liability when the injured employee’s theory is that the hirer negligently
hired the independent contractor. [Citation.] Finally, Privette applies when the injured employee’s cause of action
against the hirer of the independent contractor is based on the hirer’s failure
to comply with statutory or regulatory workplace safety requirements.
[Citation.]” (Johnson v. Raytheon
Company, Inc. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 617, 628.)
As an initial matter, the Court refers
to a minute order issued by the Honorable Colin P. Leis and dated May 24, 2022,
in which Judge Leis concluded that Sweety was the ultimate hirer and statutory
employer of Zaldivar under Labor Code section 2750.5. Based on this conclusion,
Judge Leis granted co-defendants Steve and Tracy Lee’s motion for adjudication
of Plaintiffs’ first cause of action based on Labor Code section 3706. 
The Court’s previous finding compels
the conclusion that Defendant cannot be liable under Labor Code section 3706
because he was not the ultimate hirer or statutory employer of Zaldivar –
Sweety was Zaldivar’s statutory employer by virtue of hiring Woods, an
unlicensed contractor performing work requiring a contractor’s license. A finding
that Sweety was Zaldivar’s statutory employer, however, means that the Privette
doctrine does not apply. Labor Code section 2750.5 presumes the hired
contractor is an employee, and Privette only applies to independent
contractors. 
But, even without Judge Leis’s prior
finding, Defendant failed to meet his moving burden to show that Woods was an
independent contractor for Sweety (as opposed to an employee) for purposes of
the Privette doctrine. Defendant did not present evidence that either:
(1) Woods was licensed, or (2) the work he performed did not require a license.
(Blackwell v. Vasilas (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 160, 172.) Additionally, Woods
declares multiple times that Sean was not involved in hiring him. (Woods Decl.,
¶¶ 2-4.) 
VI.     CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is DENIED. The motion for
summary adjudication as to the first cause of action is GRANTED. The motion for
summary adjudication as to the second and third causes of action is DENIED. 
 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 15th
day of December
2023 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 