 Case Number:  23AHCV00077    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ALAN CHUNG WAH TANG, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LEE SIU
   FUNG, SIEGFRIED,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00077
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE BY PUBLICATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December
   15, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This is an action to domesticate a
foreign judgment arising from post-bankruptcy litigation between the
parties.  Plaintiffs Alan Chang Wah Tang
and Hou Chung Man (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) are the trustees of the bankruptcy
estate belonging to defendant Lee Siu Fung, Siegfried (“Defendant”).  Defendant’s surname is Lee and Siegfried is
his adopted name. From June 2020 to February 2021, Defendant was ordered by the
High Court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Court of First
Instance (the “Hong Kong High Court”) to pay three sets of legal costs,
totaling $6.08m HK plus interest (the “Hong Kong Judgments”).  As of January 1, 2023, the sums payable and
owed by Defendant is approximately $9.02m HK. 
On March 13, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons. On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an application for publication supported by the declaration of Max Casal.
On August 24, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s application for publication. 
On November 2, 2023, Defendant filed
this motion to quash. 
Plaintiff’s proof of publication was
filed on November 13, 2023. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on
December 4, 2023. 
Defendant filed a reply on December 8,
2023. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A.  
Quash
Service of Summons
“In the absence of a voluntary
submission to the authority of the court, compliance with the statutes
governing service of process is essential to establish that court's personal
jurisdiction over a defendant.... When a defendant challenges that jurisdiction
by bringing a motion to quash, the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439-1440
B.  
Service
by Publication
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.50
sets forth the requirements for service by publication, including: “(a) A
summons may be served by publication if upon affidavit it appears to the
satisfaction of the court in which the action is pending that the party to be
served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another manner specified
in this article.... [¶] ... [¶] (b) The court shall order the summons to be
published in a named newspaper, published in this state, that is most likely to
give actual notice to the party to be served.”  In determining whether a plaintiff has
exercised “reasonable diligence,” the court examines the submitted evidence to
see whether the plaintiff “took those steps a reasonable person who truly
desired to give notice would have taken under the circumstances.” (Donel,
Inc. v. Badalian (1978) 87 Cal. App.3d 327, 333 (Donel).) The “term
‘reasonable diligence’ ... denotes a thorough, systematic investigation and
inquiry conducted in good faith by the party or his agent or attorney.” (Kott
v. Superior Court (1966) 45 Cal.App. 4th 1126, 1137, quotation omitted.)
“Before allowing a plaintiff to resort to service by publication, the courts
necessarily require him to show exhaustive attempts to locate the defendant,
for it is generally recognized that service by publication rarely results in
actual notice.” (Watts v. Crawford (1995) 10 Cal. 4th 743, 749, fn.5,
citations omitted; see also County of Riverside v. Superior Court (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 443, 450 [“We think it safe to say that there is really little
expectation that a defendant [served by publication] will in fact acquire
actual notice from the publication.”].) Therefore, service by publication
should be allowed only “as a last resort.” (Donel, supra, 87 Cal.
App. 3d at p. 333.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Facts
Supporting Application for Publication 
Plaintiff made several attempts to
serve Defendant after the Court granted Defendant’s first motion to quash. On March
22, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amended petition (“FAC”) and attempted to serve
Defendant by mail with a notice of acknowledgement of receipt. (Casal Decl. ISO
Application for Publication (“Casal Decl. ISO App.”, ¶ 3; Exs. A, B.) Plaintiff
was informed that defense counsel would not acknowledge receipt of the summons
and FAC. (Id., ¶ 4, Ex. C.) Plaintiff also sent the FAC and notice of
acknowledgment of receipt in an envelope addressed to Defendant at 1372
Edgehill Pl. in Pasadena, California (“Edgill Place”). (Id., ¶ 3; Ex.
D.) This mail was returned with a label stating “Return to Sender [¶] Attempted
– Not Known [¶] Unable to Forward”). (Id., ¶ 5; Ex. D.) On April 24,
3033, Plaintiff requested the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department
personally serve Defendant at Edgehill Place. (Id., ¶ 6, Ex. E.) The
Sheriff’s Department attempted to serve Defendant on June 6 and June 16, 2023.
(Id., Ex. G.) A certified process server from Nationwide Legal, LLC,
also tried to serve Defendant on June 7, 8, and 9, 2023. (Id., Ex. F.) 
Multiple documents attached to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration reflect that Defendant is associated with
Edgehill Place. (Id., Exs. J-R.) Additionally, in February 2023, Defendant
previously executed a declaration under penalty of perjury averring that he
resided at Edgehill Place. (Id., Ex. K.) This declaration also
authenticated a copy of his driver’s license which lists the same address. (Ibid.)
B.  
Whether
Plaintiff Exercised Reasonable Diligence 
First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
failed to use reasonable diligence to locate him before attempting service by publication.
(Motion, p. 6.) The Sheriff’s Department report included a declaration from
Deputy Sofia B. Buzzelli. Buzzelli noted that service could not be completed
because “Deft has moved out of state, to Huston [sic], TX per homeowner at
location.” (Casal Decl. ISO App., Ex. G.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff did
not use reasonable diligence because there was no attempt to verify the
deputy’s statement by submitting a Request for Change of Address or Boxholder Information
Needed for Service of Legal Process form to the post office. (Motion, p. 6.) However,
Plaintiff’s counsel had received information from two separate sources that
forwarding was unavailable: (1) the returned mail received on April 10, 2023,
and (2) the deputy’s declaration. 
Second, Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration submitted in support of the application for publication.
The Court overrules Objection Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 12, on the grounds
that Plaintiff’s counsel has personal knowledge of his own actions. The Court
sustains Objection Nos. 6, 8 to statements made “on information and belief.” Objection
Nos. 9, 11, 13, 15, 16 are sustained to the extent that Plaintiff’s counsel’s
statements regarding Defendant’s residence, ownership of dogs, and status as a
registered agent of service are offered for the truth of the matter asserted, but
overruled as to Plaintiff’s counsel’s impressions after reviewing the attached
documents. (Objection Nos. 9, 11, 13.) Even considering Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections, the admissible portions of Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration
support a finding that Plaintiff exercised reasonable diligence to locate and
serve Defendant. Defendant is an officer and the agent for service for process
for multiple companies in California and documents on file with the California
Secretary of State identify Edgehill Place as his address.
Third, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
should have called the numerous businesses that Defendant was allegedly
affiliated with in order to exhaust all possible addresses that he could have
been served at. Defendant does not explain how a phone call would have made any
difference, as the documentation about these businesses only reflected (and
therefore confirmed) Defendant’s address at Edgehill Place. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
In light of the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to quash is
DENIED. 
Dated
this 15th
day of September, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.