 Case Number:  23AHCV00912    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



U.S. BANK TRUST NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
S&H
   HOSPITAL PHARMACIES, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00912
 
ORDER
  RE: DEFAULT
   PROVE-UP HEARING 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December
   15, 2023




 


 


 



 
          Plaintiff U.S.
Bank Trust National Association (“Plaintiff”), in its capacity as owner trustee
for RCF 2 Acquisition Trust c/o U.S. Bank Trust National Association, filed
this action against defendants S & H Hospital Pharmacies, Inc., Pension
Funds, and S & H Hospital Pharmacies Incorporated Pension and Profit
Sharing Fund (collectively, “Defendants”) for: (1) cancellation of instrument
and (2) declaratory relief. 
"A written instrument, in respect
to which there is a reasonable apprehension that if left outstanding it may
cause serious injury to a person against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon
his application, be so adjudged, and ordered to be delivered up or
canceled." (Civ. Code, § 3412.) An action for cancellation cannot be
pleaded generally. Plaintiff must specifically allege the facts demonstrating
the invalidity of the instrument under attack. (Wolfe v. Lipsy (1985)
163 Cal.App.3d 633, 638.) An instrument may be cancelled on the grounds that it
has been paid. (Tosi v. Northern California Building & Loan Ass'n
(1937) 23 Cal.App.2d 416, 419.) 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that the loans
secured by the Prior Deeds of Trust were fully paid and/or satisfied but the
lien was not reconveyed or released by a title insurance company. (Complaint, ¶
16.) Given the chain of title concerning the property at issue, Plaintiff’s
evidence supports the allegation that the loans secured by the Prior Deeds of
Trust have been paid off and the Prior Deeds of Trust should be cancelled as
they otherwise cloud title to the property. The same evidence also supports
Plaintiff’s right to declaratory relief. 
Accordingly, because the Prior Deeds of
Trust remain a cloud on title, Plaintiff has established that the Prior Deeds
of Trust should be cancelled to place Plaintiff in the first priority lien
position. Plaintiff is also entitled to a declaration that the Prior Deeds of
Trust are of no further force and effect and any interest held by Defendants and/or their successors and
assigns or any subsequent lienholder, encumbrancer, or creditor who purports to
take from Defendants are subject to Plaintiff’s beneficial interest. 
Plaintiff’s application for default
judgment is GRANTED. 
Dated
this 15th
day of December, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
 