 Case Number:  24TRCV01789    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer to Plaintiff’s ComplaintMoving Party: Defendant Enterprise Rent-a-Car Company of Sacramento, LLCResponding Party: Plaintiff Merclyn Georgia BrownRULINGThe Court considered the moving papers and opposition. Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn May 28, 2024, Plaintiff Merclyn Brown (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Enterprise Rent-a-Car Company of Sacramento, LLC (“Defendant”); Artem Khakhaev (“Khakhaev”); and DOES 1-50, inclusive alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence; (2) Negligence per se; and (3) Negligent Entrustment.On September 13, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint and a request for judicial notice. Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 10, 2024.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn June 6, 2022, Plaintiff and Khakhaev were involved in a motor vehicle collision. (Complaint, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff alleges that the collision occurred due to Khakhaev making an unsafe right turn. (Complaint, ¶ 8.)Khakhaev was driving a Freightliner commercial vehicle, which Plaintiff alleges was owned by Defendant. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7, 27.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew or should have known that Khakhaev was a reckless driver but allowed him to drive the Freightliner anyway. (Complaint, ¶ 27.)LEGAL STANDARDA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. §436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)DISCUSSIONRequest for Judicial NoticeDefendant requests judicial notice of a Statement of Information filed with the Secretary of State, which indicates that Defendant is in the business of renting and/or leasing vehicles.The court may take notice of official acts of the State of California, pursuant to Evid. Code section 452, subd. (c). In addition, the court may take judicial notice of the fact that Enterprise Rent-a-Car is engaged in the business of renting vehicles as it is not reasonably subject to dispute and is capable of immediate and accurate determination. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (h).)Thus, the court takes judicial notice of the Statement of Information and the facts contained within.Moving Party’s ArgumentDefendant contends that Plaintiff only makes conclusory and uncertain allegations. Further, a rental car company is not vicariously liable for the negligent acts of its customers under federal law.Opposing Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff argues that she has pleaded sufficient facts to maintain all causes of action. Further, the demurrer is premature as there are factual disputes that need to be resolved during discovery. Primarily, Plaintiff seeks information about whether Khakhaev had the proper certification or license to operate the Freightliner.Merits of the MotionA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)Defense counsel declares that he sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel and followed up with a telephone call. However, the parties were unable to reach an agreement.Accordingly, the court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements.B. Whether the Claims are Barred by 49 U.S.C. section 30106, subd. (a) (the” GravesAmendment”)Defendant demurs to the complaint on the grounds that Plaintiff has not stated a cause of action against it, as all claims of negligence are barred by the Graves Amendment.The Graves Amendment states:“(a) In general. An owner of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person (or an affiliate of the owner) shall not be liable under the law of any State or political subdivision thereof, by reason of being the owner of the vehicle (or an affiliate of the owner), for harm to persons or property that results or arises out of the use, operation, or possession of the vehicle during the period of the rental or lease, if--(1) the owner (or an affiliate of the owner) is engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing motor vehicles; and(2) there is no negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an affiliate of the owner).”Defendant claims it is a car rental business as proven by the Statement of Information. While the court takes judicial notice of the facts within the Statement of Information because they are not reasonably the subject of dispute, the Graves Amendment does not bar the allegations of this complaint. Federal law only protects such businesses from the independent negligent acts of its customers. Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was negligent because it allowed an incompetent, “careless and reckless driver” to operate a Freightliner it owned.Thus, the Graves Amendment does not bar Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant.C. Sufficiency of the AllegationsDefendant demurs to the complaint on the basis that Plaintiff makes only boilerplate allegations of negligence. Further, Defendant argues that the negligence per se claim must fail because Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant was the one driving the car.Negligence may be pleaded generally. (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 407-408.) Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant negligently entrusted its vehicle to an incompetent, reckless driver, causing Plaintiff’s injury. These allegations, though bare, are sufficient to survive a demurrer. (See Pultz v. Holgerson (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1110, 1117 [“The negligence element may be generally pleaded; the breach of duty of care may be alleged by stating the act was negligently done.”])Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED in its entirety.