  Case Number:  23TRCV01260    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  P Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended ComplaintMoving Party: Plaintiff Alexandria CovarrubiasResponding Party: NoneRULINGThe Court considered the moving papers. Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn April 21, 2023, Plaintiff Alexandria Covarrubias (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Island Pro Painting, Inc.; Tofiga Pro Painting, Inc.; Spartan Education d/b/a Spartan College of Aeronautics & Technology; City of Inglewood; and DOES 1-50, inclusive, allegingcauses of action for (1) Dangerous Condition of Public Property; (2) Negligence; (3) Negligence: Premises Liability; and (4) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, or Retention of Employee.On December 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed amendments to the complaint, to add Rexford Industrial Realty (“Rexford”) and HC 8911 Aviation, LLC as Doe Defendants.On March 6, 2024, Rexford filed a demurrer to the complaint. Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) on April 25, 2024. The FAC included the same causes of action as the original complaint.On June 24, 2024, Rexford filed a demurrer to the FAC. On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On September 9, 2024, the demurrer was sustained with leave to amend.On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. As of October 16, 2024, no opposition has been filed.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn July 5, 2022, Plaintiff slipped and fell on a wet floor in Spartan College. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that the floor was wet because Defendants Island Pro Painting and Tofiga Pro Painting, in the course of their work, created a puddle of water and failed to clean it up. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff was unaware of the puddle because there were no warning signs. (FAC, ¶ 14.)LEGAL STANDARDLeave to amend is permitted under Code of Civil Procedure sections 473, subd. (a), and 576. The policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. [Citation.]” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422.) Notwithstanding the “policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party...’ [citation]. A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff argues that Defendants will not be prejudiced because she seeks only to remove two causes of action, amend fictious names, and clarify existing allegations. Thus, there will only be minimal delays in the proceedings.Merits of the MotionPlaintiff seeks to amend the FAC to remove the first cause of action for Dangerous Condition of Public Property; remove the third cause of action for Negligence: Premises Liability; identify Doe Defendants; and clarify existing allegations.Plaintiff’s motion substantially complies with the requirements of Rule 3.1324. The motion states that this amendment is necessary to (1) comply with a prior court ruling; (2) allow Plaintiff to clarify her causes of action; and (3) properly present her case. Plaintiff provides a copy of the proposed Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) and identifies the differences between the SAC and the FAC.Plaintiff argues that Defendants will not be prejudiced by the filing of the SAC because they have less causes of action to defend against, and existing allegations are reorganized for clarity but not substantively changed. Further, any delay that will occur is necessary, as one defendant appeared in the action only recently.Given the minimal changes to the FAC and the lack of opposition from any Defendant, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a second amended complaint.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.Plaintiff is ordered to separately file the SAC within 5 days and to give notice of ruling.