 Case Number:  24TRCV02254    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Compel Binding ArbitrationMoving Parties: Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.Responding Party: NoneRULINGHaving considered the moving papers, the motion to compel binding arbitration is GRANTED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn July 5, 2024, Plaintiff Gimi George (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1-10, inclusive alleging five causes of action for violations of Statutory Obligations under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Civ. Code sections 1790-1795.8.On August 16, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion. As of October 16, 2024, no opposition has been filed.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn November 21, 2023, Plaintiff purchased a Tesla Model Y (the “Vehicle”) manufactured by Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 5.)Plaintiff received an express written warranty which stated that if a defect developed during the warranty period, Plaintiff could deliver the Vehicle to a repair shop to make repairs. (Complaint, ¶ 9.)During the warranty period, several defects developed. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) However, Defendant failed to repair the Vehicle after several attempts. (Complaint, ¶ 14.)LEGAL STANDARDParties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies to any contract evidencing a transaction involving interstate commerce which contains an arbitration clause. (Wolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of the FAA provides that arbitration provisions shall be enforced, save upon grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.) A state court may refuse to enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state court, however, may not defeat an arbitration clause by applying state laws applicable only to arbitration provisions. (Ibid.)For the FAA to apply, a contract must involve interstate commerce. (Ibid.) When it applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule that stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to present evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects interstate commerce, and the failure to do so renders the FAA inapplicable. (Ibid.) Evidence must be presented, in the form of declarations or other evidence, that establishes that the contract affects interstate commerce. (Ibid.) “[S]ince arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so stated in the agreement.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 963.)“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).) Thus, in assessing a motion to compel arbitration, the moving party “bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the [motion] bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284, citation omitted.)“If a court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)DISCUSSIONRequest for Judicial NoticeDefendant requests judicial notice of the complaint filed by Plaintiff. The court may take notice of its own file, pursuant to Evid. Code section 452, subd. (d).Defendant’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.Moving Party’s ArgumentDefendant argues that Plaintiff consented to the terms of an online Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“Order Agreement”) and a Retail Installment Sales Contract (“Sale Contract”), both of which including arbitration provisions. Both the FAA and California law require Plaintiff to arbitrate this dispute.Merits of the MotionA. Existence of an Arbitration AgreementIn support of the motion, Defendant submits the Declaration of Raymond Kim (“Kim”). Kim declares that when Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle, he signed two agreements containing arbitration provisions. (Kim Decl., Exh. 1 and 2.) The Order Agreement contains an arbitration provision on page 3, which provides Plaintiff with the opportunity to opt out, but Plaintiff did not exercise that option. (Kim Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff also signed the Sale Contract, which has an arbitration on page 5. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 8, 12.)The Order Agreement’s Arbitration provision provides that the parties agree that if a dispute arises between the parties and it is not resolved within 60 days, the parties agree to an arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association. Any fees incurred are to be paid by Tesla Motors, Inc. (Kim Decl., ¶ 6.) The Sale Contract’s arbitration provision provides that any dispute arising from the sale and purchase of the Vehicle; Plaintiff’s credit application; or the condition of the Vehicle is to be resolved in binding arbitration. (Kim Decl., ¶ 12.) The provision also states that the arbitration agreement is governed by the FAA.The court notes that the Order Agreement only shows that Plaintiff was the customer and does not contain his signature. The Sale Contract, however, does show that it was e-signed by the Plaintiff. The court cannot bind the Plaintiff to an arbitration provision that he did not sign. Accordingly, the court will determine whether the parties have entered a binding arbitration agreement under the Sale Contract alone.The court finds that with the Sale Contract, Defendant has met its burden of proving that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties. Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to establish any facts necessary to show that the agreement should not be enforced.B. Grounds for Compelling ArbitrationThe court finds that the language of the Sale Contract’s arbitration provision covers this dispute, as it arises from the condition of the vehicle. Given the instant motion is unopposed, Plaintiff has not established by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to his defense.Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel binding arbitration.B. Stay of ProceedingsCode Civ. Proc. section 1281.4 provides that if the court has ordered the arbitration of a controversy, it “shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” Pursuant to Section 1281.4, therefore, the Court stays this action pending conclusion of the arbitration proceedings.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel binding arbitration is GRANTED. The court STAYS this action pending conclusion of the arbitration process.Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.