


[1] The
City and Real Party Whitley request judicial notice of (1) the Petition (RJN
Ex. A); (2) the APC’s Letter of Determination, mailing date April 24, 2024 (RJN
Ex. B); (3) proof of service of summons on Real Party Moshfegh, filed on August
19, 2024 (RJN, Ex. C); (4) proof of service of summons and Petition on Real
Party Whitley, filed on August 26, 2024 (RJN Ex. D).  There is no need to judicially notice matters
in the court file (Exs. A, C-D).  Exhibit
B is judicially noticed.  Evid. Code
§452(c).


[2]
Real Party Moshfegh was served on August 18, 2024 but has not appeared in this
action.


[3]
CCP section 389(b) provides: “If a person as described in paragraph (1) or (2)
of subdivision (a) cannot be made a party, the court shall determine whether in
equity and good conscience the action should proceed among the parties before
it, or should be dismissed without prejudice, the absent person being thus
regarded as indispensable.  The factors
to be considered by the court include: (1) to what extent a judgment rendered
in the person’s absence might be prejudicial to him or those already parties;
(2) the extent to which, by protective provisions in the judgment, by the
shaping of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can be lessened or avoided;
(3) whether a judgment rendered in the person’s absence will be adequate; (4)
whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an adequate remedy if the
action is dismissed for nonjoinder.”


[4]
The matter would be different for a real party that is not indispensable.  Dismissal of an action would not be required
where a necessary but not indispensable real party has not been served.


[5]
Petitioner argues that a petitioner’s only recourse would be service by
publication, which requires a showing that the party to be served “cannot with
reasonable diligence be served in another manner.”  CCP §415.50. 
Even once service by publication is authorized, it is not effective
until the notice has been published from one to four weeks.  Govt. Code §6064.  Opp. at 10.

