 Case Number:  BC604858    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  T Reliant
v Cooper BC604858
Tentative
ruling: ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE MONETARY SANCTIONS: The complaint in
intervention has not been filed contrary to CCP section 387(e) and the court’s
orders.  Monetary sanctions of $5,000 are
assessed against Superior Life Finance and its counsel of record - Benjamin
Fliegel (SBN 277940), Daniel Ahn (SBN235023), and REED SMITH LLP, jointly and
severally - pursuant to CCP section 128.7, for presenting papers for an
improper purpose including harassment, causing unnecessary delay, and
needlessly increasing the cost of litigation, and on the basis that leave to
intervene was falsely requested by Superior Life Finance and its counsel as a
way of inserting Superior Life into the case for the purposes of delay and
harassment, including filing an appeal (which it did as an intervenor) and
attempt to stay the action.
Among
other things, Superior Life was granted leave to intervene on 9/13/2023 but
because it had not filed and served its complaint in intervention as required
by CCP section 387(e)[("If leave to intervene is granted by the court, the
intervenor shall...Separately file the complaint in intervention...")],
the court ordered Superior Life to file its complaint in intervention and it
failed to do so. Although counsel filed papers on 9/6/2023 attaching a copy of
the complaint in intervention, the complaint in intervention was never filed.
Those moving papers indicated that Superior Life has claims against the
Receiver to reimburse premium payments made on the rescinded property pursuant
to Section 1692, as well as claims for unjust enrichment and equitable
subrogation against the Receiver, as well as damages. A copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention alleging these causes of action was attached to the
Declaration of Benjamin Fliegel. The proposed complaint in intervention seeks
statutory recission relief pursuant to Civil Code section 1692, restitution and
equitable subrogation against RELIANT LIFE SHARES, LLC, a California Limited
Liability Company, CHRISTOPHER CONWAY in his capacity as Court Appointed
Receiver for Reliant Life Shares, LLC, and RELIANT LIFE SHARES SERIES STATUTORY
TRUST.
The
complaint in intervention has never been filed. Superior Life has never filed a
proper appearance, nor served the proposed defendants in intervention. The
Declaration of Steve Stanton, a manager at Superior Life, states that
"thus, it is imperative that the Court modify the recission order to
recognize Superior Life's first priority security interest in the transferred
policies before they are sold by the Receiver by requiring the Receiver to pay
Superior Life its rescission remedies before they are exhausted and
disbursed." Despite advising the court in support of its application to
intervene that it was "imperative" that the recission remedies be
addressed urgently, as of four months later, no complaint in intervention was
filed. Instead of intervening, it called itself a party in intervention, went
forward with an ex parte application and then filed an appeal attempting to
stop the progress of the case.
When
asked by the court on 12/28/2023 why the complaint in intervention had not been
filed, counsel for Superior Life -Mr. Ahn - indicated that "a final
decision whether to file the complaint in intervention has not been made."
This indicates, among other things, that there may be fraud upon the court
because it represented that it would file the complaint in intervention if
leave was granted, then did not file the complaint but continued to participate
in the case as if it had.
The
opposition and declarations to the OSC obfuscate the issues concerning this OSC
and ignores the actual facts of this case. 
Counsel for Superior Life now tries to argue that intervention was not
really necessary because it had the right to file as an “aggrieved party.”  Of course, that isn’t what they asked for.  The court considered the application and
granted it.  That it may have had the
right to do something else does not affect whether it was required to file. The
court can only imagine the conversation among counsel that since they achieved
their goal of getting the matter to the Court of Appeal, the complaint in
intervention is irrelevant. They are wrong. 
Pleading and representations to the court matter.  Compliance with court orders matter.  Compliance with statutes matter. The
actual facts are that Superior Life asked to intervene, it attached its
complaint in intervention, leave to intervene was granted, the complaint in
intervention was never filed, Superior Life represented itself as an intervenor
to the Court of Appeal, and despite two court orders and the statute, it continues
to refuse to file its Complaint in Intervention.
This
order requires mandatory report to the State Bar of California
The
court sets a compliance hearing to assure that order has been reported to the State
Bar of California on ___________, at 8:30 a.m.
It is so ordered.  Clerk of the Court to give notice.