  Case Number:  23PSCV03733    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to Compel Binding  Arbitration Respondent: Plaintiff Donald  Rayo TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to Compel  Binding Arbitration is GRANTED. The matter is STAYED  pending completion of binding arbitration. BACKGROUND This is a Song-Beverly  action. In December 2021, Plaintiff Donald Rayo allegedly entered into a  warranty contract with Defendant Hyundai Motor America (Hyundai) by purchasing  a 2022 Hyundai Santa Fe. Subsequently, Rayo alleges the vehicle presented with  serious defects in its structural, suspension, engine, electrical and emissions  systems. On December 4, 2023, Rayo  filed a complaint against Hyundai; Bay Area AG Inc., doing business as  CardinaleWay Hyundai of Glendora (CardinaleWay); and Does 1-10, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) breach of express warranty; (2) breach of  implied warranty; (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2, subdivision  (b); and (4) negligent repair. On June 25, 2024, Hyundai  filed the present motion. On September 12, 2024, the court continued the  hearing on the present motion for additional briefing. A hearing on the present  motion is set for November 19, 2024, along with an informal discovery  conference. A post-mediation status conference/trial setting conference is also  set for January 14, 2025. REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE Hyundai requests the court  take judicial notice of the Complaint filed in the present action. Rayo  requests the court take judicial notice of federal regulations and  congressional records. The court GRANTS their requests pursuant to  Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and (d). EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Rayo’s evidentiary objections  are OVERRULED. ANALYSIS Hyundai  moves to compel arbitration of Rayo’s Song-Beverly claims. For the following  reasons, the court GRANTS Hyundai’s motion. Legal Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.) The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement. (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties  8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the court’s role  “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists  and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia  Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840,  quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th  Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, Hyundai argues Rayo’s action is subject to two different arbitration  provisions, including a provision in the subject vehicle’s 2022 Owner’s  Handbook and Warranty Information (Owner’s Handbook) and a provision in the  Connected Services Agreement Terms and Conditions (Bluelink Agreement) for Hyundai’s  Bluelink services. Because the court finds the arbitration provision in the  Bluelink Agreement applies to the present action, the court need not determine  the effect of the arbitration provision in the Owner’s Handbook. When  Rayo enrolled in Hyundai’s Bluelink services, Hyundai argues Rayo agreed to the  Bluelink Agreement which included an arbitration provision. (Rao Decl., ¶ 4-6.)  The provision provided in relevant part as follows: “Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any and all  disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this Agreement,  Connected Services, Connected Services Systems, Service Plans, your Vehicle,  use of the sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase, enroll in or  seek product/service support for, whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via  the sites or through mobile application, except any disputes or claims which  under governing law are not subject to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted  by applicable law. This agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly  interpreted and to make all disputes and claims between us subject to  arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by law. . . . The agreement to  arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not limited to: claims based in contract,  tort, warranty, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory;  claims that arose before this or any prior Agreement . . . .” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2,  § 15(C)(a).) In  opposition, Rayo argues the clear language of the Bluelink Agreement indicates  the arbitration provision only applies to claims related to Bluelink and does  not apply to statutory warranty claims. (Opp., p. 12:15-22.) Rayo, however,  fails to provide the court any examples of such purportedly clear language. While  Rayo points to the language stating, “Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any  and all disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this  Agreement,” Rayo’s quotation omits the rest of the sentence which also includes  claims arising out of or relating to service plans or Rayo’s vehicle. (Rao  Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C)(a).) Rayo also points to language in the Bluelink  Agreement that disclaims warranties. (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 11.) But the fact  that the Bluelink Agreement disclaims warranties supports the broad  interpretation of the arbitration provision as it also applies to warranty  claims. Next,  Rayo points to the preamble of the arbitration provision which states as  follows: “MOST CUSTOMER CONCERNS CAN BE RESOLVED QUICKLY AND  TO THE CUSTOMER'S SATISFACTION BY CONTACTING HYUNDAI’S CUSTOMER SERVICE  DEPARTMENT AT CONSUMERAFFAIRS@HMAUSA.COM OR CALLING 800-633-5151 AND THE  GENESIS CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT AT CUSTOMERCARE@GENESISMOTORSUSA.COM OR  CALLING 844-340-9741. IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT THAT THE APPROPRIATE CUSTOMER  SERVICE DEPARTMENT IS UNABLE TO RESOLVE YOUR CONCERNS, WE EACH AGREE TO RESOLVE  THOSE DISPUTES THROUGH BINDING ARBITRATION OR SMALL CLAIMS COURT INSTEAD OF IN  COURTS OF GENERAL JURISDICTION TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, AND  SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C).) Rayo  argues this language suggests the arbitration provision is limited to disputes  over connected services that cannot be resolved by Hyundai’s customer service  department. (Opp., p. 13:13-27.) But, nowhere in this clause does it state the  arbitration provision only applies to concerns related to connected services  issues.  The court notes that “concerns”  can also apply to a myriad of issues related to Rayo’s vehicle.  Moreover, Rayo’s argued interpretation would  conflict with the arbitration provision’s explicit application to claims  arising from Rayo’s vehicle and based on warranties or statutes. Further, the  arbitration provision states it applies to “claims that arose before this or  any prior Agreement.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C)(a).) Based  on the broad applicability of these provisions, the court finds this  arbitration provision is applicable to Rayo’s present action. Last,  Rayo argues Hyundai fails to establish that Rayo actually assented to the  Bluelink Agreement. (Suppl. Opp., p. 5:17-6:15.) To establish prima facie  evidence of an arbitration agreement, however, the party moving for arbitration  need only provide a copy of the arbitration provision that purports to be  signed by the parties or set forth the agreement’s terms in the motion. (Gamboa,  supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) The moving party is not required “to  follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” (Ibid, quoting  Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218.) The  opposing party “bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the  authenticity of the agreement” and can do so with statements under oath. (Ibid.)  If the opposing party meets their burden, the moving party must then establish  a valid arbitration with admissible evidence by preponderance of the evidence.  (Ibid.) Here,  Rayo fails to present sufficient evidence that establishes Rayo did not sign or  agree to the Bluelink Agreement. While Rayo states Rayo does not remember  agreeing to the Bluelink Agreement (Rayo Decl., ¶ 4-5), Rayo does not deny  receiving access to Bluelink services which would have only been accessible if  Rayo electronically signed the Bluelink Agreement. (Rao Decl., ¶ 6.) Unconscionability In  opposition to the arbitration provision’s enforcement, Rayo argues the  arbitration provision is unconscionable. Pursuant to both federal and state  law, arbitration agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are  revocable for reasons under state law that would render any contract revocable”  including “fraud, duress, and unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances,  Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) “‘[U]nconscionability has both a  procedural and a substantive element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or  ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or  ‘one-sided’ results.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,  Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, quoting A & M Produce Co. v. FMC  Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486-487.) While both elements must be  present to prevent enforcement, courts evaluate them as a sliding scale in that  “the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of  procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the  term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) Procedural Unconscionability As  to procedural unconscionability, Rayo argues the arbitration provision is  procedurally unconscionable because it constitutes a contract of adhesion. (Opp.,  p. 14:24-15:19.) A contract of adhesion is “a standardized contract, which,  imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to  the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject  it.” (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Companies (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690, 694.)  When “there is no other indication of oppression or surprise, ‘the degree of  procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low, and the agreement  will be enforceable unless the degree of substantive unconscionability is  high.’” (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215  Cal.App.4th 695, 704, quoting Ajamian v. CantorCO2e (2012) 203  Cal.App.4th 771, 796.)  Here,  while the arbitration provision in the Bluelink agreement appears to be a contract  of adhesion, Rayo fails to point to any evidence of oppression or surprise.  Thus, the court finds the degree of procedural unconscionability is low. In  supplemental briefing, Rayo also argues the arbitration provision is procedurally  unconscionable because it fails to provide a copy of the arbitration rules  referenced. (Suppl. Opp., p. 8:4-13.) The failure to provide a copy of the  applicable arbitration rules “adds a bit to the procedural unconscionability”  of the arbitration provision. (Zullo v. Superior Court (2011) 197  Cal.App.4th 477, 485.) But the extent of that unconscionability often depends  on the arbitration rules themselves. (See id., at p. 485-486.) For  example, the court found oppression and surprise existed when the arbitration  rules included provisions limiting plaintiff’s damages and remedies. (Harper  v. Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1406-1407.) Here,  the arbitration provision states, “arbitration will be governed by the Consumer  Arbitration Rules (the ‘AAA Rules’) of the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’),  as modified by this Agreement, and will be administered by the AAA.” (Rao  Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C)(c).) While the arbitration provision does not include a  copy of the AAA Rules, it provides the website address where the rules can be  found and also includes contact information for obtaining the rules. (Rao  Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C)(c).) However, Rayo fails to direct the court to any such  oppressive provisions in the AAA Rules. Thus, while the arbitration provision  is procedurally unconscionable to the extent it fails to provide a copy of the  AAA Rules, the court finds the degree of procedural unconscionability remains  low. Substantive Unconscionability As  to substantive unconscionability, Rayo raises general objections to arbitration  while failing to point to a specific provision that rises to a high degree of  substantive unconscionability. (Opp., 15:21-16:18.) While Rayo argues arbitration  deprives Rayo of the right to a jury trial and violates the Magnuson-Moss  Warranty Act, Rayo fails to direct the court to a single California case that  has invalidated arbitration provisions on this ground. Rayo  also claims arbitration will limit Rayo’s ability to conduct discovery. Because  arbitration is meant to be streamlined, “discovery limitations are an integral  and permissible part of the arbitration process.” (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010)  181 Cal.App.4th 975, 983, citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare  Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 105-106 (Armendariz).) At a  minimum, parties “are at least entitled to discovery sufficient to adequately  arbitrate their statutory claim, including access to essential documents and  witnesses, as determined by the arbitrator(s) . . . .” (Armendariz, supra,  24 Cal.4th at p. 106.) While Rayo argues the arbitration rules at issue do  not provide for depositions and involve “repeat players,” Rayo fails to provide  any authority that establishes these issues create a high degree of substantive  unconscionability. Thus, the court finds Rayo has failed to demonstrate the  subject arbitration provision is substantively unconscionable. Last,  Rayo argues the Song-Beverly Act prohibits the deprivation of Rayo’s right to  bring the present action in court. (Opp., p. 16:21-18:12.)  Again, however, Rayo fails to direct the court  to a single citation to California authority that holds arbitration of  Song-Beverly cases is prohibited by California law. In  supplemental briefing, Rayo makes seven additional arguments on the issue of  substantive unconscionability. First, Rayo argues the arbitration provision is  one-sided and harsh because it applies to warranty claims that can only be  brought by the plaintiff. (Suppl. Opp., p. 9:17-11:4.) The arbitration  provision, however, does not only require arbitration of warranty claims. It  broadly requires arbitration of “all disputes and claims between us arising out  of or relating to this Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services  Systems, Service Plans, your Vehicle, use  of the sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase, enroll in or  seek product/service support  for, whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via the sites or through mobile  application, except any disputes or claims which under governing law are not  subject to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.” (Rao  Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C)(a).) Because this arbitration provision also covers any  claims that Hyundai may have against Rayo, the court finds the arbitration provision  is not one-sided and harsh. Second,  Rayo contends the arbitration provision is one-sided and harsh because it  requires the enforceability of the arbitration provision to be determined by  the arbitrator. (Suppl. Opp., p. 11:7-12:1.) But such arguments have already  been rejected by the court in Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226  Cal.App.4th 1551, 1570-1571, which Rayo failed to address. Third,  Rayo maintains the arbitration provision contains a one-sided notice provision  and illegal confidentiality clause. (Suppl. Opp., p. 12:4-23.) The notice  provision states, “A party who intends to seek arbitration must first send to  the other, by certified mail, a written Notice of Dispute (‘Notice’).” (Rao  Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C)(b).) Because the notice provision applies to whichever  party initiates arbitration, the court finds the provision is not one-sided. And  while the notice provision includes instructions for providing notice to  Hyundai, Rayo fails to demonstrate how these requirements are unfairly  one-sided given the issues that may arise from giving notice to a corporate  entity as opposed to an individual. Nor does Rayo point to any authority  holding how specific notice requirements for a corporate entity render the  entire arbitration provision unenforceable. To the extent Rayo maintains the  confidentiality requirement in the arbitration provision violates statutory  law, California jurisprudence, and public policy, Rayo fails to provide any  authority in support of this claim. Rayo’s sole citation to NBC Subsidiary  (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1181, which does  not provide guidance to this court since that case addressed public access to  court proceedings, not arbitration proceedings. Fourth,  Rayo argues the arbitration provision illegally permits Hyundai to recover  attorney fees. (Suppl. Opp., p. 12:27-14:10.) The court finds Rayo’s argument  on this point, however, is based on a strained interpretation of the  arbitration provision. Specifically, the arbitration provision states that “IN  ARBITRATION, BOTH YOU AND HYUNDAI WILL BE ENTITLED TO RECOVER ATTORNEYS´ FEES  FROM THE OTHER PARTY TO THE SAME EXTENT AS YOU WOULD BE IN COURT.” (Rao Decl.,  Ex. 2, § 15(C).) Because the clause ends with “as you would be in court” as  opposed to “as you or Hyundai would be in court,” Rayo argues this provision  allows Hyundai to obtain attorney fees as if they were the plaintiff. But  equally plausible is the fact that “you” in the second half of the sentence refers  to either of the two parties mentioned in the first half. While Rayo would  obviously prefer the interpretation that could render the arbitration provision  void, the rules of contractual interpretation demand the opposite. (Rodriguez  v. Barnett (1959) 52 Cal.2d 154, 160 [“If a contract is capable of two  constructions courts are bound to give such an interpretation as will make it  lawful, operative, definite, reasonable, and capable of being carried into  effect, if that can be done without violating the intention of the parties.”].)  Because this clause can be interpreted as merely allowing attorney fees to the  same extent as in court proceedings, the court finds that Rayo’s argument  fails. Fifth,  Rayo repeats the argument that the arbitration provision is unconscionable  because it deprives Rayo of the right to a jury trial or to bring a class  action. (Suppl. Opp., p. 14:12-15:7.) But while Rayo now provides citations to  authorities, they are inapposite. In Lange v. Monster Energy Company (2020)  46 Cal.App.5th 436, the court held a clause in arbitration provision that  waived a party’s right to a jury trial if the action was resolved by the court  was unconscionable and distinguished it from the inherent waiver of the right  to a jury trial in arbitration agreements. (Id., at p. 452.) The present  arbitration provision does not include the same provision that Lange found  unconscionable. In fact, the arbitration provision explicitly states the waiver  of the right to a jury trial is “to the maximum extent permitted by law” which  would necessarily bar its applicability to court proceedings. (Rao Decl., Ex.  2, § 15(C)(a).) Rayo also relies on Szetela v. Discover Bank (2002) 97  Cal.App.4th 1094, for the rule that waiver of class actions is substantively  unconscionable. But, Rayo failed to mention that the U.S. Supreme Court has  subsequently held this rule to be preempted by the FAA. (See, Marceno v.  DirecTV LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1420-1421, citing AT&T  Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 347, 352.) Sixth,  Rayo contends the arbitration provision substantially reduces Rayo’s time to  bring the present action. (Suppl. Opp., p. 15:9-25.) Specifically, Rayo points  to language stating, “YOU ARE NOT ALLOWED TO BRING ANY CLAIM AGAINST HYUNDAI  (OR ANY OTHER THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARY) MORE THAN ONE YEAR AFTER THE CLAIM  ARISES.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(B).) But Rayo omits a key phrase preceding  this one that states “EXCEPT WHERE PROHIBITED BY LAW.” Thus, this provision  does not apply. Seventh  and last, Rayo maintains the arbitration provision is unconscionable because it  requires Rayo to post arbitration fees. (Suppl. Opp., p. 15:28-16:9.) In  support of this claim, Rayo cites Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114  Cal.App.4th 77 (Gutierrez). But there, the court held it was  unconscionable to “impos[e] arbitral forum fees that are prohibitively high.” (Id.,  at p. 90.) Here, Rayo fails to point to any evidence establishing how a $200  arbitration initiation fee is prohibitively high. Furthermore, while the Gutierrez  court noted the possibility that the plaintiff could recover the fees at a  later date was insufficient (Id., at p. 90), the present arbitration  requires Hyundai to promptly reimburse payment of Rayo’s filing fees. (Rao  Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C)(c).) Thus, Rayo failed to demonstrate any significant  level of substantive unconscionable and cannot establish the present  arbitration provision is unconscionable.  Accordingly,  the court GRANTS Hyundai’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Hyundai’s  motion to compel arbitration of Rayo’s lemon law action is GRANTED. The matter is STAYED  pending completion of binding arbitration.