 Case Number:  22STCV29253    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EBONY ELAINE MOSS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PROPERTY I.D. CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV29253
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 16, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant All California Title and Escrow Company
(“Defendant”) moves, via three separate motions, for an order compelling
Plaintiff Ebony Elaine Moss (“Plaintiff”) to provide further responses to
Defendant’s Requests for Production (“RFP”) Nos. 1 and 11; Request for
Admission (“RFA”) No. 20; and Form Interrogatory – Employment (“FIE”) Nos.
202.1, 203.1, 205.1, and 217.1. Defendant also requests monetary sanctions in
the total amount of $19,951.08 in connection with the three motions to compel.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion with respect to the
requests for production and form interrogatories.  The Court orders Plaintiff to provide, within
30 days of this order, (1) full and complete further responses and responsive
documents to Defendant’s Requests for Production (“RFP”) Nos. 1 and 11 and (2) full
and complete answers to Form Interrogatory – Employment (“FIE”) Nos. 202.1,
203.1, 205.1, and 217.1.
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion with respect to Request
for Admission No. 20.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for sanctions in part
as follows.  Plaintiff shall pay $5,475
in fees to Defendant’s counsel within 30 days of the issuance of this order.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on September 8, 2022 against
Defendant, her former employer, alleging (1) discrimination under FEHA; (2)
retaliation under FEHA; (3) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation; and (4) wrongful termination.
 
On October 26, 2023, Defendant answered and filed a
Cross-Complaint, raising cross-claims for (1) breach of fiduciary duty of
loyalty; and (2) violation of Comprehensive Computer Data and Access Fraud Act.
 
On August 24, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with the
RFPs, RFAs, and FIEs at issue. From September 27, 2023 to October 30, 2023,
counsel for Plaintiff and Defendant met and conferred, resolving a substantial
portion of their disputes.
 
Defendant filed each of the present motions on November 28,
2023, seeking production of the discovery that is still at issue. On December
26, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition that responded to both the RFA motion
and the FIE motion. Plaintiff did not file an opposition to the RFP motion.
Defendant filed two separate replies in support of the RFA motion and the FIE
motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any
other party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210
as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed
fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of
relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable
inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
Requests for Production
 
“A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
“(a)
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
          (1) A statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete.
(2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
          (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:
(1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
(3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
 
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.
 
…
(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)
 
          The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
 
Requests for Admission
 
On
receipt of a response to requests for admission the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
an objection to an RFA is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(a)(2).)     
 
“(a)
On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply:
(1) An answer to a
particular request is evasive or incomplete.
(2) An objection to
a particular request is without merit or too      general.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290.)
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290(d).)          
          
Interrogatories
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.220, subdivision (a) requires that “[e]ach
answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, a party may
move to compel further responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s
answer is “evasive or incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v.
Super. Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.
 
Discussion
 
          The
parties’ respective positions can be found in their filings, including the
separate statements. The Court’s rulings on each request are set forth below.
 
Requests for Production
 
RFP No. 1: Plaintiff shall produce the requested
email attachments.  As noted, Plaintiff
has not opposed this motion.  Moreover,
Defendant’s request for the email attachments is eminently reasonable.
 
RFP No. 11: Plaintiff shall produce the requested
wage records.  As noted, Plaintiff has
not opposed this motion.  Moreover,
Defendant’s request for wage information is eminently reasonable.
 
Requests for Admission
 
RFA No. 20: Plaintiff does not need to supplement
this response further. Defendant argues that Plaintiff should change the
response to “Admit” because she admits in her supplemental response that she
used profanity at the workplace. However, Defendant’s RFA does not ask
Plaintiff to admit that she used profanity, but rather that she yelled
profanity. Thus, based on these facts, the Court cannot find that Plaintiff’s
denial is inappropriate.  Moreover, the
Court does not generally require parties to change the substance of their
responses from Deny to Admit.  If
Defendant thinks the response is untruthful, Defendant may pursue its remedies
at trial or otherwise.
 

 
Form Interrogatories – Employment
 
Plaintiff shall provide complete, code-compliant responses
to each form interrogatory.  Plaintiff
must actually answer the specific questions posed with a responsive answer,
instead of cutting and pasting pages of her complaint allegations into the
interrogatory answer.
 
Sanctions
 
          Defendant
requests an hourly rate of $400.00 for attorney Jessica Corpuz and an hourly
rate of $225.00 for paralegal Denise Moreno. The Court finds these rates to be
reasonable.
 
          However,
the hours requested by Defendant are excessive. Defendant requests 4.1 hours
for Moreno and 48.3 hours for Corpuz. First, the Court will not award fees or
costs for the RFA motion, which it denied. Second, the Court reduces Corpuz’s
hours to 6.0 for the FIE motion and 6.0 for the RFP motion (for which no
opposition or reply were filed, but which involved a substantially more complex
meet-and-confer process).
 
          The
Court therefore awards $5,475 in attorney’s fees, representing 12 hours for
Corpuz and 3 hours for Moreno.  
 