 Case Number:  23AHCV01145    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June
20, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         William Jacobo,
Jr. v. Jack R. Barnes et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01145
 
 
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants:
                                                            (1)       Breckenridge
Property Fund 2016, LLC
                                                            (2)
      Defendants Jack R. Barnes, Trustee
of the Jack R. 
                                                Barnes
Living Trust, dated April 21, 1995; Jack R. Barnes, Trustee of the SCS
Investment Trust, dated September 1, 2006, So-Cal Capital, Inc., Patrick Lacy
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff
William Jacobo, Jr. [NO OPPOSITION]
 
SERVICE:                             OK
/ Unopposed, but SEE BELOW for further discussion.
 
OPPOSITION:                      N/A, no opposition filed.
 
REPLY:                                  OK / Unopposed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.
             
BACKGROUND
 
This
is a wrongful foreclosure case. Self-represented plaintiff William Jacobo Jr.
sued defendants Jack R. Barnes (“Barnes”), in his capacity as trustee of two different
trusts; So-Cal Capital, Inc. (“SCCI”); Patrick Lacy, an individual (“Lacy”);
C&H Trust Deed Service (“C&H”); Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC
(“Breckenridge”); and Does 1-100 on May 19, 2023. Plaintiff filed his operative
first amended complaint (FAC) on November 17, 2023, for:
 
            1.         Unfair
Business Practices,
            2.         Fraud,
            3.         Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,
            4.         Conversion,
            5.         Quiet
Title,
            6.         Fraud
in the Inducement,
            7.         Unfair
Business Practices,
            8.         Breach
of Fiduciary Duty,
            9.         Wrongful
Foreclosure,
            10.       Civil
Conspiracy,
            11.       Aiding
and Abetting,
            12.       Unlawful
Joint Venture,
            13.       Injunctive
Relief,
            14.       Rescission,
and
            15.       Violations
of RESPA and TILA.
 
On
December 22, 2023, Barnes, Lacy, and SCCI (“the Barnes Defendants”) demurred to
the FAC.
 
On
February 9, 2024, Breckenridge demurred to the FAC.
 
(Plaintiff
has yet to file a proof of service on C&H.)
 
Plaintiff
filed no opposition to either demurrer.
 
Breckenridge
filed a reply on June 6, 2024. The Barnes Defendants filed a Notice of
Non-Opposition on June 20, 2024.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ demurrers are sustained without leave to amend.
 
OBJECTIONS TO EVIDENCE 
 
N/A.
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Barnes, SCCI, and Lacy request judicial notice of seven (7)
documents. The Court denies all seven requests, as the materials are
unnecessary to disposition of the defendants’ motions.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect
by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint alleges facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10; Young v.
Gannon (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 209, 220.) 
 
When considering a demurrer, a court reads the allegations
stated in the challenged pleading liberally and in context, and “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5
Cal.3d 584, 591.) Put differently: for purposes of demurrer, the court treats
all facts alleged – but only the facts alleged – in the complaint as
true. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School District (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 732.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            1.
Notice of Motions and Hearings
 
Moving and supporting papers for
a demurrer must be filed and served at least sixteen (16) court days prior to
the hearing. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1005(b).)
 
The Barnes Defendants filed
proofs of service demonstrating they served Plaintiff by mail at the address he
listed on the pleading, more than sixteen (16) court days ahead of the hearing.
Breckenridge did not file proof of service as to Plaintiff concurrently with
its motion.
 
Plaintiff appeared in court on
February 26, 2024, and at that hearing the Court set the hearing dates for both
demurrers for June 13, 2024. (See 02-26-2024 Minute Order.) Plaintiff
personally received notice from the Court at the hearing. The Court also
ordered Breckenridge to give notice of the ruling. Breckenridge thereafter filed
proof of service of its moving papers by mail.
 
On May 8, 2024, the Court
advanced and continued the June 13, 2024 hearings to June 20, 2024. The Court
served all parties by mail. The notices mailed to Plaintiff were returned to
the Court as undeliverable. But the address listed on the mailings matches the
address Plaintiff has provided on his pleadings and has used throughout this
litigation. Whether Plaintiff believed the hearing would occur on June 13 or
June 20, he had notice of Defendants’ motions, and he filed no timely
opposition.
 
The Court finds notice was
properly given and Plaintiff opted not to oppose.
 
            2.
Meet and Confer
 
“Before filing a demurrer ... ,
the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the
party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
 
The parties’ counsels both filed
declarations establishing they satisfied section 430.41. (Ananian Decl., ¶ 3; Turner
Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
/ / /
 
DISCUSSION
 
            1. Breckenridge, Barnes, and Lacy
            
As to all the
defendants except SCCI, the FAC fails for uncertainty.
 
A party may demur to
a complaint where “[t]he pleading is uncertain,” meaning also that it is
“ambiguous [or] unintelligible.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).)
The law encourages courts to liberally construe pleadings and disfavors
demurrers for uncertainty. (Morris v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2022)
78 Cal.App.5th 279. 292.) But particularly where the complaint does not
properly distinguish between multiple defendants, such that it is not clear
which factual allegations are made as to which parties, the complaint fails for
ambiguity. (See Hawley Bros. Hardware Co. v. Brownstone (1899) 123 Cal.
643, 646-647.) Similarly, allegations made against multiple defendants are
fatally uncertain where plaintiff alleges the same harm against multiple
defendants but makes no effort to either apportion their liability or show why
it cannot be apportioned in the complaint. (See Landau v. Salam (1971) 4
Cal.3d 901, 909.)
 
The FAC ascribes
various wrongs to SCCI. As to the other defendants, it alleges two facts.
First, the FAC alleges ownership of the loan SCCI issued to Plaintiff was
transferred to one or more of the other defendants at some point. (Id.,
¶¶ 33, 36.) That allegation describes no wrongdoing. Second, the FAC alleges
Barnes “made the purchase [of Plaintiff’s mortgage] without performing due
diligence” – which again, does not state any claim. (Id., ¶ 36.) Otherwise,
the FAC refers either to SCCI individually or to “Defendants” collectively and
makes boilerplate allegations of conspiracy. There is no way to ascertain which
defendants apart from SCCI might be liable, how, or why.
 
The demurrers of all
defendants except SCCI are sustained on the basis of uncertainty.
 
Plaintiff filed no
opposition. Consequently, he has not carried his burden to show the FAC could
be cured by amendment.
 
The demurrers are
sustained without leave to amend.
 
            2. SCCI
 
As to SCCI: in the
“General Allegations” portion of his pleading, Plaintiff alleges SCCI engaged
in a host of irresponsible or illegal lending tactics, in general, and that
these practices were also directed to Plaintiff, in general. (See FAC, ¶¶
14-31.) It cannot be ascertained from this section what allegations Plaintiff
levies against SCCI having to do with his own alleged loan, specifically.
 
In his “Specific
Allegations”, Plaintiff alleges that when SCCI sold him his mortgage loan they
“knew or should have known that the property was overvalued”, that SCCI “did
not explain to [him] the difference between an ARM and less risky loans”, and
that Plaintiff never could have made the payments and would not have been
approved for his loan “but for the bank.” (Id., ¶¶ 36-38.)
 
The Court evaluates
each of Plaintiff’s claims against these few specific facts.
 
                        a. Fraud-Based Claims
(1, 2, 6, 7, 14)
 
Plaintiff’s first,
second, sixth, seventh, and fourteenth causes of action are all premised on an
underlying fraud. “In California, fraud must be pled specifically;
general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. ‘Thus “ ‘the policy of
liberal construction of the pleadings ... will not ordinarily be invoked to
sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.” ’ [¶] This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.’ ” (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645, citations omitted; see also Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (34 Cal.4th 979, 993.) Plaintiff’s
general allegations do not establish any of the who, what, where, etc. required
for fraud claims under law. He has not stated any of these claims.
 
                        b.
Multiple-Defendant Claims (10, 11, 12)
 
Plaintiff’s tenth through twelfth causes of action claim
defendants worked in concert with one another in various unspecified ways. For
reasons discussed above with regard to the non-SCCI defendants, these claims
fail for uncertainty.
 
                        c.
Injunctive Relief (13)
 
As to the thirteenth cause of action: injunctive relief is a
form of relief, not a cause of action. The demurrer is sustained.
 
                        d.
Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (3)
 
As to the third cause of action for breach of covenant:
breach of covenant, like breach of contract, requires a plaintiff to plead a
contract and plead breach. (See Racine v. Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of
Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032 (Racine
& Laramie) [covenant is “read into contracts” and “supplement[s] ...
express ... covenants”].)
 
Plaintiff describes his claim for breach of covenant as
follows:
 
“Defendant SO-CAL CAPITAL INC...
agreed to terms, such as a prepayment clause, with the promise that the clause
would be waived in the future at the time of a refinance. These terms were
designed to give Defendants an unfair advantage over Plaintiff William Jacobo,
Jr. therefore further induce the Plaintiff to refinance the RMLs in the future
or be unable to make payments and stay in the home. By agreeing to these
conditions and then not enforcing them in good faith, Defendants, and each of
them, have breached this covenant.”
 
(FAC, ¶ 54.)
 
There are no allegations of breach of covenant here.
Plaintiff only specifies one term (“prepayment clause”) and vaguely suggests
there were also others that were “not enforc[ed] ... in good faith”. (Ibid.)
This does not describe a breach of the covenant of good faith, which requires him
to plead the defendant “engaged in conduct which ... frustrate[d] [his] rights
to the benefits of the contract.” (Racine & Laramie, supra,
11 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1031-1032.)
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained.
 
                        e.
Conversion (4)
 
As to
conversino: the basic elements of the tort are (1) the plaintiff's ownership or
right to possession of personal property; (2) the defendant's disposition of
the property in a manner that is inconsistent with the plaintiff's property
rights; and (3) resulting damages.
[Citation.]’ (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119 (Fremont),
emphasis added.)
 
There are no allegations in the FAC that suggest any
improper disposition of Plaintiff’s personal property. The demurrer is
sustained.
 
                        f.
Quiet Title (5)
 
A quiet title action requires a plaintiff to (1) describe
the property subject to his action, (2) describe his title to which a
determination is sought, (3) specify adverse claims against his title, (d)
identify the date as of which the determination is sought, and (e) pray for
such a determination. (Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. v. McGurk (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 201, 210.)
 
It cannot be ascertained from the complaint what precise
title Plaintiff contends he has in the Property or the specific adverse claims
against it, or the date from which he seeks a determination.
 
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained.
 
                        g.
Breach of Fiduciary Duty (8)
 
To state a claim for breach of fiduciary duty a plaintiff
must plead “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage
proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson
v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.) “A
fiduciary relationship is ‘ “any relation existing between parties to a
transaction wherein one of the parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost
good faith for the benefit of the other party.’ ” (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.)
 
Plaintiff alleges no such
relationship. In fact, the FAC alleges he engaged in arms-length transactions
with the lender defendants. This is at odds with a fiduciary relationship.
 
The demurrer is sustained as to
this cause of action.
 
                        h.
Wrongful Foreclosure (9)
 
“Case law
instructs that the elements of an equitable cause of action to set aside a
foreclosure sale are: (1) the trustee or mortgagee caused an illegal,
fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property pursuant to a power
of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party attacking the sale
(usually but not always the trustor or mortgagor) was prejudiced or harmed; and
(3) in cases where the trustor or mortgagor challenges the sale, the trustor or
mortgagor tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was excused from
tendering. [Citations.]” 
 
(Lona v. Citibank, N.A.
(2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 89, 104.)
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has
not pled any fraud with specificity. He has also not pled facts showing he
tendered any secured indebtedness or was excused; he only alleges he has “request[ed]
to negotiate”. (FAC, ¶ 39.) This does not state a claim for wrongful
foreclosure.
 
                        i.
RESPA and TILA violations (15)
 
Plaintiff also
alleges defendants violated the federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act
and Truth in Lending Act. Defendants argue there is no private cause of action
for a RESPA violation, and Plaintiff does not argue otherwise. Defendants also
argue this was a commercial rather than a consumer loan, based on their request
for judicial notice of the parties’ loan document.
 
As to RESPA:
Defendants’ unrebutted case law is directly on point. “Congress did not intend
to create a private right of action for disclosure violations under 12 U.S.C. §
2603.” (Bloom v. Martin (1994) 865 F.Supp. 1377, 1384.) Plaintiff’s
claim based on RESPA disclosures fails.
 
As to the
commercial/consumer loan distinction: Defendants’ arguments rely on evidence
outside the four corners of the pleading and only questionably subject to
judicial notice. The Court doesn’t need to grapple with the boundaries of
judicial notice for its decision. Plaintiff’s FAC simply fails to state a
claim.
 
California’s “fact pleading” rules require a pleading to
apprise an adversary of the factual basis of the plaintiff’s claim, providing
information detailed enough for the adversary to prepare a defense. (See Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 719-721.) The
standard is even higher for statutory claims, wherein a plaintiff must plead
the basis for statutory liability with particularity. (See Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 407.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s allegations, which merely list violations,
do not give enough specifics for SCCI to prepare a defense. For example, Plaintiff
refers to failures to make certain specific disclosures “[a]t the time of [his]
loan application” (FAC, ¶ 122) – but he does not allege when he made that
application, or to which of the defendants. Particularly given the uncertainty
of the rest of the FAC, SCCI cannot be expected to prepare a defense on this
sole basis.
 
Defendants’ argument regarding the nature of Plaintiff’s loan
is persuasive in the context of particularity rules, without the Court taking
notice of any other materials. The FAC does not clearly state the nature of
Plaintiff’s loan. The attachments to the FAC compound the problem by showing
that the deed was transferred between corporate entities. Plaintiff has not
pled a cause of action under either RESPA or TILA.
 
As with all the other causes of action, plaintiff has filed
no opposition, so he has made no showing he can cure the FAC. The demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Defendants’
unopposed demurrers are sustained in their entireties, without leave to amend.
 
            
 
 
Dated:   June 20, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
