 Case Number:  24LBCV01037    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural BackgroundOn May 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants The Money Source, Inc. (“Money Source”), Insource West Properties (“Insource”), ZBA Law (“ZBS”) and Does 1 to 10, alleging the following causes of action:1. Breach of Contract2. Emotional Distress3. Violation of Bus. Prof Code 172004. Unlawful Foreclosure5. Negligent Denial of Loan Modification6. Violation of California Homeowner’s Bill of Rights7. Foreclosure Fraud8. Theft by False PretensePlaintiff alleges that in or about June 2018, Plaintiff and Defendant Money Source entered into a written agreement (“Contract”) for Defendant Money Source to service a mortgage loan to Plaintiff’s property at 2711 E. Monroe Street Carson, CA 90810 (“property”) and in January 2022, Plaintiff was informed that Academy Home Service (“Academy”) was the new servicer of the loan. (Compl., ¶ 9.) While payments were made to Academy, Plaintiff received two modifications packages from Defendant Money Source on different dates; the first modification package was rejected by Defendant Money Source and the second modification package was completed and submitted to Defendant Money Source but Defendant Money Source stating the second modification package was submitted too late. (Compl., ¶¶ 10-11.) Plaintiff alleges that in June or July Defendant Money Source informed Plaintiff by phone that the second modification would be contingent on a $12,000 payment to Academy and Academy would give information regarding the remittance/payment of the said amount; Plaintiff made the $12,000.00 payment. (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff asserts that all payments made to Defendant Money Source and Academy were involved in a scam and that while Plaintiff was making monthly payments, Defendant Money Source was in the process of instituting foreclosure proceedings. (Ibid.) Plaintiff further states that the initial foreclosure sale was suspended because the property was not in default but then the foreclosure sale resumed for a second time. (Compl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff then alleges that Defendants Money Source and ZBS sold the property to Defendant Insource in December 2022 despite stating the sale would be illegal because it did not meet the foreclosure requirements. (Compl., ¶ 14.) Defendant Insource claimed it would not buy the property but then purchased the property and evicted Plaintiff and Plaintiff later learned Defendants Money Source and Insource are the same but trading under different names. (Compl., ¶ 15.)On July 12, 2024, Defendant Money Source filed the instant demurrer to and motion to strike portions of the complaint. On July 18, 2024, Default Judgment was entered against Defendant ZBS. On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike. On September 3, 2024, Defendant Money Source filed replies to the oppositions.Legal Standard: DemurrerA demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may be. A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and § 430.50, subd. (a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action within]. Specifically, a demurrer may be brought per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. Per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (a), a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. Furthermore, a demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) And, if the facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts as plead in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Meet and ConferThe requirements are satisfied. (Schratz Decl., ¶¶ 2-3; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2), and § 435.5, subd. (a)(2) & (3).)Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant Money Source’s Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibits 1-4 is granted pursuant to Evidence Code, §§ 452, subd. (h), and 453.Demurrer DiscussionDefendant Money Source demurs, per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, to the 1st through 8th causes of action on the ground that each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to establish liability against Defendant Money Source and is uncertain as to Defendant Money Source.1st Cause of Action – Breach of Contract“The elements of a breach of contract are: (1) existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant's breach; and (4) damages to plaintiff as a result of the breach.” (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1230.) “It is essential to the existence of a contract that there should be: 1. Parties capable of contracting; 2. Their consent; 3. A lawful object; and 4. A sufficient cause or consideration.” (Civ. Code, § 1550.)Defendant Money Source argues that complaint, Exhibit B only shows one alleged payment to Academy on January 13, 2022, the other marked payments were made through Zelle to other people. (Compl., ¶¶ 18, 20, Ex. B at p. 8; see Sarale v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 225, 245 [“If the facts appearing in the [complaint’s] attached exhibit contradict those expressly pleaded, those in the exhibit are given precedence.”]) In response, Plaintiff asserts that Academy was an agent of the Defendant Money Source, the principal. Plaintiff also contests the judicial notice request of Defendant Money Source.Here, Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action relies on the allegation that his loan was current at the time of foreclosure; however, Exhibit B of the complaint does not demonstrate that the alleged payments were made to Defendant Money Source or its alleged agent. Plaintiff’s performance, keeping current on the loan, is a necessary element for a breach of contract claim. Accordingly, the instant demurrer to the 1st cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.2nd Cause of Action – Infliction of Emotional DistressIIED occurs under conditions where there is: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.) A defendant's conduct is “outrageous” when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the defendant's conduct must be intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result. (Ibid.)Defendant Money Source asserts that the complaint allegations that Defendant Money Source acted outrageously by selling the property to Defendant Insource when the property was not in foreclosure is incorrect to the extent that Defendant Money Source had already foreclosed on the property and owned it nine months prior to selling the property to Insource. (See Compl., ¶ 30; RJN Exs. 3-4.) Also, Defendant Money Source states that the complaint does not provide sufficient factual allegations to support the elements of wrongful intentional conduct and that selling the property to Defendant Insource was either the actual or proximate cause of Plaintiff’s alleged emotional distress. (Compl., ¶¶ 29-41.) Further, Defendant Money Source repeats its earlier argument that Exhibit B of the complaint only shows one alleged payment to Academy and nothing else. (Compl., Ex. B at p. 8.) In response, Plaintiff contends that the property was not in foreclosure when it was sold, and evidence in the complaint supports this contention. Plaintiff also states that the other elements of the intentional infliction of emotional distress has been sufficiently pleaded in the complaint.The Court finds that the complaint fails to state sufficient facts as to an IIED cause of action. The complaint lacks details regarding Defendant Money Source’s intentional wrongful acts as well as that selling the property to Defendant Insource was either the actual or proximate cause of Plaintiff’s alleged emotional distress. Finally, Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action relies on the allegation that his loan was current at the time of foreclosure; however, Exhibit B of the complaint does not demonstrate that the alleged payments were made to Defendant Money Source or its alleged agent. Although it is unlikely that an amendment to the complaint can overcome the hurdles posed, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the 2nd cause of action.3rd Cause of Action – Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200A cause of action for Violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200 et seq. requires the pleading of the following elements:1) Defendant has engaged in any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice, including unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.2) Plaintiff's right to restitution, if any.3) Plaintiff's right to injunctive relief, if any.To state a claim, there must be allegations showing unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business acts or practices. (Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 676-677.) Since the cause of action is based on statute, pleadings must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation, including the particular section of the statute violated and the particular facts showing that the statute was violated. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)Defendant Money Source argues that because each of Plaintiff’s other causes of action fail as a matter of law, Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action, as a derivative claim, must also fail. (Ingels v. Westwood Broadcasting Services, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1050, 1060.) Additionally, Defendant Money Source contends that Plaintiff failed to specifically identify the law that Defendant Money Source allegedly violated and “state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury, supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at p. 619.) Further, Defendant Money Source asserts that Plaintiff defaulted prior to the foreclosure sale and thus Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action fails on this basis as well. (See Jenkins v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 497, 521-523 [holding that a plaintiff does not have standing to bring a UCL claim when they admit to being in default on the loan], disapproved on other grounds in Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 939-941.) In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that sufficient facts have been alleged to state a claim for Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.Exhibit B of Plaintiff’s complaint does not demonstrate that the alleged payments were made to Defendant Money Source or its alleged agent. Although it is unlikely that an amendment to the complaint can overcome the hurdles posed, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the 3rd cause of action.4th Cause of Action – Unlawful Foreclosure“A wrongful foreclosure is a common law tort claim. It is an equitable action to set aside a foreclosure sale, or an action for damages resulting from the sale, on the basis that the foreclosure was improper. The elements of a wrongful foreclosure cause of action are: (1) the trustee or mortgagee caused an illegal, fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property pursuant to a power of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party attacking the sale (usually but not always the truster or mortgagor) was prejudiced or harmed; and (3) in cases where the truster or mortgagor challenges the sale, the truster or mortgagor tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was excused from tendering.” (Sciarratta v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 552, 561-562 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].) “[M]ere technical violations of the foreclosure process will not give rise to a tort claim; the foreclosure must have been entirely unauthorized on the facts of the case.” (Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 409.)Defendant Money Source states that the tender rule applies to the present matter, and that Plaintiff’s allegation that “he tendered all amount due on a monthly basis to Defendant’s (TMS) subsidiary (Academy)” does not meet the tender requirement as Plaintiff must tender the full amount of indebtedness. (Compl., ¶ 58(3); Nguyen v. Calhoun (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 428, 439 [“it is a debtor's responsibility to make an unambiguous tender of the entire amount due or else suffer the consequence that the tender is of no effect”]; Abdallah v. United Savings Bank (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1101, 1109 (holding that a defaulted borrower is “required to allege tender of the amount of [the lender’s] secured indebtedness in order to maintain any cause of action for irregularity in the sale procedure”]). Also, Defendant Money Source repeats its earlier argument that Exhibit B of the complaint only shows one alleged payment to Academy and nothing else. (Compl., Ex. B at p. 8.) In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the tender rule is irrelevant because the issue was not subjected to the tendering of the amount of a secured indebtedness or was excused from tendering because the payments were current. Plaintiff maintains that the property was not in foreclosure and foreclosure requirements do not apply.In reply, Defendant Money Source contending that the tender rule requires that as a precondition to challenging a foreclosure sale or any cause of action implicitly integrated with the sale, the borrower must make a valid and viable tender of payment of the secured debt. (Karlsen v. American Savings and Loan Ass’n (1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 112, 117; Arnolds Management Corp. v. Eischen (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 575, 578.) Defendant Money Source reiterates that Exhibit B of the complaint shows Plaintiff did not make any payments to Defendant Money Source and at best one alleged payment to Defendant Money Source’s alleged agent—Academy.Here, the tender rule applies, and Plaintiff has not established unambiguous tender of the entire amount due. (See Nguyen, supra, 105 Cal.App.4th at p. 439; Abdallah v. United Savings Bank, supra, 43 Cal.App.4th at p. 1109.) Moreover, exhibit B of the Complaint seems to suggest otherwise. (Compl., Ex. B at p. 8.) Although it is unlikely that an amendment to the complaint can overcome the hurdles posed, the instant demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the 4th cause of action.5th Cause of Action – Negligent Denial of a Loan Modification“In order to prove negligence, plaintiff must establish duty, breach of that duty, causation, and damages.” (WFG National Title Ins. Co. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 881, 893.) Duty is a necessary element of Plaintiff's claim. (Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 404, 411.) The existence and scope of a defendant's duty is an issue of law to be decided by the court. (Avila v. Citrus Community College Dist. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 148, 161.)Defendant Money Source argues that as a lender it does not owe a duty of care to Plaintiff, relying upon Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, where our high court explained that “a lender's involvement in the loan modification process [including processing, reviewing, and responding to loan modification applications] is part and parcel of its assessment regarding how best to recoup the money it is owed,” and that “[s]uch involvement, without more, does not exceed the scope of [an institution's] conventional role as a mere lender of money.” (Id. at pp. 928-929 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].) Defendant Money Source also relies on the economic loss rule to contend that Plaintiff’s tort claims based in general negligence are barred. (Id. at 922 [“there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic loss,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.”])Plaintiff states that Defendant Money Source breached its duty to process the modification packages once Defendant Money Source received the modification packages from Plaintiff. Plaintiff also states that Defendant breached Consumer Protection Law by failing to follow the Home Affordable Modification Program.A lender does not owe a tort duty to process, review, or respond to a borrower’s application to modify a loan, and Defendant Money Source is alleged to be a lender for a mortgage loan for Plaintiff and his property. (Compl., ¶¶ 9, 18.) Although it is unlikely that an amendment to the complaint can overcome the hurdles posed, the instant demurrer as to the 5th cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.6th Cause of Action – Violation of California Homeowner’s Bill of Rights“[B]y its terms, the HBOR creates liability only for material violations that have not been remedied before the foreclosure sale is recorded. A material violation is one that affected the borrower's loan obligations, disrupted the borrower's loan-modification process, or otherwise harmed the borrower.” (Billesbach v. Specialized Loan Servicing LLC (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 830, 837.)Defendant Money Source contends that there was no dual tracking—when a mortgage service proceeds to the next step in the foreclosure process while a borrower’s complete application for a loan modification is pending—as Plaintiff admits he submitted his loan modification after the property had sold at the foreclosure sale. (RJN Ex. 3, Compl., Exs. C, D, E.) Also, Defendant Money Source repeats its earlier argument that Exhibit B of the complaint only shows one alleged payment to Academy and nothing else. (Compl., Ex. B at p. 8.) In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Money Source submitted a false statement that modification packages were submitted after foreclosure.The modification discussions on November 22 and 28, 2022 and July 30, 2023 with Defendant Money Source seem to have occurred after foreclosure was completed, with the Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale recorded on November 9, 2022. (See Compl., Exs. C and D; RJN Ex. 3.) Although it is unlikely that an amendment to the complaint can overcome the hurdles posed, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the 6th cause of action.7th Cause of Action – Foreclosure FraudThe elements of fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud—i.e., induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal. 4th 167, 173.) The policy of liberal construction of the pleadings ordinarily does not apply to causes of action for fraud, and fraud must be pleaded with particularity. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “The particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”’ (Ibid.) Defendant Money Source contends that the allegations do not meet the specificity requirement to survive demurrer, as they do not identify statements made to Plaintiff and what means the alleged statements were made, who at Defendant Money Source made statements or their authority to speak on behalf of Defendant Money Source or when the representations were made. (Compl., ¶¶ 79-86.) Plaintiff argues that sufficient facts have been pled to meet the elements and that Defendant Money Source had knowledge its conduct would constitute fraud.The Court agrees that Plaintiff has not pleaded with sufficient particularity as to meet the elements of fraud. The instant demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to 7th cause of action.8th Cause of Action – Theft by False PretensesPenal Code, § 496, provides, in pertinent part: “(a) Every person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170. However, if the value of the property does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950), the offense shall be a misdemeanor, punishable only by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, if such person has no prior convictions for an offense specified in clause (iv) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 667 or for an offense requiring registration pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 290. A principal in the actual theft of the property may be convicted pursuant to this section.However, no person may be convicted both pursuant to this section and of the theft of the same property.” (Ibid.)Under subdivision (c), a civil remedy is provided for a violation of this section:“(c) Any person who has been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.” (Ibid.)“[T]heft by false pretenses requires that '(1) the defendant made a false pretense or representation to the owner of property; (2) with the intent to defraud the owner of that property; and (3) the owner transferred the property to the defendant in reliance on the representation.'” (People v. Williams (2013) 57 Cal.4th 776, 787 [citing People v. Wooten (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1834, 1843].)Defendant Money Source states that the property was foreclosed upon and that the title to the property was never transferred. (RJN Ex. 3.) Also, Defendant Money Source asserts that the alleged representations occurred after Defendant Money Source foreclosed on the property. (RJN Ex. 3; Compl., Exs. C, D, E.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the 8th cause of action has been sufficiently pled. In reply, Defendant Money Source adds that the exhibits attached to the complaint demonstrate only that Plaintiff submitted correspondence to Defendant Money Source and does not demonstrate any representations by Defendant Money Source.The Court agrees with Defendant Money Source. It appears the exhibits attached to the complaint contradict Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant Money Source submitted loan modification representations and/or documents to Plaintiff. Although it is unlikely that an amendment to the complaint can overcome the hurdles posed, the instant demurrer to the 8th cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.Motion to StrikeDefendant Money Source requests the Court strike the following portions from the complaint: ¶¶ 28, 41, 52, 61, 70, 76, 86, 104, and Prayer for Relief ¶¶ 1-9. The instant motion to strike is moot in light of the ruling on the instant demurrer.Tentative RulingDefendant The Money Source’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to 1st through 8th causes of action. Plaintiff has 30 days from the date of this ruling to file an amended complaint.