 Case Number:  22STCV34514    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Cheryl Neff,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV34514




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Procare Hospice LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
September 21, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Quash
Subpoena for Business Records
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Cheryl Neff
Responding
Party: Defendant Procare Hospice LLC
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition and reply.
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of
books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a
court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”  (CCP §
1987.1(a).) A motion to quash subpoena must be accompanied by a separate
statement. (CRC Rule 3.1345(a)(5).)
 
Plaintiff moves to quash a subpoena for employment records from
Plaintiff’s current employer. The subpoena requests,
 
All
employment records, including but not limited to, documents related to the
application process, documents related to the interview process, documents
related to prospective employment, the personnel file, Human Resources file,
disability/medical file, time records, performance reviews, disciplinary
records, termination records, salary records (including records of all
commissions and bonuses earned), workers' compensation claims, employee benefit
records, charges or complaints (whether internal, state, federal,
administrative, or otherwise), correspondence, and notes...
 
Plaintiff asserts the subpoena is overbroad and infringes on her right
to privacy. Plaintiff also represents that she already produced her personnel
file and current pay and benefits information, rendering the subpoena largely
moot. In opposition, Defendant claims that Plaintiff’s purported personnel file
is incomplete because it did not include page numbers, performance reviews, or
payroll information.
 
As Plaintiff has produced her personnel file and pay information, the
subpoena is unnecessary. There is no indication that Plaintiff has withheld
information or documents. Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.
 
 
 