 Case Number:  24NNCV01629    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GLADIS ORTIZ, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
NANCY
   ZELAYA, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV01629
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT NANCY ZELAYA’S MOTION TO STRIKE AND DEMURRER;
   PLAINTIFF GLADIS ORTIZ’S MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   26, 2024




 


)


 



 
          Defendant Nancy
Zelaya (“Defendant”), as an individual and as trustee of the Jose A. Zelaya
Trust, moves to strike the Complaint filed by plaintiffs Gladis Ortiz and
Patricia Talamantez, as the trustee of The Gladis Ortiz Living Trust Dated May
4, 1992. 
A motion to strike can be used where
the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or filed in conformity with
applicable rules or court orders.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (b).  A motion to
strike will lie for a pleading that is not signed by the attorney “unless
omission of the signature is corrected promptly after being called to the
attention of the attorney or party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (a).) 
Defendant’s motion to strike was filed
on July 31, 2024. Therefore, Plaintiffs have had almost 2 months to rectify
this issue. Moreover, while this motion was pending, Defendant moved ex parte
to advance the hearing date on this motion, as well as Defendant’s
concurrently-filed demurrer, on August 29, 2024. Therefore, Plaintiffs have
been notified twice of the Complaint’s deficiencies and failed to act. 
Accordingly, the unopposed motion to
strike is GRANTED and the Complaint is ordered stricken without prejudice.
Without an operative pleading, the demurrer and motion to trial preference are
moot. 
Dated
this 26th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 