  Case Number:  21STCV18038    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Motion For Summary Judgment, Or In The Alternative,
Summary Adjudication Of Issues By Defendant Knd Development 52, Llc Dba Kindred
Hospital Baldwin Park is GRANTED as to Elder Abuse COA because there
is no evidence of corporate ratification but DENIED as to
the Professional Negligence COA because a triable issue of material act exists
as to causation. 
 
Background
 
This is an elder abuse case. Plaintiff Lie-Yen Hu
(“Plaintiff”) alleges the following against Defendants Kindred Hospital-Baldwin
Park (“Defendant Kindred”) and Keck Hospital of USC (“Keck” or “USC”)
(collectively, “Defendants”): Plaintiff is mentally incapacitated due to
encephalopathy, unconsciousness, the effects of numerous medications, and other
conditions. 
Plaintiff was a resident of Defendant Kindred from on or
about April 7, 2020 through on or about September 25, 2020. As for
Defendant Kindred, despite knowing of Plaintiff’s needs, Kindred repeatedly
failed to provide care. 
 
On May 13, 2021, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendants. 
 
On June 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed its Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”).
 
On July 20, 2022, USC filed a demurrer to the SAC, which the
court on 8/31/22 overruled.
 
On November 2, 2022, Kindred filed the instant MSJ.
 
On December 29, 2022, the court entered an order continuing
trial and all related dates.
 
On May 9, 2023, USC filed its MSJ, which on 2/21/24 it
withdrew. 
 
On February 14, 2014, Plaintiff filed the opposition to
Kindred’s MSJ.
 
On February 23, 2024, Kindred filed its Reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The law of summary judgment
provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Aguilar).)  In reviewing a motion for
summary judgment, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)   
 
A moving defendant bears the initial burden of production to
show that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or
that there is a complete defense to the cause of action, at which point the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to make a prima facie showing of the
existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) “The motion shall be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice
shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall include a separate statement
setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party
contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by
a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this
requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a
sufficient ground for denying the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
The opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or
denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, at p.
849.) Specifically, “[t]he opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (2).) 
 

Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389; see also Hinesley, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”].)  In determining whether the papers show that there is a
triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all of the
evidence set forth in the moving papers, except that as to which objections
have been made and sustained, and all inferences reasonable deducible from such
evidence. (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d
629, 639.)
 

 
 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Court need only rule on objections material to adjudication
of the motion. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (2), subs. (q) [“In granting or denying a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections
to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion. Objections
to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall be preserved
for appellate review.”].)  
 
Kindred’s Objection #1: 
Evidentiary Objections To The Declaration Of Marvin
Pietruszka, M.D. In Support Of Plaintiff’s Opposition To The Motion For Summary
Judgment, Or In The Alternative, Summary Adjudication Of Issues By Defendant
Knd Development 52, LLC Dba Kindred Hospital Baldwin Park: 
OVERRULED because Kindred failed to offer an
analysis as to its objections. For example, it is unclear how Dr. Pietruszka’s
declaration should be stricken in its entirety based upon a lack of foundation
when he is a qualified expert (experience in primary medical care as well as in
subspecialty consultation, acute care and long-term care). Or it is unclear how
Dr. Pietruszka’s declaration
fails to lay the foundation (Reply p. 6:2-3) when his declaration lists the materials he reviewed in forming
his opinion. (See Pietruszka Decl., ¶4.)
 
Kindred’s Objection #2:
Evidentiary Objections To The Exhibits Submitted By
Plaintiff In Opposition To The Motion For Summary Judgment, Or In The
Alternative, Summary Adjudication Of Issues By Defendant Knd Development 52,
Llc Dba Kindred Hospital Baldwin Park: 
OVERRULED because Defendant’s own evidence
suffers from certain defects (See e.g., fn. 2, infra). And as the
court exercises its discretion to overlook Defendant’s defects, it is only but
fair to overlook some of Plaintiff’s defects such as Plaintiff’s failure to
provide a table of contents in its evidence.
 
Discussion
 
Kindred moves
for an granting its MSJ, or in the alternative, summary adjudication as to the
1st COA for Elder Abuse & Neglect and 2nd COA for
Negligence. 
 
1.    
1st COA for Elder Abuse 
Case law is clear that, “‘neglect’ within the meaning of Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15610.57 covers an area of misconduct distinct from
‘professional negligence.’” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783 (Covenant Care).) “As used in the Act,
neglect refers not to the substandard performance of medical services but,
rather, to the ‘failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs
and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional
standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.’” (Id.) In order to
distinguish Dependent Adult Abuse from Professional Negligence, there must be a
showing of recklessness, fraud, malice, or oppression. (See Covenant Care,
Inc., supra, 32 Cal.4th at 783.) “Oppression, fraud, and malice involve
intentional, willful, or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious
nature.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 396, 405 (internal quotation marks omitted).) Recklessness requires
deliberate disregard of a high degree of probability an injury will occur. (Id.)
The enhanced remedies for Elder Abuse are only available for “acts of egregious
abuse against elder and dependent adults.” (Id.) 
According to the Covenant Care court, the following are the four (4)
elements to an elder abuse COA, which due to the statutory nature, must be
pled with particularity: (1) the plaintiff must allege facts establishing that
the defendant had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or
dependent adult (e.g., nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care); (2)
defendant knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to
provide for his or her own basic needs; (3) the defendant denied or withheld
goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs,
either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder
or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or
with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the
plaintiff alleges recklessness; and (4) that the defendant’s neglect caused the
elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” (Covenant
Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 790). Lastly, there must be an allegation
of authorization or ratification on the part of a managing agent in order to
recover damages for dependent adult abuse against corporate defendants. (See
Civ. Code, § 3294; Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657(c); see also CACI section 3102B.) 
As the MSJ can be more
readily adjudicated on the issue of whether Plaintiff has evidence of corporate
ratification, the court will focus its analysis on that matter, which, for
reasons to be discussed below, Plaintiff has produced no evidence. 
Ratification 
Preliminary, Kindred
does not support its motion with affirmative evidence to negate an essential
element of Plaintiff’s case, but points to the absence of evidence
in Plaintiff’s case. (Motion p. 5:25-28; see also Reply p. 1:4-5
[“Kindred Baldwin Park has met its burden of addressing the absence of evidence
to support Plaintiff’s case as clearly presented in its moving papers.”].)
Indeed, another
way for a defendant to obtain summary judgment is to “show” that an essential
element of plaintiff's claim cannot be established. Defendant does so by
presenting evidence that plaintiff “does
not possess and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
854.) 
How
Defendant Can “Show” Lack of Evidence 
Unlike
the federal rules of civil procedure, “summary judgment law in this state .
.  continues to require a defendant
moving for summary judgment to present evidence, and not simply point out, that the plaintiff does
not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 854-855, emphasis added; see also Gaggero v.
Yura (2003) 108 Cal.4th 884, 891; Zoran Corp v. Chen (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 799, 808.) Such evidence usually consists of
admissions by plaintiff following sufficient discovery to the effect
that plaintiff has discovered nothing to support an essential element of the
COA. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855; see also Motion p. 6, citing
Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.4th 573, 590.) 
As
explained by the Rutter Group,[1]
a defendant may be able to “show” the absence of evidence on a crucial element
of the plaintiff’s case via Plaintiff’s discovery admissions. For example, in a
products liability case, the appellate court determined that Plaintiff’s
inability to identify a defendant amounted to a showing of an absence of
evidence. (See Sheffield v. Eli Lilly Co. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 583,
611 [“[D]espite changes in the statutory law . . . the fruits of discovery
could be considered in support of or in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment. We have, accordingly, considered the entire record in concluding that
the plaintiffs have failed to show either that any particular defendant furnished
the defective vaccine that allegedly caused their injuries; that all of the
defendants were tortfeasors in that they manufactured a defective product, or a
product that necessitated a warning because it was inherently dangerous. Their
inability to identify the alleged tortfeasor is admitted.”], emphasis added.) Similarly, factually devoid
discovery responses can sufficiently establish an absence of evidence.
(See e.g., Union Bank, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 590 [In a fraud case, the
defendant's interrogatories asked the plaintiff to state “all facts” and to
identify all witnesses and documents supporting the fraud claims. The
plaintiff’s answer stated only that he “believed” that the defendant “knowingly
and fraudulently” committed certain acts. Such factually devoid responses
strongly supported an inference that
P had no facts to support its fraud claim, satisfying
D's burden of showing “one or more elements of the cause of action … cannot be
established.”].) 
Such
a showing shifts the evidentiary burden to plaintiff/opposing party to raise a
triable issue of fact as to that element of that COA. (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) 
As the pleadings frame the issue(s) on an MSJ, the court turns to the
relevant allegations of ratification in the SAC. 
When plaintiff's family members
expressed their concerns [of the alleged elder abuse] they would be assured
that plaintiff was being properly cared for an that there was no cause for
concern. Yet no one, including none of KINDRED’s charge nurses or managerial
staff, made any notation or record regarding the concerns voiced by plaintiff's
family members.  In addition, despite
assurances that plaintiff's family members' concerns would be addressed, they
were not.  Rather, the lack of care and
treatment referenced above continued. 
Furthermore, nursing staff at KINDRED failed to inform and actively
concealed from plaintiff's family members the true nature of plaintiff’s
condition and the extent of plaintiff's injuries.  This included the failure to inform
plaintiff's family that plaintiff had developed severe skin breakdown.    In addition, despite knowledge of the lack
of care and treatment provided to plaintiff as evidenced by these injuries, and
knowledge of related concerns expressed by plaintiff’s family members, there is
no record that anyone associated with KINDRED – and certainly no officer,
directors or managing agent – ever counseled, warned, retrained, or reprimanded
any individual who failed to provide care to plaintiff.  Having reviewed records from KINDRED,
plaintiff believe [sic] persons who possessed such knowledge and failed to so
inform plaintiff’s family or take any of the other actions referenced above
included registered nurse Ryanne Connell. 
Instead, despite such knowledge, KINDRED’s officers, directors and/or
managing agents as described above authorized and ratified the misconduct in
question. (SAC ¶28, emphasis added.) 
 
Effectively, Plaintiff alleges that a
registered nurse, Ryanne Connell, did not inform management of the purported
elder abuse; thus, there was corporate ratification. Not so. 
 
For one, the allegation appears to
tacitly concede no corporate ratification of the allegations concerning actions
of the nursing staff, but a nurse is neither an officer, director, nor managing
agent of Kindred. 
 
That aside, Plaintiff has no clear and
convincing evidence that an officer, director or managing agent of Kindred
Baldwin Park authorized or ratified any wrongful conduct, or committed any
oppressive, malicious or fraudulent act or omission constituting neglect or
abuse of Plaintiff. (SS No. 54.)[2] For
example, in response to special interrogatories regarding conversations
Plaintiff had with individuals at Kindred, including complaints Plaintiff made
to Kindred (Defendant’s Evidence, Ex. 2, p. 25 of 366 of PDF), Plaintiff
largely responded with boilerplate objections like discovery was ongoing or
that the questions were vague, unduly burdensome, subject to privileged
attorney work product, overbroad, beyond the permissible scope of discovery,
notably when discovery responses were provided well over six months after
commencement of the lawsuit (filed May 2021, responses received January 2022)
and the information was within Plaintiff’s knowledge.  
 
In neither the opposition nor the response to SS No. 54
does Plaintiff address that the factually devoid discovery responses amount to
a showing of the absence of evidence on the issue of ratification.
 
Instead, the response to SS. No. 54 regurgitates
the allegations of purported elder abuse. (“Disputed. Following decedent’s
September 25 admission to Sunset Manor Convalescent Hospital, nurses there
charted bilateral heel sores at 3 x 3 cm and a right hand sore, all with “100%
eschar,” indicating pressure ulceration of severity stage 4….”].
 
Additionally, the opposition argues
that “despite notice of severe and chronic deficiencies in staffing,
training and supervision; notice of the effect these deficiencies had on care;
and notice of the consequent risks faced by patients including decedent,
defendant’s management made a conscious decision to disregard the risk of
choosing not supplement its staffing or train or supervise them” but cites to no
evidence to support allegations of “notice.” (Opp. p. 14:9-12.)[3] 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff relies
upon the declaration of Dr. Marvin Pietruszka (Opp. p. 14), his declaration
does not speak to ratification. (Nor could it as he, as a medical expert, is unqualified
to offer a legal opinion.) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff may argue
during the hearing that it can obtain said, that is untimely as
Plaintiff did not take the depositions of any Kindred Baldwin Park hospital
staff nor produced documents demonstrating ratification. (Reply p. 4:13-23.) 
 
Therefore, as Plaintiff failed to
meet its evidentiary burden, the court GRANTS the MSJ as to the 1st
COA for elder abuse. 
 
2.    
Negligence[4]
 
Kindred focuses on the lack of evidence
to support causation. (Motion p. 11.)
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Burden
 
The undisputed evidence that when
Plaintiff was admitted to Kindred on 4/7/2020, she was diagnosed with (3)
vessels diseases; bradycardia; recent cardiogenic shock with prolonged
intra-aortic balloon pump support; acute hypoxemic respiratory failure,
ventilator dependent; aspergillus, pulmonary; acute kidney injury on
hemodialysis; dysphagia status post percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube;
peripheral arterial disease; anemia, hyperlipidemia; hypertension; diabetes
type 2; and choledocholithiasis. (SS No 26.) She was also admitted with poor
skin integrity and several pressure wounds on her body, including wounds on her
right posterior thigh, left posterior thigh, left toes, right big toe and
sacrococcygeal area. (SS No. 27.) 
 
Based thereon, Kindred’s expert Dr.
William P. Klein[5] opines
that Plaintiff’s deteriorating wounds and infection were inevitable due to her
declining physical health, including her diabetes, osteomyelitis, gangrene,
peripheral arterial disease and respiratory failure. (Klein ¶32.)
 
Therefore, as the admissible evidence
provides that Kindred did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries. The burden now shifts
to Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Burden
 
According to Plaintiff’s response to SS
No. 52 and in reliance upon the expert opinion of Dr. Pietruszka, Kindred did
cause Plaintiff to suffer injuries. By late August, the medical chart(s)
noted her sacral wound as reaching stage 4 and being 8 x 8 cm in size. To the
extent that Kindred’s expert Dr. Klein observation that Plaintiff’s wounds were
“unavoidable” nor “non-healing,” that is contradicted by the improvement
Plaintiff experienced. (Pietruszka Decl., p. 3.) Additionally, Plaintiff she
also sustained a loss of more than 20 lbs. and suffered severe malnutrition due
to the failure to receive tube feeding. 
 
Records
from USC show she was “tolerating” such feedings as late as April 5 (Exhibit J
to Ghecea Declaration), and no records at Kindred state that this changed. This
meant that her body was not rejecting nutrition, and that her weight should
remain stable (if not increase) in response to provision of tube feeding
consistent with physician orders. As expected, she went from weighing 136
pounds at admission to weighing 137.8 pounds by April 19, and as late as May 24
remained at 135.5 pounds (Exhibit K to Ghecea Declaration). By June 28,
however, her weight fell dramatically, declining to 115 pounds – a loss of more
than 20 pounds in one month (Exhibit L to Ghecea Declaration). Her Albumin
level fell from 3.7 on May 23 to 2.9 on June 2 and 2.6 on July 4 (Exhibit M to
Ghecea Declaration); by August 4 it reached 2.4, and by September 23 it fell to
a nadir of 2.3 (Exhibit M to Ghecea Declaration). Albumin is the primary
indicator of a patient’s protein levels, and this decline was consistent with
her severe decline in weight. There was no excuse for decedent losing so
much weight at Kindred, aside from repeated and severe failures by staff to
provide and monitor her receipt of regular tube feedings. Indeed, while
decedent was supposed to be receiving “Novasource” feeding at a rate of “35
mL/hr” in late May, records suggest staff may only have been giving her “5
mL/hr” at this time (Exhibit V to Ghecea Declaration). Worse yet, daily
tube feeding records show nurses failed to give her any tube feeding at
all on nine days between May 28 and June 19 (at which point Kindred switched
her to Diabetisource), and on five more days between June 19 and 28 (Exhibit
V to Ghecea Declaration). Her resulting malnutrition and extremely low Albumin
levels beginning on July 4 set the stage for the severe skin breakdown she
suffered thereafter. (Pietruszka Decl., p. 4, emphasis and underline added.) 
 
Effectively, Plaintiff’s medical
expert’s opinion that Kindred’s care fell below a certain standard of care
(e.g., failing to give Plaintiff adequate nutrition) such that it caused
certain injuries (e.g., extreme weight loss), is sufficient to create a triable
issue of material act as to the element of causation. 
 
To the extent that Kindred in Reply
states that Dr. Pietruszka’s opinion misstates the evidence, there is no
evidence of that. “Dr. Pietruszka’s opinion . . .appears baseless at best,
misleading at worst.  Moreover, Dr.
Pietruszka opined that Decedent’s weight “fell dramatically” during her
admission to Kindred Baldwin Park, ignoring the documentation that indicated
errors in the scale, the transition of Decedent to an oral pureed diet and that
Decedent’s ideal body weight based on her Body Mass Index was 110 pounds.”
(Reply p. 6:11-17.) Dr. Klein’s declaration does not mention the foregoing
facts. 
 
To the extent that Kindred takes issue
with the accuracy of Dr. Pietruszka’s medical opinion, this court does
not weigh the evidence, especially the veracity of an expert, as that is
for the trier of fact.[6]
 
Therefore, as Dr. Pietruszka’s opinions
are not based on speculation, not conclusive, nor based on
assumptions of fact without evidentiary support, Plaintiff has met its
evidentiary burden, meaning that summary judgment as to the negligence COA
would be improper. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the MSJ is
GRANTED in part (i.e., as to the Elder Abuse COA) and DENIED in part (i.e., as
to Negligence COA). 
 


