 Case Number:  24TRCV00664    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
DAVACIA
  BLACKMON, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00664




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
EXTRA
  SPACE STORAGE,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          August 16, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Extra Space Properties Forty LP
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the complaint. 
The motion to strike is MOOT in light of the ruling on the demurrer.
BACKGROUND
            On February 27, 2024, plaintiff
Davacia Blackmon (self-represented) filed a complaint against defendant Extra
Space Storage. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant Extra Space Properties
Forty LP (erroneously sued and served as Extra Space Storage) demurs to the
complaint on the grounds that it fails to state sufficient facts to constitute
a cause of action and is uncertain.
The Court notes that plaintiff does
not allege any causes of action.  Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 2.112 requires that “[e]ach separately stated cause of
action . . . must specifically state: 
(1) Its number (e.g., ‘first cause of action’); (2) Its nature (e.g.,
‘for fraud’) . . . .”
The complaint alleges that
plaintiff purchased her storage unit in 2020 and that she has never been more
than two months behind on payments.  In July
2023, she went to make a payment and was told her unit was five months
late.  She asked to speak with a manager
to see how the problem could be resolved. 
She left and returned the next day but “[w]e never resolved how my unit
was so many months behind.”  Plaintiff
further alleges that she was told that she had less than twenty-four hours to
get her property but that she did not have a moving truck or vehicle to get any
items.  When plaintiff returned the next
day, she was told she was trespassing, which “didn’t make any sense at all” and
that the employee “got loud” and called plaintiff “a horrible name” and
“everything went wrong.”  She was told to
leave the property.  Plaintiff returned a
week later and asked if anyone had heard from the “purchaser” of her personal
items, which would not be any value to them, but did not receive a response.
Defendant “interprets Plaintiff’s
complaint to attempt to plead causes of action for contractual fraud and breach
of contract” and argues that the allegations are insufficient and ambiguous to
support each purported cause of action. 
Defendant also contends that it cannot quite ascertain what plaintiff is
claiming against defendant and that plaintiff does not plead any action or
inaction of defendant in the complaint or any harm or damages caused by
defendant.
The Court rules as follows:  The complaint is procedurally defective and
uncertain.  As stated above, plaintiff
failed to comply with Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.112 as the complaint does not
identify by number any cause of action. 
The Court declines to speculate as to what causes of action plaintiff
intended to assert.  The complaint that
was filed is four pages long and does not include any mention or reference to
any cause of action.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Strike  
Defendant requests that the Court
strike the entirety of the complaint because plaintiff has failed to plead a
cognizant cause of action against defendant rendering the entirety of the
complaint as improper and irrelevant. 
Defendant reiterates its arguments under the demurrer.
There is no opposition.
The Court agrees that the complaint
fails to plead a cause of action against defendant.  The Court, however, declines to strike the
complaint in light of the ruling on the demurrer in allowing plaintiff to
amend. 
The motion to strike is deemed MOOT.
ORDER
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the complaint. 
The motion to strike is MOOT in light of the ruling on the demurrer.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.