  Case Number:  24STCV06042    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 18, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Junkers2Jewels LLC, et al. v. La-Doris
McClaney, Trustee of the La-Doris McClaney Family Trust, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV06042            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE (x3) 

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2); Defendant La-Doris McClaney, Trustee of the
La-Doris McClaney Family Trust (3)(4) Defendant Gregory Bass; (5)(6) Defendant
Patricia Grandison
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)-(6)Plaintiffs
Junkers2Jewels, LLC and Matthew Pelanne.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/11/24: Complaint filed.
·        
03/25/24: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
breached a purchase agreement for a parcel of real property by unilaterally
cancelling escrow. 
 
Defendants demur to the First
Amended Complaint and move to strike portions of the complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Demurrers to the First Amended Complaint are SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            Defendants’
Motions to Strike are DENIED as moot.   
 
            The
Court sets a Hearing on Monday, December 2, 2024 at 8:30 AM on an Order to Show
Cause Re: Why Attorney Phoenix Thottam, Counsel for Plaintiffs, should not be
sanctioned and referred to the State Bar of California for disciplinary action
for providing false citations to legal authority to this Court. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Grandison’s Demurrer to First Amended
Complaint
 
            Defendant La-Doris
McClaney demurs to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety.
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The ultimate facts
alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that may be
implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields v.
County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of David M. Berger
accompanying the Demurrer states that counsel for the parties met and conferred
electronically on October 2, 2024, and via telephone on October 4, 2024, but
were not able to resolve the disputes at issue in this demurrer. (Declaration
of David. M. Berger ISO Dem. ¶¶ 2-3.) Defendant has satisfied her statutory
meet-and-confer obligations.
 
//
Lack of Standing
 
            Defendant
demurs to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety on the grounds that the
Plaintiffs have not properly alleged standing to sue based on the conduct that
is alleged. 
 
“In general terms, in order to have
standing, the plaintiff must be able to allege injury—that is, some invasion of
the plaintiff’s legally protected interests.” (Angelucci v. Century Supper
Club (2007) 41 Cal.4th 160, 175 [internal quotations omitted].) All actions
must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 367.) A real party in interest is one who owns or holds title to the claim or
property involved. (E.g., Gantman v. United Pacific Ins. Co. (1991) 232
Cal.App.3d 1560, 1566.) For claims based upon a contract, the party must be a
signatory to the contract or an intended third-party beneficiary. (Berclain
Am. Latina v. Baan Co. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 401, 405.) 
 
The First Amended Complaint alleges
that Plaintiffs—i.e., Junkers2Jewels, LLC and Matthew Pelanne--entered into a
commercial purchase agreement on January 23, 2024 with Defendant McClaney for
the purchase of a multifamily apartment building at 8543 Cashio St., Los
Angeles, CA 90035, for $900,000. (FAC ¶¶ 9-10.) As alleged, the Defendant
McClaney and her broker and real estate agents, Defendants Bass and Grandison,
did not provide accurate rent rolls, did not provide accurate tenant estoppel
certificates and lease agreements, refused to provide signed Subordination,
Non-Disturbance, and Attornment Agreements from the tenants, and instructed the
tenants not to communicate with Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶¶ 12-17.) As a result, the
sale has not been completed. (FAC ¶ 20.) Although Plaintiffs assert various
claims ostensibly sounding both in contract and in tort, no other facts are
alleged in the First Amended Complaint. 
 
The attached Commercial Purchase
Agreement states that the purchaser was neither of these parties, but rather a
separate entity, FWA Properties, Inc. (FAC Exh. 3. § 1A.) Although the
Agreement is signed by Matthew Pelanne, section 35 of the Agreement expressly
states that the signature of the legally authorized signer (i.e., Plaintiff
Pelanne) is in a representative capacity only, and not in an individual
capacity unless otherwise indicated. (FAC Exh. 3 § 35.) No such indication is
present in the Agreement. (Id.) “Where written documents are the
foundation of an action and are attached to the complaint and incorporated
therein by reference, they become a part of the complaint and may be considered
on demurrer.” (Qualcomm, Inc. v. Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s, London
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 184, 191.) “Under the doctrine of truthful pleading, the
courts ‘will not close their eyes to situations where a complaint contains
allegations of fact inconsistent with attached documents, or allegations
contrary to facts that are judicially noticed.’ [Citation.] ‘False allegations
of fact, inconsistent with annexed documentary exhibits [citation] or contrary
to facts judicially noticed [citation], may be disregarded.” (Trinity Park;
L.P. v. City of Sunnyvale (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1027.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs
have not adequately alleged standing to sue on any of their claims because Plaintiffs’
legal theories are all grounded in the Purchase Agreement and its execution, to
which neither Plaintiff is a party. Thus, Defendant contends, Plaintiffs have
not adequately alleged facts showing an injury to themselves rather than to the
buyer, who is not a party. In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that FWA assigned
its rights to these Plaintiffs. No such allegation is present in the pleadings,
and Plaintiffs’ argument in opposition is premised entirely on extrinsic
evidence, which is not admissible on demurrer. 
 
Plaintiffs also assert that Matthew
Pelanne has standing as the sole owner and principle of Junkers2Jewels who was
personally involved and suffered individual harm. This contention is also
unsupported by allegations in the pleadings. 
 
More gravely, Plaintiffs purport to
cite a 2021 case entitled Truong v. Diamond Valley Federal Credit Union,
with a pin citation of 67 Cal.App.5th 263 at 276. The Court has searched for
this case and has found no record of any opinion matching this citation. While 67
Cal.App.5th 263, 267 is a valid citation to a 2021 case, that reference points
to the concluding page of Kim v. R. Consulting & Sales Inc., which
has absolutely no bearing on this matter. California Rule of Professional
Conduct 3.3(a)(1) states that a lawyer shall not “knowingly make a false
statement of fact or law to a tribunal or fail to correct a false statement of
material fact or law previously made to the tribunal by the lawyer.” (Cal. Rule
of Professional Conduct 3.3(a)(1).) It appears that counsel for Plaintiffs may
have done just that by providing false citations to nonexistent legal authority
to this Court. 
 
Setting the matter of Plaintiffs’
invalid citations aside for the moment, Plaintiffs also assert that they are
entitled to bring these claims as intended third-party beneficiaries. As stated
by our Supreme Court in Biakanja v. Irving, “[t]he determination whether
in a specific case the defendant will be held liable to a third person not in
privity is a matter of policy and involves the balancing of various factors,
among which are the extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the
plaintiff, the foreseeability of harm to him, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, and the policy of preventing future harm.” (Biakanja v.
Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d 647, 650.) Although Plaintiffs recite this
authority and assert the presence of all six factors, they do not point to
allegations in the pleadings or judicially noticeable matter which, even under
the liberal construction of the pleadings employed on demurrer, would support a
third-party beneficiary theory of liability. Similarly, Plaintiffs’ assertion
that that Junkers2Jewels was “clearly” the disclosed principal and intended
purchaser, and therefore entitled to enforce the contract, is likewise
unsupported by the pleadings and therefore wholly unpersuasive. 
 
Plaintiffs have not adequately
alleged facts which would establish their right to assert the claims pled in
the First Amended Complaint either as the assignees or the principals of FWA
Properties, Inc. Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint must
therefore be SUSTAINED in its entirety. 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate how they can amend their pleadings to state their claims against a
defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
“Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the
complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Plaintiffs
have not expressly demonstrated how the Complaint could be amended to cure the
deficiencies identified here. Plaintiffs have, however, offered extrinsic
evidence and multiple legal theories which, had they been set forth in the
pleadings, would have offered colorable theories of liability by the Defendant
to these Plaintiffs. The Court will therefore exercise its discretion to permit
Plaintiffs to amend the pleadings to properly plead those theories. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant McClaney’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
 
Defendant McClaney’s Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant McClaney
also moves to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint. As the Court has
sustained her demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, Defendant McClaney’s
Motion to Strike DENIED as
moot.   
 
Defendant Grandison’s Demurrer to First Amended
Complaint
 
            Defendant
Grandison demurs to the First Amended Complaint on substantively identical
grounds as Defendant McClaney. For the reasons stated above, Defendant
Grandison’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Defendant Grandison’s Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant
Grandison also moves to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint. As the
Court has sustained the demurrer, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is DENIED as moot.   
 
Defendant Bass’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
Defendant Bass demurs to the First
Amended Complaint on substantively identical grounds as Defendant McClaney. For
the reasons stated above, Defendant Bass’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend. 
 
Defendant Grandison’s Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant Bass
also moves to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint. As the Court has
sustained his demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, Defendant Bass’s Motion
to Strike is DENIED as
moot.   
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrers to the First Amended Complaint are SUSTAINED with leave
to amend.
 
            Defendants’
Motions to Strike are DENIED as moot.   
 
            The
Court sets a Hearing on an Order to Show Cause Re: Why Attorney Phoenix
Thottam, Counsel for Plaintiffs, should not be sanctioned and referred to the
State Bar of California for disciplinary action for providing false citations
to legal authority to this Court for Monday, December 2, 2024, at 8:30 AM. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 18,
2024                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 