  Case Number:  20STCV42130    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  39  
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV42130




MOTION


Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Fire Dragon Investment, LLC, Lynn Tran, Victor
  Le, M.D., Westminster Villa, Inc., and water Dragon Investment, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Shuo
  Wang, M.D.




 
MOTION
Plaintiff Shuo
Wang, M.D. (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Fire Dragon Investments, LLC (“Fire
Dragon”), Lynn Tran (“Tran”), Westminster Villa, Inc., Water Dragon Investment,
LLC, and Victor Le, M.D. (“Le”) (collectively, “Defendants”) and contends
Plaintiff agreed with Defendants Le and Tran to form Fire Dragon to invest in a
residential care facility for the elderly. 
Plaintiff alleges she purchased Le’s and Tran’s ownership interests, is
now Fire Dragon’s sole owner, Tran retains operational control of Fire Dragon,
and Tran represents Fire Dragon is no longer profitable.  Defendants demur to the fourth, seventh, and
ninth causes of action in Plaintiff’s operative second amended complaint.  Defendants also move to strike portions of
the second amended complaint.  Plaintiff
opposes the motions.
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the complaint’s
allegations.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
This rule of liberal construction means the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Plaintiff’s seventh
cause of action is for fraud by concealment. 
Plaintiff must allege fraud with particularity.  “This means: (1) general pleading of the
legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and
the policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.”  (Wilhelm
v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324,
1331.)  “There are ‘four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.’ [Citation.]”  (LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) 

In the instant
case, Plaintiff alleges Tran and Le represented to Plaintiff he should invest additional
funds in Fire Dragon, but Tran and Le misappropriated those funds.  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 113-118.)  Plaintiff does not allege specific facts to
show that Defendants concealed pertinent facts from Plaintiff.  Instead, Plaintiff alleges Tran and Le did
not reveal their intentions to him. 
Plaintiff’s claim is thus one for promissory fraud, not fraudulent
concealment.  Plaintiff must amend.  
Plaintiff’s fourth
and ninth causes of action are for conversion. 
Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion unless
Plaintiff alleges Defendants converted a specific, identifiable sum.  (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink,
Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395,
397.)   Plaintiff alleges Defendants wrongfully used
Plaintiff’s investment of $440,000 in funds, which Plaintiff intended for use
in the operation of a residential care facility, and instead converted those
funds for their own use.  (Second Amended
Complaint, ¶¶ 93, 130.)  For pleading purposes, Plaintiff’s
allegations suffice.  Defendants may
obtain further information in discovery. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  The demurrer to the fourth and
ninth causes of action is overruled.
Defendants argue Plaintiff lacks standing to
maintain this action in Plaintiff’s individual capacity, as it is properly a
shareholder derivative action.  “[T]he
action is derivative, i.e., in the corporate right, if the gravamen of the
complaint is injury to the corporation, or to the whole body of its stock and
property without any severance or distribution among individual holders, or it
seeks to recover assets for the corporation or to prevent the dissipation of
its assets.”  (Jones v. H. F. Ahmanson
& Co. (1969) 1 Cal.3d 93, 106, internal quotations and citations
omitted.)
In this case, Plaintiff’s claims are based on
the “misappropriation of [Fire Dragon’s] funds . . .” by Le and Tran.  (See, e.g., Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 77.)  As such, Plaintiff’s claims are derivative in
nature.  However, in corporations with
few shareholders, direct shareholder actions are permissible when equitable.  (See Jara v. Suprema Meats, Inc.
(2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1253-1260 (Jara).)  Plaintiff alleges he is Fire Dragon’s sole
remaining shareholder.  As the Court in Jara
explained, “the traditional justification for requiring a derivative action
is that it is designed to prevent a multiplicity of actions by each individual
shareholder and a preference of some more diligent shareholders over others . .
. ,” along with other purposes such as “shielding the corporation from
meritless lawsuits by requiring the plaintiffs to have contemporaneous stockownership
and by giving the defendants the right to move the court for an order requiring
a bond” and “encouraging the intracorporate resolution of disputes and
protecting managerial freedom.”  (Id.,
at pp. 1258-1259, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  Because Plaintiff is Fire Dragon’s only
shareholder, “[t]hese policies find little or no application in the present
case.”  (Id. at p. 1259.)  Therefore, Plaintiff may maintain this action
as an individual action.
Motion to Strike
Defendants move to strike allegations Defendants contend that are barred by the statute
of limitations.  Plaintiff alleges Le
issued an altered check to Plaintiff on July 23, 2015.  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 32, fn.
1.)  Defendants argue Plaintiff was aware
of his claims against Defendants as of that date and, therefore, the statute of
limitations accrued at that time.  “When a plaintiff reasonably should have
discovered facts for purposes of the accrual of a cause of action or
application of the delayed discovery rule is generally a question of fact,
properly decided as a matter of law only if the evidence (or, in this case, the
allegations in the complaint and facts properly subject to judicial notice) can
support only one reasonable conclusion.” 
(Stella v. Asset Management Consultants, Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 181, 193.)  In this case,
Plaintiff does not allege he knew the check Le issued to him was altered as of
July 23, 2015.  Accordingly, the court
cannot determine, as a matter of law, Plaintiff’s claims accrued at that
time.  
Likewise, the court cannot say Plaintiff’s claim for treble
damages accrued when Plaintiff learned of Le’s resignation from Fire Dragon on
June 13, 2018.  (Second Amended
Complaint, ¶ 55.)  Plaintiff was
not necessarily aware of Defendants’ misconduct because Plaintiff learned of
Le’s resignation.  The accrual of the
statute of limitations in this case is an issue of fact, which the court cannot
decide on a motion to strike. CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.  Defendants’ demurrer is otherwise overruled.
Defendants’ motion
to strike is denied.
Plaintiff is to
file an amended complaint within 10 days.
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 