 Case Number:  24STCV15762    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



SHARON RACHELLE CANO 
  
        
  vs.
 
BRADLEY KRAMER, ESQ.
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV15762 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 20, 2024



 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
            On
6/24/2024, in propria persona Plaintiff Sharon Rachelle Cano,
individually and as trustee of the Lorraine E. Cano Trust (Plaintiff) filed
suit against Bradley Kramer, Esq. (Defendant) alleging: (1) breach of contract;
and (2) legal malpractice.
 
            Now,
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Factual Background 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Complaint arises based on legal services performed by Defendant on behalf of
Plaintiff’s mother, Lorraine. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant wrongfully
dismissed her mother’s action for medical malpractice with prejudice, and that
“Plaintiff is now in a position to lose her ability to recover from the Doctors
for their part in the death of Lorraine.” (Complaint ¶
16.)
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim against him because Defendant was
not in a contract with either Plaintiff individually or on behalf of the
Lorraine E. Cano Trust, and thus Plaintiff does not have standing here. 
 
            The
Court agrees. (CCP § 367; Probate Code §
9820(a).) 
 
            Moreover,
even setting aside the issue of standing, Plaintiff alleges that on 6/12/2023,
she learned that her mother’s Complaint was dismissed. CCP Section 340.6
provides: 
 
An action
against an attorney for a wrongful act or omission, other than for actual
fraud, arising in the performance of professional services shall be commenced
within one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable
diligence should have discovered, the facts constituting the wrongful act or
omission, or four years from the date of the wrongful act or omission,
whichever occurs first.
 
            As
such, assuming Plaintiff had standing, Plaintiff would have had one year from
6/12/2023 to file this action. Plaintiff did not file until 6/21/2024, more
than a year after learning the facts relating to the allegedly wrongful act or
omission. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend. 
 
            It
is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 