 Case Number:  22STCV25326    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



HOUSSEM ZIDI, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
SANFORD
  SIGAL AND CINDY SIGAL, TRUSTEES OF THE SIGAL FAMILY TRUST UA, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV25326
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  30, 2023



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Diamante Electric, Inc. (“DEI”)   
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Houssem Zidi (“Plaintiff”)  
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from a slip and fall. On August 5, 2022, Plaintiff Houssem
Zidi (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Sanford Sigal and Cindy
Sigal, Trustees of the Sigal Family Trust UA and Does 1 through 100, alleging
causes of action for premises liability and general negligence. 
On
March 3, 2023, Defendant Sanford Sigal and Cindy Sigal, Trustees of the Sigal
Family Trust UA filed a cross-complaint against Diamante Electric &
Construction alleging causes of action for implied indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief. 
On
July 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, which substituted
Diamante Electric & Construction for Doe 1.  
On
October 30, 2023, Defendant Diamante Electric, Inc. (“DEI”)[1]
filed a motion to strike Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages and
corresponding allegations from the complaint (the “Motion”). On November 15,
2023, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition to the Motion. On November 21,
2023, DEI filed and served its reply brief. 
Non-jury
trial in this action is set for February 2, 2024. 
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD 
“Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) A court may
“[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) 
A court may “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
The Meet and Confer Requirement
          “Before
filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) 
Counsel for DEI called Plaintiff’s
counsel and verbally discussed dismissal of the punitive damages requested in
the prayer for relief. (Palmer Decl., ¶ 3.) Counsel also sent a meet and confer
letter discussing the deficiencies in the complaint. (Id., ¶ 4 and
Exhibit A.) Plaintiff’s counsel failed to respond to the meet and confer
letter. (Id.) The meet and confer requirement has been met pursuant to
Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5. 
           
Punitive Damages 
          DEI seeks to
strike punitive damages allegations from the prayer for relief in the
complaint.  
          Pleading
Punitive Damages
          “In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts
showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  California Civil
Code, Section 3294 authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice,
fraud, or oppression.  Malice is defined
as either “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Despicable
conduct is conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.”  (Mock v. Michigan Millers
Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331.) Fraud under California Civil
Code Section 3294(c)(3) “means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(2)
defines oppression as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” Specific facts
must be pled in support of punitive damages. 
(Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374,
391-392.)  
          Employer
Liability for Punitive Damages
          An employer
will not be liable for punitive damages based upon the acts of an employee of
the employer, unless: (1) the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others; or (2) the employer ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) As to a corporate employer,
the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or
act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of a corporation. 
(Ibid.) 
A managing agent is someone who
exercises substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately
determine corporate policy. (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th
563, 573.) A managing agent is a person whose decisions affect a substantial
portion of the company and that are the type likely to come to the attention of
corporate leadership. (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686,
715.) The inquiry in determining whether an employee is a managing agent does
not necessarily hinge on their level in the corporate hierarchy.  (Kelly-Zurian v. Wohl Shoe Co. (1994)
22 Cal.App.4th 397, 421.) The critical inquiry is the degree of discretion the
employees possess in making decisions that will ultimately determine corporate
policy. (Ibid.)   
 
Findings
The Court finds that Plaintiff has not
alleged sufficient facts showing malice, fraud, or oppression to warrant the
imposition of punitive damages against DEI. The complaint only makes conclusory
allegations as to punitive damages and does not set forth specific facts. Moreover,
DEI is a corporate defendant, and the complaint does not allege any oppression,
fraud, or malice on the part of DEI by an officer, director, or managing agent.

Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion
with 20 days leave to amend. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Motion is GRANTED with 20 days
leave to amend.
 
DEI is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 30th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


