 Case Number:  21STCV46980    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



AKAI PEACH, a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem,
  ANDREA MARIN,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CALIFORNIA
  CHILDREN’S ACADEMY, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV46980
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONTINUE THE TRIAL DATE
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  30, 2023



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant California Children’s Academy
(“Defendant”)    
RESPONDING PARTY: None 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from a toddler sustaining injuries while playing on a
playground. On December 27, 2021, Plaintiff Akai Peach (“Plaintiff”), by and
through his Guardian ad Litem Andrea Marin, filed a complaint against Defendant
California Children’s Academy (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20, alleging a cause of
action for negligence. The complaint alleges that Plaintiff suffered a closed
displaced fracture of the lateral condyle of right humerus. (Complaint, ¶ 16.) 
On
November 1, 2023, Defendant filed and served a motion to continue the date of
trial from January 19, 2024, to June 17, 2024, or a date determined by the
Court, and for a corresponding order continuing the Final Status Conference and
all related pre-trial deadlines consistent with the new date of trial (the
“Motion”). On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a Notice of
Non-Opposition to the Motion. Non-jury trial in this action is currently
scheduled for January 19, 2024.
 
II.    LEGAL STANDARD
          Code Civ.
Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the court has the power to “amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice.” “[T]he
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances. (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or ex
parte application, with supporting declarations. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(b).) The party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably
practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. (Ibid.) 
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) Good
cause may be present where a party has not been unable “to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts” or
there has been a “significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case
as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c)(6)-(7).) 
California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when
determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court
considers factors such as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best served
by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(d).) 
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
Issue No.1: Good Cause  
          Defendant
presents the declaration of its counsel, Evgenia Terehova (“Terehova”), in
support of the Motion. Plaintiff indicated through his mother, Guardian ad
Litem Andrea Marin, that he remains under the care and supervision of his
treating physician, Dr. Silva at Orthopedic Institute for Children, in
connection with his injury at issue in this litigation. (Terehova Decl., ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff intends to have further evaluations concerning his prognosis. (Id.)
The requested continuance will allow additional time for gaining clarity as to
Plaintiff’s recovery and his need for future medical care, if any. (Id.)
Counsel attests that the parties have agreed to mediate this action and have a
mediation scheduled for February 22, 2024, with Mediator Troy Roe. (Id.,
¶ 7.) Defendant filed a cross-complaint against Seriously Fun Playgrounds and John
Tietjen for implied equitable indemnity and equitable contribution. (Id.,
¶ 5.) John Tietjen filed an answer to the cross-complaint on his behalf and as
dba Seriously Fun Playgrounds and represents himself and his company in this matter.
(Id.) 
          Counsel
further declares that Mr. Tietjen refused to stipulate to a trial continuance
in this matter and requests dismissal of all claims against him and his
company. (Id., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff, however, though his Guardian ad Litem
and his counsel have agreed to continue the trial date to June 17, 2024. (Id.,
¶ 8.) 
          The Court
finds that good cause is present for a trial continuance so that the extent of
Plaintiff’s injuries can be assessed and the parties can engage in mediation. Exercising
its discretion under Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens, supra, 49
Cal.App.3d 12, 18, the Court finds it appropriate to continue the trial in this
matter. Also, given the lack of opposition to the Motion, there is an inference
it has merit. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1410.) 
          The Motion is
therefore GRANTED. 
          
IV.     CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the
Motion. The Court continues non-jury trial in this action from January 19, 2024,
to Monday, July 1, 2024 at 8:30 AM in this department. All trial-related dates,
including discovery cutoff dates, are based on the continued trial date. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 30th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 