 Case Number:  19STCV20164    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



Luciana
  Littlewolf, et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
Colonial Inn, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 19STCV20164
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
COMPEL INITIAL FORM INTERROGATORY
  RESPONSES RE HAMID HAMEDIS
 
DEEM RFAs ADMITTED
 
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
November 30, 2023




 


 


 



 
On June 10, 2019, Plaintiff Luciana
Littlewolf and Jazmin Alejandra Littlewolf filed this action against Defendants
Colonial Inn, 534 East Foothill LLC, Hamid Hamin, and Does 1 through 20 (collectively
“Defendants”) for injuries allegedly arising from bedbug bites during their
stay at Defendants’ hotel.  On June 27,
2023, Plaintiff Luciana Littlewolf (“Plaintiff”) served Form Interrogatories,
Set One and Requests for Admission, Set One on Defendant Colonial Inn
(“Defendant”).  Having received no
responses, Plaintiff proceeded to file the motion to compel Defendant to provide
responses and to deem the RFAs admitted. 
Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions.  No opposition to either motion has been
filed. 
Compel Responses 
Where a party fails
to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  A party that fails to serve timely responses
waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the
protection of attorney work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd.
(a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)  Unlike a motion to compel further
responses, a motion to compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit
and the propounding party has no meet and confer obligations.  (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 404.) 
Here, on June 27, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel
served Form
Interrogatories, Set One, on Defendant. 
(Declaration of Shelan Toma, ¶5; Ex. “A.”)  To date, Counsel for Defendant and
Defendant has not provided discovery responses, despite being granted numerous
extensions.  (Id. at ¶6.)  Therefore,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
One, is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to
provide responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, without objection, within
30 days of this order. 
Deem Admitted 
Where a party fails
to timely respond to a request for admission, the propounding party may move
for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to
respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants them
relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court shall grant a
motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the
party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before
the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission
that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
Here, on June 27, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel
served Requests for
Admission, Set One, on Defendant. 
(Declaration of Shelan Toma, ¶5; Ex. “A.”)  To date, Counsel for Defendant and
Defendant has not provided discovery responses, despite being granted numerous
extensions.  (Id. at ¶6.)  Therefore,
Plaintiff’s motion to deem the Requests for Admissions, Set One, admitted is
granted and the Requests are hereby ordered admitted. 
Monetary Sanctions 
Where the court
grants a motion to compel responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the
party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party
acted with substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be
unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subdivision
(a), “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” 
Here, Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $2,100.00 for 7 hours incurred at
Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate of $300.00 for each motion.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED
in a reduced amount because the motions are straightforward, unopposed, and
nearly identical to one another.  Sanctions are imposed against Defendant
and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $2500, to be
paid within 30 days of the date of this Order. 
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
     
Dated this 30th day of November 2023
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 
 
 
 
 
 