  Case Number:  19STCV05946    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
30, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE:  January 17, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Alba Guillermina Carmona Suarez, et al.  v. Martha Traub, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV05946
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Martha Traub
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This action arises from a motor
vehicle accident. Plaintiff Alba Guillermina Carmona Suarez (“Suarez”) and her minor
children, Andrew Vieyra ("Andrew") and Yaher Vieyra (“Yaher”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) allege that on February 23, 2017, Suarez was driving her motor
vehicle on the freeway when Defendant Martha Traub (“Traub”) and DOES 1-100 (collectively
“Defendants”) negligently, unsafely, and dangerously collided with Suarez’s
vehicle.  The collision allegedly
resulted in Plaintiffs injuries. 
            On
February 21, 2019, Suarez initiated this action against Traub for negligence. Traub
now seeks summary judgment on the basis that she was not the driver of the
vehicle involved in the accident with Plaintiffs’ vehicle on February 23, 2017.

Plaintiffs did not file an
opposition to Traub’s summary judgment motion. 

 
A.    Moving
Party Arguments
Defendant
Traub argues that there are no genuine issues of material fact because she was
not involved in the accident. Thus, she contends that she is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law because (1) Defendant Traub did not owe a duty and
did not breach any duty and (2) Plaintiffs’ injuries were not caused by
Defendant Traub’s conduct. 
B.     Opposing
Party Arguments
Plaintiffs
did not submit an opposition as of November 9, 2022, which is past the 28-day deadline.

II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
Summary Judgment 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must apply
a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a
prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  A moving defendant need not
conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be
established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 854.)  It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)  The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”  (Ibid.)¿
The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”  (Ibid.) 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028,
1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)  “On a
summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences
favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the
evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear
in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to
determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)  “Put another
way, have defendants conclusively negated a necessary element of the
[plaintiff’s] case or demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material
issue of fact that requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860.) (Internal citation omitted.)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)   
Negligence

The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are duty, breach, causation, and
damages.  (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
IV.
      DISCUSSION
            The
Incident
            On February 23, 2017, Suarez was traveling
westbound in her motor vehicle on the 10 freeway in San Dimas, California with
her two children. (Undisputed Material Facts “UMF” 1). Plaintiffs’ Complaint
stated that Defendant Traub was “operating a motor vehicle” when she
“purportedly negligently, unsafely, and dangerously collided with Plaintiffs’
vehicle.” (Complaint ¶¶7,13). 
The
only person named on title for the vehicle that crashed with Plaintiff’s
vehicle on February 23, 2017, was, as of that date, Richard Jason Traub.  (UMF 2). 
Martha Taub was not the driver of the vehicle that crashed with
Plaintiffs’ vehicle on February 23, 2017. 
(UMF 3).
            Analysis 
            The issues in dispute converge on the
elements of duty, breach, and causation. 
“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established.¿
They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; and
(c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.”¿ (Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917; CACI No. 400.)  To
prevail in a negligence action, the plaintiff must establish every essential
element of her case by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Leslie G. v. Perry & Assocs. (1996)
43 Cal.App.4th 472, 482.)  
            Here,
Defendant Traub argues summary judgment should be granted because Plaintiffs cannot
establish duty, breach, and causation elements of their negligence claim.  
Duty
First, Defendant Traub argues that
she does not owe a duty to use due care because she was not the driver of the
vehicle, nor was she the registered owner. In fact, during Plaintiff Suarez’s
deposition, when asked about the other driver getting into an ambulance, she
stated that the driver “was an older man,” which shows that the driver was a
male and not a woman. (Exhibit B, Suarez Depo. 49:6-11.)  
In sum, Defendant Traub shows she
did not owe a duty because she was not the owner of the motor vehicle at any
point, does not possess the motor vehicle, and was not the driver. Further, Plaintiff
does not offer an Opposition or other evidence disputing Defendant Traub’s
arguments. Thus, there was not a duty, and the element fails. 
Breach 
            Here,
since there was no duty, there was likely no breach of that duty. Thus, this
element also fails. 
Causation
            Proof of causation requires a
showing that it was the defendant's act or omission that was a substantial
factor in bringing about injury. Padilla v. Rodas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th
742, 752, citing Saelzler, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 778. Here, Defendant
Traub’s conduct did not cause the injuries because she was not the driver nor
owned the vehicle. Thus, this element also fails. 
            Traub
meets her prima facie case to establish that no triable issue of fact exists
here.  Plaintiffs, having filed no
opposition, do not meet their burden to rebut that prima facie case.  Therefore, no triable issues of material fact
exist.  Summary judgment is appropriate
in favor of Defendant Traub. 
VI.       CONCLUSION
            Based
on the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
Moving party to give notice.  
 
Dated:   November 30, 2023                                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to
submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 