 Case Number:  22STCV12685    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



GIANNA PILATO, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV12685
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  30, 2023



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant City of Los Angeles (“City”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Gianna Pilato 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
The complaint arises from Plaintiff
injuring herself while riding a motorized scooter. On April 15, 2022, Plaintiff
Gianna Pilato (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants City of Los
Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), California Department of
Transportation, Bird Rides, Inc. (“Bird”), Segway, Inc., and Does 1-50
(collectively, “Defendants”), alleging causes of action for premises liability,
strict product liability, and negligence. Only the first cause of action is asserted
against Defendant City. 
On October 3, 2022, Defendant Bird
filed a petition to compel arbitration (the “Petition”). The Petition was
brought on the grounds that Plaintiff signed the Bird Rental Agreement, Waiver
of Liability and Release (the “Agreement”), which contained an arbitration
clause. On December 8, 2022, the Court granted Defendant Bird’s Petition and
compelled arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Bird pursuant to
the Agreement. The Court stayed this action pending the completion of
arbitration between Plaintiff and Defendant Bird. 
On December 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal as to Defendant County, pursuant to which Defendant
County was dismissed from this action on December 22, 2022. 
On December 20, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal as to Defendant Bird, pursuant to which Defendant Bird
was dismissed from this action on December 27, 2022.  
 
On July 20, 2023, the Court held a
Status Conference re Arbitration, and the Court lifted the stay on the case in
its entirety. 
On September 19, 2023, Defendant City
filed and served a demurrer to the first cause of action in the complaint. The
demurrer is made on the ground that the first cause of action for premises
liability fails to state a cause of action against Defendant City due to the
waiver and release of liability clauses present in the Agreement. On October
24, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer. The opposition was
served on Defendant City on October 16, 2023. Defendant City filed a reply
brief on October 20, 2023. 
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) The court gives the
complaint a reasonable interpretation and treats the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly plead.  (Ibid.)  A demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded
facts and those facts of which the court can take judicial notice but not
deductions, contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) A general demurrer may be
taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) Although courts
construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the
allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians'
Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading
can be amended successfully. (Ibid.) If there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend. (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation
Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.)  
 
III.       
DISCUSSION
The Meet and Confer Requirement
           Before
filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer, in
person or by telephone, with the party who filed the pleading that is subject
to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41.) 
Defendant
City’s counsel attests to e-mailing Plaintiff’s counsel on two occasions in
August 2023 as to the subject of the demurrer. (Posey Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)
Plaintiff’s counsel e-mailed Defendant City’s counsel indicating that he agreed
that counsel’s e-mails were sufficient for meet and confer purposes. (Id.,
¶ 4.) The meet and confer requirement has not been met as the parties have not truly
met and conferred as that requirement is intended.  Nevertheless,
the Court may not overrule a demurrer for failure to adequately meet and
confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still
consider the demurrer, but reminds the parties of the need to comply with the
requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure by engaging in a true meet and
confer in which a substantive discussion of the substantive issues occurs.

Judicial Notice
          The
demurrer of Defendant City is premised on the Court taking judicial notice of
the existence of the Agreement, which contains a waiver and release of
liability. Plaintiff objects to Defendant City’s request for judicial notice on
the grounds that there is insufficient information provided to the Court for
evaluation and the proffered interpretations of fact are disputed. 
          “Under
Evidence Code section 452, a court may take judicial notice of [f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Chacon v. Union Pacific Railroad (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 565, 572, citations omitted.) A trial court must “take judicial
notice of matters specified in section 452 upon request if the requesting party
provides sufficient notice and information.” (Ibid.) “The existence and
contents of a written agreement may be the proper subject of judicial notice if
there is no factual dispute that the document is genuine and accurate.” (Ibid.)
“[W]hen judicial notice is taken of a document . . . the truthfulness and
proper interpretation of the document are disputable.” (Trinity Park, L.P.
v. City of Sunnyvale (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1027, citation omitted.) Judicial
notice of the contents of a contract is appropriate on demurrer even though
such document is outside of the four corners of the complaint. (Performance
Plastering v. Richmond American Homes of California, Inc. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 659, 666, fn.2.)  Where
judicial notice is requested of a legally operative document, such as a
contract, “the court may take notice not only of the fact of the document and its
. . . publication, but also facts that clearly derive from its legal effect.” (Scott
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 754.)  
The Court
disagrees with Plaintiff’s contentions. Defendant City has provided sufficient
information to the Court for evaluation. Plaintiff does not contend that
Exhibits A and B attached to Defendant City’s request for judicial notice are
not genuine or accurate. Plaintiff does not dispute the accuracy, genuineness,
or contents of the Agreement. Also, the Agreement is part of the court file in
this action as it was analyzed in ruling upon Defendant Bird’s petition to
compel arbitration.[1] The Court takes judicial
notice of the existence of the Agreement and its contents. 
The Court
therefore GRANTS Defendant City’s request for judicial notice and OVERRULES
Plaintiff’s objections to Defendant City’s request for judicial notice.
Issue No. 1: First Cause of Action
(Premises Liability)
                    Defendant City demurs to the First
Cause of Action on the basis of the waiver contained in the Agreement.  That waiver provides as follows:
          
“[i]n
exchange for Rider being allowed to use Services, Vehicles, and other equipment
or related information provided by Operator, Rider agrees to fully release,
indemnify, and hold harmless Operator . . . and to the fullest extent permitted
by law any Municipality (including its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees, agents, contractors, and volunteers) in which Rider
utilizes Services . . . from all liability for all [claims] arising out of or
in any way related to Rider’s use of the Services, Vehicles, App, or related
equipment, including but not limited to, those Claims based on Released
Persons’ alleged negligence . . . except for Claims based on Released Persons’
gross negligence or willful misconduct. Such releases are intended to be
general and complete releases of all Claims.” (Request for Judicial Notice,
Exhibit B at § 15.)
          
          The
Agreement defines Claims as “any and all claims injuries, demands, liabilities,
disputes, causes of action . . . damages (including but not limited to, for
personal injury)” which arise from Plaintiff’s use of the motorized scooter.
(Request for Judicial Notice, Exhibit B at § 16.) Defendant City is a defined
as a “Released Persons” under the Agreement as it is a municipality, and
Plaintiff does not dispute such fact. (Id., Exhibit B at § 15.) Moreover,
the Agreement—to which Plaintiff agreed—includes a release of all claims
arising from the negligence of any municipality or other party. (Id.)
          The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s first cause of action against Defendant City is
barred by the waiver and release of liability clause in the Agreement. Plaintiff
presents no argument or citation to legal authority in the opposition as to the
invalidity of the Agreement or the waiver and release of liability clause set
forth therein. The Court finds that Plaintiff has conceded to Defendant City’s
argument on such point pursuant to Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) The release clause in the Agreement clearly
states that Defendant City will not be held liable for any injuries arising
from Plaintiff’s use of the motorized scooter. The complaint arises from
injuries that Plaintiff allegedly sustained while using the motorized scooter. 
          The
Court therefore finds that the first cause of action is barred by the release
clause in the Agreement. 
          As
for granting leave to amend, the Court finds that the opposition addresses a “defendant
Pride One” who is not a defendant in this action. (Opposition, 15:7-9.) Also,
the opposition states that Plaintiff can amend her judicial council form
complaint. (Id., 15:6-7.) The complaint, however, is not a judicial
council form complaint and instead is on pleading paper. Given the existence of
the Agreement, which contains the release clause, the Court does not see how
Plaintiff can amend the first cause of action to assert a valid cause of action
against Defendant City for premises liability. The opposition fails to address
such fact and Plaintiff has therefore not met her burden in showing a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment to state a valid cause of
action. 
          The
Court therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant City to the first cause of
action in the complaint without leave to amend. 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant
City to the first cause of action in the complaint WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 30th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


