  Case Number:  24STCV04380    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
18, 2024                                         
 
CASE NAME:           Jose
Jesus Torres, et al. v. City of Montebello, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV04380

 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
City of Montebello
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Jose Jesus Torres and
Rosa O. Astorga
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action.[1]
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend;
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On February 22, 2024, Plaintiffs Jose Jesus Torres and Rosa
O. Astoraga (Plaintiffs) filed a personal injury Complaint against Defendants
City of Montebello and Montebello Policy Department (Defendants). According to
the Complaint, Plaintiffs were injured on February 25, 2023 in a motor vehicle
accident with vehicles owned and operated by Defendants.
 
On August 20, 2024, Defendant City of Montebello (City)
filed the instant demurrer. On December 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition. On December 10, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The court DENIES Defendant’s request for
judicial notice.
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) & (3).
Here, the parties did not meet and confer because Plaintiff’s counsel never
returned phone calls, emails, or letters of Defendant’s counsel spanning
several weeks. (Murray Decl. ¶¶ 6-16.) Still, failure to meet and confer is not
a sufficient ground to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).)¿
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendant’s argument hinges on pleadings filed in the matter
Infinity Insurance Company v. City of
Montebello, et al. LASC Case No. 24STLC00248. There is no Notice of Related
Case filed in this case pertaining to Case No. 24STLC00248. 
 
Prior Admissions by
Plaintiffs
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs are bound by prior
admissions made in Infinity Insurance
Company v. City of Montebello, et al. LASC Case No. 24STLC00248. However,
Plaintiffs here were not the plaintiffs in that action. Whether they are bound
to whatever the plaintiff in that case did is not properly resolved on
demurrer.
 
Police Department
Standing
 
Defendant contends the Police Department does not exist as a
separate entity from Defendant and is therefore improperly named. Plaintiff did
not oppose this point.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to
Defendant Montebello Police Department in full.
 
Statutory Immunity
 
Defendant contends Plaintiffs’ Complaint fails because it is
barred by Gov. Code § 815, 820.4, and Vehicle Code § 17004.[2]
Plaintiff did not oppose this point.
 
Vehicle Code § 17001 states: “A public entity is liable for
death or injury to person or property proximately caused by a negligent or
wrongful act or omission in the operation of any motor vehicle by an employee
of the public entity acting within the scope of his employment.”
 
Vehicle Code § 17004 states: “A public employee is not
liable for civil damages on account of personal injury to or death of any
person or damage to property resulting from the operation, in the line of duty,
of an authorized emergency vehicle while responding to an emergency call or
when in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm or other emergency
call.”
 
As a threshold matter, Defendant refers multiple times to an
“Officer Arreola” but such person is not a party to the instant action.
Therefore, the court disregards those arguments.
 
Defendants remaining immunity arguments fail at this stage
because the Complaint does not state that the accident occurred “resulting from
the operation, in the line of duty, of an authorized emergency vehicle while
responding to an emergency call or when in the immediate pursuit of an actual
or suspected violator of the law” as required by Vehicle Code § 17004.[3]
As discussed above, Defendant’s reliance on a separate action by a separate
party purportedly concerning these Plaintiffs is inappropriate at the demurrer
stage.
 
Sufficient Facts
 
Defendant contends there are insufficient facts alleged to
support Plaintiffs’ claims. Plaintiffs argue the form Complaint is sufficient.
 
“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well
established.¿ They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; and (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting
injury.”¿ (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917; CACI No. 400.) (Quotations omitted.)¿¿ The elements
are the same for a Motor Vehicle cause of action.¿ (See Judicial Council Form,
Cause of Action-Motor Vehicle.)¿ 
 
Although the form Complaint alleges the elements of a Motor
Vehicle claim, (i.e, “the acts of defendants were negligent; the acts were the
legal (proximate) cause of injuries and damages to plaintiff”), the Complaint
is devoid of allegations making clear which of Defendant’s actions were
negligent. For instance, the Complaint does not apprise Defendant whether the
basis for the action is a collision involving motor vehicles, a pedestrian, or
a cyclist.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer with
leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Complaint is SUSTAINED;
Plaintiff has 30 days of this ruling to file an amended
complaint.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              December 18, 2024                 __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


