 Case Number:  24STCV13238    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  50 THERE ARE TWO TENTATIVES:Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



INSIDE THE PARK, LLC, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
21 IN RIGHT, INC., et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 
  24STCV13238




Hearing Date:


January 17, 2025




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION TO QUASH
  SERVICE OF SUMMONS ON DEFENDANTS 21 IN RIGHT, INC., LUIS CLEMENTE AND ROBERTO
  CLEMENTE, JR.
 



 
Background
On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff Inside The Park LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against a number of defendants. 
On November 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants 21 In Right Inc.,
Luis R. Clemente, Roberto Clemente, Jr., CMG Worldwide, Inc., Mark Roesler,
Legendary Pictures Productions, LLC, Teton Ridge Entertainment, LLC, and Tre
Dev Co, LLC. The SAC alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2)
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) fraud, (4)
specific performance, and (5) declaratory relief.
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[t]his
lawsuit arises from the Clemente Family and their cohorts’ efforts to
fraudulently sell and resell the rights to baseball great Roberto Clemente’s
life story for their own, substantial financial gain.” (SAC, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[t]he Clemente Family and its agent, CMG, fraudulently induced
[Plaintiff] to purchase an exclusive option to the rights to Roberto Clemente’s
life story for development of a feature film but failed to inform and deliberately
concealed from [Plaintiff] the fact that the Clemente Family had already
optioned and, allegedly sold, those very same or similar rights to Legendary
Pictures years earlier.” (SAC, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff alleges that “after [Plaintiff]
generated significant publicity for the Clemente Family and expended
considerable resources and reputational capital in working to produce a feature
film concerning Roberto Clemente, the Clemente Family and CMG abandoned the
deal with [Plaintiff], disclosed that the rights had already purportedly been
sold and either blocked [Plaintiff] from further communications or, it in the
case of CMG, ‘dared’ [Plaintiff] to sue them.” (SAC, ¶ 1.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that “[Plaintiff] and 21 In Right entered
into [an] ITP Option Agreement by which Defendants granted [Plaintiff] an
exclusive and irrevocable option to purchase the Rights,” and that “Defendant
21 In Right failed to fulfill its obligations under said agreement by among
other things, failing to provide the exclusive Rights without encumbrances as
contemplated by the agreement.” (SAC, ¶¶ 35, 38.) Plaintiff alleges that
“Defendants’ fraud and breach of contract has caused Plaintiff substantial
reputational damage, above and beyond its wasted time, effort and out of pocket
expenses.” (SAC, ¶ 1.)
Defendants 21 In Right Inc., Luis R. Clemente,
Roberto Clemente, Jr. (collectively, the “Clemente Defendants”) now move for
an order quashing service of the summons as to each of them on the ground that
this Court lacks personal jurisdiction over them. Plaintiff opposes. 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10 provides in part: “A defendant, on
or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time
that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion…(1)
To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.” (Id.,
§ 418.10, subd. (a).) 
“California
courts may exercise jurisdiction on any basis that is not inconsistent with the
state and federal Constitutions. Thus, the inquiry in California is whether the
assertion of personal jurisdiction comports with the limits imposed by federal
due process.” (Young v. Daimler AG (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 855, 865 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) Due process
permits courts to exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who have
“minimum contact” with the forum state such that the exercise of jurisdiction
does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (Int’l Shoe Co. v. Wash. (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) “A
defendant that has substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts with the
forum state is subject to general jurisdiction in the state, meaning
jurisdiction on any cause of action.” (HealthMarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) “General
jurisdiction, as its name implies, extends to any and all claims brought
against a defendant. Those claims need not relate to the forum State or the
defendant’s activity there; they may concern events and conduct anywhere in the
world. But that breadth imposes a correlative limit: Only a select set of
affiliations with a forum will expose a defendant to such sweeping jurisdiction.
In what [the Supreme Court]
ha[s] called the paradigm case, an individual is subject to general
jurisdiction in her place of domicile. And the equivalent forums for a
corporation are its place of incorporation and principal place of business.” (Preciado
v. Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 976 [internal
quotations and references to [Citation.] omitted].)
A nonresident may be subject to specific jurisdiction if a three-prong
test is met. “First, the defendant must have purposefully availed itself of the
state’s benefits. Second, the controversy must be related to or arise out of
the defendant’s contacts with the state. Third, considering the defendant’s
contacts with the state and other factors, California’s exercise of
jurisdiction over the defendant must comport with fair play and substantial
justice.” (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1568 [internal
citations and emphasis omitted].) “When a defendant moves to quash
service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of
jurisdiction. Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are
established, however, it becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the
exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449 [internal citations omitted].) 
B.     General
Jurisdiction 
The Clemente Defendants
assert that “general jurisdiction cannot be asserted as to any of
[them].” (Mot. at p. 5:24-25.) 
In his supporting declaration, Luis Clemente states that “I reside in
and am a citizen of Puerto Rico. I have lived in Puerto Rico for the past 29
years and have never resided in California. I do not now do, nor have I ever
done business in the state of California. I do not own any real property in the
State of California…The last time I was in California was as a guest of Major
League Baseball Properties, Inc., a New York corporation, for MLB All-Star Week
in 2022.” (Luis Clemente Decl., ¶ 4.) In addition, Luis Clemente states that “21
IN RIGHT, INC. is a Pennsylvania corporation with its principal place of
business located at 5817 Forbes Ave, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
15217. It does not do business in the state of California and is not
registered as a foreign corporation authorized to do business in the state of
California. It does not own any real property in the state of California…”
(Luis Clemente Decl., ¶ 5.) 
In addition, in his supporting declaration, Roberto Clemente Jr.
states that “I reside in and am a citizen of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. I have
lived in Pittsburgh for the past 7 years and have never resided in California.
Approximately 30 years ago, I served as a broadcaster for a baseball game for
ESPN in California, but I do not now, and outside of that instance, I have not,
conducted business in California. I do not own any real property in the State
of California.”  (Roberto Clemente Jr.
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
            In
the opposition, Plaintiff states that it “does not argue that the Court
has general jurisdiction over Defendants.” (Opp’n at p. 10, fn. 4.) 
C.     Specific
Jurisdiction 
            As set forth above, a nonresident
may be subject to specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met. “First,
the defendant must have purposefully availed itself of the state’s benefits.
Second, the controversy must be related to or arise out of the defendant’s
contacts with the state. Third, considering the defendant’s contacts with the
state and other factors, California’s exercise of jurisdiction over the
defendant must comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Gilmore
Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd.,
supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568 [internal citations and emphasis
omitted].)
            In the motion, the Clemente
Defendants assert that “none of the [Clemente Defendants] purposely availed
themselves to ‘forum benefits’ and the subject action does not arise from any
contacts that any of the defendants have with California. Under these
circumstances, specific jurisdiction cannot be established as to any of them.”
(Mot. at pp. 5:26-6:2.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that the Court has specific jurisdiction over the Clemente Defendants. In
support of the opposition, Plaintiff submits the Declaration of Jonah Hirsch,
an officer and member of Plaintiff. (Hirsch Decl., ¶ 1.) 
            Mr. Hirsch states that “[t]hrough
various contacts, Mr. Munoz[1]
and I were introduced to Roberto Clemente’s sons Luis and Roberto Jr. in the
first quarter of 2022. Mr. Munoz and I had expressed interest to the Clemente
sons about developing a biographical film based on their father’s life story.
In or around May 2022, Luis and Roberto Jr. informed me that the Clemente
family was represented by Mark Roessler and Tina Xu of CMG Worldwide, Inc. (‘CMG’),
an agency located in Beverly Hills, CA…” (Hirsch Decl., ¶ 3.) Mr. Hirsch states
that “Mr. Munoz and I had at least two (and likely more) Zoom conferences with
Luis and his agent, Tina Xu, of CMG to discuss next steps in developing the
film and our vision for the project. During these videoconferences, I, Mr.
Munoz and Ms. Xu were all located physically in California.” (Hirsch Decl., ¶
4.) 
            Mr. Hirsch further states that “[w]hile
Luis was in Los Angeles in July 2022, Mr. Munoz and I held a business meeting
at Mr. Munoz’s home in Beverly Hills, CA, attended by Luis, his agent, Tina Xu,
of CMG and a representative from the Roberto Clemente Foundation, the
Clemente’s family’s non-profit organization. This in person meeting was catered
by a local Beverly Hills restaurant and lasted approximately two hours. At this
meeting Mr. Munoz and I discussed with Luis and his agent, Ms. Xu, our proposal
to develop the Roberto Clemente biographical film, including without limitation
our vision for the film, our skills, qualifications and abilities to produce
the film, and our excitement and enthusiasm for the project.” (Hirsch Decl., ¶
6.)  Mr. Hirsch states that “[a]t this
meeting, Luis told Mr. Munoz and me that 21 In Right was the unencumbered owner
of the rights to Roberto Clemente’s life story and had the ability and
authority to convey an option to those rights to us for purposes of development
of the contemplated film. We ended the meeting with an agreement to continue to
work together and to negotiate the particulars of the option of the Roberto
Clemente life rights and to structure the involvement of Luis and Roberto Jr.
in developing and producing the film.” (Hirsch Decl., ¶ 6.) 
            Mr. Hirsch states that “[o]ver the
next several months, Mr. Munoz and I had further discussions with Luis, Roberto
Jr. and their agents, Mr. Roessler and Ms. Xu, via telephone and Zoom,
regarding the parameters and terms of the licensing of the Roberto Clemente
life rights and development of the anticipated film. Again, Mr. Munoz and I
were in California for each and every one of these communications. In the Fall
of 2022, Mr. Munoz and I attended an in person meeting at CMG’s Beverly Hills,
California offices where we met with 21 In Right, Luis and Roberto Jr.’s agents
Mark Roessler and Tina Xu and negotiated and finalized the terms for the option
agreement for the life rights and the involvement of Luis and Roberto Jr. in the
development and production of the film.” (Hirsch Decl., ¶ 7.) 
            In addition, Mr. Hirsch states that
Plaintiff entered into a “Rights Option Agreement effective January 23, 2023,
with 21 In Right, Inc., based on the terms negotiated with Luis, Roberto Jr.
and their agents at CMG…The ITP Agreement was signed by Luis on behalf of 21 In
Right.” (Hirsch Decl., ¶ 9.) Mr. Hirsch also states that Plaintiff “entered
into individual Consultant Agreements with Luis and Roberto Jr. for their
services to ITP in connection with the development of the film.” (Hirsch Decl.,
¶ 10.) Mr. Hirsch states that “[t]he ITP Agreement required [Plaintiff] to make
an initial payment to 21 In Right of $25,000 and the Consultant Agreement
required [Plaintiff] to make an initial $5,000 payment to each of Luis and
Roberto Jr. [Plaintiff] was instructed by CMG to make these payments directly
to CMG in California and CMG would make the proper distributions of any
residual amounts to 21 In Right, Luis and Roberto Jr. [Plaintiff] followed
CMG’s instruction and made the payments under these agreements directly to CMG
in California.” (Hirsch Decl., ¶ 11.)  
            Mr. Hirsch states that “[f]ollowing
Mr. Munoz and my discovery that there was a dispute as to 21 In Right’s grant
of rights to [Plaintiff] under the ITP Agreement, Mr. Munoz and I had numerous
telephone conferences and email communications with agent CMG concerning a
potential resolution of the matter, all of which were sent and received within
California. Mr. Munoz and I also had at least three in person meetings with
Mark Roessler at CMG’s offices and in the nearby area in Beverly Hills, CA to
discuss a resolution to these rights issues. Mr. Munoz and I also had numerous
telephone communications with Luis and Roberto Jr. regarding the rights issue
and were informed that Luis and Roberto Jr. were working on getting a
resolution to ensure that [Plaintiff] had clear title to the rights optioned
under the ITP Agreement. My and Mr. Munoz’s communications with Luis and
Roberto Jr. were made while Mr. Munoz and I were in California.” (Hirsch Decl.,
¶ 13.) Mr. Hirsch indicates that “[a]fter months of back and forth
communications with CMG and Luis and Roberto Jr., in August 2003, CMG returned
to [Plaintiff] its $18,000 commission on the deal and in October 2023, Roberto
and Luis Jr. returned to ITP the remaining $42,000 of the option payment and
consultant fees paid by [Plaintiff] under the ITP Agreement and Consultant
Agreements. These payments were made to and deposited in the client trust
account of ITP’s California attorney, Daniel Sobelsohn. Mr. Sobelsohn’s offices
and bank account are located and maintained in Los Angeles County, California.”
(Hirsch Decl., ¶ 14.) 
            Plaintiff cites to Gilmore Bank
v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd., supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at pages 1562-1563, where “Plaintiffs
Gilmore Bank and Jay Cho [sought] to collect a $3.2 million judgment from a
judgment debtor, Cindy Dalrymple…Toward this end, they…sued Cindy,
AsiaTrust New Zealand Limited—a New Zealand company (AsiaTrust), and other
defendants for fraudulently transferring and sequestering Cindy’s assets.” The
Court of Appeal in Gilmore Bank found that AsiaTrust’s conduct
satisfied several purposeful availment tests. (Id.
at p. 1572.) 
The Gilmore
Bank Court noted as follows:
 
“The
undisputed facts show AsiaTrust (1) created continuing obligations between
itself and California residents, (2) purposefully directed (and continues to
direct) its activities towards California residents, and (3) purposefully
derived (and continues to derive) benefits from its activities in California.
AsiaTrust conducted due diligence on California resident Sonia, the trustee of
Cindy’s Retirement Trust. AsiaTrust sent promotional materials to Sonia and
otherwise marketed to her the advantages of forming a New Zealand trust. AsiaTrust
drafted the trust contract, negotiated the contractual terms with California
residents Sonia and Berardo, and amended the contract. Sonia signed the amended
contract, witnessed by Berardo, in California. AsiaTrust communicated by e-mail
and telephone with Sonia and Berardo in California. AsiaTrust has invoiced
Sonia in California for fees owed to AsiaTrust. AsiaTrust has received funds
from Cindy’s Retirement Trust in California and from a Swiss annuity that
insures California resident Cindy. AsiaTrust has followed Berardo’s
instructions concerning the ownership of the Swiss annuity. AsiaTrust has
wire-transferred funds to Cindy’s Retirement Trust’s bank account in California
in accordance with Sonia’s instructions. Essentially, AsiaTrust has received
compensation for accepting, investing, managing, disbursing, and shielding the
assets of Cindy, a California judgment debtor, in a scheme that contemplates an
ongoing contractual relationship for Cindy’s lifetime.” (Gilmore
Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd., supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1572.)
 
            The Gilmore Bank Court found that “[w]hile any single telephone
call or piece of correspondence might not be enough to satisfy the ‘minimum
contacts’ requirement, there is much more in this case. Here there was a
veritable ‘latticework’ of contacts linking [AsiaTrust] and the State of California:
not one but many calls and other communications to California during the
negotiations. The execution in California of the legal documents which formed
the arrangement…A continuing stream of payments from [AsiaTrust] to
California.’ A continuing receipt by AsiaTrust of compensation
from the California trustee of a California trust. AsiaTrust’s acceptance from
the California trust of money which AsiaTrust invested as directed by the
California trustee and a California lawyer.” (Gilmore
Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd., supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1573 [internal
citation omitted].) 
            Plaintiff asserts that here, “[t]he
Clemente Defendants’ in forum activities and contacts with California are
legion and constitute more than sufficient minimum contacts to satisfy personal
jurisdiction and are far more extensive than those in Gilmore Bank.”
(Mot. at p. 11:19-21.) Moreover, Plaintiff asserts that “the actions of the
Clemente Defendants’ California agents CMG, Roessler and Xu, are also to be
considered in analyzing jurisdiction and the actions of the agents imputed to
the Clemente Defendants.” (Mot. at p. 14:4-6.) Plaintiff cites to Rice Growers Ass'n v. First Nat'l Bank (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 559, 572, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he mutual contention of
respondents FNB and CBT that they were not subject to California jurisdiction
because they were engaged only in interstate business with California entities
and did not have office, mailing address, telephone number, agent and the
like, nor did they solicit involvement in the transactions at issue in this
state, must be rejected for at least five distinct reasons.” The Court of
Appeal noted, inter alia, that “contrary to respondents’ argument, IBC,
a California-based ship operator, served as an agent for CBT and as a subagent
for FNB and hence, its activities were imputable to the principals. Therefore,
under well-recognized law a principal may be served for the in-state
actions of its agent consistently with the long-arm statutes and due process.”
(Ibid.) The Clemente Defendants do not appear to address this
authority in the reply.

Indeed, based on the circumstances described in Mr. Hirsch’s
supporting declaration, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated that
the Clemente Defendants “purposefully availed” themselves of California’s
benefits.
Plaintiff also asserts that its claims arise out of the Clemente
Defendants’ California contacts. Plaintiff asserts that the instant action
alleges that “21 In Right breached the ITP Agreement by failing to deliver the
rights promised therein and that all of the Clemente Defendants defrauded [Plaintiff]
into entering into the ITP Agreement by falsely representing that 21 In Right
had the ability to option the life rights contained within the ITP Agreement.
The ITP Agreement was negotiated and executed in California and the monetary
consideration delivered in California. Further, the fraudulent statements
underlying [Plaintiff’s] fraud claim were made to [Plaintiff] while physically
in California.” (Opp’n at pp. 14:25-15:2 [emphasis omitted].) The Court agrees
with Plaintiff that the instant controversy is related to the Clemente
Defendants’ contacts with California.  
            As set forth above, “[w]hen a
defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the
plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction. Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state
are established, however, it becomes the defendant’s burden to
demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449 [internal citations omitted, emphasis added].) In Yue v. Yang (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 539, 549-550, cited
by Plaintiff, the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n
otherwise valid exercise of personal jurisdiction is presumed to be reasonable.
Therefore, [the] defendant must
present a compelling case that the presence of some
other considerations would render jurisdiction unreasonable. A
determination of reasonableness rests upon a balancing of interests: the
relative inconvenience to defendant of having to defend an action in a
foreign state, the interest of plaintiff in suing locally, and the interrelated
interest the state has in assuming jurisdiction. The factors involved in the
balancing process include the following: the relative availability of evidence
and the burden of defense and prosecution in one place rather than another; the
interest of a state in providing a forum for its residents or regulating the
business involved…and the extent to which the cause of action arose out of
defendant’s local activities.” (Internal quotations, emphasis, and references
to [Citation.] omitted.) 
The
Court does not find that the Clemente Defendants have presented a compelling
case that the exercise
of jurisdiction over them would be unreasonable. As noted by Plaintiff, the
Clemente Defendants’ motion does not appear to contain any arguments that the
exercise of jurisdiction over them would be unreasonable. Moreover, the Clemente Defendants’ reply does not appear to contain
any analysis (or evidence) clearly demonstrating why the exercise of
jurisdiction over the Clemente Defendants would be unreasonable. In his
supplemental declaration filed in support of the reply, Luis Clemente
simply states that “I certainly would not have agreed to consent
to the jurisdiction of California if it had been presented to me. It would be
incredibly inconvenient to both me and 21 IN RIGHT.” (Suppl. Luis Clemente
Decl., ¶ 8.) No further explanation is provided on this point. 
Conclusion
In light of the foregoing, the Clemente Defendants’ motion
to quash is denied. 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  January 17, 2025                                                                            
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


