  Case Number:  24STCV01880    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder
S. Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   June
13, 2024                                      
 
CASE NAME:            Jose
C Leanos Velazquez v. Gregg Drilling, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV01880





















 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant Gregg Drilling, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Jose C
Leanos Velazquez
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Motion to Strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
 
On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff Jose C Leanos Velazquez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Gregg Drilling, LLC (“Defendant”)
alleging cause of action for (1) discrimination in violation of FEHA; (2)
retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) failure to provide reasonable
accommodations in violation of FEHA; (4) failure to engage in a good faith
interactive process in violation of FEHA; and (5) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy. 
 
The Complaint alleges that Defendant was Plaintiff’s
employer. Plaintiff suffered injuries to his back and foot while working, was
diagnosed with Lumbosacral Radiculopathy, and was given work restrictions. His
injuries constituted a disability. Defendant failed to provide modified work
and forced him off work. His work restrictions were then extended, and while he
was still on leave, he was terminated. Plaintiff alleges that based on these
events, he believes Defendant discriminated, harassed, and retaliated against
and terminated Plaintiff based upon his age, disability, real or perceived,
medical condition, real or perceived, request for accommodations for his
disability, engagement in protected activities, and denied Plaintiff
accommodations, denied Plaintiff an interactive process, and actually or
constructively and wrongfully terminated Plaintiff. Defendant failed and
refused to stop and prevent discrimination and retaliation against Plaintiff,
and Plaintiff was actually or constructively wrongfully terminated.
 
On April 15, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to
strike punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes.
 
      LEGAL
STANDARD
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.) “When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Defendant
argues that the Court should strike punitive damages from the Complaint because
the Complaint (1) is bereft of factual allegations supporting Plaintiff’s
claims of malice, oppression, or fraud, and (2) contains no factual allegations
identifying any corporate officer, director, or managing agent whom Plaintiff
claims committed said punitive acts or conduct against him. Thus, Defendant
contends the Complaint lacks the required specificity for punitive damages.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that he alleges intentional wrongs, not merely non-deliberate wrongs, which are
supported by pleading that the wrongs were committed willfully or with a design
to injure. (Complaint, ¶¶17-41.) 
 
To state a claim for punitive
damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts
showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.
App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pled with
specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are
insufficient. (Ibid.) A motion to
strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding
that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)¿
 
“Malice” is defined in section
3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or
“despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined
in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term
“despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade
Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78
Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.)¿¿“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.”¿ (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth. [Citations.]¿ In ruling on a motion to strike, courts
do not read allegations in isolation. [Citation.]” (Ibid.)¿
¿“An employer shall not be liable
for punitive damages based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of
oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” (Civil Code § 3294(b).) The California
Supreme Court interpreted the “latter statement as requiring the officer,
director, or managing agent to be someone who¿‘exercise[s] substantial
discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate
policy.’” (White v. Ultramar, Inc.¿(1999)
21 Cal.4th 563, 577.)¿
 
Punitive damages are available in
actions based on FEHA or violations of public policy.¿ (Commodore Home Systems v. Sup. Ct. (1982) 32 Cal.3d 211, 220; Cloud v. Casey¿(1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
895, 911-912.) California law long has recognized that discharges in violation
of public policy may be actionable torts for which punitive damages can be
recovered under Civil Code section 3294. (E.g., Tameny v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980) 27 Cal. 3d 167, 176-177
[discharge for refusal to commit antitrust violation; availability of punitive
damages no bar to recognition of action]; see also Montalvo v. Zamora (1970) 7 Cal. App. 3d 69, 77 [discharge for
exercise of right to self-organization]; Kouff
v. Bethlehem-Alameda Shipyard (1949) 90 Cal. App. 2d 322, 325 [discharge
for acting as poll watcher; punitive damages available].) However, wrongful
termination, without more, will not sustain a finding of malice or oppression.¿
(Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc.¿
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 717.)¿  
 
Further, “[c]orporations are legal
entities which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent
to injure or deceive. An award of punitive damages against a corporation
therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.¿ But the law
does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the officers, directors, or managing agents.”¿ (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal. App.
4th 160, 167, internal quotations and citation omitted.)¿
 
Here, the Court finds the
allegations are insufficient to state a claim for punitive damages. The
allegations are conclusory and do not meet the specificity requirement. In sum,
the allegations state that Plaintiff became disabled and needed accommodation,
was placed off work, and was terminated while off work because of his
disability. Plaintiff makes the conclusory allegation that “[b]ecause the acts
taken toward Plaintiff were carried out by officers, directors and/or managing
agents acting in a deliberate, cold, callous, cruel and intentional manner, in
conscious disregard of Plaintiff's rights and in order to injure and damage
Plaintiff, Plaintiff requests [] punitive damages.” (Complaint, ¶30.) There are
conclusory allegations of the same nature throughout the Complaint. However,
there are no specific facts alleged indicating the deliberate nature of the
failure to accommodate and terminate Plaintiff. Further, there is no
identification of an officer, director, or managing agent who perpetrated the
acts or ratified them, let alone any identification or specific facts alleged
as to acts of any employee of Defendant or anyone acting on behalf of
Defendant.
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike
is GRANTED with leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court decides the pending motion as follows:
 
Motion to Strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.

 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:             June 13, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 