  Case Number:  21STCV30947    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  61 ALICE ESCOTO vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL SERVICES, A CALIFORNIA MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONTENTATIVEPlaintiff Alice Escoto’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production from Defendant City of Los Angeles are GRANTED as to Requests for Production No. 113 and 114, and are otherwise DENIED. Defendant is ordered to further respond within 20 days. The requests for sanctions are denied, except that regarding the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, sanctions are awarded against Plaintiff in the amount of $3,500.00, and payable within 30 days. Defendant to provide notice.DISCUSSIONI. MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the action written interrogatories to be answered under oath.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.010(a).) If a propounding party is not satisfied with the response served by a responding party, the former may move the court to compel further interrogatory responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) The propounding party must demonstrate that the responses were incomplete, inadequate or evasive, or that the responding party asserted objections that are either without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a)(1)–(3); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 403.)“A propounding party may demand a responding party to produce documents that are in their possession, custody or control. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010.) A party may likewise conduct discovery by propounding interrogatories to another party to be answered under oath. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.010, subd. (a).) The responding party must respond to the production demand either by complying, by representing that the party lacks the ability to comply, or by objecting to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210.) The responding party must respond to the interrogatories by answering or objecting. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.210, subd. (a).) If the responding party fails to serve timely responses, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses to the production demand and interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.)Plaintiff Alice Escoto (Plaintiff) seeks further responses from Defendant City of Los Angeles (Defendant) to Special Interrogatories No. 153–157 and Requests for Production No. 111–115.1. Special InterrogatoriesPlaintiff’s Special Interrogatories No. 153–157, sought, in various forms, the “identity” of any City employees who “were terminated” or “subsequently no longer employed” with Defendant less than three years after reporting to Defendant the existence of a disability, making a request for accommodation, or making a complaint of disability discrimination or retaliation. (Separate Statement.) Defendant offered objections based on privilege, third party privacy, and overbreadth, reasoning that Defendant City of Los Angeles has more than 50,000 employees across more than a thousand job classifications and 44 departments. (Separate Statement at p. 2.) Defendant thereafter responded, subject to these objections, and limiting the response to “the identities of employee of the Department of Animal Services other than Plaintiff,” that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry revealed no employees matching Plaintiff’s description.Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s argument based on privacy is ill-founded, as the interrogatories are directed toward securing “me too” testimony from other City employees, and this interest overcomes any privacy interest in the requested information. (Motion at pp. 6–7.) Plaintiff further argues that the offering of responses “subject to” objections and stating the response “as understood” by Defendant is impermissible. (Motion at p. 8.)Plaintiff’s arguments are not persuasive. Although Defendant’s responses were offered “subject to” objections, such language is ordinarily used in responses, and is not in itself objectionable unless something indicates the information provided is being limited pursuant to the objections. (American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees v. Metropolitan Water Dist. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 247, 268 [holding that “answers that addressed the request in their entirety,” under “boilerplate statement” that responses were offered “without waiving these objections,” left “nothing to be addressed by a trial court in a motion to compel further responses”].) Plaintiff herself has used similar language in her discovery responses, as Defendant points out. (Neishlos Decl. Exh. F.)The sole limitation on responses that Defendant offered here was the limiting of responsive employee identifications to the department in which Plaintiff worked: the Department of Animal Services, the department that Plaintiff named as a defendant in her Complaint. Yet Plaintiff’s motion makes no case for the discovery of information beyond this scope. Although Plaintiff argues that she may permissibly seek discovery into “me too” witnesses, she makes no case for the discovery of personnel information across an employer with tens of thousands of employees, who have slim likelihood of possessing any information relevant to Plaintiff’s claim for individual discrimination and retaliation.Given the breadth of Plaintiff’s interrogatories, Defendant’s limitation is reasonable. “The relevance of evidence concerning conduct toward nonparty employees is inherently fact based and depends on many factors, including how closely related the evidence is to the plaintiff's circumstances and theory of the case.” (Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 871, internal quotation marks omitted; see also Pinter-Brown v. Regents of the University of California (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 55, 97–98 [holding that trial court abused discretion in admitting a “list of DFEH complaints” against the University of California as a whole, without any showing that “whether complainants were supervised or even had contact with . . . any of the . . . actors [the plaintiff] claimed had wronged her”].) )Defendant’s responses indicated that its search within these reasonable limitations turned up no employees meeting Plaintiff’s criteria, and Plaintiff’s motion takes no issue with the sufficiency of this response. Parties are permitted to respond to interrogatories that their inquiries have revealed no responsive information. Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.220, subd. (c).)Plaintiff in reply belatedly argues that Defendant has produced DFEH complaints indicating that these interrogatory responses are false, and that Defendant does know of responsive employees. (Reply at pp. 2–3.) But these documents reveal no such thing. The DFEH complaints that Plaintiff identifies show one complaint from an employee within the Department for disability discrimination in the failure to promote —not for any “termination,” or with any indication that the employee was “subsequently no longer employed” within the relevant period — and another complainant who alleged termination based on perceived disability — specifically alleging that he made no complaint of discrimination or reported any disability during their employment. (Reply Exh. 5.) Because Plaintiff’s interrogatories only concern employees who were terminated or were no longer employed after claiming a disability or making a complaint, the DFEH documents evidence no failure to comply with the interrogatories.The motion is therefore DENIED.2. Requests for ProductionPlaintiff’s Requests for Production No. 111–115 seek the following information. Requests No. 111–113 seek documents reflecting complaints, investigations, and discipline against Sergio Rios and Patt Ott, individuals identified in Plaintiff’s complaint. (Separate Statement at pp. 2, 5.)Request No. 114 seeks documents evidencing “how many times” Defendant’s investigations into other discrimination complaints “concluded that the complained-of discrimination . . . did take place at CITY.” (Separate Statement at p. 13.) And Request No. 115 sought complaints of disability discrimination similar to Plaintiff’s claims filed in the previous five years. (Separate Statement at p. 17.)Defendant responded to Requests No. 111–114 with statements of inability to comply, as a diligent search and reasonable inquiry had turned up no responsive documents. (Separate Statement at pp. 2–14.) Defendant responded to Request No. 115 by pointing to certain Bates page ranges from its document production. (Separate Statement.) The responses were offered subject to objections.As an initial matter, the motion cannot be granted as to Requests No. 111 and 112, because as Defendant argues, Plaintiff failed to meet and confer as to those responses. Defendant’s supplemental responses (i.e. those at issue in this motion) were served on January 3, 2024. (Galvan Decl. Exh. 4.) Plaintiff’s meet-and-confer correspondence thereafter did not motion these requests, but addressed only Requests No. 113–115. (Neishlos Decl. Exh. E, F.) Plaintiff in reply argues that the parties conferred as to the merits of these responses, but this conference concerned only whether responses to these requests were given in a prior iteration of supplemental responses. (Supp. Galvan Decl. Exh. A.) Once the supplemental responses were served, Plaintiff did not address them in informal correspondence. The motion is therefore DENIED as to Requests No. 111 and 112.Plaintiffs are entitled, however, to further responses on the remaining requests, because the responses do not comply with the Code of Civil Procedure. Specifically, Defendant’s responses to Requests No. 113–114 are nominally statements of inability to comply under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.230. That section requires:A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.)Here, Defendant’s responses state that after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, no responsive documents are in its possession. However, these responses provide no information concerning the disposition of responsive, whether they are destroyed, lost, misplaced, stolen, in the possession of another person or entity, or else never existed. Thus a further response is required for Requests No. 113–114.No further response, however, is required as to Request No. 115. That request sought documents evidencing complaints similar to Plaintiff’s in her department within a given time-frame, and Defendant responded by identifying complaints, but redacting the contact information of the employees concerned. Such redactions are appropriate. Employees have a privacy interest in their personnel records. (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1252–53.) “If there is a reasonable expectation of privacy and the invasion of privacy is serious, then the court must balance the privacy interest at stake against other competing or countervailing interests, which include the interest of the requesting party, fairness to the litigants in conducting the litigation, and the consequences of granting or restricting access to the information.” (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1251.)Here, where Plaintiff seeks this information as a means of obtaining “me too” witnesses to the same type of discrimination that she suffered, there ought to be a demonstration that the claims indicated in Defendant’s production are related in some manner to Plaintiff’s own claims. (See Pinter-Brown, supra, 48 Cal.App.5th at pp. 97–98.) Plaintiff here has made no showing, however, that any of the redacted complaints produced by Defendant involved the same employees, supervisors, decisionmakers, or facilities. Thus no further response is appropriate to Request No. 115.Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED as to Requests No. 113 and 114, and otherwise DENIED.II. SANCTIONSStatute provides that the court shall impose sanctions upon a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to interrogatories, requests for production of documents, or requests for admission, absent substantial justification otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h); 2033.290, subd. (d).)Plaintiff seeks $6,060.00 in connection with each of the two motions brought here, representing ten hours of attorney work at $600 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee, for each motion, for a total fee request of $12,120.00. (Galvan Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant meanwhile seeks $5,000.00 in connection with each motion, representing ten hours of attorney work at $500 per hour. (Neishlos Decl. ¶¶ 12–13.) This amount, however, includes fees not associated with the motions, including three hours of work spent on meet-and-confer correspondence before the motions were filed, and double-counted for each motion. (Neishlos Decl. ¶ 12.) Thus Defendant’s maximum sanctions award for each motion is $3,500.00.Neither party is entitled to sanctions on the motion that relates to requests for production, as the parties have each obtained partial relief on that motion. However, Defendant totally prevailed on the motion that relates to Plaintiff’s interrogatories, and a sanctions award in Defendant’s favor is appropriate.Sanctions are therefore awarded against Plaintiff and her counsel in the amount of $3,500.00.