 Case Number:  22STCV25269    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 06/07/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 22STCV25269
Trial Date: 12/02/2024
Case Name: CHERYL OLLISON v. PASADENA HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION, LTD
TENTATIVE
RULING –MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM COURT’S 11/3/2023 ORDER IMPOSING SANCTIONS 
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
“Defendant, HUNTINGTON HOSPITAL,
will and hereby does move this Court for relief pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b) from the Court's November 3, 2023 order granting sanctions
against Defendant, Huntington Hospital, on the grounds that: 
 
(1)   Relief from the Court's November 3, 2023 order imposing
sanctions against the Defendant is justified pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b) based on surprise. 
(2)   Relief from the Court's November 3, 2023 order imposing
sanctions against the Defendant is warranted under Code of Civil Procedure
128(a)(8) because the interest of justice support relief given the facts and
circumstances leading up to the Court's granting of Plaintiff's Motions to
Compel and Request for Sanctions.
 
This Motion is based upon this
Notice, the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the supporting
declaration of Diana Unti, the declaration of Michael K. Liu, Esq., and
Exhibits attached thereto, and upon such oral and documentary evidence as may
be presented at the hearing of this Motion.”
 
(Mot. p. 1-2.)
 
Procedural 
Moving Party: Defendant, Huntington Hospital
 
Responding Party: No Opposition by Plaintiff
 
Moving Papers: Motion; Proposed Order
 
Opposition Papers: No Opposition by Plaintiff
 
Reply: No Reply

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a): No – On eCourt, Plaintiff’s counsel’s
email address is listed as PATTY@THEFIRMLA.BIZ. Here, neither the motion nor
the proposed order were served at that email address. At the hearing, Defendant
needs to address this service issue.
BACKGROUND
On
11/3/2023, this Court heard Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to request
for production of documents, set one, and Plaintiff’s motion to compel
responses to SROG, set one, against Defendant, Pasadena Hospital Association,
LTD dba Huntington Hospital. On 11/3/2023, this Court GRANTED both motions.
Further, the at the hearing, the Court took up the
issue of sanctions and noted, “Discovery sanctions awarded on both motions in
total amount of $1811.65 against defense counsel and defendant to be payable to
plaintiff.” (11/3/2023 Min. Order, p. 6.)
Defendant now requests the Court modify its November
3, 2023 order and only relieve the hospital of the obligation to pay the
$1,811.65 in sanctions.
Defendant clarifies in its motion that it is not
seeking relief from the portion of the Court’s 11/3/2023 order which compels
Defendant to respond to discovery. (Mot. p. 5.) Defendant also clarifies it is
not seeking relief from the portion of the Court’s order imposing sanctions
against former counsel. (Id.) Additionally, Defendant clarifies that the
only portion of the order which Defendant is seeking relief from is the order
for sanctions against Defendant itself. (Id.)
ANALYSIS
Defendant
seeks relief pursuant to CCP § 473(b) and CCP § 128(a)(8).
CCP § 473(b) states:
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. However, in the case of a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding determining the ownership or right to
possession of real or personal property, without extending the six-month
period, when a notice in writing is personally served within the State of
California both upon the party against whom the judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding has been taken, and upon his or her attorney of record, if
any, notifying that party and his or her attorney of record, if any, that the
order, judgment, dismissal, or other proceeding was taken against him or her
and that any rights the party has to apply for relief under the provisions of
Section 473 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall expire 90 days after service
of the notice, then the application shall be made within 90 days after service
of the notice upon the defaulting party or his or her attorney of record, if
any, whichever service shall be later. No affidavit or declaration of merits
shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding any other requirements
of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. However, this section shall not
lengthen the time within which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to
Section 583.310.
(CCP § 473(b).)
CCP § 128(a)(8) states
that every court shall have the power to do all of the following:
(8) To amend and control its process
and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. An appellate court
shall not reverse or vacate a duly entered judgment upon an agreement or
stipulation of the parties unless the court finds both of the following:
(A) There is no reasonable
possibility that the interests of nonparties or the public will be adversely
affected by the reversal.
(B) The reasons of the parties for
requesting reversal outweigh the erosion of public trust that may result from
the nullification of a judgment and the risk that the availability of
stipulated reversal will reduce the incentive for pretrial settlement.
(CCP § 128(a)(8).)
Defendant now requests
the Court modify its November 3, 2023 order and only relieve the hospital of
the obligation to pay the $1,811.65 in sanctions.
Defendant clarifies in
its motion that it is not seeking relief from the portion of the Court’s
11/3/2023 order which compels Defendant to respond to discovery. (Mot. p. 5.)
Defendant also clarifies it is not seeking relief from the portion of the
Court’s order imposing sanctions against former counsel. (Id.)
Additionally, Defendant clarifies that the only portion of the order which
Defendant is seeking relief from is the order for sanctions against Defendant
itself. (Id.)
Defendant seeks relief
based on the “surprise” language in 473(b). 
Defendant argues that
this case involves exceptional circumstances where Defendant’s former counsel had
apparently been sick and passed away and that Defendant did not learn until
after former counsel’s death. Defendant argues that it was never made aware by
former counsel that discovery had been propounded, not responded to, nor that
motions were filed.
Defendant submitted the
declaration of Diana Unti, Huntington Hospital’s Risk, Claims, and Insurance Liaison.
Unti stated that
Defendant did not learn about its prior counsel’s death until late November
2023. (Unti Decl. ¶3.) The Court notes that late November 2023 would presumably
be after the 11/3/2023 hearing.
Unti also states how
Defendant immediately sought new counsel, and once obtaining new counsel, it
learned for the first time about the procedural history of this case. (See Unti
Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)
Unti states that
Defendant was not made aware by former counsel that discovery had been propounded
by Plaintiff, nor that motions to compel and requests for sanctions were filed
and granted. (Unti Decl. ¶ 6.)
Further, Defendant’s
current counsel states that a substitution of attorney was filed on December
11, 2023. (Liu Decl. ¶5.)
Defendant’s current
counsel further states:
Once the substitution of attorney was
signed and filed, Defendant's new attorneys began immediately working on the
file and getting up to speed on the case. Unfortunately, no prior work had been
done by former counsel on the discovery responses and no attempt had been made
to obtain responses from the client. Defendant's current counsel began working
on these responses and Plaintiff gave Defendant a deadline of January 11, 2024
to provide responses. Given the volume of the discovery requests, Defendant's
Counsel needed more time to complete responses. Plaintiff granted Defendant an
extension to January 26, 2024 to provide responses. Unfortunately, the attorney
working on the discovery responses had a medical emergency and was unable to
serve the responses on January 26, 2024. Ultimately, responses to the discovery
requests were served on February 5, 2024.
(Liu Decl. ¶ 6.)
Liu also states:
Pursuant to the Court's order at the
hearing on February 23, 2024, Defendant's Counsel telephonically met and
conferred with Plaintiff's Counsel to discuss, among other things, stipulation
to drop the November 3, 2023 sanctions order against Huntington Hospital.
Plaintiff's Counsel stated she would get back to Defendant's Counsel about that
issue, however, Defendant's Counsel never heard back regarding this issue.
(Liu Decl. ¶ 7.)
TENTATIVE RULING
On
eCourt, Plaintiff’s counsel’s email address is listed as PATTY@THEFIRMLA.BIZ.
Here, neither the motion nor the proposed order were served at that email
address. At the hearing, Defendant needs to address this service issue.
If the Defendant addresses the service issue, the
Court tentatively plans to grant Defendant’s motion.
Although it isn’t entirely clear if §§ 473(b) and
128(a)(8) are the appropriate statutes to grant the relief that Defendant
seeks, no Opposition was submitted. 
It appears that it would conform to law and justice to
vacate the sanctions imposed against Defendant itself based on the death of
Defendant’s former counsel.
 