 Case Number:  23GDCV00440    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date:  06/07/2024 – 8:30am
Case No:23GDCV00440                                          
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: DAVID HERNANDEZ, a minor, by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem DAIZY VILLALVAZO v. CAMP BOB WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH
BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES, a California corporation;
JOHN DOE, an individual; and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO SAC]
Moving Party:  Defendant, Jewish Big
Brothers Big Sisters Association of Los Angeles dba Camp Bob Waldorf
(erroneously sued as two separate entities; JBBBS) 
Responding Party:
Plaintiff, David Hernandez, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Daizy
Villalvazo
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant, Jewish Big Brothers Big Sisters Association of Los Angeles dba Camp
Bob Waldorf (erroneously sued as two separate entities; “JBBBS”) will demur
generally and specifically under Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10 (e) to
Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action in the Second Amended Complaint for Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against JBBBS.
 
This Demurrer will be based upon this Notice,
the attached Demurrer, the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the
Declaration of Sherri Matta, and exhibits therein filed and served concurrently
herewith, upon all papers and pleadings on file herein, and upon such further
oral and/or documentary evidence as may be presented at the time of the
hearing.”
 
(Dem. p. 2.)
 
Procedural
16/21
Day Lapse (CCP §12c and §1005(b)): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): Ok
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Demurrer
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply


BACKGROUND
Plaintiff filed the original Complaint on 03/03/2023.
 
On 1/19/2024, this Court heard JBBBS’s demurrer to the
original Complaint and overruled the demurrer to the fourth cause of action and
sustained the demurrer with leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action.
 
Plaintiff filed the FAC on 2/5/2024.
 
On 2/28/2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint,
noting that Defendant John Doe was discovered to be Eric Brown.
 
On 3/15/2024, this Court heard JBBBS’s demurrer to the fifth
cause of action in the FAC. 
 
On 3/15/2024, this Court sustained JBBBS’s demurrer to the
fifth cause of action in the FAC with leave to amend granted.
 
On 4/4/2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(SAC).
 
Defendant, JBBBS now demurs to the fifth cause of action for
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention in the SAC.
 
Plaintiff alleges that on or about July 19, 2019, Plaintiff
was an enrolled camper at the subject premises and that during Plaintiff’s
stay, Plaintiff was bullied for his appearance and/or birthmark and eating
habits by Defendant John Doe. (SAC ¶8.) [Defendant John Doe is alleged to be an
individual and direct employee of Defendant, JBBBS. (SAC  ¶4.)] On said date, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant John Doe suddenly, and without warning, physically and verbally
attacked and assaulted Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff suffered
injuries and damages. (SAC ¶8.)
 
The SAC alleges five causes of action. The first three
causes of action for (1) Assault, (2) Battery, and (3) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress, are alleged only against Defendant John Doe. The fourth
cause of action for Negligence is alleged against all Defendants. The fifth
cause of action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention is alleged
against Defendants Camp Bob Waldorf, unknown entity; and Jewish Big Brothers
Big Sisters Association of Los Angeles. [The demurrer to the SAC explains that
Camp Bob Waldorf, unknown entity; and Jewish Big Brothers Big Sisters
Association of Los Angeles is not two entities and that it is one entity,
referred to in this demurrer as JBBBS]
 
MEET AND CONFER
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Defendant
alleges that a meet and confer occurred. (Matta Decl. ¶5.)
DEMURRER LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The
court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading … is that his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case
with reasonable precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source and extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard
v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727,
734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only
parts of causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose
of an entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”
(Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
ANALYSIS
Fifth Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention
“California
case law recognizes the theory that an employer can be liable to a third person
for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee. [Citation
omitted.] Liability is based upon the facts that the employer knew or should
have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and
that particular harm materializes. [Citation omitted.]” (Doe v. Capital
Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s fifth cause of
action for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention is based on Plaintiff’s
conclusory allegation that JBBBS knew or should have known that John Doe was
incompetent and unfit. 
In relevant part, the SAC alleges:
Defendants CAMP BOB WALDORF, unknown
entity; JEWISH BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES, a
California corporation; and DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, hired Defendant JOHN DOE
as a camp counselor. At the time of hiring Defendant JOHN DOE, Defendants CAMP
BOB WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS ASSOCIATION OF LOS
ANGELES, a California corporation; and DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, knew or should
have known that Defendant JOHN DOE was incompetent and unfit to perform work as
a camp counselor due to his aggressive, inappropriate and harmful behavior,
including physically and verbally attacking, bullying and humiliating, and/or
other tendencies, particularly toward minor camp goers, such as the minor
Plaintiff. Due to Defendant JOHN DOE’s aggressive, inappropriate, and/or
harmful behavior and/or tendencies, particularly toward minor camp goers,
Defendants knew or should have known that Defendant JOHN DOE’s incompetence and
unfitness created a risk that a camp goer would be physically and verbally
attacked and/or bullied, including Plaintiff, and that harm materialized when
Defendant JOHN DOE bullied and/or humiliated the minor Plaintiff for his
appearance and/or birthmark and eating habits, and physically and verbally
attacked and assaulted the minor Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff
suffered injuries and damages.
(SAC ¶ 41.)
Here, Plaintiff appears to have successfully alleged
the fifth cause of action.
In Reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff doesn’t
state facts, but instead Plaintiff only alleges the elements of the claim in a
conclusory language. 
The Court does not find Defendant’s argument availing.
As stated in Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners Assn.,
Inc.: 
Settled principles of law support our
conclusion. “In order to plead a cause of action, the complaint must contain a
‘statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise law does not fulfill this requirement, it has long been recognized that
‘[t]he distinction between conclusions of law and ultimate facts is not at all
clear and involves at most a matter of degree. [Citations.] For example, the
courts have permitted allegations which obviously included conclusions of law
and have termed them “ultimate facts” or “conclusions of fact.” ’
[Citations.] What is important is that the complaint as a whole contain
sufficient facts to apprise the defendant of the basis upon which the
plaintiff is seeking relief. [Citations.]'' (Perkins v.
Superior Court, supra, 117 Cal.App.3d at p. 6, 172 Cal.Rptr.
427; italics added.) It has been consistently held that “ ‘a plaintiff is
required only to set forth the essential facts of his case with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficient to acquaint a defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action. [Citation.] If there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend. [Citations.]’ ... ‘The
particularity required in pleading facts depends on the extent to which the
defendant in fairness needs detailed information that can be conveniently
provided by the plaintiff; less particularity is required where the defendant
may be assumed to have knowledge of the facts equal to that possessed by the
plaintiff. [Citation.]’ ... There is no need to require specificity in the
pleadings because ‘modern discovery procedures necessarily affect the amount of
detail that should be required in a pleading.’ [Citation.]” (Ludgate
Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 592, 608, 98
Cal.Rptr.2d 277.). This fair notice test is clearly satisfied here.
(Doheny
Park Terrace Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Truck Ins Ins. Exchange (2005)
132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1098-99.)
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the SAC is OVERRULED.