 Case Number:  23GDCV01036    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 06/07/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 23GDCV01036
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ONIK KHODAVERDIAN v. MONTROSE GARDENS APARTMENTS
TENTATIVE
RULING – MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
“Defendants JIRAIR KRIKOR KILADJIAN
and MONTBLEU APARTMENTS, LLC, erroneously sued as MONTROSE GARDENS APARTMENTS
(hereinafter “Defendants”) will move this Court for reconsideration of the
April 18, 2024 ruling on Motion to Strike JIRAIR KRIKOR KILADJIAN from the
Second Amended Complaint in the above-captioned case.
 
This motion is made pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subd. (a) and it based on this
Notice, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities, Affidavit, the papers and
pleadings on file in this matter, and on such other oral and documentary
evidence as may be presented in support of this motion.”
 
(Mot. p. 2.)
 
Procedural 
Moving Party: Defendants, Jirair Krikor Kiladjian and Montbleu
Apartments, LLC (erroneously sued as Montrose Gardens Apartments)
 
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Onik Khodaverdian
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed Order
 
Opposition Papers: Opposition
 
Reply: Reply; Request for Judicial Notice

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a): Ok
ANALYSIS
Procedural
Under CCP § 1008(a), a party seeking reconsideration of a prior order must
bring the motion for reconsideration “within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order[.]” (CCP § 1008(a).)
Here, moving
Defendants are moving for the Court to reconsider its ruling on the motion that
was heard on 4/18/2024. The notice of ruling from the 4/18/2024 hearing appears
to have been served electronically on 4/25/2024 on Defendants. The instant
motion was filed and served on 4/30/2024; therefore, this motion is timely.
Further, Plaintiff’s Opposition does not contest the timeliness of this motion.
Substantive
Analysis
On 4/18/2024, this Court heard Defendants’ motion to
strike Jirair Krikor Kiladjian from the SAC. In the tentative ruling that was
posted before the Court heard oral argument, the Court tentatively planned to
grant Defendants’ motion to strike. After hearing argument, the Court decided
to deny the motion.
Defendants now seek reconsideration of the 4/18/2024
ruling pursuant to CCP § 1008(a).
As stated under CCP § 1008(a):
When an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application
to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and
modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall
state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.
 
(CCP § 1008(a).)
 
Defendants’ first argument appears to be that they are
seeking reconsideration based on the fact that they never received the untimely
Opposition to the motion that was heard on 4/18/2024. 
 
The Court does not find this argument availing. First,
the Court notes that the prior 4/18/2024 Minute Order noted that the Opposition
to the motion heard on 4/18/2024 was untimely. Second, Defendants’ argument
that they never received the Opposition is not based on new or different facts,
circumstances, or law because Defendants could have made the argument that they
never received the Opposition at the hearing on 4/18/2024.
 
Defendants’ second argument is that Montbleu
Apartments, LLC is a legal entity that owns the Montrose Garden Apartments, and
Jirair Krikor Kiladjian is not the owner of the Montrose Garden Apartments
where the alleged incident occurred. 
 
Defendants argue that under California Law, members
and managers of limited liability companies are not personally liable for the
debts, obligations, or other liabilities of the LLC under California
Corporations Code § 17703.04(a). 
 
Defendants argue that Jirair is a member of Montbleu
Apartments LLC and the debts, obligations, or other liabilities  of Montbleu Apartments LLC do not become the
debts, obligations, or other liabilities of Jirair solely by reason of being a
member of Montbleu Apartments LLC.
 
Defendants argue that they obtained new evidence by
obtaining a copy of  the Deed of Trust to
Montrose Garden Apartment, thus Defendants argue that Jirair does not own
Montrose Garden Apartments. Defendants argue that this demonstrates that the
apartment building that is subject to this lawsuit is solely owned by Montbleu
Apartments LLC, not by its individual owner.
 
Plaintiff’s argument in Opposition is confusing and
borderline indecipherable. In relevant part, Plaintiff argues:
 
Plaintiff originally sued Montrose Gardens
Apartments. Defense counsel at no point acknowledged that this was a dba and
the operating business, and instead claimed Plaintiff sued the wrong defendant.
However, upon the LLC’s production of documents, it is clear that Montrose
Gardens Apartments is the entity that is the insured and often times running
the business at this location. JIRAIR KRIKOR KILADJIAN is alleged to be the
person who is operating this dba, and running the business. They have not held
themselves out to be an LLC but instead are operating under Montrose Gardens
Apartments. As an afterthought, the Defendant is seeking to use the legal title
holder as an attempt to shield liability.
 
(Oppo. p. 2.)
 
The Court notes that is isn’t entirely clear what the
parties are arguing about with respect to the difference between Montrose
Garden Apartments and Montbleu Apartments, LLC. For example, the Plaintiff’s Opposition
to this motion argued that Defendants are operating under Montrose Gardens
Apartments; however, Plaintiff’s SAC (operative complaint) sues Montbleu
Apartments, LLC, not Montrose Gardens Apartments. If Plaintiff is arguing that
Montrose Gardens Apartments is liable, it is confusing as to why they filed an
SAC naming Montbleu Apartments, LLC when their prior FAC had already named
Montrose Gardens Apartments.
 
Either way, the Court does not find Defendants’
arguments availing. 
 
Even if moving Defendants discovered new evidence that
they did not have at the prior motion to strike hearing, such as a newly
obtained copy of a deed of trust, a motion to strike is not a contested
evidentiary hearing; it tests the pleadings. Thus, even if Defendants had
presented this deed of trust at the prior hearing, it does not appear as if
that would have been a proper basis to grant a motion to strike.
 
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on
the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court
is required to take judicial notice.” (CCP § 437(a); emph added.) 
 
As far as what is required to be taken judicial notice
of, Defendants’ deed of trust does not appear to fall into that category. 
 
Judicial notice shall be taken of the following:
(a) The decisional, constitutional,
and public statutory law of this state and of the United States and the
provisions of any charter described in Section 3, 4, or 5 of Article XI of the
California Constitution.
(b) Any matter made a subject of
judicial notice by Section 11343.6, 11344.6, or 18576 of the Government Code or
by Section 1507 of Title 44 of the United States Code.
(c) Rules of professional conduct for
members of the bar adopted pursuant to Section 6076 of the Business and
Professions Code and rules of practice and procedure for the courts of this
state adopted by the Judicial Council.
(d) Rules of pleading, practice, and
procedure prescribed by the United States Supreme Court, such as the Rules of
the United States Supreme Court, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Admiralty Rules, the Rules of the
Court of Claims, the Rules of the Customs Court, and the General Orders and
Forms in Bankruptcy.
(e) The true signification of all
English words and phrases and of all legal expressions.
(f) Facts and propositions of
generalized knowledge that are so universally known that they cannot reasonably
be the subject of dispute.
 
(Evid. Code § 451(a)-(f).)
 
TENATIVE RULING
Defendants’
motion for reconsideration is DENIED. Defendants’ motion attempts to turn a
prior motion to strike into a contested evidentiary hearing that blends issue
of applying alleged facts to law. Further, Defendants’ argument that they never
received the opposition to the motion that was heard on 4/18/2024 is unavailing
because that argument could have been made at the 4/18/2024 hearing.
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
 
 