 Case Number:  22STCV27209    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THERESA CHANG, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BRINKS GLOBAL SERVICES USA, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV27209
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 15, 2024



 
On
June 14, 2024, Defendant Gloria Corrales filed an amended motion to compel further
responses to Requests for Production, Set One. 
At issue were RFP Nos. 1-4, 8-41, 43-53, 61-63, 65-75, 78, and 80.
Plaintiffs’
October 4, 2024 opposition states that they have agreed to further respond to most
of the RFPs.  Only RFP Nos. 13, 14, 16, 17,
20, 71, 75, and 80 remain in dispute.
The
parties had agreed to extensions of time for Plaintiffs’ production, but Plaintiffs
served their responses six days after the agreed-upon date.  (Cimmarusti Decl. ¶ 6.)  Plaintiffs request relief from any waiver of objections.  (Opposition at pp. 5-6.)  Due to the grossly overbroad requests and nature
of the documents sought, as well as Plaintiffs’ delay being very short, the Court
grants Plaintiffs’ request.
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
A.        Defendant Has Not Shown Good Cause for
Production of Tax Documents.
RFP
Nos. 13, 14, 16, 17, and 80 include requests for tax documents.
Plaintiffs
object to the production of tax documents if they have other evidence of prior earnings
besides tax documents.  (Opposition at p.
2.)  If tax documents are a particular Plaintiff’s
only evidence of prior earnings, then tax documents are being produced.  (Ibid.)
Information
regarding tax returns is privileged.  (See
Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 719-723.)  Defendant has not shown good cause for their production.  In the Joint Statement, Defendant makes boilerplate
statements about the requests being “reasonably calculated for the discovery of
admissible evidence,” and “[a]ny privacy or confidentiality rights are outweighed
by the significant need and probative value of the discovery sought given the claims
and allegations of this lawsuit.”  The only
specific reason for production is that “[t]he discovery sought relates to critical
information placed at issue by Plaintiffs, and aids Corrales in her defense of this
action by her ability to verify whether Plaintiffs’ damages are congruent with historic
disclosures and records.  Each request relating
to these issues seeks different income or inventory disclosure information.”  Defendant has not shown any reason why Plaintiffs’
production of other documents regarding prior earnings is insufficient to show damages.
The
motion is denied for RFP Nos. 13, 14, 16, 17, and 80.
B.        The Remaining RFPs are Overbroad and Burdensome.
RFP
No. 20 requests “For the year, from 2017 to the present, all business records, including
but not limited to calendars, schedules, or diaries, that reflect dates YOU worked.”  This request is overbroad and Defendant has not
shown its relevance.  (Opposition at p. 5.)  As Plaintiffs state, “Neither income nor inventory
value derives from when plaintiffs worked. 
They are not paid hourly wages or salaries; their income is based on sales,
not time worked, and several other requests will require production of invoices
and financial data.”
RFP
No. 71 requests that Plaintiffs “Produce all DOCUMENTS relating to any COMMUNICATIONS
between YOU and any of the other Plaintiffs from 2017 to the present.”  Plaintiffs have agreed to produce “non-privileged
communications about the theft or the Jewelry and Gem Show from which that shipment
originated.”  (Opposition at p. 5.)  This limitation is appropriate.  Defendant’s assertion that “[t]his request calls
for information relevant to the underlying events of this litigation and is reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence” is insufficient to show
good cause for production of all documents and communications.
RFP
No. 75 requests “All DOCUMENTS, including x rays and other diagnostic tests, from
each hospital, doctor, chiropractor, physical therapist, mental health practitioner,
clinic, or other health care provider from whom YOU received treatment or examination
for any reason in the ten year period before the INCIDENT, from July 11, 2012 to
July 11, 2022.”  Defendant is correct that
“Plaintiffs’ operative complaint alleges physical and emotional injuries” for some
Plaintiffs.  However, a request for all medical
records, without limitation, from all Plaintiffs for ten years is grossly overbroad
and not tailored to the damages being sought.
The
motion is denied for RFP Nos. 20, 71, and 75.
C.        Conclusion
The
motion is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 15th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 