  Case Number:  22STCV17459    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  48       SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE  COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      BAHRAM RASIZADEH,                          Plaintiff,             vs.   SCHUSTER REAL ESTATE CO., LTD,                           Defendant.   ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )            CASE NO.: 22STCV17459   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION    FOR ATTORNEY FEES    Dept. 48 8:30 a.m. October 15, 2024      On  December 14, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff Bahram Rasizadeh’s motion for  terminating sanctions and entered default against Defendant Schuster Land  Corporation. On  March 12, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to set aside/vacate default because  the entry of default was caused by counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise,  or excusable neglect.  On May 2, 2024,  the Court granted the motion and vacated the entry of default. On  June 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for attorney fees in the amount of  $60,330.00. DISCUSSION When  relief from entry of default is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of  fault, the Court shall direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal  fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.   (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Plaintiff  provides a copy of counsel’s billing records.   (Kearney Decl., Ex A; Littlefield Decl., Ex. A; Naudi Decl., Ex.  A.)  Plaintiff’s counsel charges various  hourly rates: $750 for Thomas A. Kearney (19 hours); $700 for Prescott W.  Littlefield (42.1 hours); and $550 for Jon Naudi (24.36 hours).  (Kearney Decl. ¶ 12; Littlefield Decl. ¶ 19;  Naudi Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)  In total, Plaintiff  requests $60,330.00 in attorney fees. A.        Plaintiff is Not Entitled to All  Requested Fees. Plaintiff  seeks fees incurred for his September 25, 2023 motion for evidentiary sanctions.  This is not related to Defendant’s relief  from default.  The resulting Court order  remains in place.  Moreover, Plaintiff  has already been compensated for this motion.   When granting the motion, the Court ordered Defendant to pay sanctions  of $3,000.00. Plaintiff  seeks fees incurred for his October 4, 2023 first motion for terminating  sanctions.  The Court denied this motion.  There is no basis for awarding fees incurred for  a motion that was denied and is unrelated to the relief obtained by Defendant.  The Court will not award these fees. Plaintiff  seeks fees incurred for his November 16, 2023 motion for terminating sanctions.  This is directly related to Defendant’s  counsel’s admitted neglect, and it is reasonable to compensate Plaintiff for  the motion and entry of default that have now been undone through Defendant’s  relief from default. Plaintiff  seeks fees incurred for trial preparation.   As Defendant correctly states, “Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertions, this  is not time ‘wasted’ because if this case does not resolve, trial will still  happen and the PMQ deposition will still need to be taken.”  (Opposition at p. 8.)  The Court will not award these fees. Plaintiff  seeks fees incurred for his application for default judgment.  Attorney Naudi billed over 16 hours in  connection with the application for default judgment, including almost an hour  and a half for “Travel to and from client home in rush hour traffic for  meeting/signature on declaration.”  Attorney  Littlefield billed another 10 hours for working on the default prove-up.  Some of Attorney Littlefield’s time was  incurred after Defendant filed its motion to vacate on March 12, 2024.  With that motion pending, it was unreasonable  to finish and file the application for default judgment.  Moreover, on January 30, 2024, Attorney Naudi  billed for a phone call with opposing counsel and an email to them about  settlement.  Plaintiff should have  anticipated that Defendant would move to vacate the entry of default, and it  was unreasonable to do any of the work on the application for default judgment  (all of which began after January 30, 2024).   The Court will not award fees for time spent on the application for  default judgment. Plaintiff  seeks fees incurred for opposing Defendant’s motion to vacate.  The Court vacated the entry of default  against Defendant because such relief is mandatory when supported by an  attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,  surprise, or neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 473, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff’s  opposition to Defendant’s motion acknowledged that relief was mandatory.  (Opposition to Motion to Vacate at p.  4.)  However, the opposition also accused  Defendant of submitting a “PROVABLY FALSE” declaration containing statements  that were “made to advance Lewis Brisbois’ phony narrative that neither Steffy  nor any other partner at Lewis Brisbois had any knowledge of, or even reason to  suspect, that Giannis was mishandling the defense in this case until after  entry of default.”  (Id. at p. 5;  see id. at p. 7.)  Plaintiff  further accused Defendant of withholding vital information from the Court and  misrepresenting the information that Defendant did provide.  (Id. at p. 5; see id. at pp.  9-10, 14.)  The unsubstantiated attacks  on Defendant were wholly unwarranted, and the opposition itself was unnecessary  in light of Defendant’s entitlement to mandatory relief due to counsel’s  neglect.  The Court will not award fees  for time spent opposing the motion to vacate. Most  of the billing entries are for items that are completely unrelated to  Defendant’s relief from entry of default.   For example, Attorney Littlefield billed for “Strategize re how to deal  with discovery motions, moving of motion, and how to handle extension” in July  2023, deposition preparation in November 2023, and work on unspecified “trial  documents” in November 2023.  Attorney  Naudi billed almost an hour for “Travel to and from post office to mail  Sanctions check,” depositing the check, and trust accounting.  He also billed for reviewing and paying  invoices, obtaining minute orders, traveling to the courthouse for hearings,  updating the calendar, and many unspecified emails and calls.  The Court will not award fees for any other  items. The  Court concludes that Plaintiff is entitled to reasonable attorney fees incurred  for only his November 16, 2023 motion for terminating sanctions. B.        Plaintiff Has Already Received His  Reasonable Compensatory Legal Fees. Attorney  Kearney billed 18.2 hours for the motion for terminating sanctions.  This amount of time is unreasonable for a  motion that was less than six pages long and contained only one citation: a case  that was cited for the basic legal proposition that “where a violation is  willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less  severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the  trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.”  Attorney Littlefield billed 1 hour for  working on the motion.  He also billed 3  hours for appearing at the hearing.  Attorney  Naudi billed a total of 3.5 hours for emailing co-counsel about the motion and  traveling to the hearing. An  overall total of 25.7 hours is grossly excessive for the motion for terminating  sanctions.  It is also an inappropriate  request that lacks any credibility. In  a declaration in support of this motion, Attorney Kearney declares that he “had  to review the extensive history of Giannis’s discovery derelictions to ensure  accuracy in the Motion,” “prepared no fewer than five drafts of the second  termination motion,” and accurately set forth the actual time spent preparing  the motion for terminating sanctions.   (Kearney Reply Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)  But  when he filed the motion for terminating sanctions on November 16, 2023, his  supporting declaration stated, “I spent 2.5 hours preparing and filing this  Motion.” The  Court’s December 14, 2023 order granting the motion also awarded Plaintiff  sanctions of $1,250.00.  Defendant has  paid the sanctions.  (Watson Decl. ¶ 8.) Accordingly,  Plaintiff has already been compensated for the motion for terminating  sanctions. CONCLUSION The  motion for attorney fees is DENIED. Moving  party to give notice. Parties  who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org  indicating intention to submit.  If all parties  in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are  required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)  is also on calendar.             Dated this 15th day of October 2024                     Hon. Thomas D. Long Judge of the Superior    Court        