 Case Number:  22STCV28077    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



FERGUSON ENTERPRISES,
  LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GREEN COURT INVESTORS, LP, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV28077
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER
  TO INFINITY’S AND MARQUEZ’S SACC; OVERRULING DEMURRER TO GREEN COURT’S SACC
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 15, 2024



 
On
November 9, 2023, the Court consolidated Case No. 22STCV28077 and Case No. 22STLC06776
for all purposes, designated Case No. 22STCV28077 as the lead case, and ordered
that subsequent filings should be under the lead case number.
On
June 5, 2024, Green Court Investors filed a second amended cross-complaint (“SACC”)
against Infinity Plumbing Inc., Marco Marquez, and Maria Carmen Marquez.  On July 5, 2024, Infinity, Marco Marquez, and
Maria Carmen Marquez filed a demurrer.
On
June 17, 2024, Infinity and Marco Marquez filed a SACC against Green Court, KLS
Financial LLC, and Kim Shapiro.  On July 8,
2024, Green Court, KLS, and Shapiro filed a demurrer.
The
Court does not rule on the objections to replies and the responses to objections
because the issues raised are not material.
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
DEMURRER
TO INFINITY’S AND MARQUEZ’S SACC (Reservation ID #193884092060)
The
SACC alleges (1) breach of contract, (2) implied indemnity, (3) equitable indemnity,
and (4) defamation.  Cross-Defendants demur
to the second, third, and fourth causes of action.
A.        The Demurrer to the Second and Third Causes
of Action is Not an Improper Successive Demurrer.
Cross-Complainants
argue that the demurrer is an improper successive demurrer because the Court previously
overruled a demurrer to the same causes of action.  (Opposition at p. 3.)  “A party demurring to a pleading that has been
amended after a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall
not demur to any portion of the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on
grounds that could have been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.41, subd. (b).)
The
Court’s May 13, 2024 order ruled on a demurrer filed by Green Court, KLS, and Shapiro
regarding Infinity’s and Marquez’s FACC in Case No. 22STCV28077.  That FACC alleged (1) breach of contract; (2)
implied indemnity; (3) equitable indemnity; (4) defamation; and (5) breach of implied
covenant.  Green Court’s and KLS’s demurrer
to Infinity’s FACC in Case No. 22STLC06776 came off calendar and was never ruled
upon.  Accordingly, this Court has not ruled
upon a prior demurrer brought by Green Court, KLS, and Shapiro against a cross-complaint
filed by Infinity Plumbing and Marquez.
To
the extent that the FACCs did have overlapping claims and allegations, the SACC
has combined all of Cross-Complainants’ claims pursuant to the Court’s May 13, 2024
order.  This has changed the nature of some
claims.
The
FACC filed on July 20, 2023—the subject of the May 13, 2024 demurrer order—alleged
that “Cross-complainant Infinity Plumbing, Inc. (‘Infinity’) entered into a written
contract with Cross-Defendant Green Court Investors (‘Green Court’), Cross-Defendant
KLS Financial LLC (‘KLS’) and Roes 1 through 50.”  This allegation of Green Court being a party to
the contract was the basis for the Court’s ruling that the indemnity claims were
properly pleaded, as they were rooted in Green Court’s contractual obligations to
Infinity.
The
SACC alleges, “In or about December 2021, in Los Angeles, California, Cross-complainant
Infinity Plumbing, Inc. (‘Infinity’) entered into a written contract with Cross-Defendant
KLS Financial LLC (‘KLS’) and Roes 1 through 50.”  (SACC ¶ 8.) 
By omitting any allegations that Green Court was a party to the contract,
the SACC has changed the nature of the FACC’s claims and provides a new basis for
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer.  Now Cross-Complainants
allege that “Green Court Investors LP is a third party beneficiary to the subject
contract” (SACC ¶ 13) and that Green Court and KLS “are and have been the ultimate
recipients of such goods provided by the two said Plaintiffs pursuant to the contract
referred to in the First Cause of action of this Second Amended cross-complaint
and said cross-defendants have benefited from such goods and have received the full
value of the same and have been enriched thereby” (SACC ¶ 15).  These are new allegations with new bases for Green
Court’s alleged obligation to indemnify, and they are central to Green Court’s current
demurrer.
The
Court concludes that this is not an improper successive demurrer to the same allegations.
B.        Cross-Complainants Cannot Allege Claims
for Indemnity Against Green Court (Second and Third Causes of Action).
Green
Court argues that there is no basis for indemnity because it is not a party to the
contract.  (Demurrer at p. 7.)
Equitable
indemnity “applies only among defendants who are jointly and severally liable to
the plaintiff.  [Citation.]  [J]oint and several liability in the context of
equitable indemnity is fairly expansive. 
We agree it is not limited to ‘the old common term “joint tortfeasor” . .
. .’  It can apply to acts that are concurrent
or successive, joint or several, as long as they create a detriment caused by several
actors.”  (BFGC Architects Planners, Inc.
v. Forcum/Mackey Construction, Inc. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 848, 852.)  “With limited exception, there must be some basis
for tort liability against the proposed indemnitor.”  (Ibid.)
“Implied
contractual indemnity is applied to contract parties and is designed to apportion
loss among contract parties based on the concept that one who enters a contract
agrees to perform the work carefully and to discharge foreseeable damages resulting
from that breach.”  (Smoketree-Lake Murray,
Ltd. v. Mills Concrete Construction Co. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1724, 1736.)  “‘[A] claim for implied contractual indemnity
is a form of equitable indemnity subject to the rules governing equitable indemnity
claims’ [citation]. . . . [A]n implied contractual indemnity claim, like a traditional
equitable indemnity claim, is subject to the American Motorcycle rule that
a party’s liability for equitable indemnity is based on its proportional share
of responsibility for the damages to the injured party.”  (Prince v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1165.)  “Traditional
equitable indemnity and implied contractual indemnity share a key feature that distinguishes
them from express indemnity: unlike express indemnity, neither traditional equitable
indemnity nor implied contractual indemnity is available ‘in the absence of a joint
legal obligation to the injured party.’  [Citation.]  Under this principle, ‘“‘there can be no indemnity
without liability,’”’ that is, the indemnitee and the indemnitor must share liability
for the injury.”  (Jocer Enterprises, Inc.
v. Price (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 559, 573.)
The
SACC seeks indemnity “if it is found that Infinity is liable for any injury, loss
of damages claimed by Plaintiff [Ferguson Enterprises LLC] herein or Infinity pays/paid
monies to Plaintiff herein as to their claimed damages or if it is found that Infinity
is liable for any injury, loss or damages claimed by Plaintiff in the companion
consolidated case or Infinity pays/paid monies to Plaintiff in the companion consolidated
case for the damages they claim.”  (SACC ¶
13.)
Ferguson
Enterprises LLC filed a notice of settlement and Section 664.6 stipulation, documenting
its settlement with Infinity, Marco Marquez, and Maria Carmen Marquez.  On September 3, 2024, Ferguson Enterprises LLC
dismissed Green Court with prejudice.  There
is no basis for Green Court’s liability to Ferguson Enterprises LLC, and thus no
joint liability.  Additionally, there is no
contractual relationship between Cross-Complainants and Green Court.  The alleged contract is between Infinity and KLS.  (SACC ¶ 8.)
Green
Court’s demurrer to the second and third causes of action is sustained without leave
to amend.
C.        The Defamation Claim is Uncertain (Fourth
Cause of Action).
Cross-Defendants
argue that the claim for defamation fails because the alleged statement is opinion,
not fact, and the review is protected by the litigation privilege.  (Demurrer at pp. 9-11.)
The
Court’s May 13, 2024 demurrer order found that this claim in the FACC was sufficiently
pleaded in most respects, but it did not allege the libelous statement with specificity.  The SACC now attaches a copy of the Yelp review.  (SACC, Ex. B.)  Cross-Complainants allege that Shapiro, acting
on behalf of Green Court and KLS, wrote a Yelp review “with the malicious intention
of having her writing seen and understood by third parties so as to harm Cross-complainants.”  (SACC ¶ 17.)
Specifically,
Cross-Complainants highlight the title of the review (“DO NOT USE INFINITY PLUMBING!”)
and Shapiro’s statements “so as to discredit Infinity and Marco Marquez and accused
said Cross-complainants of criminal activity, theft and other business related improprieties
related to the said Cross-complainants manner of conducting business.”  (SACC ¶ 17; see SACC ¶ 18 [“accused the said Cross-complainants
and each of them of having committed a crime and being unfit to practice their trade,
business, and profession”].  The only reference
to criminal activity is that Marquez “stole our old copper pipe that we promised
to our on-site managers to recycle.”  (SACC,
Ex. B.)  The statements about business-related
improprieties can be inferred throughout the review, but it is not clear which statements
are at issue.  Many of the statements are
indeed unactionable opinions.
“The
general rule is that the words constituting an alleged libel must be specifically
identified, if not pleaded verbatim, in the complaint.”  (Kahn v. Bower (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1599,
1612, fn. 5.)  Despite attaching the full
review, it is uncertain exactly which statements are alleged to be libelous.  The demurrer is sustained on this ground.
According
to Cross-Complainants, Shapiro “further indicated a false and baseless belief that
said Cross-complainants would file bankruptcy or ‘close shop’ so as to further attack
their business acumen, honesty and integrity and specifically urged third parties
to not use Infinity Plumbing.”  (SACC ¶ 17.)  The actual statement is, “Hoping he doesn’t file
bankruptcy or close shop!!”  This is facially
the author’s hope and opinion, not a factual statement that Cross-Complainants are,
in fact, about to file bankruptcy or close.
With
respect to the litigation privilege, Cross-Defendants argue that “the allegedly
defamatory statements appear to describe the nature of GCI’s cross-complaint against
Cross-Complainants, including that Cross-Complainants stole and converted copper
piping.  Indeed, judicially noticeable documents
show that a mechanic’s lien was recorded against the Property on July 14, 2022 by
Infinity, two days before the allegedly defamatory statements were made, demonstrating
that litigation was inevitable or at least under serious consideration at that time.”  (Demurrer at p. 11.)
“The
litigation privilege, codified at Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b), provides
that a ‘publication or broadcast’ made as part of a ‘judicial proceeding’ is privileged.  This privilege is absolute in nature, applying
‘to all publications, irrespective of their maliciousness.’  [Citation.] 
‘The usual formulation is that the privilege applies to any communication
(1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants
authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that [has]
some connection or logical relation to the action.’  [Citation.] 
The privilege ‘is not limited to statements made during a trial or other
proceedings, but may extend to steps taken prior thereto, or afterwards.’  [Citation.].” 
(Action Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th
1232, 1241 (Action Apartment).)  “A
prelitigation communication is privileged only when it relates to litigation that
is contemplated in good faith and under serious consideration.”  (Id. at p. 1251.)
“The
litigation privilege protects even communication made with an intent to harm, so
long as the communication is made in ‘relation’ to a pending/ongoing or genuinely
contemplated judicial or other official proceeding.”  (Geragos v. Abelyan (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th
1005, 1031-1032.)  “[T]he absolute privilege
is interpreted broadly to apply ‘to any communication, not just a publication,
having “some relation” to a judicial [or quasi-judicial] proceeding,’ irrespective
of the communication’s maliciousness or untruthfulness.”  (People ex rel. Gallegos v. Pacific Lumber
Co. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 950, 958.)
The
Yelp review states, near the end, “We will be in litigation to settle this matter.”  That is the only reference to litigation.  “Whether a prelitigation communication relates
to litigation that is contemplated in good faith and under serious consideration
is an issue of fact.”  (Action Apartment,
supra, 41 Cal.4th at p. 1251.)  The demurrer
is overruled with respect to the litigation privilege.
In
sum, the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained with 30 days’ leave
to amend to state exactly which statements are alleged to be libelous.
D.        Conclusion
The
demurrer to the second and third causes of action is sustained without leave to
amend.
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained with 30 days’ leave to amend.  
DEMURRER
TO GREEN COURT’S SACC
The
SACC alleges (1) breach of contract; (2) negligence; (3) conversion; (4) constructive
trust; (5) fraud (concealment); (6) breach of written contract; (7) breach of written
contract (Commercial Code § 2201); (8) goods sold and received; (9) account stated;
(10) breach of contract (personal guaranty); (11) violation of Business and Professions
Code sections 2025-7034, 7114, and 7125.2.
Cross-Defendants
Infinity, Marco Marquez, and Maria Carmen Marquez demur to all causes of action
on the same grounds.  (See generally Demurrer.)  Cross-Defendants argue that the subject contract
makes no mention of Green Court, Green Court “is at best an incidental third
party beneficiary,” and Green Court has no standing.  (Demurrer at p. 9.)  Cross-Defendants also argue that the contract
does not include Marco Marquez or Maria Carmen Marquez, so they have been improperly
joined.  (Ibid.)
The
contract indicates that it is a proposal submitted from Infinity to KLS.  (SACC, Ex. A.)  It is “Signed by Owner/Rep” Kim Shapiro.  The SACC alleges that Shapiro is a representative
of both KLS and Green Court.  (SACC ¶ 10.)  Although it is unclear on whose behalf Shapiro
was acting, Cross-Defendants admit that Green Court is at least a third-party beneficiary
of the contract.  (See Demurrer at p. 9.)
“A
third party may qualify as a contract beneficiary where the contracting parties
must have intended to benefit that individual, an intent which must appear in the
terms of the agreement.”  (Brinton v. Bankers
Pension Services, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 550, 558.)  The contract indicates that the job site is 7425
Sepulveda Boulevard, which is the property allegedly owned by Green Court.  (SACC ¶ 7 & Ex. A.)  This is sufficient to allege Green Court’s status
as at least a third-party beneficiary of the contract with standing.
Additionally,
Cross-Defendants argue that Marco Marquez and Maria Carmen Marquez are not contracting
parties and there are no specific facts about their direct involvement in the causes
of action.  (Demurrer at pp. 10-17.)  Cross-Defendants do not address the SACC’s allegations
that Marco Marquez and Maria Carmen Marquez are alter egos or conspirators of KLS.  (SACC ¶¶ 5-6.)
The
demurrer is OVERRULED.  Infinity, Marco Marquez,
and Maria Carmen Marquez are ordered to file an answer within 10 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 15th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 