 Case Number:  23STCV15438    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANIKA
  MCFALL 
                           
         vs.
 
META
  PLATFORMS, INC., et al. 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15438
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 25, 2023



 
Defendant’s
motion to transfer is GRANTED.
 
            On
9/25/2023, Plaintiff Anika McFall (Plaintiff) filed suit against Meta
Platforms, Inc., and Meta Platforms Technologies, LLC (collectively,
Defendants), alleging: (1) violation of Computer Fraud CPC section 501; (2)
breach of implied covenant; (3) misrepresentations; and (4) negligence. 
 
            Now,
Defendants move to transfer this action to the Superior Court of the State of
California for the County of San Mateo.
 
Factual Background
 
Each of
Plaintiff’s claims arise from her Instagram account—specifically, Meta’s
purported response to Plaintiff’s Instagram account being hacked by an unknown
third party. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that this action is appropriately heard in San Mateo County because: (1)
the parties have already agreed that the present dispute should be tried in San
Mateo County; and (2) Plaintiff freely and voluntarily entered into Instagram’s
Terms of Use (TOU) when making an Instagram account, and this TOU establishes
that the proper venue for the present action is exclusively in San Mateo
County. 
 
Venue is
generally proper where the parties agree it is proper. Battaglia Enters.,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309, 317-18 (affirming the
trial court’s decision to transfer the case to a venue contractually agreed
upon by both parties). Moreover, in accordance with CCP section 395.5, parties
can agree to forum selection clauses that establish the proper venue for
California state court actions. (Battaglia, supra, 215
Cal.App.4th at p. 317.) California courts will enforce forum selection clauses
that are: (1) mandatory; (2) not unreasonable; and (3) aligned with public
policy. (See Intershop Comms. v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th
191, 198-201.)
 
            Here,
the express language in Instagram’s TOU establishes San Mateo County as the
exclusive jurisdiction for claims arising out of or related to Instagram that
are brought in state court. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the forum selection cause cannot be enforced
because it is part of a contract of adhesion.
 
While Courts
have found adhesion contracts to evince a “degree” of procedural
unconscionability in the employment context, this is because “the arbitration
agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and few
employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
agreement.” (Little v. Auto Stiegler,
Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071.) By contrast, an adhesive consumer
contract does not stand between a consumer and “necessary” consumption. Because
Plaintiff did not face the same economic pressure when deciding whether or not
to sign up for an Instagram account as an individual applying for a job would
have, the Court declines to find any degree of procedural unconscionability.
Plaintiff has also not identified any substantive unconscionability. 
 
The Court
also disagrees with Plaintiff that public policy does not favor the form
selection clause or that the clause is not mandatory. 
 
As to the
first contention, protecting parties’ legitimate expectations is important “for
businesses with nationwide customers[,] to limit the risk and expenses of
litigation under different laws in every state.” (Abat v. Chase Bank USA,
N.A. (C.D. Cal. Sept. 14, 2010) 738 F. Supp. 2d 1093, 1096) (enforcing the
choice of law provision between two parties). While California has a public
policy interest in providing its residents access to its courts, the California
“Supreme Court has concluded that policy is satisfied where a plaintiff freely
and voluntarily negotiates away his or her right to a [particular] forum.” (CQL
Original Prods., Inc. v. Nat’l Hockey League Players’ Assn. (1995) 39
Cal.App.4th 1347, 1353) (finding the forum selection clause was not against
public policy).
 
As to the
second contention, the TOU’s forum selection clause includes definitive
language that exclusively selects San Mateo County as the proper venue for all
state court actions. California state courts routinely find that forum
selection clauses are mandatory when employing similarly exclusionary language.
(See, e.g., Net2Phone, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th
583, 586 (enforcing a forum selection clause stating that any dispute “will be
subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts in the
State of New Jersey”.) 
 
In sum, the
Court finds the forum selection clause to be valid and enforceable, and transfer
to be mandatory. The Court finds this venue to be reasonable and aligned with
public policy.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to transfer is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 