  Case Number:  19STCV20062    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JACOB
  REICH
                           
         vs.
 
MANSOUR
  HASHEM
 


 Case No.: 
  19STCV20062
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: January 17, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion for an order waiving the appeal bond is DENIED.
 
On June 7, 2019, Plaintiff Jacob Reich filed
a Complaint against Defendant Mansour Hashem. On September 1, 2020, Plaintiff
filed a second amended complaint (SAC) alleging: (1) breach of written
contract; (2) money had and received; (3) common counts; (4) open book account;
(5) account stated; (6) failure to honor checks; (7) fraud; (8) negligence; (9)
unjust enrichment; (10) judiciary foreclosure; and (11) reformation of
contract. 
 
Now, Defendant moves for an order waiving the
appeal bond. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that he is indigent and has no means to raise the cash necessary for the
appeal bond. 
 
            The
Court denies the requested relief. 
 
            There
is a long record of Defendant failing to produce the financial documents to
support his claimed financial situation. Moreover, Defendant has at various
times claimed payments which contradict his own claimed means. For example,
Defendant claims he makes payments on hard money loans but has repeatedly
failed to produce documents to show this. Defendant also previously claimed to
be making monthly payments of $3,100 in “child support” for his adult child. 
 
            Moreover,
as noted by Plaintiff, there is a stark difference between a claim that one
does not have liquidity and that one is indigent. Here, there is no dispute
that Defendant receives $24,978 in rents each month for investment properties
that he owns. An individual receiving $299,736 a year in rental payments is not
indigent. Defendant’s single representation that he attempted to sell one of
his properties, but the sale fell through, also does not equate to his being
indigent, nor does it indicate that he is without means, access to funds, or
the means to access funds.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for an order waiving the appeal bond is
denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
   
