 Case Number:  21STCV46199    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



T.K
  
         vs.
 
DOE
  1 
  


 Case No.: 
  21STCV46199  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 17, 2024 




 
Defendant’s
motion for a judgment on the pleadings is DENIED.  
 
On
12/17/2023, Plaintiff T.K. (Plaintiff) filed suit against DOE 1. On 1/14/2022,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) negligence and;
(2) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision. 
 
Now,
Defendant moves for a judgment on the pleadings. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s claims should be dismissed because they are legally
impermissible as a violation of the California Constitution. More specifically,
Defendant argues that AB 218—which extended the statute of limitations in child
sexual abuse cases and relieved such plaintiffs from the government claim
requirement—is unconstitutional, because it purports to retroactively exempt
childhood sexual abuse plaintiffs from the Government Claim presentation
requirements.
 
            The
Court disagrees.  
 
The Court in Coats
v. New Haven Unified School District (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415 recently
took up this question. There, the Court found that the removal of the
claims presentation requirement for child sexual abuse cases was
constitutional: 
 
The present
case, of course, involves revival of a cause of action barred by a claim
presentation requirement, not a statute of limitations. But we are aware
of no reason the Legislature should be any less able to revive claims in this
context, as it expressly did in Assembly Bill 218.” (Id. at 428.)
(emphasis added) Legislation reviving the statute of limitations on civil
law claims does not violate constitutional principles. (Id. at 425.)
(emphasis
added.)
 
Other courts
have affirmed the same. (See Roman Catholic Bishop of Oakland v. Superior
Court (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1155, 1161 [“It is equally well settled that
legislation reviving the statute of limitations on civil law claims does not
violate constitutional principles.”]; Liebig v. Superior Court
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 828, 830 [“the Legislature has the power to retroactively
extend a civil statute of limitations to revive a cause of action time-barred
under the former limitations period.”); Deutsch v. Masonic Homes of
California, Inc. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 748, 760 [defendants have no “no
constitutional right to be free of the obligation to defend stale claims.”].)
 
 Notably, Defendant did not cite this case in
its motion, or distinguish it from the facts here. 
 
Coats also
indicates that there is no difference, constitutionally speaking, between a
claim previously barred by the statute of limitations and one barred for
failure to timely comply with the claims presentation requirement. While
Defendant extensively cites Shirk v. Vista Unified School District
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 201 to argue that Plaintiff has not complied with the
government filing requirement, which is an element of the underlying
claims,  that case was superseded by
statute. (Rubenstein v. Doe No. 1 (2017) 3 Cal.5th 903, 914 points out
that “[t]he legislative history behind the new Government Code section 905,
subdivision (m), makes clear the Legislature overruled Shirk.” Moreover,
Shirk instructs that “[c]omplaints that do not allege facts
demonstrating either that a claim was timely presented or that compliance with
the claims statute is excused are subject to a general demurrer for not stating
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Shirk, at 634.)
Thus, the significance of the claims presentation requirement being an
“element” of a cause of action is simply that Plaintiff must adequately plead
compliance in his Complaint. The Legislature’s removal of the claims
presentation requirement in Government Code Section 905(m) did not alter
Plaintiff’s obligation to prove the District’s negligence and his resulting
damages at trial or automatically impose any liability against the District.
 
Finally,
Defendant argues that AB 218 is unconstitutional because it retroactively
strips governmental immunity from public entities in violation of Article XVI,
section 6 of the California Constitution, which prohibits gifts of public
funds. However, there is a difference between reviving a lapsed claim and
creating liability against a public entity. In the gift clause context,
liability is not “created” here merely because the Legislature revives a stale
claim allowing a class of plaintiffs to file lawsuits. Rather, the subsequent
determination of liability is still left to a jury or trier of fact. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for a judgment on the pleadings is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
            