 Case Number:  23STCV19847    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  39 Yi Huang, et al.
v. Desheng Xu
Case No.
23STCV19847
Demurrer and Case
Management Conference
 
            Plaintiffs
Yi Huang and Meihua Chen (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this wage and hour
case against Defendant Desheng Xu (“Defendant”).  Defendant filed a cross-complaint asserting
causes of action for: (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud, (3) unjust enrichment,
and (4) financial elder abuse.  Now,
Plaintiffs demur to the second, third, and fourth causes of action.
 
“It is black letter law that a
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”
 (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In
ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of
the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
 
As an initial matter, there is no
cause of action for unjust enrichment. 
Unjust enrichment is a remedy, not a cause of action.  (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc.
(2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 779, 794.) 
Therefore, the Court sustains Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the third cause of
action without leave to amend. 
 
The Court also sustains Plaintiffs’
demurrer to the second cause of action, fraud, which must be plead with
particularity.  “This means: (1) general
pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every
element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and
specifically, and the policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually
be invoked to sustain a pleading that is defective in any material
respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186
Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.)  To state a claim
for promissory fraud, Plaintiffs must allege specific factual circumstances
beyond a breach of contract, i.e., facts that reflect Defendants’
contemporaneous intent not to repay the money. 
(Hills Transportation Co. v. Southwest Forest Ind., Inc. (1968)
266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.)  Defendant
fails to do so in this case.  Defendant
merely alleges that Huang borrowed money, promising to repay Defendant, but
failed to do so.  Defendant alleges no
facts suggesting that Huang had no intention of honoring this promise when he
borrowed the money.      
 
            Similarly,
Defendant alleges insufficient facts to support a claim for financial elder
abuse.  The Elder Abuse and Dependent
Adult Civil Protection Act defines an elder as “any person residing in this
state, 65 years of age or older.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15610.27.)  The statute prohibits “[a]buse of an elder or a dependent
adult[,]” which is defined as “physical abuse, neglect, financial abuse,
abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical
harm or pain or mental suffering[.]”  (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15610.07.)  “‘Financial abuse’ of an elder or dependent adult occurs when
a person or entity does any of the following:  [¶]  (1) Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an
elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or
both.  [¶]  (2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating,
obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent
adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.  . . . 
(b) A person or entity shall be deemed to have taken, secreted, appropriated,
obtained, or retained property for a wrongful use if, among other things, the
person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains the
property and the person or entity knew or should have known that this conduct
is likely to be harmful to the elder or dependent adult.”  (Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a)-(b).)  Because it is a statutory claim, Defendant
must allege the cause of action for elder abuse with particularity.  (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.)  Defendant
alleges, “[Plaintiffs have] been wrongful[l]y, fraudulently, appropriating and
retaining [Defendant’s] money over the years with the intent of wrongful use
and intent to defraud.” 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 42.) 
Defendant does not allege any specific facts regarding the elder
abuse.  Defendant alleges only that
Plaintiff borrowed money and did not repay the loan as promised, which is insufficient.  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court sustains Plaintiffs’ demurrer
to the second, third, and fourth causes of action in the cross-complaint.
 
            2.         The Court grants leave to amend with
respect to the second and fourth causes of action.
 
            3.         The Court denies leave to amend with
respect to the third cause of action.
 
            4.         Defendant may file an amended
cross-complaint within thirty (30) days. 

 
            5.         Based upon the stipulation of the
parties, the Court proceeded with the case management conference before
Plaintiffs file an answer to the cross-complaint.  The Court sets the following dates:
 
            Final
Status Conference:        July 3, 2024, at
9:00 a.m. 
 
            Trial:                                       July 15,
2024, at 9:30 a.m. 
 
The parties shall file joint trial documents on or before
June 26, 2024.  A list of the required
trial documents may be found on the Court’s website (www.LACourt.org) under the “Civil” tab in the
“Courtroom Information” section.  The
parties shall identify all witnesses they intend to call in their respective
cases-in-chief, and identify and produce all documents that they intend to
introduce in their respective cases-in-chief, on or before June 26, 2024.
 
            6.         The parties shall follow all courtroom
procedures for Department #39.  Jury fees
shall be posted on or before February 29, 2024, or the parties shall waive
jury.
 
            7.         Plaintiffs’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
 