..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22LBCV00584
Plaintiff's Name: Edison Manrique
Defendant's Name: General Motors LLC
People-Names: Edison Manrique, General Motors LLC
Company-Names: General Motors LLC
Places: Los Angeles
Dates: October 13, 2022, October 5, 2023
Events: Demurrer, Motion to Strike, Hearing
Money: Not mentioned
Intentions: To resolve disputes and determine the validity of the case
Facts: Edison Manrique filed a lawsuit against General Motors LLC, alleging violation of Song-Beverly and fraudulent inducement/concealment. General Motors LLC demurred to the complaint and moved to strike portions of the complaint.
Disputes: Validity of the case, sufficiency of the pleading, duty to disclose
Acts: Filing of lawsuit, demurrer, motion to strike, meet and confer
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, California Civil Code §3294, California Code of Civil Procedure §430.10, §430.30, §430.41, §92(c)
Case Citations: Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 89 Cal.Rptr.3d 659
Statutes: California Civil Code, California Code of Civil Procedure
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* The demurrer must be brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action within].
* The court will not consider late-filed reply papers.
* The Dhital court concluded that allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a buyer-seller relationship between the parties as “Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the manufacturer’s] agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers.
* The specificity rule is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment.
* The motion to strike rises and falls with the demurrer, as a well-pled claim for fraud necessarily supports a prayer for punitive damages.
```

And here is the English-text summary:

**Tentative Ruling**

The court has issued a tentative ruling regarding the demurrer and motion to strike directed at the First Amended Complaint in the case of Edison Manrique vs. General Motors LLC.

The court has overruled the demurrer and denied the motion to strike. The plaintiff, Edison Manrique, has alleged that General Motors LLC engaged in fraudulent concealment and inducement in their dealings with him. The court has determined that the allegations are sufficient to support the existence of a buyer-seller relationship between the parties, which gives rise to a duty to disclose.

The court has also determined that the specificity rule does not apply to concealment claims, and that the plaintiff's allegations are sufficient to support a claim for fraud. The motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages is denied, as a well-pled claim for fraud necessarily supports a prayer for punitive damages.

The parties are instructed to submit on the tentative ruling by emailing the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org. If the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.
