 Case Number:  22LBCV00584    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



EDISON MANRIQUE,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 22LBCV00584
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
  DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE DIRECTED AT FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
October 5, 2023



 
Moving Party:               Defendant, General Motors, LLC
Opposing Party:           Plaintiff, Edison Manrique
Notice:                         OK
 

Background Facts

Plaintiff, Edison Manrique filed
this action against Defendant, General Motors, LLC on 10/13/22.  Defendant demurred to the complaint and moved
to strike portions of the complaint, and Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint prior to the hearing.  The
FAC includes causes of action for violation of Song-Beverly and fraudulent
inducement/concealment.  
 

Demurrer to FAC

a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he attempted
to meet and confer telephonically with Plaintiff prior to filing the demurrer,
but was unsuccessful in his attempt.  He does
not declare whether meet and confer was unsuccessful because the attorneys
never actually spoke, or because they did speak and did not resolve their issues.  In the future in this and other actions,
Counsel must specify.    
 
c.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant demurs to the fourth
cause of action for fraudulent concealment, contending it is not pled with the requisite
specificity and Plaintiff does not allege a transactional relationship between
himself and GM giving rise to a duty to disclose.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
fourth cause of action adequately pleads a transactional relationship and is
pled with the necessary specificity in light of the fact that the claim is for
concealment, rather than intentional misrepresentation.  
 
To date, the Court has not received
reply papers.  The Court will not
consider late-filed reply papers.  
d.     Duty
to Disclose
The elements of a fraud claim based
on concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311).  
 
There are “four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at 311). If a fiduciary relationship does not exist,
but the latter three circumstances are present, Plaintiff must still show “the
existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from
which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311). 
 
            A duty to
disclose may arise as a result of a transaction between the parties. However,
the transaction "must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large." (Bigler-Engler at 312 [noting that the duty of a
manufacturer to warn consumers of a product’s hazards and faults applies in the
context of strict products liability actions but does not apply in a suit for
intentional misrepresentation.]).
            Plaintiff
cites Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, wherein
the Plaintiffs sued Nissan North America, Inc. (Nissan), alleging a
transmission defect. Plaintiffs alleged claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act and a common law fraud claim alleging that Nissan fraudulently
concealed the defects and induced them to purchase a car. (Dhital at 838). 
 
            The
California Supreme Court granted review of Dhital on February 1, 2023, however,
the request for depublication was denied. (Dhital v. Nissan North America (Cal.
2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82, 83). Since review is pending and the Supreme Court
did not otherwise order, Dhital does not having binding effect, however, “it
may be cited for potentially persuasive value only.” (Cal Rules of Court, Rule
8.1115 (e)(1). 
 
            The Dhital
court concluded that allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a
buyer-seller relationship between the parties as “Plaintiffs alleged that they
bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an
express warranty, and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the
manufacturer’s] agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to
consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim
is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose
known defects." (Dhital at 845). Plaintiff’s amended allegations conform
with the allegations found by the Court of Appeal to establish a relationship
with the manufacturer sufficient to withstand demurrer. (FAC ¶4-8). 
 
e.     Specificity
Ordinarily, fraud claims are
subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading which necessitate pleading
facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered." (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)  However, the specificity rule is intended to
apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 89 Cal.Rptr.3d
659).  Notably, the idea that a plaintiff
could allege who concealed something, where the thing was concealed, when it
was concealed, etc., is nonsensical; the nature of the claim is a failure to
speak, which cannot possibly include these details.
 
Accordingly, the allegation that
Defendant had exclusive knowledge of the transmission defects and the alleged
facts supporting the existence of a direct transactional relationship with
Defendant’s agent are sufficient to support a duty not to conceal material
facts.
 
f.      Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled.
 

Motion to Strike

Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages from the FAC. 
The motion to strike rises and falls with the demurrer, as a well-pled
claim for fraud necessarily supports a prayer for punitive damages.  See Civil Code §3294, which permits
imposition of punitive damages in cases involving malice, oppression, or fraud.
 The motion to strike is therefore denied.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.
  
 
DATED:  October 5, 2023                       _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 