 Case Number:  22STCV40726    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



JANE M.M. DOE, ET AL.,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
LAUSD, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 22STCV40726
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER
  AND MOTION TO STRIKE DIRECTED AT FAC
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
October 5, 2023



 
Moving Party:               Defendants, LAUSD and Jennifer Mak 
Opposing Party:           Plaintiffs, Jane M.M. Doe, et al.
Notice:                         OK
 
1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiffs, Jane M.M. Doe and John J.C. Doe have filed suit against
Defendants, LAUSD, Dennis Jenkins, and Jennifer Mak for damages arising out of
Jenkins’s alleged sexual abuse of Plaintiffs while they were fifth grade
students at 15th St. Elementary School during 2013 and 2014.  
 
This case is related to 22STCV16136, a case wherein eleven plaintiffs
have sued the same defendants for the same or similar acts.
 
2.    
Demurrer

Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding
the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial Corporation of
America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the facts pled in
the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by reference
from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated exhibits
control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause of action
by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts as pled in
the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special demurrers
are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised
in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel, Megan Asrani,
declares the attorneys met and conferred before Defendants filed this pleading challenge,
but were unable to resolve the issues presented.  The demurrer is therefore ripe for ruling on
its merits.
 

Parties’ Positions 

Defendants demur to the FAC,
contending M.M.’s claims are inappropriate because she has also asserted claims
in the earlier-filed case 22STCV16136, and also arguing J.C.’s claims are inappropriate
because he is a mere bystander and does not allege the elements required to state
a claim for bystander liability.  
 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer.  They argue the John Doe claims are not
bystander claims, but instead are direct liability claims.  

M.M.

Defendants’ first contention is M.M. is a plaintiff in 22STCV16136 and
cannot assert the same claims in this case. 
Defendants’ RJN in this regard is granted.  Plaintiffs do not address this argument in opposition
to the demurrer.  The demurrer to M.M.’s
claims is sustained without leave to amend. 

 

John Doe Plaintiff J.C.

Defendants contend John Doe J.C. does not allege he was personally
touched by Jenkins, but rather that he sustained damages as a mere bystander to
the abuse of the female students in his class. 
Defendants cite numerous cases all decided in the personal injury
context, which cases hold that a person who witnesses another person’s injury
can only sue for NIED if the person personally witnesses the injury AND has a
close personal relationship with the injured person that gives rise to emotional
distress beyond what would be anticipated if he were merely a disinterested
witness.  
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the demurrer, correctly note that J.C.’s
claims are not bystander NIED claims.  They
are direct claims for his own damages, because making a male student witness
sexual abuse against female students can damage the male student as well.  Absent any on point authority, the demurrer
to his claims is overruled.  
 
3.    
Motion to Strike

a.     Allegations Concerning Statutory Duties
Defendants move to strike various allegations concerning statutory duties,
contending the allegations do not actually give rise to statutory duties.  Plaintiffs, in opposition to the motion, do
not argue that any specific statutory duty applies, but instead argue that
there is no prejudice to Defendants as a result of the allegations remaining in
the SAC.  The Court agrees.  The cases, detailed above, appear to govern
the duties a school district and its principal owe to students.  Regardless of which particular statute does
or does not govern those duties, it will be up to the plaintiffs to show, at
trial, that Mak and/or the District failed to comply with its duties.  The motion to strike is denied.
 
b.     Attorneys’ Fees  
Plaintiffs seek to recover their attorneys’ fees expended in this
action pursuant to Civil Code §1021.5. 
Defendants contend the prayer for attorneys’ fees is inappropriate and
should be stricken.  Plaintiffs contend
it is appropriate and should remain.  
 
The Court considered this issue in connection with Defendants’ motion to
strike, directed at the FAC in 22STCV16136. 
The Court held:
Plaintiffs seek to recover attorneys’ fees pursuant to CCP
§1021.5.  Notably, Plaintiffs do not
currently have a properly pled claim against Defendants, and therefore the
motion to strike is moot.  The Court
will, however, consider the substance of the arguments raised in an attempt to
assist the parties in resolving any issues raised by way of the SAC.
 
Pursuant to Community Youth Athletic Center v. City of National City
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1385, 1447, attorneys’ fees are appropriate under
§1021.5 if (1) plaintiffs' action “has resulted in the enforcement of an
important right affecting the public interest,” (2) “a significant benefit, whether
pecuniary or nonpecuniary has been conferred on the general public or a large
class of persons” and (3) “the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement are such as to make the award appropriate.”  
 
Defendants argue §1021.5 does not apply because this case does not seek
enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest or the conveyance
of a significant benefit upon the general public or a large class of
persons.  Plaintiffs, in opposition,
contend Jenkins continues to teach at 15th St Elementary, and therefore
this action, if successful, will confer a benefit on a large class of persons
(themselves and future students of Jenkins). 
Defendants, in reply, contend attorneys’ fees are not appropriate
because the complaint is not brought on behalf of the general public or as a
class action.  
 
Defendants fail to cite authority for the position that §1021.5 fees
are only available in PAGA or class action suits, and the Court knows of no
such authority.  By way of example, in
Conservatorship of Whitley (2010) 50 Cal.4th 1206, the Supreme Court
held that §1021.5 attorneys’ fees were appropriate whether the plaintiff successfully
created a procedural precedent that conferred a benefit on persons with
developmental disabilities.  The Supreme
Court held that the fact that the litigant had a personal interest in the outcome
of the litigation did not foreclose the ability to obtain fees.  Notably, the Court did specify that a litigant
who has a financial interest in the litigation may be disqualified from
obtaining such fees when expected or realized financial gains offset litigation
costs.  In this case, the Court cannot
determine, at the pleading stage, whether Plaintiffs’ expected financial gains
outweigh their litigation costs; in light of the allegation that Jenkins
continues to work for LAUSD, the Court finds it is possible, if Plaintiffs’
claims are proven, that they will meet the test under §1021.5.  At the pleading stage, to the extent the motion
is not moot, the motion would be denied. 

 
Defendants do not raise additional arguments in their motion directed
at the SAC, and the motion is denied.
 
4.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff
M.M.’s claims is sustained without leave to amend.  Defendants’ demurrer is otherwise overruled.  Defendants’ motion to strike is denied.
 
Defendants are ordered to file an
answer to the FAC, with M.M.’s claims deemed dismissed, within ten days.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 
DATED:  October 5, 2023                       _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 