 Case Number:  22LBCV00376    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



R.A., AN INDIVIDUAL,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
DOE 1, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 22LBCV00376
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RPDS
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
October 5, 2023



 
Moving Party:               Plaintiff, R.A. 
Opposing Party:           Defendant, Young Mens Christian Association of Greater
Long Beach
Notice:                         OK
 

Complaint

Plaintiff, R.A. filed this action
against Defendants, Doe 1, Doe 2, and Does 3-60.  Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 is a CA nonprofit
that provided after-school programs, overnight camps, recreational services,
and other services to minors in LA County and surrounding areas; Doe 1 is a
partnership operated, run, controlled, managed, directed, supervised, and/or
operated by Doe 2.  Plaintiff alleges Doe
2 is a national nonprofit corporation headquartered in the State of Illinois,
which managed, ran, controlled, oversaw, supervised and/or operated Doe 1.  
 
Plaintiff alleges Robert “Bob”
Felder was an adult male employee of Does 1 and 2, and specifically was the general
manager of Doe 1.  Plaintiff alleges
Felder died in 1986 and is not a party to the lawsuit.  Plaintiff alleges he sustained childhood sexual
assault at the hands of Felder in the 1970s. 

Plaintiff’s complaint includes
causes of action for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention against all
defendants and negligence against Does 31-50. 
Plaintiff has amended his complaint to name Young Men’s Christian
Association of Greater Long Beach as Doe 1 and National Council of YMCAs of the
USA as Doe 2.  
 

Motion to Compel
     Further Responses


Prior Hearing

The Court was originally scheduled to hear this motion on 9/05/23.  At the conclusion of the hearing, the Court continued
the matter to require the parties to provide a joint statement of items in
dispute.  On 9/26/23, the parties filed
their joint statement.  The RPDs that
remain at issue are RPDs 38 and 39.  These
RPDs seek production of:
RPD 38:            All documents or
writings that relate to your discussions pertaining to the termination of your
(former) employee, Brian Bost, by Felder
RPD 39:            All documents or
writings that identify your employees who were present at meetings and/or
discussions regarding the termination of your (former) employee, Brian Bost, by
Felder
 
Plaintiff’s position is that he needs to review these documents to show
Defendant had knowledge of Felder’s prior abuse at the time Felder abused
Plaintiff.  Specifically, Plaintiff contends
he confronted Bost, when he was an adult, and told Bost about his childhood
abuse.  Shortly thereafter, Felder
terminated Bost’s employment.  Bost sued
for wrongful termination, and apparently had his employment reinstated, because
documents show he worked for Defendant after the subject time period.  Plaintiff’s thesis is that documents from the
termination and wrongful termination lawsuit could include information showing
Bost, or possibly others, knew of Felder’s abuse prior to the time Felder
abused Plaintiff, which knowledge would be imputed to Defendant.  
The burden to justify an objection to
a discovery request is on the party asserting the objection.  See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.  Defendant does not,
in its opposing portion of the joint statement, address many of the objections
asserted.  Those objections are therefore
not justified and overruled.  
 
Defendant makes numerous arguments
in the joint statement.  First, it
contends none of the documents that are responsive to the RPDs mention anything
about Felder having committed any type of physical or sexual abuse, or about
Brian Bost having been terminated for confronting Robert Felder.  A party’s assertion that documents do not say
something is not the same as permitting the opposing party to review the
documents and make that determination for himself.  Notably, the documents not containing the
information the propounding party hopes to uncover is not a ground for “objection”
to the categories.  
 
Defendant’s second argument is that
the documents at issue were created in and around 1987, at the time Felder
terminated Bost’s employment, more than a decade after Plaintiff alleges Felder
abused him.  The Court understands
Plaintiff’s requests are a bit of a fishing expedition.  However, for discovery purposes, information
is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.  Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence.  These rules are
applied liberally in favor of discovery, and (contrary to popular belief),
fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases. (Cruz v. Superior Court
(2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653-654; Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546; see also Garamendi v. Golden Eagle Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 694, 712, fn. 8 [citations, quotations omitted].)  The Court is inclined to find, in light of
the above, that the documents are sufficiently potentially relevant to overcome
this relevance objection.  
 
Defendant’s third argument is that the
subject documents implicate the attorney-client privilege and work product
protection.  The problem with this argument
is that Plaintiff correctly notes, in the joint statement, that the documents
listed in the privilege log are not listed with sufficient specificity to
enable Plaintiff (or the Court) to analyze whether the privilege/protection
applies.  Notably, Defendant asks the
Court to appoint a discovery referee to review the documents to determine whether
the privilege and/or protection applies. 
The Court is inclined to do so.
 
Defendant’s final argument is that
the rights to privacy of the individuals on the board, the deceased individuals,
and Defendant itself all outweigh any relevance of the documents.  This inquiry is also difficult without
viewing the documents themselves.  The documents
could include highly sensitive information that has nothing to do with
knowledge of prior abuse, in which case the need for the documents would not
outweigh the right to privacy.  However,
if the documents contain anything at all showing Bose or others knew of Felder’s
abuse prior to his abuse of Plaintiff, the relevance of the documents would highly
outweigh any right to privacy.  Again,
the Court is inclined, at Defendant’s request, to appoint a referee to review
the documents in order to balance the right of privacy against the relevance of
the documents.  
 
Counsel are to meet and confer to
agree upon a referee and the terms of the reference.  The Court sets an OSC re: status of reference
for 12/14/23 at 8:30 a.m., to be heard concurrently with the Case Management
Conference.  If the parties are unable to
agree on the terms of the reference, they must come to the OSC prepared to
recommend referees and terms of the reference. 
 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 
DATED:  October 5, 2023                       _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 