

 
            This is an
action brought under the Song-Beverly Act by Plaintiffs
Aaron Caver (Caver) and Tynisha Knox (Knox) against Defendant Kia Motors
America, Inc. (Kia) and DOES 1-10. Plaintiffs are co-owners of a 2016 Kia Soul
(Vehicle). Initially, Knox leased the Vehicle by herself in December 2015 from
Kia of Downtown. Then, in January 2020, Knox and Caver purchased the Vehicle
together.
 
            On
November 23, 2021, Defendant Kia filed a motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs
opposed the motion. On December 6, 2022, the Court continued the motion for
summary judgment. 
 
            On March 20, 2023, Defendant filed a
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer.  The Court sustained the demurrer based on
uncertainty. 
 
            The
Second Amended Complaint now alleges claims for: 
(1) Plaintiff
Knox’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(d);
(2) Plaintiff
Knox’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(b);
(3) Plaintiff
Knox’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3); 
(4) Plaintiff
Knox’s cause of action for breach of express written warranty; 
(5) Plaintiff
Knox’s cause of action for breach of implied warranty of merchantability; 
(6) Plaintiff
Caver’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(d);
(7) Plaintiff
Caver’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(b);
(8) Plaintiff
Caver’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3); 
(9) Plaintiff
Caver’s cause of action for breach of express written warranty; and 
(10) Plaintiff
Caver’s cause of action for breach of implied warranty of merchantability.
 
Defendant Kia demurs to the entire SAC.
Defendant Kia also moves to strike the entire SAC on the grounds that it does not
comply with the court order sustaining the demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to both the demurrer and the motion
to strike.  
 
            The Court sustains
the demurrer as to the first through tenth causes of action with leave to
amend. The motion to strike is moot. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
            
            Defendant argues the SAC remains uncertain and the causes
of action as to Plaintiff Caver fail to state a claim.
 
            Uncertainty as to the First through Fifth Causes of
Action of Plaintiff Knox.
 
Defendant
Kia argues the first through fifth causes of action alleged by Plaintiff Knox are
uncertain because Plaintiffs simply added five new causes of action and
separated the claims by plaintiff. However, separating solely by plaintiff was
inadequate to address the uncertainty issues raised in the last pleading. According
to Defendant Kia, there are two separate transactions alleged in the SAC: the
lease of a new car and the purchase of a used car. Each transaction contains different
statutes of limitations, different warranty applications, different legal
standing (because Song-Beverly does not apply to used vehicle purchases), and
different damage claims (because only Plaintiff Knox leased the new Vehicle and
can recover those damages, but both Plaintiffs purchased the “used” Vehicle
together). 
 
            Specifically, Defendants cites Lilienthal & Fowler
v. Super Ct. (Karr) (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, to argue that “[d]ifferent
rights and obligations arise out of the lease and out of the purchase.” (Dem.
3:23-24.) Defendant Kia’s concerns specifically seek to address an ability to
move for summary adjudication on separate claims that arise out of the lease
and the purchase agreement, respectively. 
 
            For example, for a new vehicle, the duration of the
implied warranty is one year. (Civ. Code § 1791.1(c).) However, when
Plaintiffs Knox/Caver bought out the lease and purchased the Vehicle, a new
implied warranty started, which lasted only three months. (Civ. Code, § 1795.5,
subd. (c).) Here, the SAC only contains one cause of action for a breach of
implied warranty of merchantability as to Plaintiff Knox. Thus, the claim may
fail as to the purchase, but may survive as to the lease (or vice versa).  However, as these two claims are contained
within a single cause of action, summary adjudication of this claim may fail
because it does not dispose of the entire cause of action.[1] 
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff Knox’s first through fifth causes
of action are uncertain because they conflate violations that arose during the
lease period with claims that arose after the Vehicle was purchased.[2]
The demurrer is sustained with leave to
amend. 
 
            Sixth through Tenth Causes of Action
as to Plaintiff Caver
 
            Defendant Kia demurs to the five causes
of action alleged by Plaintiff Carver on the grounds that Song-Beverly warranty
causes of action do not apply to used vehicles against the manufacturer.
 
            In making their arguments on this
issue, the parties raise and discuss Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995)
35 Cal.App.4th 112 (Jensen) and Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 209 (Rodriguez). At issue in both Rodriguez and Jensen
is the meaning of “new motor vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Act. In
relevant part, the statutory language states:
 
“New motor vehicle” includes the chassis, chassis cab,
and that portion of a motor home devoted to its propulsion, but does not
include any portion designed, used, or maintained primarily for human
habitation, a dealer-owned vehicle and a “demonstrator” or other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty.” (Civ. Code, §
1793.22, subd. (e)(2), [italics added].)
 
In Rodriguez, the “sole issue in the case [was]
whether the phrase ‘other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty’ covers sales of previously owned vehicles with some balance remaining
on the manufacturer’s express warranty.” The Rodriguez plaintiff
purchased a used truck from a third-party used car dealership that had 55,000
miles on it. The plaintiff did not purchase any additional warranties, though
the original powertrain warranty was still in effect at the time of purchase.
(77 Cal.App.5th at p. 209.) The trial court granted the vehicle manufacturer’s
motion for summary judgment because the vehicle was “used.” 
 
The Fourth District affirmed the order, finding that
the statutory text and legislative history supported its reasoning that a used
vehicle with some balance of the original warranty was not a “new motor
vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Act. (Id. at pp. 219-223.) Specifically,
the Rodriguez court reasoned that section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2)
referred to a list of “two vehicles (dealer-owned vehicles ‘and’ demonstrators)
followed by an adjectival clause qualifying or describing those vehicles.”  It explained that the lack of a comma in the
phrase “dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold
with a manufacturer’s new car warranty” suggested that the latter phrase “or other
motor vehicle” was “intended to function as a catchall provision to cover a
narrow class vehicle – the  previously
driven, but basically new (i.e., not previously sold) car.”  (77 Cal.App.5th at p. 220.)
 
The Court of Appeal further noted that it was unclear
whether the third-party dealership issued any warranties to plaintiffs, “but
that would be the only way they could seek a refund or replacement under the
Act.” (Id. at p. 223.) The court concluded “that the phrase ‘other motor
vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty’ refers to cars sold with
a full warranty, not to previously sold cars accompanied by some balance of the
original warranty.” (Id. at p. 225.)
 
The California Supreme Court has granted review of Rodriguez;
as such, this case can only be cited for its persuasive value. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 8.1115(e)(3).)
 
The Rodriguez court discussed Jensen, supra,
35 Cal.App.4th 112. In distinguishing the earlier case, it concluded
that while Jensen was “correctly decided,” its interpretation of section
1793.22 should be limited to the specific facts before it. (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 224.) 
 
            In Jensen, the plaintiff leased
a vehicle from a manufacturer-affiliated dealer. The vehicle had been driven 7,565
miles. The salesman incorrectly represented that it “had been used as a
demonstrator for the dealership.” (35 Cal.App.4th at p. 119.) The lease was
issued with a “36,000-mile warranty on top of the miles already on the
car.”  The Jensen court concluded that
“the words of section 1793.22 are reasonably free from ambiguity” because
“[t]he use of the word ‘or’ in the statute indicates ‘demonstrator’ and ‘other
motor vehicle’ are intended as alternative or separate categories of ‘new motor
vehicle’ if they are ‘sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty.’” (Id.
at p. 123.)  The court noted
the “peculiar grammatical structure” of the section and further reviewed the
amendments, documents relating to legislative proceedings, and the overall
statutory scheme, concluding that “section 1793.22 includes cars sold with a
balance remaining on the new motor vehicle warranty.” The court cited to the
“Act’s purpose as a remedial measure” and to protect “ ‘any individual to whom
the vehicle is transferred during the duration of a written warranty.’ ”  (Id. at p. 126.) Jensen
concluded that under section 1793.22, “cars sold with a balance remaining on
the manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty are included within its
definition of ‘new motor vehicle.’ ” (35 Cal.App.4th at p. 123.)  
 
            In
contrast to Rodriguez, the Jensen court did not emphasize the
lack of a comma in the phrase “dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or
other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty,” but instead
focused on the word “or” to hold that this phrase created an additional category
of “new motor vehicle.” (Ibid.) 
Thus, while Rodriguez concluded that the clause defined two
additional types of vehicles as “new,” the Jensen Court concluded that
the clause defined three:  dealer-owned
vehicles, demonstrators, and other vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty.
 
In distinguishing Jensen, the Rodriguez court
emphasized that “Jensen involved a lease by a manufacturer-affiliated
dealer who issued a full new car warranty along with the
lease.”  (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th
at p. 223 [original italics].) Allowing that Jensen was “correctly
decided,” Rodriguez commented that its statutory interpretation should
be limited to the unique facts in that case: the manufacturer had issued a full
warranty at the time of sale.  
 
Several other cases in the Fourth District have
distinguished Jensen on similar grounds. (Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz USA,
LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 340, n.4 [questioning Jensen’s broad
holding that “every car sold with any portion of a new-vehicle warranty
remaining is a new motor vehicle] (Kiluk); Dagher v. Ford Motor Co. (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 905, 923 [limiting Jensen to the facts in the case which
involved a lease from the dealer, not a private party].)[3]
Further, as explain in Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz,
LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, the court
found that, under section 1795.5, “[t]he same protections generally apply to
sale of used goods accompanied by an express warranty, except that the
distributor or retail seller is bound, as opposed to the manufacturer, and the
duration of the implied warranty of merchantability is much shorter.” (Id.
at 336.)
 
Not surprisingly, Plaintiffs argue that Jensen should
govern here and Defendant Kia argues that Rodriguez
applies because, like the plaintiff in Rodriguez,
the Plaintiffs purchased the Vehicle used. 
 
The SAC here alleges that Plaintiffs purchased the Vehicle
after Plaintiff’s Knox had leased the Vehicle, although the allegations omit from
whom Plaintiffs purchased the Vehicle. (SAC ¶ 6.) Similarly, the SAC is
ambiguous as to the terms of the purchase; the SAC states “[i]n
connection with the leased and/or purchase, Plaintiffs received various
warranties, including but limited to, a 5 year/60,000 mile express bumper to
bumper warranty, a 10-year/100,000 mile powertrain warranty which, inter alia,
covers the engine and transmission, and an 8 year/80,000 express emissions
warranty. (SAC ¶ 7.) 
 
The allegations fail to allege facts that demonstrate
Plaintiffs Caver may state a claim against Defendant Kia under the
circumstances. Based on the uncertainty surrounding the purchase of the Vehicle
and the warranties offered, the court sustains the demurrer to the
sixth through tenth causes of action. 
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Compliance
with a Court Order
 
            Defendant
Kia moves to strike the entire SAC on the grounds that the SAC does not comply
with the Court’s ruling on the demurrer to the FAC. Kia argues “Plaintiffs
have done nothing to alleviate their obligation to specify what particular
warranties arose as to each named Plaintiff in connection with the lease or
purchase of the Subject Vehicle and the alleged defects suffered.” (Mot.,
4:24-26.) 
 
As a result
of the Court’s substantive rulings on the demurrer to the SAC, the motion to
strike is moot. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is sustained in its
entirety. The motion to strike is moot. Plaintiff shall have leave to amend.
The amended complaint shall be served and filed on or before November 10, 2023.
 


