


[1]           In another example, Civil
Code section 1794 describes two different remedies available for consumers
seeking relief under Song-Beverly for a breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability. If the buyer has rightfully rejected or justifiably revoked
acceptance of the goods or has exercised any right to cancel the sale, “ ‘the
buyer may ... recover[ ] so much of the price as has been paid ....’ ” (Mocek
v. Alfa Leisure, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 402, 406; see § 1794, subd.
(b)(1).) However, “[w]here the buyer has accepted the goods, ... the measure of
damages shall include the cost of repairs necessary to make the goods conform.”
(Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (b)(2).) So, the remedies under Song-Beverly hinge
upon whether the buyer has rejected or accepted the goods. Further, it is only
when the buyer has rightfully rejected the goods that the buyer can recover the
purchase price or what he or she paid under the lease. Plaintiff Knox’s
decision to purchase the Vehicle after leasing may have a bearing on the
damages recoverable under the relevant statutes. 


 
[2]           Plaintiffs in opposition also argue
that “[b]y using the conjunctive ‘and’ in its Demurrer, Defendant renders
irrelevant whether the SAC is uncertain, because for the Demurrer to be
sustained the SAC must be both uncertain and unintelligible, and KIA has amply
demonstrated that it is not unintelligible. (Kraner v. Halsey (1889) 89 Cal.
209, 212, “the defendant has stated his grounds of demurrer conjunctively,
‘that the complaint is ambiguous, uncertain, and unintelligible.’ And when,
upon a demurrer so framed, this court can see that the pleading is neither
ambiguous nor unintelligible, we cannot hold the demurrer properly sustained,
though it may in some particulars be so uncertain that a demurrer on such
ground would lie.”)” (Opp. 1:10-17.) This argument is not well taken because a
demurrer may be sustained on either ground and a demurring party need not show
both. The fact that Defendant believes the SAC is both uncertain and
unintelligible does not impose some new requirement that the SAC must be
both in order to sustain the demurrer. 


[3]           Despite the Jensen Court’s
conclusion that the “other motor vehicle” provision of section 1793.22,
subdivision (e)(2) is “reasonably free from ambiguity” (35 Cal.App.4th at p.
123.), this Court finds the text obscure. 
The statute’s “peculiar grammatical structure” (Ibid.) has
yielded contrary appellate interpretations. 
Our Supreme Court may soon clarify the matter. This Court finds that the
Rodriguez analysis persuasively highlights the broader implications and
unanswered questions that arise from the Jensen court’s conclusion that
a used car with the balance of a manufacturer’s new car warranty is a new motor
vehicle. Until a more definitive ruling is issued, this Court seeks to
harmonize the two precedents. Rodriguez did so, after a fashion,
concluding that Jensen was correct based on its facts.

