 Case Number:  23PSCV01427    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiff BMO HARRIS BANK N.A’s Writ of Possession Re:
YURONG LIN is GRANTED/MOOT should Plaintiff seek to continue with
default judgment as to both Defendants.
 
Background
 
This is a contracts case. Plaintiff BMO HARRIS BANK N.A
alleges that Plaintiff and Defendants ZYG WORLD INC, a California corporation;
YURONG LIN, an individual, entered into two Loan and Security Agreements, and
Defendants have defaulted on both.[1]

 
On May 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendants for
Breach of Written Agreement, Breach of Continuing Guaranty, Claim and Delivery,
and Conversion.
 
On May 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed two applications for writ
of possession (one as to each Defendant). (Based upon the ‘Notice of
Application[s] for Writ of Possession and Hearing’ filed on 5/26/23, the
hearing on ZYG’s application is scheduled for 9/18/23 and hearing on Lin’s
application is scheduled for 9/28/23).
 
On July 21, 2023, default was entered against Defendants.
 
On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed an application for
default judgment.
 
On September 18, 2023, the court denied the default judgment
application without prejudice (re: evidence of repossession fees and usurious
interest) and based thereon rendered the writ of possession re: ZYG World, Inc.
moot (as the default judgment defects could be cured). The court’s ruling did
not address the writ of possession re: Defendant Lin, which is the subject of
the instant application. 
 
 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
A writ of possession is available in any pending action. A
writ of possession is issued as a provisional remedy in a cause of action for
claim and delivery, also known as replevin. (See Pillsbury, Madison &
Sutro v. Schectman (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1288.) As a provisional
remedy, the right to possession is only temporary, and title and the right to
possess are determined in the final judgment. 
 
Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter,
a plaintiff may apply for an order for a writ of possession. Unlike attachment,
where Judicial Council forms are optional, the parties must use the mandatory
approved Judicial Council forms in a claim and delivery proceeding. (Judicial
Council Forms CD-100 et seq.). 
 
A plaintiff must make a written application for a writ of
possession. (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.010, subds. (a) & (b).) The application may be supported by
declarations and/or a verified complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 516.030.) The
declarations or complaint must set forth admissible evidence except where
expressly permitted to be shown on information and belief. (Ibid.) The
declaration supporting a writ possession application must set forth facts with
particularity. (Ibid.) This means that the plaintiff must show
evidentiary facts rather than the ultimate facts commonly found in pleadings. A
recitation of conclusions without a foundation of evidentiary facts is
insufficient. (See Rodes v. Shannon (1961) 194 Cai.App.2d 743, 749
[declaration containing conclusions inadequate for summary judgment]; Schessler
v. Keck (1956) 138 Cal.App.2d 663, 669.) 
 
The application must be executed under oath and include:
(1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiffs claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the plaintiffs claim is
based on a written instrument, a copy of it must be attached;[2] (2) A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by
the defendant, how the defendant came into possession of it, and, the reasons
for the detention based on the plaintiffs best knowledge, information, and
belief; (3) A specific description of the property and statement of its value;[3] (4) The location of the property according to the
plaintiff's best knowledge, information, and belief.[4] If the property, or some part of it, is within a private
place which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing of probable
cause to believe that the property is located there; and (5) A statement that
the property has not been taken for (a) a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to
a statute, or (b) an execution against the plaintiff's property.
 
The court may order issuance of a writ of possession if
both of the following are found: 
 
(1) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of
the plaintiff's claim to possession of the property; and 
(2) The undertaking requirements of Section 515.010 are
satisfied. (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.060, subd. (a).) 
 
“A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely
than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on
that claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 511.090.) This requires that the plaintiff
establish a prima facie case; the writ shall not issue if the defendant shows a
reasonable probability of a successful defense to the claim and delivery cause
of action. (Witkin, California Procedure, (5th ed. 2008) § 261, p.208.) A
defendant's claim of defect in the property is not a defense to the plaintiffs
right to possess it. (RCA Service Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d
1, 3.)  
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks an order directing Defendant Li to transfer
possession of the certain property to Plaintiff (a 2022 Vanguard DryVans  - 
Serial #5V8VC5321NT207264 and a 2020 Freightliner Cascadia S  - 
Serial #3AKJHPDV4LSLM3731). 
 
Here, as (i) Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a Loan
and Security Agreement and Continuing Guaranty whereby Plaintiff agreed to
finance certain equipment described herein but the Defendants defaulted in the
payment terms of the Loan and Security Agreement, thereby entitling Plaintiff
to possession of the equipment (i.e., establishing probable validity of
Plaintiff’s claim) and (ii) Plaintiff has complied with the other procedural
requirements, the court grants the petition. 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, as this petition is only as
to the guarantor (Lin), the order will not apply to ZYG World, Inc. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the petition is granted/moot. 


