  Case Number:  22PSCV02768    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant Doe 1
School District DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES is CONTINUED
as Plaintiff’s Counsel failed to adequately meet and confer. The court requests Defense Counsel to
file a meet and confer declaration at least 16 court days before the continued
hearing date that explains what was discussed during the meet and confer
process, or, in the alternative, submit the email exchange between the attorneys.
 
Background
 
This case pertains
to a sexual assault. Plaintiff Jennifer Parker (“Plaintiff”) alleges the
following against Defendant Doe 1 School District (“Defendant”). In 1984, when
she was a junior in high school, Plaintiff served as John Fernandez’s (“Perpetrator”
or “Fernandez”) teaching assistant. Throughout the year, the Perpetrator made
sexually inappropriate comments to Plaintiff. On one occasion, Plaintiff asked
another teacher at the high school what to do, but the teacher did not help nor
report the matter. (Complaint ¶9.) Then, while alone in the classroom, the
Perpetrator sexually assaulted Plaintiff. However, despite informing the
school, the incident was not reported to law enforcement nor investigated.
(Complaint ¶13.) When Plaintiff’s mother acted, Defendant again did not report the
incident to law enforcement, but rather transferred the Perpetrator to a
different school. (Complaint ¶¶16-17.) The premise of Plaintiff’s action is that
Defendant “failed to thoroughly investigate such complaint, and failed to
timely take corrective action, or to warn subsequent parents and students of
the risks posed by Perpetrator.” (Complaint ¶22.) 
 
On December
9, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit for the following causes of action (“COA”): 1.     Negligence 2.     Negligent Supervision/Failure To Warn 3.     Negligent Hiring/Retention 4.     Negligent Failure To Warn, Train, Or
Educate Plaintiff 5.     Intentional Infliction Of Emotional
Distress 6.     Sexual Battery
 
On May 18,
2023, Defendant filed a demurrer to the original complaint.
 
On June 26,
2023, the court sustained in part (i.e., as to negligent COAs) and overruled in
part (i.e., as to sexual battery and IIED COAs) the demurrer and granted leave
to amend. 
 
On July 24,
2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) asserting four COAs: 1.     Negligence/Negligent
Supervision/Failure To Warn, Train Or Educate/Negligent Failure To Protect
Plaintiff 2.     Negligent Hiring, Retention, And
Supervision Of Perpetrator 3.     Intentional Infliction Of Emotional
Distress 4.     Sexual Battery
 
On August 25,
2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer to the FAC.
 
On September
15, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
 
On September
20, 2023, Defendant filed its reply.
 
Meet and Confer
 
In its demurrer, Defense Counsel
explains that it sent a detailed meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s Counsel
addressing the need to dismiss each COA, but Plaintiff’s Counsel did not
respond. (Demurrer p. 2; see Ex. A pp. 27-30 of 52 of PDF.) Indeed, as both the Opposition
and Plaintiff’s Counsel’s declaration do not address the point, the court
presumes that Plaintiff did not engage in the meet and confer process, which is
grounds to continue the hearing. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) § 430.41, the parties shall meet and confer in good faith. “A reasonable and good-faith attempt at informal
resolution entails something more than bickering with deponent's counsel at a
deposition. Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter
over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate,” observed the appellate
court in Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439 [as
used in discovery context].) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Counsel’s decision
to seemingly ignore a meet and confer effort constitutes as a failure to
meet and confer in good faith because there was no discussion about the
substantive arguments raised, which is the very purpose of the meet and confer
process. A detailed discussion is of notable importance wherein (i) the crux of
the demurrer is that AB 218 is purportedly unconstitutional, rendering the entire
action to be dismissed and (ii) much of the remaining arguments are similar to
those previously raised and thoroughly addressed by the court’s 6/26/23 ruling.

 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the hearing on
the demurrer to the FAC is continued. 
 