 Case Number:  23STCV17508    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  AURORA N. MEDINA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  SHANE M. GIBBS, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV17508  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO STRIKE WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 8, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Aurora N. Medina (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Shane M. Gibbs (“Defendant”) for damages arising from an automobile incident. The complaint sets forth two causes of action for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2) negligence per se. The complaint includes a prayer for punitive damages as to the second cause of action.   Defendant now moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages at page 6, line 4, of the complaint. As of March 24, 2024, no opposition was filed.   II. MOTION TO STRIKE Procedural Standard Before filing a motion to strike, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).) Here, Defendant has fulfilled this requirement prior to filing the motion. (Araujo Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.)  Legal Standard  The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)  “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.) “As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) (Emphasis added.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (Ibid.)  Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)  Further, “[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.)  Discussion Here, Defendant seeks to strike the prayer, “For punitive damages” from Plaintiff’s complaint. The complaint alleges, in relevant part, that “California has designed certain statutes, codes and law to protect the general public's safety” and that “Defendants were operating the Subject Vehicle in a manner that Defendants were in violation of Vehicle Code.” (Compl. at ¶¶ 17, 19.)  As Defendant points out, Plaintiff pleads no basis for punitive damages arising from this automobile accident. A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  Moreover, conclusory allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) Plaintiff’s conclusory allegation that Defendant violated an unspecific statute of public safety is insufficient to rise to the level of conduct warranting punitive damages. Altogether, the complaint fails to allege any facts that Defendant engaged in any conduct that constitutes malicious or oppressive conduct toward Plaintiff. Based on the foregoing, the motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages against Defendant is GRANTED.   III. LEAVE TO AMEND The burden is on Plaintiff to show in what manner she can amend the complaint, and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.)¿Because Plaintiff did not oppose the motion, Plaintiff necessarily fails to meet this burden.   Therefore, Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages against it is GRANTED without leave to amend.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 5th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    