 Case Number:  24STCV12383    Hearing Date:   October 29, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TAE YOUNG LEE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
JN HO CHOI, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV12383
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO BIFURCATE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 29, 2024



 
On
May 15, 2024, Plaintiff Tae Young Lee filed this action against Defendants
Jin Ho Choi and SMK Foods Inc, and on August 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint.  Jin Ho Choi has also filed a cross-complaint
for breach of contract.
On
September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to bifurcate.  No oppositions were filed.
The
Court may order a separate trial of any cause of action or any separate issue in
furtherance of convenience or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition
and economy.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(b).)  The Court may also order the trial
of an issue to precede the trial on another issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
Plaintiff
asks to bifurcate the trial into (1) a liability phase, and (2) a damages phase.  Plaintiff contends that “bifurcating liability
from damages is appropriate because the issue of liability is contested, and the
presentation of damages would be unnecessary unless Plaintiff establishes that Defendants
are liable.”  (Motion at p. 2.)  Plaintiff also argues that bifurcation will promote
settlement discussions because “[o]nce liability is determined, the parties will
have a clearer understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of their positions,
potentially leading to a settlement without the need for a damages trial.”  (Id. at p. 5.)  “[I]f the Court rules on liability in favor of
Plaintiff, the parties may be more inclined to negotiate a settlement for damages,
potentially avoiding further litigation and saving judicial resources.”  (Ibid.)
This
is true of most—if not all—cases.  Plaintiff
does not show how this case, which alleges straightforward breaches of contract
through failure to pay invoices and failure to perform repairs, will be made more
efficient through bifurcation.  Plaintiff
also does not explain how bifurcation would in fact assist with settlement.  It is unclear what Plaintiff means by “the Court
rul[ing] on liability in favor of Plaintiff” before settlement discussions.  Plaintiff moved for bifurcation of liability and
damages at trial.  Settlement discussions
will presumably have begun before trial, and bifurcation would not result in an
earlier Court decision on liability.
Moreover,
it is premature to order any bifurcation of issues.  This action is less than six months old.  Trial has not yet been set (before the Case Management
Conference scheduled on the same day as this motion).  At this time, the Court believes that bifurcation
will not be conducive to expedition and economy.
The
motion to bifurcate is DENIED without prejudice.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 29th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 