 Case Number:  23BBCV01485    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 15,
2023

DEMURRER


Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01485

 



MP:  


Los Angeles County
  Metropolitan Transit Authority (Defendant)
  




RP:  


Felicita Marroquin De
  Sandoval (“Plaintiff”)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Felicita
Marroquin De Sandoval (“Plaintiff”) brings this action against the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transit Authority (“MTA”). Plaintiff alleges that a driver
for the MTA negligently operated a bus which resulted in her personal injury. Plaintiff’s
complaint contains causes of action for (1) Negligence and (2) Negligent Hiring
and Retention.
 
MTA now
demurs to the entire complaint on grounds that it fails to state sufficient
facts. Plaintiff has filed an untimely opposition; however, the Court will
exercise its discretion to consider the opposition. (CRC Rule 3.1300(d).) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§
430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur
to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Demurrer 
 
MTA argues that Plaintiff’s
Complaint is subject to general demurrer by virtue of her failure to submit a
timely claim as required by the Government Claims Act. 
 
The Government Claims Act,
outlined in Gov't. Code §§ 810-996.6, requires that a plaintiff present a
timely claim to the appropriate public entity and that claim be either acted
upon or deemed rejected by the board. (Gov't. Code § 945.4.)
 
Gov’t Code § 911.2(a)
provides “A claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to
person or to personal property or growing crops shall be presented as provided
in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than six months after the
accrual of the cause of action.”
 
“Complaints that do not
allege facts demonstrating either that a claim was timely presented or that
compliance with the claims statute is excused are subject to a general demurrer
for not stating facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Shirk v.
Vista Unified School Dist. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 201, 209, superseded by
statute on other grounds as stated in A.M. v. Ventura Unified School Dist.
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1252, 1258; see also State of California v. Superior
Court (Bodde) (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239; Wood v. Riverside General
Hospital (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1119.) 

 
MTA submits that Plaintiff
did not file her claim with the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transport
Authority until February 9, 2023. (Dmr. Exh. A.) MTA states that this
application was made untimely, as the incident occurred on March 28, 2022. (Id.)
The Court agrees that the claim was submitted untimely, as more than six months
had passed between occurrence of the incident and the claim submission. 
 
Plaintiff first argues that
she did submit a timely government claim. Plaintiff attaches a letter received
from the City of Los Angeles (“City”) which she claims satisfies the Government
Claims Act requirement. (Oppo. Exh. A.) The Court finds this argument
unpersuasive. Plaintiff’s letter shows that she directed her initial claim to
the City, which was not the appropriate entity for her claim. The contents of
the letter reveal the City denied Plaintiff’s claim on the basis that MTA was a
separate entity. 
 
The purpose of the
Government Claims Act's purpose “…is not to prevent surprise, but to provide
the public entity sufficient information to enable it to adequately investigate
claims and to settle them, if appropriate, without the expense of litigation.”
(DiCampli–Mintz v. County of Santa Clara (2012) 55 Cal.4th 983, 991
[internal quotation marks omitted]; see J.J. v. County of San Diego, at p.
1219.) “Given that purpose it is well-settled that claims statutes must be
satisfied even in face of the public entity's actual knowledge of the
circumstances surrounding the claim. Such knowledge—standing alone—constitutes
neither substantial compliance nor basis for estoppel.” (J.J. v. County of
San Diego (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1219.)
 
Given Plaintiff addressed
her complaint to the wrong entity and then failed to address any complaint to
the correct entity within the statutory period, the Court finds her Complaint
is subject to demurrer for lack of sufficient facts. 
 
Plaintiff attempts to
sidestep the time requirement of the statute by citing the continuing violation
doctrine. Plaintiff essentially argues that her letter to the City of Los
Angeles on September 16, 2022 somehow delayed her cause of action against MTA
from accruing. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. First, the doctrine
of continuing violation refers to actions brought in negligence, not on
statutory violation. Plaintiff cites to no authority that this doctrine applies
to claims brough under the Government Claims Act. Second, there is no
continuing harm here to trigger the doctrine. Plaintiff alleges she was injured
by a bus driver on a singular date in 2022 and alleges no continuing harm. 
 
Plaintiff’s invitation to
apply the doctrine of equitable tolling is similarly unpersuasive. Plaintiff’s
claim is not barred on the basis of a statute of limitations, rather it is
barred by her failure to timely comply with the requirements of the Government
Claims Act. These are separate concepts and the Court declines to treat them
alike. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
As currently stated, the
Court finds the likelihood that Plaintiff can amend her complaint to add
sufficient facts to be low. Plaintiff would need to produce evidence that she
did in fact submit a timely claim to MTA on amendment to survive further demurrer.
As such, leave to amend is granted only to the extent that Plaintiff can add
such facts.
 
Conclusion 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
Complaint states insufficient facts by virtue of her failure to comply with the
Government Claims Act. Accordingly, the demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED
with 20 days’ leave to amend.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority’s
Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on December 15,
2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing,
and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE CONTINUED TO MARCH 11,
2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 15, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 