 Case Number:  22BBCV01209    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 15,
2023

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01209

 



MP:  


Laurel Canyon Collection, Inc.
  (Defendant) 




RP:  


Mehrin May



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On December
14, 2022 Mehrin May (“Plaintiff”)
filed suit against Soheil Kashani, Cassandra Yekani, and Laurel Canyon
Collection, Inc. (“Laurel Canyon”) (collectively “Defendants”) alleging
Defendants failed to soundproof the floors in Plaintiff’s property in violation
of Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment. 
 
On February
16, 2023, default was entered against Laurel Canyon. On June 2, 2023, the Court
denied Laurel Canyon’s Motion to Set Aside Default without prejudice. The Court
agreed that Laurel Canyon was entitled to mandatory relief on grounds of
attorney mistake/neglect but found the failure to attach a proposed responsive
pleading as required by Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) to warrant denial
without prejudice. 
 
Laurel
Canyon now moves to set aside the default on grounds of attorney mistake and
attaches a copy of its proposed demurrer.  
    
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Plaintiff
seeks relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b). Code of Civil
Procedure §
473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory relief
provision. (Jackson supra, 32 Cal. App. 5th 166, at 173.)  The discretionary provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), in pertinent
part, reads as follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) reads, in pertinent
part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) is to
promote the determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no
more than six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit
of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the
moving party or its attorney. (C.C.P., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
As with their previous
motion, Laurel Canyon argues that the default should be set aside on grounds of
excusable neglect pursuant to the mandatory provisions of Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b). 
 
Counsel
for Laurel Canyon attempted to meet and confer with counsel for Plaintiff after
receipt of the Complaint. Laurel Canyon expressed a belief that Plaintiff had
failed to comply with the requirements of Civil Code § 5925 et seq. by
engaging in litigation without making a good faith effort to resolve the
dispute through arbitration. (Swedelson Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel
responded they believed they had met the statutory requirements and it was the
failing of Laurel Canyon to follow through which resulted in the instant
litigation (Swedelson Decl. ¶ 3.) The parties reached an impasse and Laurel
Canyon informed it would render a responsive pleading by February 28, 2023.
(Swedelson Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s counsel filed a request for default on
February 16, 2023. (Swedelson Decl. ¶ 7.) Laurel Canyon contends they
received no prior notice that counsel for Plaintiff intended to enter default.
(Swedelson Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
Plaintiff’s argument in
opposition mirrors those made in opposition to the previous motion. Plaintiff
argues that relief should not be granted because Laurel Canyon’s counsel was
aware of the suit and thus the failure to respond could not be excusable
mistake/neglect. (Oppo. pg. 6.) The
mandatory provisions of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) do not require the
attorney’s neglect or mistake be “excusable”. Here, Laurel Canyon’s counsel
submits a declaration attesting to surprise which is sufficient for relief. Even
if the failure to timely respond to the complaint was an act of neglect, the
neglect would be attributable to Laurel Canyon’s counsel and would qualify for
relief under Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b). 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure § 473(b) requires the moving party submit a copy of the answer
or other pleading to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be
granted. Here, Laurel Canyon has accompanied its motion with a proposed
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Accordingly, the motion
to set aside and vacate the default judgment is GRANTED.  
Administrative Note:   Defendant will need to schedule the demurrer
and file the motion.  The responsive
pleading attached to the current matter is not deemed the filing.
 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Laurel Canyon
Collection, Inc.’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Default came on regularly for hearing on December 15, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO SET ASIDE AND VACATE DEFAULT IS GRANTED.
 
 
LAUREL
CANYON IS TO FILE ITS DEMURRER WITHIN 10 DAYS.
 
CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO APRIL 3, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, LAUREL CANYON TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 15, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 