 Case Number:  23BBCV00657    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 15,
2023

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00657

 



MP:  


Granville Management Group Inc. (Defendant)
   




RP:  


Simone Rachal (Plaintiff) 
 



NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Simone Rachal
(“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Granville Management Group, Inc.
(“Defendant”) alleging she was injured on Defendant’s property. Plaintiff’s
alleges Defendant was aware of and failed to prevent a dangerous condition on
the property which subsequently led to her injury. 
 
Defendant now
moves to compel further discovery responses to its Requests for Production
(“RFPD”) and Interrogatories. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant has filed no
reply. 
 
The Court
notes that Plaintiff submits no memorandum in opposition to either motion, as
is customary per California Rules of Court Rule 8.54. Instead, Plaintiff
submits two sets of declarations, each from her counsel Frank Canter. Plaintiff
provides no explanation as to why two sets of declarations were filed from the
same declarant and attesting to largely the same facts. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Compel Further
Production 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§ 2031.310(c).) 
 
Compel
Further Response to Interrogatory
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
Good
Cause
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Meet and
Confer 
 
Upon
review, the Court finds the meet and confer requirements to have been
satisfied. (Kwong Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
History 
 
Defendant
propounded discovery on Plaintiff on June 5, 2023. (Kwong Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff
thereafter granted four extensions to respond, with an ultimate due date of
August 29, 2023. (Kwong Decl. ¶¶ 3-6.) Plaintiff served responses on September
5, 2023. (Kwong Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendant states that no further responses
were served at the time this motion was filed on November 2, 2023. (Kwong Decl.
¶ 10.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that certain medical records were
provided to Defendant after this motion was filed, though he does not specify
when. (Canter Decl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff’s counsel states these medical
records were unrelated to the incident which is the gravamen of this case. (Id.)

 
Good
Cause 
 
The Court
finds that Defendant has shown good cause to order further production as to
each of her RFPD and Form Interrogatories. Each request concerns medical
records, insurance information, and general information pertaining to the subject
of the incident. These requests are obviously relevant to the determination of Plaintiff’s
claims.
 
RFPD 
 
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to its RFPD Nos. 2, 3, 4, 9, 20 and 21. 
 
RFPD Nos.
2-4 requests any and all documents related to medical treatment or medical
expenses that were necessitated by this incident. Plaintiff replied that she
did not have documents from Dr. Moshen Hamza (“Dr. Hamza”), whom she claims to
have been treated by, or from her physical therapy location. (Exh. F, RFPD. Nos.
2-4.) Plaintiff further stated that she was working on obtaining these
documents. (Id.) 
 
RFPD No 9
requests all documents which support Plaintiff’s claim for general damages.
Plaintiff responded that she was awaiting documentation from Dr. Hamza to
support her claims. (Exh. F., RFPD No. 9.) 
 
RFPD No.
20 requests all documents containing facts supporting Plaintiff’s contention
that an act or omission of Defendant caused the incident. Plaintiff responded by
attaching photographs of the accident scene. (Exh. F., RFPD No. 20.) 
 
REPFD No.
21 requests all documents containing information supporting Plaintiff’s contention
that Defendant’s violation of any statute or law was the cause of this
incident. Plaintiff replied by recommending that Defendant review the Civil
Code, case law, and jury instructions. (Exh. F., RFPD No. 21.) 
 
Defendant
maintains that each of these responses is either incomplete or evasive.
Defendant argues that Dr. Hamza is the only treating physician claimed by
Plaintiff, and no responsive documents have been produced despite Plaintiff’s statement
that they would. Further, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s responses to RFPD
Nos. 20 and 21 are evasive in that they are not actually responsive to the
questions being asked. Defendant argues the photos of the accident scene do not
indicate any facts as to Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant was negligent.
Defendant similarly argues that Plaintiff’s response to RFPD No. 21 is a
complete non-answer. 
 
In
opposition Plaintiff’s counsel states Plaintiff was initially unable to obtain
the documents from her doctor or her physical therapy location. Plaintiff
states her doctor simply refused to produce them. (First Canter Decl.
¶ 6.) Canter states that when he did receive medical records from
Plaintiff, none of these documents concerned the incident in this case. (Second
Canter Decl. ¶ 11.) 
When Plaintiff’s
counsel finally received the documents and was in the process of preparing the
responses, his office was broken into, and his files were scattered. (First Canter
Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s counsel states it took him a month to return his
office to order. (First Canter Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s counsel then states
his trust account was in some way defrauded, though he does not endeavor to
explain how this caused a delay in discovery responses. (First Canter Decl.
¶ 10.) 
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff has failed to comply with her statement of intended compliance
as to each request for production. If Plaintiff lacks responsive documents
after diligent search, she must issue a response stating as much. None of the
points raised in opposition provides a defense to Plaintiff’s non-production.
Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses is GRANTED. 
 
Form
Interrogatories 
 
Defendant
seeks further responses to its Form Interrogatories Nos. 2.6, 4.1, 6.2, 6.3,
6.4, 6.7, 11.1, and 14.1. 
 
Form
Interrogatory No. 2.6 requests information regarding Plaintiff’s employment from
five years prior to the time of the incident. Plaintiff replied that she was
self-employed at 9200 Sunset Blvd., Penthouse Suite, West Hollywood, California
in 2023 (Exh. F, Form Interrogatory No. 2.6.) Defendant moves to compel further response
because Plaintiff did not specify the nature of her self-employment nor a date
range other than a general reference to 2023. Plaintiff provides no argument as
to this interrogatory in her opposition. 
 
Form
Interrogatory No. 4.1 requests Plaintiff’s insurance information. Plaintiff
responded with general information that she was insured via Aetna Health PPO,
but did not provide information as to the policy number or the limits of
coverage. (Exh. F, Form Interrogatory No.
4.1.) Plaintiff provides no
argument as to this interrogatory in her opposition. Plaintiff states the
information regarding the health insurance plan was provided to Defendant after
the filing of this motion. (Second Canter Decl. ¶ 24.) 
 
Form
Interrogatory No. 6.2 requests Plaintiff identify each injury she attributes to
the incident and the are of her body its affects. Plaintiff responded by stating
“Neck, head and back; swelling in the
head in the back.” (Exh. F, Form Interrogatory No. 6.2.)
Defendant argues further response must be compelled because this response does
not identify any specific injury only the body parts affected. In opposition
Plaintiff’s counsel states that answering the interrogatory is impossible
without medical records attesting to the specific injuries. (Second Canter
Decl. ¶ 20.) 
 
Form
Interrogatory No. 6.3 inquires if Plaintiff still has any complaints she
attributes to the incident. Plaintiff replied that she has cluster migraines as
well as pain in her neck and back. (Exh. F, Form Interrogatory
No. 6.3.) Defendant argues that this response does not address
questions (b)-(c) of whether the condition is subsiding/becoming worse and what
the frequency/duration of the condition is. Plaintiff provides no argument as
to this interrogatory in her opposition. 
 
Form
Interrogatory No. 6.4 requests the information of any health care provider
Plaintiff saw in relation to the incident. Plaintiff identifies Dr. Hamza,
though it appears this answer was mistakenly listed under Form Interrogatory
No. 6.3. (Exh. F, Form Interrogatory No. 6.3) Plaintiff also identifies
Burke Williams, a physical therapy location in Sherman Oaks. (Exh. F, Form
Interrogatory No. 6.3). The Court finds the failure to reply to Form
Interrogatory 6.4 was a labeling error and that Plaintiff did provide
responsive information to this interrogatory. 
 
Form Interrogatory
No. 6.7 asks whether any medical provider has advised Plaintiff that she would
require future medical treatment for injuries attributable to the incident.
Plaintiff responded that Dr. Hamza indicated Plaintiff may need treatment in
the future. (Exh. F, Form Interrogatory No. 6.7) Defendant argues this response
is incomplete because it does not state the nature of the future treatment
indicated. Plaintiff argues in opposition that she cannot make representations
as to this potential future treatment because she has no medical records
related to the incident from Dr. Hamza. (Second Canter Decl. ¶ 22.) The
Court finds Plaintiff’s statement as rendered is incomplete, if Plaintiff lacks
information to provide a compliant response she must state as much. 
 
Form
Interrogatory No. 11.1 requests Plaintiff list any claims or actions she filed
for personal injury within the last 10 years. Plaintiff responded that she was
the victim of a criminal attack in 2019 and was involved in a traffic accident
in 2022. (Exh. F, Form Interrogatory No. 11.1) Defendant argues that this
answer is unresponsive as it does not indicate whether Plaintiff filed any
personal injury action in reference to either of these events. Plaintiff’s
counsel states Plaintiff failed to provide him with any responsive information
to this request. (Second Canter Decl. ¶ 23.) 
 
Form
Interrogatory No. 14.1 asks if Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s violation of
any law or statute was the cause of Plaintiff’s alleged injury. Plaintiff
responded that Defendant, “so negligently, recklessly, willfully and wantonly
placed and used the partitions that were not properly secured which was the
direct and proximate cause of the injuries to Plaintiff.” ( Exh. F, Form
Interrogatory No. 14.1) Defendant argues this answer is nonresponsive by virtue
of its failure to reference any statute or law Plaintiff claims to Defendant
violated. 
 
The Court
finds that Defendant is entitled to further responses to its Form
Interrogatories Nos. 2.6, 6.2, 6.3, 6.7, 11.1, and 14.1. Plaintiff has provided
subsequent production regarding the insurance information requested in Form
Interrogatory No. 4.1. Further, Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 6.4
was incorrectly included in her response to Form Interrogatory 6.3. As concerns
the other Form Interrogatories, Plaintiff has either not provided complete
answers or has provided answers which are completely non-responsive. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further response is GRANTED as to Form Interrogatories
Nos. 2.6, 6.2, 6.3, 6.7, 11.1, and 14.1 and DENIED as to Form Interrogatories
Nos. 4.1 and 6.4. 
 
Sanctions

 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.290(d), C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) Further, it
is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel and
the other party fails to file an opposition. (California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).)  
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s opposition is without substantial justification. Plaintiff’s
opposition is comprised entirely of the declaration of her counsel attesting
that Plaintiff has not provided him with the information required to respond to
discovery. Plaintiff’s opposition contains no substantive argument as to why
further responses should not be compelled. 
 
As such,
the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $ 912.00. This amount reflects four
hours of attorney work at a rate of $213/hour and the $60 filing fee. (Kwong
Decl. ¶ 12.) The Court finds this amount reasonable given the similarity
of the two motions filed. Defendant’s estimated two hours in preparing a reply
are not accounted for as they filed no reply. Sanctions are awarded against
Plaintiff. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Granville
Management Group Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents came on regularly for hearing on December 15, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR THE PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS IS GRANTED. 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DEFENDANT’S FORM INTERROGATORIES IS
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART. 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS GRANTED AS TO FORM INTERROGATORY NOS.
2.6, 6.2, 6.3, 6.7, 11.1, AND 14.1.  
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS DENIED AS TO FORM INTERROGATORY NOS. NOS.
4.1 AND 6.4. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $912.00 PLAINTIFF COUNSEL.
 
FURTHER
RESPONSES ARE DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS
MUST BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.  
 
DATE: December
15, 2023                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 