 Case Number:  21BBCV00321    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 15,
2023

DEMURRER


Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21BBCV00321

 



MP:  


Yvette Pena (Defendant) 




RP:  


Commodity Trucking
  Acquisition, LLC (“Plaintiff”)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Commodity
Trucking Acquisition, LLC ("Plaintiff") filed suit against Yvette
Pena (“Yvette”) and Pena Construction Services, Inc. (“Pena”) (collectively
“Defendants”) alleging that Pena entered into an agreement on August 5, 2020 to
perform construction work at 777 N. Front Street, Burbank, California 91502.
Plaintiff alleges that Peña then entered into an agreement with Plaintiff for
Plaintiff to provide trucking, transportation, and leasing services for the
Project. Plaintiff alleges that it performed such work, for it is still unpaid,
in the amount of $100,712.60. 
 
Plaintiffs
Second Amended Complaint added a ninth cause of action for Breach of Personal
Guaranty as against Yvette. This cause of action is in connection with a Credit
Application made by Pena Construction Services to Plaintiff on September 11,
2020. (SAC Exh. A.) 
 
Yvette
now demurs to the ninth cause of action on grounds that the cause of action for
breach of personal guaranty does not state sufficient facts. Yvette argues that
there is no personal guarantee in the written contract upon which to base this
cause of action. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§
430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur
to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
“A lender
is entitled to judgment on a breach of guaranty claim based upon undisputed
evidence that (1) there is a valid guaranty, (2) the borrower has defaulted,
and (3) the guarantor failed to perform under the guaranty.” (Gray1 CPB, LLC
v. Kolodotronis (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 480, 486 citing Torrey Pines Bank
v. Superior Court (1986) 216 Cal.App.3d 813, 819.)
 
The
contract at issue is a Credit Application between Pena Construction Services,
Inc. and Plaintiff. (SAC Exh. A.) The agreement was signed by “Yvette Pena,
President”. (Id.)  Pena argues
that she was signing this contract in her capacity as the president of Pena
Construction Services and was not personally guaranteeing the loan. The credit
application contains the following language: 
 
I/We personally and unconditionally guarantee
any and all obligations incurred by applicant [PEÑA] to [CTA] and I/We further
promise to pay reasonable attorney’s fees and expenses which may be incurred in
the collection of this account
 
Plaintiff
argues this language unambiguously states that Pena, as the signatory to the
document, agreed to personally guarantee the loan. Pena argues the opposite,
that the nature of the contract is not one of a personal guaranty and the
contract cannot be interpreted to bind Pena personally. 
 
The Court
need not reach a determination on the interpretation of the contract at this
time.  
 
“Where a
complaint is based on a written contract which it sets out in full, a general
demurrer to the complaint admits not only the contents of the instrument but
also any pleaded meaning to which the instrument is reasonably susceptible.” (Aragon–Haas
v. Family Security Ins. Services, Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 232, 239.)
“[W]here an ambiguous contract is the basis of an action, it is proper, if not
essential, for a plaintiff to allege its own construction of the agreement. So
long as the pleading does not place a clearly erroneous construction upon the
provisions of the contract, in passing upon the sufficiency of the complaint,
we must accept as correct plaintiff's allegations as to the meaning of the
agreement.” (Id. [internal quotation marks omitted].)
 
Here, the
Court finds Plaintiff’s assertion of a personal guaranty as to Pena is not a
clearly erroneous construction. As such, Plaintiff has provided a reasonable
interpretation of the written Credit Application sufficient to survive
demurrer.  Extrinsic evidence and
contract interpretation principles remain irrelevant on demurrer. It may be
that Plaintiff will not be able to show the personal guaranty is valid, but
such questions are not properly raised on demurrer. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the ninth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Yvette
Pena’s Demurrer
came on regularly for hearing on December 15, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS
OVERRULED.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 15, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 