 Case Number:  22BBCV00482    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 15,
2023

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION & STAY MATTER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00482

 



MP:  


GEP Gencast, LLC dba Central Casting (Defendant)
  




RP:  


Silvia Lake (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Silvia Lake (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against GEP Gencast, LLC dba Central
Casting (“Defendant”), on July 1, 2022 for claims
arising out of her employment with Defendant. The Complaint contains thirteen causes of action: (1) disability
discrimination; (2) disability-based harassment; (3) race-based discrimination;
(4) sexual harassment; (5) unlawful retaliation in violation of FEHA; (6)
failure to prevent harassment, discrimination and retaliation in violation of
FEHA; (7) wrongful termination; (8) failure to pay earned wages; (9) failure to
pay timely wages during employment; (10) failure to pay all wages due to
discharged and quitting employees; (11) failure to furnish accurate itemized
wage statements; (12) failure to maintain accurate payroll records; and (13)
unfair and unlawful business practices.  
 
On
February 14, 2023, the Court issued an order denying a previous motion to
compel arbitration made by Defendant. Defendant’s previous motion was based
upon a paper voucher Defendant utilized to pay cast members in its productions.
The Court found there was no express assent to arbitrate based upon the
voucher, given the location of the arbitration language and the location of the
signature boxes. 
 
Defendant
subsequently appealed the Court’s ruling; however, the matter was never
determined by the California Court of Appeals. Defendant abandoned its appeal on
August 28, 2023. 
 
Defendant
now moves to compel arbitration again, this time based on a separate
arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed in 2021 (“2021 Agreement”). This
agreement was presented to Plaintiff via Defendant’s electronic system, which
is how Defendant currently accepts vouchers from its case members. Defendant
shows that this agreement was signed by Plaintiff electronically on August 21,
2021. (Weekes Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. A.) The 2021 Agreement is a three-page
standalone arbitration agreement which required individual electronic
signature. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff
opposes this motion, arguing that Defendant’s impermissible delay in bringing
this motion constitutes a waiver of its right to compel arbitration. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
  
I.          LEGAL STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1008(b) provides: 
 
A party who originally made an application for
an order which was refused in whole or part, or granted conditionally or on
terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by
affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any
order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on ex parte
motion.
 
II.        MERITS 
  
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is not a new motion untethered from Defendant’s
previous activity in this action. Defendant’s previous motion to compel
arbitration was denied. The Court’s denial was not “without prejudice,” meaning
that there was never an invitation of reapplication. (See Farber v. Bay View
Terrace Homeowners Assn. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1007, 1015.) 
 
Rather, Defendant’s
current motion is a subsequent application for the same order previously
applied for and is subject to the requirements of C.C.P. § 1008(b). Although Defendant
does not brief this issue, the Court presumes Defendant brings this motion on
the grounds of new/different facts. Defendant’s current motion seeks the same
relief, an order compelling arbitration, premised on newly discovered facts, the
2021 Agreement. 
 
Under
both C.C.P. §§ 1008(a) and 1008(b), the moving party must provide a
satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce the “new” facts in making its
previous motion. (Shiffer v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 246,
255 citing In re H.S. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 103, 108.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff
argues that the 2021 Agreement was in Defendant’s possession prior to the
filing of the previous motion. (See Weekes Decl. ¶ 6 [detailing that
Plaintiff’s signed arbitration agreement has been maintained in Defendant’s
electronic system since Augst 3, 2021].)
 
Defendant’s
declarations contain no statement as to when the 2021 Agreement was
“discovered”, however the Court notes that any such statement would require an
explanation as to how the agreement went unnoticed despite the seemingly
ubiquitous nature of Defendant’s electronic voucher submission system. It
appears that Defendant, at some point, switched to an electronic system, Safe
Voucher, by which background actors would submit time vouchers. This Safe
Voucher system was in place since at least August 3, 2021 when Plaintiff signed
her electronic agreement. (Weekes Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. A.) Plaintiff filed this
action on July 1, 2022, almost a year after executing the 2021 Agreement.
Defendant has presented no evidence to rebut the presumption that it knew the
2021 Agreement binding Plaintiff existed at the time her action was filed. 
 
As it
appears to the Court, Defendant had knowledge and access to the 2021 Agreement
at the time Plaintiff filed her Complaint and most certainly at the time
Defendant prepared and filed its motion to compel arbitration. Defendant has
produced no explanation as to why in researching and preparing to file this
motion, Defendant neglected to include any reference to the 2021 Agreement. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel arbitration is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
GEP Gencast, LLC dba
Central Casting’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Motion for Stay came on regularly for hearing on December 15, 2023 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED. 
 
THE STAY FOR APPEAL IS LIFTED AS THE APPEAL WAS
ABANDONED.
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS SET FOR FEBRUARY
28, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 15, 2023                            
_______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 