 Case Number:  23BBCV01628    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 15,
2023

MOTIONS
TO RELEASE PROPERTY FROM MECHANIC’S LIEN

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01628

 



MP:  


605 Cedar Gardens, LLC (Defendant) 




RP:  


Engineering and
  Seismic Construction, Inc. (Plaintiff)
  



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On July 18, 2023, Engineering
and Seismic Construction, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed
suit against 605 Cedar Gardens, LLC (“Defendant”) for claims arising out of an alleged breach in a construction contract.
The Complaint contains five causes
of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Foreclosure of Mechanics Lien, (3)
Reasonable Value for Services and Materials Furnished, (4) Account Stated, and (5) Agreed Sum for
Materials Furnished. 
 
On
September 15, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration
and issued a stay of the matter.  
 
Defendant
now brings this motion to release the mechanic’s lien placed upon the property
which was the site of the construction project. Neither party objects to the
Court’s ruling on this limited matter in light of the litigation stay. It does
not appear that enforcement of the mechanic’s lien is an issue which the Court ordered
to arbitration pursuant to C.C.P. § 1281.4. Further, the statute governing
actions brought to enforce mechanic’s liens, C.C.P. § 1281.5, specifically
contemplates that the issues of the lien and the dispute subject to arbitration
are separate matters. Accordingly, the Court is satisfied it retains
jurisdiction to rule upon this motion.  
 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.          LEGAL STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
8480(a) provides “The owner of property or the owner of any interest in
property subject to a claim of lien may petition the court for an order to
release the property from the claim of lien if the claimant has not commenced
an action to enforce the lien within the time provided in Section 8460.”
 
II.        MERITS  
 
Defendant
moves this Court to release the property from the mechanic’s lien on grounds
that its description of the property is fatally defective. Plaintiff argues
Defendant’s petition is not appropriately verified and that the description of
the property is sufficient to survive this motion. The Court will first address
the verification issue and then the defect in the property description. 
 
Verification

 
Plaintiff
argues Defendant’s motion is not code compliant by virtue of failure to verify
the petition. California Civil Code § 8484 states that a petition to release a
mechanic’s lien must be verified. 
 
Defendant
argues in reply that the petition was properly verified via the declaration of
Elias J. Abboud, which stated “I am informed and believe and, on that ground,
allege that the matters stated in the Motion for Release of Property from Lien
are true.” (Abboud Decl. ¶ 2.) This statement was accompanied by statements
attesting to the facts of the petition and included the date and location of
execution. (Id.) The declaration was also signed under penalty of
perjury. (Id.) The Court finds that the Abboud declaration adheres to
the requirements of verification set forth in C.C.P. § 2015.5
 
Defect in
Property Named 
 
Defendant
argues the petition should be granted because the mechanic’s lien encumbers a
property which does not exist. Defendant argues that the address “605 Cedar
Avenue Burbank, California 91501” is not present on any parcel reports or
assessors map. (Velez Decl. Exh. C, D, E, F, and G.) Defendant argues the
correct address for the parcel at issue in this case is 650 S. 6th Street,
Burbank, CA. (Abboud Decl. ¶8.) This address results from Defendant’s
application to the city of Burbank to combine the parcels located at 601, 603,
609, and 615 E. Cedar Avenue. (Id.) 
 
C.C.P. §
8416(a)(5) provides that a claim of lien shall contain description of the site
sufficient for identification. Courts have generally concluded that this
requirement is satisfied if the description provided is sufficient to enable a
party familiar with the locality to identify the property with reasonable
certainty to the exclusion of others. (Borello v. Eichler Homes, Inc. (1963)
221 Cal.App.2d 487, 492.) Errors in the description may be disregarded if the
identification of the property is otherwise sufficient, so long as there is no
evidence of an attempt at fraud. (Id.) 
 
Defendant
argues that the description of the property goes beyond surface defect, in that
the error renders the parcel undiscernible. The Court agrees. The cases upon
which Plaintiff relies are factually inapposite to the error in describing the
parcel in this case. In Bothum v. Kreis, the California Court of Appeal
found an excusable error in description where a lien “…gave the street number
wrong, omitted to give the number of the tract block, omitted the word Ganahl
in the name of the tract, and referred to Book 22 of maps instead of to Book 22
of miscellaneous records.”  The property
description ,“[R]ead as follows: "2546 Folsom street, Los Angeles,
California, and which premises claimant is informed and believes to be
described as lot five, Brooklyn Heights Tract, as per map thereof recorded in
book 22, page 17 of maps, records of Los Angeles County, California." The
Court found that description was such that “a party familiar with the locality
to identify the premises intended to be described with reasonable certainty to
the exclusion of others." (Bothum v. Kreis (1929) 101 Cal. App.
683, 684.) 
 
Here, the
description of the property is not a few numbers off nor is the citation to the
record slightly incorrect. Instead, Plaintiff’s lien includes an address which
does not exist and does not include an assessor’s parcel number or any other
identifying information. It appears that “Cedar Ave.” is not even a street
which exists in Burbank, as only an East Cedar Avenue is present on the parcel
maps. (Velez Decl. Exh. C.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
reliance on American Transit Mix Co. v. Weber is also misplaced. The
Court notes American Transit concerned the validity of a notice of
nonresponsibility and not the validity of the underlying mechanic’s lien. (American
Transit Mix Co. v. Weber (1951) 106 Cal.App.2d 74, 76.) The decision
to disregard the error in identifying the parcel in American Transit was
contingent upon the fact that there was no subsequent third-party purchaser
which would have been misled by the inaccurate notice of nonresponsibility. 
 
The Court
also finds Plaintiff’s argument that it was misled to use this address by the construction
contract to be unpersuasive. Plaintiff offers a single page from the contract
between the parties as Exhibit A to its opposition. This page does indeed list
the address for the project as 605 Cedar Avenue. (Ghazarian Decl. ¶ A.)
However, Defendant provides other portions of the agreement which contain the
addresses of “650 S. 6th St” and “601 Cedar Ave”. (Reply Decl. Exhs.
C &D.) A trial court has discretion to consider new evidence in reply
papers supporting a motion so long as the opposing party has notice and an
opportunity to respond. (Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Torres Const.
Corp. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 480, 540.) Evidence used to fill gaps in the
original evidence created by the opposition is considered most appropriate upon
reply. (Id.) Here, Defendant offers for the first time in reply evidence
about the addresses present in the parties’ contract. This evidence
appropriately fills the gaps created by Plaintiff’s selective production of the
contract in opposition. As such, Defendant’s evidence in reply is appropriate
and may be considered. 
 
At the
very least it appears the agreement between the parties contained several
different addresses for the project. Regardless, Defendant has evidenced that
the correct location of the project is the “650 S. 6th Street” address. As
Plaintiff was the one who filed the lien, it was their responsibility to ensure
the appropriate description of the property was entered. It does not stand to
reason that one can encumber a property with a mechanic’s lien without first
ensuring that the appropriate property is being encumbered. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to release the property from the mechanic’s line is GRANTED. 
  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
605 Cedar Gardens,
LLC’s Motion to Release property from Mechanic’s Lien
came on regularly for hearing on December 15, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO RELEASE THE PROPERTY FROM LIEN IS
GRANTED.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 15, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 