 Case Number:  20STCV29802    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 15,
2023

MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 20STCV29802

 



MP:  


Flintridge Riding Club (Defendant)




RP:  


Gigi Gaston & Julie Boyer
  (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Julie
Boyer and Gigi Gaston (“Plaintiffs”) bring this action alleging that equestrian
trainer Jimmy Williams abused them when they were juvenile members of
Flintridge Riding Club (“Flintridge”). As a result, Plaintiffs allege they have
suffered mentally and emotionally as children and have continued to suffer
severe emotional distress since. 
 
Plaintiffs
have reached a settlement with the other defendants in this matter and
Flintridge is the only defendant remaining. The matter is currently set for jury
trial on February 12, 2024. 
 
Flintridge
now moves to continue the trial to May 13, 2024. Plaintiffs oppose the motion. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may grant a continuance
only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. (CRC
Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining
whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; (2) The unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances; (3) The unavailability of trial counsel because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (4) The substitution of
trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the
substitution is required in the interests of justice; (5) The addition of a new
party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party's involvement in the case; (6) A party's excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or (7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status of
the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial. (CRC Rule
3.1332(c)(1)-(7).)
 
Other
factors to consider include: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of
the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address
the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance (10) Whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application. (CRC Rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)
 
Merits 
 
This
matter is currently set for trial on February 16, 2024. Flintridge asks that
the trial be continued to May 13, 2024 so that additional settlement
discussions may take place. Flintridge states that it is currently working with
the judge who mediated the case to reach settlement with Plaintiff. (Silver
Decl. ¶ 7.) Flintridge also states additional time is needed to take the
deposition of its most knowledgeable person (“PMK”), which did not go forward
as scheduled on November 20, 2023. (Silver Decl. ¶ 8.) Flintridge states
further meet and confer is required to determine who the PMK is and to
re-notice the deposition. (Id.) The parties have already stipulated to
continue Flintridge’s motion for summary judgment in light of the need for this
deposition. (Id.) Flintridge states this deposition has not occurred as
of yet due to some mutual miscommunication between the parties. (Silver Decl.
¶ 9.) 
 
Plaintiffs
oppose continuing the trial, arguing that good cause has not been shown by
Flintridge. Plaintiffs argue that there remains ample time before trial to take
the deposition of Flintridge’s PMK. Plaintiff states the deposition of
Flintridge’s PMK is currently slated to be completed before January 4, 2023,
giving Flintridge ample time to prepare for trial. (Malloch Decl. ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff argues that Flintridge’s counsel substituting into the case sometime
in July of 2023 should have no bearing on the decision to continue the trial. 
 
The Court
notes that trial has already been continued twice at this point. The case was
originally set for trial on July 26, 2022 and was continued upon a joint motion
to January 27, 2023. (Malloch Decl. ¶ 7.) The trial was continued further
to February 13, 2024 after a partially successful mediation. (Malloch Decl.
¶ 9.) 
 
Given the
previous continuances, the age of the case, and the impact to the Court’s
existing trials the Court is disinclined to move the trial further. Moving the
trial would result in a case that is not as old being bumped for trial.   The Court currently has a caseload of over
1,300 cases, and has limited trial availability until 2025.  The only remaining discovery matter appears
to be the deposition of Flintridge’s PMK. Flintridge presents no reason this
deposition cannot take place within a timely matter before trial. Nor does
Flintridge offer why the deposition of its PMK has a crucial impact on its
trial preparation. It is clear from the submissions of the parties that the
lion share of impactful discovery has been conducted. Further, Flintridge’s counsel
substituted in July of 2023. While the Court understands that this litigation
has been ongoing for 1224 days at this point, the fact remains that
Flintridge’s new counsel has had the better part of half a year to prepare for
trial and it does not appear they were working from scratch. On balance, the
Court finds the factors weigh against a trial continuance in this matter. As
such, the motion to continue trial is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Flintridge Riding
Club’s Motion to Continue Trial came on regularly for
hearing on December 15, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS DENIED. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 15, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 