 Case Number:  22BBCV00949    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 15,
2023

MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00949

 



MP:  


Dionisio Alcala (Plaintiff)  




RP:  


Ford Motor Company (Defendant)



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Dionisio Alcala
(“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Ford Motor
Company (“FMC”) on November 8, 2022 for claims
arising out of the purchase of a 2019 Ford F-150 from Sunrise Ford (“Dealer”).
The Complaint contains three
causes of action: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act - breach of express
warranty, (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act - breach of implied warranty, and (3)
violation of the Song- Beverly Act section 1793.2(b). 
 
On March
3, 2023, this Court heard Ford’s motion to compel arbitration. The Court,
relying on Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
granted the motion to compel arbitration and stay the action. 
 
Plaintiff
now moves for reconsideration of the order compelling arbitration. Plaintiff
asserts new law has been created in the Second District Court of Appeals ruling
in Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 (“Ochoa”).

  
ANALYSIS: 
 
Compel
Arbitration 
 
I.          LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Motion
for Reconsideration 
 
C.C.P. § 1008(a)
provides “When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a
court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally,
or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service
upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or
court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or
revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by
affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown.” 
 
C.C.P. §
1008(c) provides “If a court at any time determines that there has been a
change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may
do so on its own motion and enter a different order.” 
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration 
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Ibid.) 
 
“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ 
 
II.        MERITS 
 
Jurisdiction for
Reconsideration
 
Although
relief may not be forthcoming pursuant to C.C.P. § 1008(a), the Court does
believe that relief under C.C.P. §1008(c) is warranted.  The Court finds the language of Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094 to be instructive. “We
cannot prevent a party from communicating the view to a court that it should
reconsider a prior ruling…We agree that it should not matter whether the judge
has an unprovoked flash of understanding in the middle of the night or
acts in response to a party's suggestion. If a court believes one of its prior
interim orders was erroneous, it should be able to correct that error no matter
how it came to acquire that belief.” (LeFrancois supra, 35 Cal.4th at
1108, [citation and quotation marks omitted].) While the Court was aware of the
change in the law, the Plaintiff desires the Court to reconsider its prior
ruling based on the change.  
 
Ford
argues the Court lacks jurisdiction to reconsider the matter because
Plaintiff’s did not challenge the jurisdiction of the arbitrator. Ford argues
that because this Court entered a stay of arbitration, the case is now in limbo
and the Court cannot reconsider its order to compel arbitration. 
 
The Court
disagrees. The Court did not divest itself of jurisdiction by sending this
matter to arbitration. There is no statute that provides for such a divestiture
of jurisdiction and there is no case expressly holding that there is such a
divestiture of jurisdiction. In fact, case law has held court’s retain
jurisdiction for reconsideration of orders compelling arbitration and can do so
when the emergence of new law requires. (See Malek v. Blue Cross of
California (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 44, at 60.) Additionally, the
progress of the arbitration has no bearing on jurisdiction for reconsideration.
(Id.) 
 
The Effect of Ochoa 
 
“Where
there is more than one appellate court decision, and such appellate decisions
are in conflict the superior court can and must make a choice between the
conflicting decisions” (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962)
57 Cal.2d 450, 456, [citations and quotation marks omitted].) In practice, “…a
superior court ordinarily will follow an appellate opinion emanating from its
own district even though it is not bound to do so.” (McCallum v.
McCallum (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 308, 315.)

The rulings in Felisilda and Ochoa present conflicting opinions
from the Fourth and Second Appellate districts respectively. The Court’s
previous ruling compelling arbitration relied on Felisilda as the
primary binding precedent at the time of decision. Now, Ochoa presents
analysis which stands equal and opposite to that in Felisilda.
Ultimately, the Court finds the reasoning in Ochoa to be more persuasive
in deciding whether to compel arbitration. 
 
The
Arbitration Clauses
 
The
relevant portions of the arbitration clause in Ochoa read as follows: 
 
EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO
HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY
TRIAL.” 
 
“[A]ny claim or dispute, whether
in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope
of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claims or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase, or condition of
this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who did not sign this
contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding
arbitration and not by a court action.”
 
(Ochoa supra, 89
Cal.App.5th 1324, at 1330.) 
 
This
clause is virtually identical the clause presented in the agreement here. The
agreement here provides: 
 
EITHER [Plaintiff] OR [Dealer] MAY CHOOSE TO
HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN [Plaintiff and Dealer] DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT
IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL… 
 
Any claim or dispute, whether in contract or
tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this
Arbitration Provision and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute) between you
and us or our employees, agents,
successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your… purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract
or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship
with third parties who do not sign this
contract) shall, at [Plaintiff’s] or [Dealer’s] election be resolved by
neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action… 
 
The Court
notes the arbitration clause in Felisilda is also virtually identical to
the agreement here and the agreement in Ochoa. 
 
Equitable Estoppel 
 
Under both California and federal case law,
“a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a
signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against
the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the
underlying contract obligations.” (Felisilda supra, 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
495.) “Where the equitable estoppel doctrine applies, the nonsignatory has
a right to enforce the arbitration agreement.” (Id., at p. 496.)
 
The Court
previously ruled along the lines of Felisilda as binding precedent. The Felisilda
court found equitable estoppel applied because the plaintiff’s claims were
intimately founded in and intertwined with the dealership contract. The Felisilda
court explained, "[t]he
Felisildas' claim against FCA directly relates to the condition of the vehicle
that they allege to have violated warranties they received as a consequence of
the sales contract. Because the Felisildas expressly agreed to arbitrate claims
arising out of the condition of the vehicle - even against third party
nonsignatories to the sales contract - they are estopped from refusing to
arbitrate their claim against FCA." (Id. at 497.)
 
The Ochoa court refused Felisilda’s
finding that the plaintiff’s claims were “founded in or intertwined with” the
dealership sales contracts. The court
“disagree[d] with Felisilda that ‘the sales contract was the source of
[FCA’s] warranties at the heart of this case.’” (Ochoa supra, 89
Cal.App.5th at 1334.) Instead, the Ochoa court held plaintiff’s
claims were “…based on FMC’s statutory obligations to reimburse consumers or
replace their vehicles when unable to repair in accordance with its warranty,” and
not “on any express contractual language in the sale contracts.” (Id. at
1335.) The Ochoa court further reasoned “The sale contracts include
no warranty, nor any assurance regarding the quality of the vehicle sold, nor
any promise of repairs or other remedies in the event problems arise.  To
the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty on the part of the
dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any warranties covering the vehicle
that the vehicle manufacturer may provide.’  In short, the substantive
terms of the sale contracts relate to sale and financing and nothing more.” (Id.)   
 
The Court is of the same opinion as Ochoa
that Plaintiff’s claims are not “intimately founded in and intertwined” with
the substantive terms of the dealership contract. Here, as in Ochoa, the
dealership sales contract contains no aversion to a manufacturer warranty and
in fact disclaims any warranty explicitly. The Court further agrees Plaintiff’s
claims are based on statutory obligations under Song-Beverly, rather than the
contractual relationship between Plaintiff and the dealership. No language in
the contract serves as the source Plaintiff’s claims against the dealer, absent
extrapolation from the third-party non-signatory language. As will now be
discussed, the Court feels this language is not intended to allow third parties
to compel arbitration. 
 
Third-Party
Nonsignatories 
 
The Court
similarly agrees with Ochoa’s interpretation of the “third-party
nonsignatory” language employed in the dealership contract. 
 
At issue here is
the contract language “between you and us or
our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to
your… purchase or condition of this
vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third
parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at [Plaintiff’s] or
[Dealer’s] election be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a
court action…” 
 
The court in Felisilda
read the above language to mean that third parties could compel arbitration in
disputes relating to the purchased vehicle. (Felisilda supra, at 498.) The
Ochoa court instead read the language as “a further delineation of the subject
matter of claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to arbitrate.”  (Ochoa supra, 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, at 1335.) 
Ochoa clearly distinguishes between (1) the parties to the claims or
disputes and (2) the subject matters of the claims or disputes. Here, the
parties are defined as “…you and us or our employees, agents, successors or
assigns”. The subject matter of the claim is “…any resulting transaction or
relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not
sign this contract.)”. If there was a dispute between Plaintiff and the
dealership that arose out of or related to a resulting transaction or
relationship with a third party, then Plaintiff and the dealership could
arbitrate that dispute.  However, based on the arbitration provision’s
language and Ochoa’s clear interpretation thereof, there is no agreement
requiring Plaintiff to arbitrate a claim or dispute between himself and a
non-signatory third-party. 
 
The Court finds Ochoa’s interpretation
of the arbitration language to be the most logical. The language indicates the
clause intends to allow arbitration of claims arising out of interaction with
third party non-signatories by either Plaintiff or the dealership. The clause
simply does not contemplate manufacturers, or any third party for that matter, as
having the right to compel arbitration under the terms of the agreement. 
 
III.       CONCLUSION 
 
The Court
finds the reasoning of Ochoa to be more persuasive than that of Felisilda.
The Court finds the language of the arbitration agreement does not contemplate
allowing Ford to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims. Further, the
doctrine of equitable estoppel does not apply as Plaintiff’s claims against Ford
are not intimately founded in or intertwined with the dealership agreement. As
such, the Court vacates its prior ruling compelling arbitration, and now DENIES
the motion to compel arbitration. 
 
--- 
Arbitration
Stay 
 
I.          LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Once
arbitration has been compelled, in whole or in part, a stay of proceedings is
mandatory if the issues in the arbitration and the pending action overlap. (C.C.P.
§ 1281.4 (if a court “has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an
issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State,
the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.”)) 
 
“The
purpose of the statutory stay [under section 1281.4] is to protect the
jurisdiction of the arbitrator by preserving the status quo until arbitration
is resolved. In the absence of a stay, the continuation of the proceedings in
the trial court disrupts the arbitration proceedings and can render them
ineffective.” (Federal Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1370, 1374-1375 (citations omitted).) 
 
II.        MERITS 
 
As the
Court denies the motion to compel arbitration in its entirety on
reconsideration, the motion to stay proceedings is moot.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Dionisio Alcala’s Motion for Reconsideration came on regularly for hearing
on December 15, 2023 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order
for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then
and there rule as follows: 
 
THE COURT VACATES ITS PRIOR ORDER TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION, AND THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED. ¿ 
 
THE STAY PREVIOUSLY IMPOSED IS LIFTED.   
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS SET FOR MARCH 20,
2023, AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 15, 2023                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 