  Case Number:  19BBCV00147    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 15,
2023

MOTION
TO TAX COSTS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 19BBCV00147

 



MP:  


JSP Medical Management Inc.
  (Plaintiff)


 




RP:  


Trans-Atlantic Motors Ltd, Pierre
  Moeini, Golriz Moeini, 11601 Ventura Blvd. LLC, and 22456 Ventura Blvd. LLC
  (Defendants) 




 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On September
25, 2023, judgment was entered in favor of Trans-Atlantic Motors Ltd, Pierre
Moeini, Golriz Moeini, 11601 Ventura Blvd. LLC, and 22456 Ventura Blvd. LLC
(“Defendants”) as against JSP Medical Management Inc. (“Plaintiff”) after a
non-jury trial. 
 
On October
6, 2023, Defendants filed their memorandum of costs. Plaintiff now moves to tax
certain costs from the memorandum, claiming they are statutorily impermissible.
Defendants oppose the motion and Plaintiff replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“‘The
right to recover any of the costs of a civil action “is determined entirely by
statute.”’ [Citation.] “‘[I]n the absence of an authorizing statute, no costs
can be recovered by either party.”’ [Citation.] ‘Section 1032 governs the award
of costs of trial court litigation.’ [Citation.]” (Charton v. Harkey (2016)
247 Cal.App.4th 730, 737.)  
 
“Except
as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is
entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or
proceeding.”  (C.C.P. § 1032(b).) 
 
C.C.P. §
1032(a) defines a “prevailing party” as “[1] the party with a net monetary
recovery, [2] a defendant in whose favor dismissal is entered, [3] a defendant
where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and [4] a defendant
as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that
defendant.”  A prevailing party claiming prejudgment costs must file
and serve a memorandum of costs either (1) within 15 days after the date of
service of a notice of entry of judgment or dismissal by the clerk under C.C.P.
§ 664.5, (2) 15 days after the service of written notice of entry of judgment
or dismissal, or (3) within 180 days after entry of judgment, whichever is
first. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(a).)  However, time limitations
pertaining to a memorandum of costs are not jurisdictional, and premature
filings of this memorandum are treated as “a mere irregularity.” (Haley v.
Casa Del Rey Homeowners Assn. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 863, 880.) 
Courts routinely treat prematurely filed costs bills as being timely filed. (Ibid.)  
 
Any
motion to strike or tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service of
the memorandum, plus an additional 5 days if served by mail or 2 days if served
electronically.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(b)(1).) “Unless
objection is made to the entire cost memorandum, the motion to strike or tax
costs must refer to each item objected to by the same number and appear in the
same order as the corresponding cost item claimed on the memorandum of costs
and must state why the item is objectionable.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1700(b)(2).) “If the items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper
charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that were not
reasonable or necessary. On the other hand, if the items are properly objected
to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them
as costs.” (Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 761, 774.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff
seeks to tax costs listed in Section 9 of Defendants’ Memorandum of Costs,
labeled “Court-ordered Transcript.”  Defendant’s
“Court-ordered Transcripts” are listed at $22,068.44. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that this entire amount should be taxed as the Court did not order any transcripts.
Plaintiff states the parties agreed to split costs of a court reporter on
February 7, 2023. (Goharchin Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff states there is no
minute order from this Court indicating that it ordered transcripts for the
trial. (Id.) As such, Plaintiff argues the $22,068.44 pertains to trial
transcripts which the Court did not order and are impermissible under C.C.P. §
1033.5(b)(5). (Id.) 
 
Defendants’
counsel maintains that the Court requested trial transcripts and RealTime
reporting. (Hom Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) As such, Defendants argue the costs of
trial transcripts and real time reporting are properly requested. Defendants’
counsel does state that they inadvertently combined the daily reporter fee and
rough transcript fee into costs for the final transcripts and the RealTime
reporting costs. (Hom Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendants now provide an accounting of
the daily court reporter fee, RealTime, and final transcript. (Hom Decl. Exh.
2.) Defendants state they incurred costs of $6,375 in court reporter fees,
$683.25 for RealTime, and $5,089.28 for the final transcripts. (Hom Decl.
¶ 10.) Defendants state that the total amount of costs in their Memorandum
of Costs should be $31,713.70. 
 
Plaintiff
argues in reply that Defendants impermissibly ask the Court to increase the
amount of their costs from the amount stated in the memorandum. The Court notes
that Defendants are actually asking for substantially less, $31,713.70 rather
than $41,634.61. Plaintiff also argues that Defendants have made no formal
amendment to their Memorandum of Costs despite realizing the mistake, though
cites to no authority that Defendants are required to do so. 
 
Court
Reporter Fees
 
The Court
notes that Defendants’ accounting for the court reporter fee in their
opposition does not add up. Defendants attach invoices for the court reporter
for eight full days of trial at $750/day and three half days of trial at $375/half-day.
(Hom Decl. Exh. 2.) This would total $7,125 in court reporter fees.  However, the parties agreed to split the
reporter fees and 
Defendants
are attempting to recover the entirety of the court reporter costs despite the
agreement to split. 
 
As such,
the Court taxes Defendants’ costs in the amount of $3,562.50. This amount is
half of the court reporter fee, as properly calculated given the invoices
provided by Defendants. 
 
Transcripts
& RealTime
 
Similar
to the calculation of court reporter fees, the Court finds Defendants’
calculation of the final transcript fees to be incorrect. At the rates provided
in the invoices, the final transcripts should total to $4,073.78, not the
$5,089.28 Defendant claims. 
 
Further,
the Court is not aware of any order it made for transcripts or RealTime of the
trial.  The Court’s standard practice is
to advise the parties that they must either have a court reporter or agree on a
settled statement for each day’s testimony prior to the Court resuming the
trial the next day.  Any such settled
statement must be on file with the court clerk.   The parties in this matter opted for a court
reporter.   Furthermore, the Court did
not order RealTime but simply inquired if the reporter had real time available
for the Court’s use.  As for transcripts,
the Court does not typically order copies of transcripts but relies on the
argument of counsel, the exhibits admitted into evidence, the Court’s own
notes, and any transcripts the parties chose to lodge with the Court as part of
their closing papers.  At times counsel
may inquire if the Court would “like” transcripts, to which the Court typically
indicates that it is often helpful; however, the Court does not consider such a
colloquy to be tantamount to a Court order. 
The Court is unable to locate any order that mandated transcripts, nor
does Defendant provide evidence of such an order. However, if such an “order”
is memorialized in any transcript, the Court will reconsider any taxing of
these costs.  As such, Defendant’s costs
are taxed $5,089.28 for claimed transcript fees.  However, the Court will deny the request to
tax costs for $683.25 for RealTime fees as the providing of RealTime greatly
facilitates the trial and is authorized under the Court’s discretionary
authority.  
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
accepts Defendant’s request in their opposition to change the total Memorandum
of Costs to $31,713.70, reflecting the mistakes made in the original memorandum
of costs. The Court thereafter GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to tax that sum.
Defendant’s costs are taxed in the amount of $3,562.50, reflecting Defendant’s
half of the court reporter fees. Defendant’s costs are further taxed in the
amount of $5,089.28 reflecting the amount Defendant claims is owed for court
ordered final transcripts for a total of $8,651.78. 
 
As such, Defendant’s
total costs after taxing would be $23,061.92. 
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
JSP Medical
Management Inc.’s Motion to Tax
Costs came on regularly for hearing on December 15,
2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO TAX COSTS IS GRANTED IN PART AND
DENIED IN PART.  
 
DEFENDANTS’ TOTAL COSTS ARE AMENDED TO $31,713.70,
AT DEFENDANTS’ REQUEST.
 
THE COURT ORDERS THESE COSTS TAXED IN THE AMOUNT
OF $ 8,651.78. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 15, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 