Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23AHCV00960
Plaintiffs: Glenn D. Cunanan, Glenn E. Cunanan, Gabriella M. Cunanan
Defendants: Shouhsan Movsesian, Green Trees Trust, Does 1-15
People-Names: Glenn D. Cunanan, Glenn E. Cunanan, Gabriella M. Cunanan, Shouhsan Movsesian
Company-Names: Green Trees Trust
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: October 30, 2023
Events: Landlord-tenant dispute, Demurrer, Motion to Strike
Money: Attorney fees, Punitive damages
Intentions: Intentional infliction of emotional distress, Oppression, Fraud, Malice
Facts: Plaintiffs allege that they rented a residence from the defendant, but the defendant failed to maintain the property, and they were forced to perform repairs themselves.
Disputes: Whether the defendant's conduct was negligent or malicious, Whether the plaintiff's claims are sufficient to state a cause of action
Acts: The defendant's alleged failure to maintain the property, The defendant's alleged intimidation tactics
Agreements: Implied warranty of habitability, Rent Stabilization Ordinance, COVID-19 Tenant Relief Act
Laws: Civil Code sections 1940.2, 1946, 3491, 3493, Business and Professions Code section 17200, Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, 435.5
Case Citations: El Escorial Owners' Ass'n v. DLC Plastering, Inc., Lazar v. Hertz Corp., People v. McKale, Wilson v. Hynek
Statutes: Civil Code sections 1942.4(b)(2), 3294, Business and Professions Code section 17200
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* The defendant's alleged failure to maintain the property and force the plaintiffs to perform repairs themselves.
* The defendant's alleged intimidation tactics.
* The plaintiffs' claims are insufficient to state a cause of action for nuisance.
* The defendant's conduct was not malicious, but rather negligent.
* The plaintiffs are seeking punitive damages, but the complaint lacks the requisite specificity.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has ruled on a demurrer and a motion to strike filed by the defendant, Shouhsan Movsesian, as trustee for Green Trees Trust, in a landlord-tenant dispute. The plaintiffs, Glenn D. Cunanan, Glenn E. Cunanan, and Gabriella M. Cunanan, allege that they rented a residence from the defendant, but the defendant failed to maintain the property, and they were forced to perform repairs themselves.

The judge granted the demurrer in part, striking the third cause of action for nuisance, finding that the plaintiffs' claims are insufficient to state a cause of action. The judge also granted the motion to strike punitive damages, finding that the complaint lacks the requisite specificity and that the defendant's conduct was not malicious, but rather negligent.

The judge denied the motion to strike attorney fees, finding that the plaintiffs have a statutory basis for seeking attorney fees under the first cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability. The judge also denied the motion to strike with respect to the seventh cause of action for violation of the COVID-19 Tenant Relief Act.

The judge granted the motion to strike with respect to the fourth cause of action for violation of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance, finding that the plaintiffs did not adequately allege a basis for attorney fees.

The judge ordered the defendant to give notice of the ruling, and gave the plaintiffs ten days' leave to file an amended complaint.