  Case Number:  24SMCV00025    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Prasad, v. Nathan,
et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00025
MOTION:                  Motion
for Reconsideration
HEARING DATE:   12/11/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A non-prevailing party may make a motion to reconsider and
enter a different order under the following conditions: (1) brought before the
same judge that made the order sought to be reconsidered; (2) made within 10
days after service upon the party of the notice of entry of the order (extended
under CCP § 1013 for type of service); (3) based on new or different facts,
circumstances or law than those before the court at the time of the original
ruling; (4) supported by a declaration stating the previous order, by which
judge it was made, and the new or different facts, circumstances or law claimed
to exist; and (5) the motion must be made and decided before entry of judgment.
(CCP, § 1008.) The court may also reconsider its prior interim orders on
its own motion to correct its own errors. (Le Francoise v. Goel (2005)
35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107-09.)¿ 
 
The legislature intended to restrict
motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court
some fact or circumstance not previously considered and some valid reason for
not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
1494, 1500.)¿¿Thus, “[t]o be entitled to
reconsideration, a party should show that (1) evidence of new or different
facts exist, and (2) the party has a satisfactory explanation for failing to
produce such evidence at an earlier time.” (Mink v. Superior Court
(1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.) The moving party must demonstrate that such newly discovered evidence could not, with reasonable
diligence, have previously discovered and produced. (Wilcox v. Ford
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1170.) Reconsideration cannot be
granted based on claims the court misinterpreted the law in its initial ruling
because this is not a “new” or “different” matter.¿ (Gilberd v. AC Transit
(1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Gyanmitra Prasad moves
for reconsideration of the Court’s order granting Defendant Robert Wiener’s
special motion to strike. Plaintiff suggests three potential grounds for
relief: a) the mistake of counsel as the basis for this motion (Toelkes Decl.,
¶¶ 4-15); b) that the scope of the dissemination of the defamatory letter
should be the subject of discovery; and c) there exists new evidence in support
of the opposition to the anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
Plaintiff does not meet his burden
to show that counsel’s highlighted mistake(s) in opposing the underlying motion
are “new” or “different” matters under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, or
grounds for relief under section 473(b). By its terms, CCP section 473(b)’s mandatory
provisions for relief applies only to resulting defaults or
dismissals, and not to other parties’ motions. Otherwise, as Plaintiff’s
authorities recognize, discretionary relief is not available for a mistake of
counsel which amounts to professional neglect or ignorance of the law. (Hearn
v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206.) Here, counsel omitted certain
allegations against Wiener from the verified First Amended Complaint, including
causation and emotional distress, which was proffered in support of Plaintiff’s
second prong burden. This failure meant that Plaintiff failed to support his
prong 2 burden. However, counsel’s mere failure to martial sufficient and
admissible evidence in opposition to the anti-SLAPP motion does not constitute
an excusable mistake under section 473. Counsel also notes that he is suffering
from certain health issues but does not explain how the health issues and
treatment compromised the opposition to the anti-SLAPP, and thus contributed to
his mistake, excuse, neglect, etc., under section 473. Thus, the Court finds no
grounds for relief.
 
Plaintiff’s belated request for
discovery is also not a new or different matter, as Plaintiff could have sought
any necessary discovery prior to the hearing. (CCP § 425.16(g).) 
 
Plaintiff presents the declaration
of Carina Eriksson as new evidence in support of the opposition. Plaintiff
fails to put forth a satisfactory
explanation for failing to produce this declaration in opposition to the
underlying motion. Plaintiff also fails to show that this declaration, if
considered, would result in a different outcome. Plaintiff proffers this
declaration to support the element of republication for defamation, which was
not the only missing element of the intentional infliction of emotional distress
and defamation causes of action against Wiener. Plaintiff also did not present
evidence as to damages and emotional distress caused by Wiener’s defamation.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.
 