  Case Number:  23VECV01343    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Bahereh Enayati,
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Super King Markets and Does 1 to 25
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
      23VECV01343    107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Summary Judgment
  



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:

 
Defendant
B&V Enterprises, Inc. dba Super King Markets (“Defendant”) moves for
summary judgment. This court denies Defendant’s motion. 
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
On
January 17, 2023, Bahereh Enayati (“Plaintiff”) sustained injuries after she slipped
and fell on Defendant’s property (the “Subject Property”). (Complaint p. 5.) On
March 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant and Does 1 to 25,
alleging causes of action for general negligence and premises liability.
(Complaint pp. 4-5.)
 
On
August 1, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment (the “Motion”). Plaintiff
filed an opposition on October 3, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on October 14,
2024.
 
II.             
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A party may move for summary judgment in¿an¿action or proceeding
if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to
the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿437c(a)(1).) The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim
and, if not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for
trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)
Code of Civil Procedure §¿437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿“A triable
issue of material fact exists where ‘the evidence would allow a reasonable
trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the
motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.’” (California
Medical Assn. v. Aetna Health of California Inc. (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 660,
665, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra at 850.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the moving party must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential
element or to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc, § 437c(p)(2).) A cause of
action “cannot be established” if the undisputed facts presented by defendant
prove the contrary of plaintiff's allegations¿as a matter of law. (Brantley
v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1597.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the moving party has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto. (Code Civ. Proc, § 437c(p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162-163.) 
 
III.           
DISCUSSION
 

Premises Liability Cause of
     Action

 
A
cause of action for premises liability requires showing: (1) duty; (2) breach;
(3) causation; and (4) damages. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (“Ortega”) (2001)
26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) 
 
Defendant
argues summary judgment should be granted in its favor because: (1) Plaintiff
cannot produce admissible evidence Defendant had actual or constructive notice
of any liquid or slippery substance on the floor before Plaintiff fell; (2)
Plaintiff cannot produce evidence Defendant failed to exercise reasonable care;
and (3) Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendant was negligent or that
Defendant’s negligence caused Plaintiff’s injuries.
 
i.                
Notice
 
a.     Legal Standard
 
“[W]here
the plaintiff relies on the failure to correct a dangerous condition to prove
the owner’s negligence, the plaintiff has the burden of showing that the owner
had notice of the defect in sufficient time to correct it.” (Ortega, supra, 26
Cal.4th at p. 1206.) The plaintiff must prove the defendant had actual or
constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition. (Id. at p. 1206.) “A
defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law if the plaintiff fails to
show that the dangerous condition existed for at least a sufficient time to be
discovered by ordinary care and inspection.” (Id. at p. 1207.) “The
owner must inspect the premises or take other proper action to ascertain their
condition, and if, by the exercise of reasonable care, the owner would have
discovered the condition, he is liable for failing to correct it.” (Id.)
 
b.     Discussion
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff cannot produce admissible evidence Defendant had actual or
constructive notice of any liquid or slippery substance on the floor before
Plaintiff fell. (Motion p. 12.) Defendant submits evidence it visually inspects
the restroom at the Subject Property twice an hour each day. (Barrow
Declaration ¶ 6; Garcia Declaration ¶ 6.) Defendant maintains inspection logs
showing when the restroom was cleaned. (Barrow Declaration ¶ 6.) Defendant
submits a declaration by its Senior Director of Human Resources, Samuel Barrow,
who states that on the day Plaintiff fell, the restroom was inspected at 1:23
pm, 1:48 pm, 2:24 pm, and 2:58 pm. (Barrow Declaration ¶ 6; Ex A; Defendant
Undisputed Material Facts and Supporting Evidence No. 4.) Barrow also states
that “Inspections of the bathrooms include the floors and ensuring they are
clean and free of debris and any substances.” (Barrow Declaration ¶¶ 1, 5.) Finally,
Barrow states that Defendant “was not put on notice of liquid on the bathroom
floor at any point during the four inspections from 1:00 p.m. to 2:58 p.m. or
at any point prior to the notification of Plaintiff’s fall.” (Barrow
Declaration ¶ 7.)
 
This
court finds that Defendant has satisfied its initial burden of showing it did
not have actual notice of the dangerous condition.
 
However,
this court also finds that Defendant’s inspection logs do not show, as a matter
of law, that Defendant lacked constructive notice. 
 
In Ortega,
the plaintiff submitted evidence showing an inspection had not been made
within fifteen to thirty minutes, and possibly as long as two-hours, before the
incident. (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at pp. 1204, 1210.) The jury
returned a verdict for the plaintiff and the Supreme Court of California
affirmed. (Id. at pp. 1204, 1213.) The Court stated that a plaintiff
“may demonstrate the storekeeper had constructive notice of the dangerous
condition if they can show that the site had not been inspected within a
reasonable period of time so that a person exercising due care would have
discovered and corrected the hazard.” (Id. at p. 1212.) If a plaintiff
“can show an inspection was not made within a particular period of time prior
to an accident, they may raise an inference the condition did exist long enough
for the owner to have discovered it.” (Id. at pp. 1212-1213.) The Court
further stated that “[i]t remains a question of fact for the jury whether,
under all the circumstances, the defective condition existed long enough so
that it would have been discovered and remedied by an owner in the exercise of
reasonable care.” (Id. at p. 1213.)
 
Similarly,
in Sapp v. W. T. Grant Co. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 89, 91, a plaintiff
slipped on a spool of thread. Defendant produced evidence it inspected the
aisle twenty minutes before the incident. (Id. at p. 92.) The Court held
that whether the “twenty minute interval between inspections [was] commensurate
with the exercise of ordinary care by defendant” was “a question that was
properly left with the jury to decide.” (Id.) 
 
Finally,
in Zipusch v. LA Workout, Inc. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1284, a
plaintiff sustained injuries after her foot became stuck to a sticky substance
on a treadmill. The trial court granted summary judgment in the defendant’s
favor, but the Court of Appeal reversed. (Id. at p. 1284.) The Court
noted that “[c]ircumstantial evidence of a property owner’s failure to inspect
the premises before an accident is sufficient to infer the risk existed long
enough for the property owner, in the exercise of due care, to have discovered
and removed it.” (Id. at p. 1293.) The Court held that the plaintiff
raised a triable issue of material fact regarding whether the defendant
“negligently inspected and maintained its exercise equipment” because no staff
member had inspected or cleaned the equipment in the eighty-five minutes before
the accident and the defendant’s employee testified the undersides of the
treadmill belts were not routinely inspected. (Id. at p. 1293.)
 
It
is undisputed that Plaintiff fell at or around 4:02 pm. (Plaintiff’s Response
to Defendant’s Undisputed Material Facts No. 18.) Defendant’s submitted
declaration and Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts state it last
inspected the restroom at 2:58 pm. (Barrow Declaration ¶ 6; Defendant’s
Separate Statement p. 3.) If the restroom as last inspected at 2:58 pm, that
would mean approximately sixty-four minutes passed between Defendant’s last recorded
visual inspection of the restroom until the incident. Although this is not as
long as the last inspection in Zipusch v. LA Workout, Inc., it is much
longer than the fifteen to thirty minutes in Ortega and the twenty
minutes in Sapp v. W. T. Grant Co. Accordingly, Defendant has not shown that
the time between the inspection and Plaintiff’s fall shows it did not have, as
a matter of law, constructive notice of the dangerous condition.
 
In the
Separate Statement attached to its reply, Defendant states that “the log shows
additional inspections of the bathroom through 3:53 p.m.” (Reply Separate
Statement pp. 26-27.) This statement conflicts with the Separate Statement that
Defendant submitted with the Motion. Further, Barrow’s declaration states that,
“on the day of the incident[, t]he women’s restroom w[as] inspected at 1:23
p.m., 1:48 p.m., 2:24 p.m., and 2:58 p.m.” (Barrow Declaration ¶  6.) Barrow’s declaration does not mention an
inspection at 3:53 p.m. (Barrow Declaration.) 
 
Even
if the restroom was inspected nine minutes before the incident, Defendant has
not shown, as a matter of law, it lacked constructive notice. In Ortega,
the inspection may have been as little as fifteen minutes before the incident.
There, the Court stated “[i]t remains a question of fact for the jury whether,
under all the circumstances, the defective condition existed long enough so
that it would have been discovered and remedied by an owner in the exercise of
reasonable care.” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1213.) Likewise,
here, it remains a question of fact for the jury to decide whether Defendant
had constructive notice. Defendant argues Ortega and similar cases are
distinguishable because they involved entrances and aisles, and “[n]one of
the[] plaintiffs [in those cases] were injured in bathrooms.” (Reply pp. 5-6.) How
difficult a condition is to detect may be relevant to whether it existed long
enough such that it would have been discovered and remedied by an owner in the
exercise of reasonable care, but this court finds no reason to limit cases like
Ortega to dangerous conditions existing only in entrances or aisles.
 
Moreover,
assuming Defendant’s inspection was sufficient to show it did not have, as a
matter of law, constructive notice of the restroom’s condition, the burden
would then shift to Plaintiff.  And,
Plaintiff has satisfied its burden of showing triable issues of material fact
exist as to whether Defendant’s inspection log is accurate and whether Defendant’s
employee cleaned the restroom.
 
Plaintiff
submits evidence showing Defendant uses an electronic system to log its
inspections. (Ex. 2, 11:24-12:25.) Employees “use an electronic ‘pipe’ or
‘probe’ to contact a sensor placed at different areas of the store.” (Ex. 2,
11:24-12:25.) The “’pipe’ or ‘probe’ is assigned to the employee who inspects
at the beginning of a shift when the employee presses the device on a button
near the front desk of the store labeled with his or her name.” (Ex. 2,
18:24-21:8.) Defendant’s ‘Inspection Log’ shows that inspections were completed
by “Saira” at 1:23 pm, 1:48 pm, 2:24 pm, and 2:58 pm the day of the incident. (Barrow
¶ 6; Ex. A.) Plaintiff submits a deposition by Defendant’s employee, Saira
Aparicio. (Ex. 1, 1:2-14.) In her deposition, Aparicio stated that in January
2023, she did not inspect the produce or restroom areas, she did not use the
“probe” at that time, she left work the day of the incident at 2:31 pm, and no
other “Saira” worked at the store on January 17, 2023. (Ex. 1, 8:21-14:19.) 
 
In
its reply, Defendant argues its employee, Patricia Mejia, cleaned the bathroom
on the day of the incident, not Saira Aparicio, and “[e]xtensive testimony from
Mr. Barrow explained that the internal electronic inspection device had
inadvertently not been updated, which is why Ms. Aparicio’s name appeared on
the inspection logs[.] (Reply Separate Statement p. 26; Reply p. 2.) Defendant
may have an explanation for its inaccurate records, but Plaintiff has met her
burden of showing a triable issue of material fact exists.
 
Further,
Plaintiff submits evidence showing a triable issue of material fact exists as
to whether Defendant’s employee cleaned the restroom shortly before she fell
and whether Defendant had actual notice of the restroom’s condition.
 
In
her deposition, Plaintiff stated she entered the restroom as “the cleaning
lady” came out. (Ex. 5, 21:1-11.) Plaintiff also stated that she was the only
person in the restroom when she walked into the stall, tried to close the door,
and then fell. (Ex. 5, 21:21-22:8.) Defendant’s employee’s presence in the
restroom right before Plaintiff fell creates a triable issue of material fact
as to whether Defendant had actual notice of the bathroom’s condition.
 
Further,
according to Defendant’s employee who cleaned the restroom that afternoon, Mejia,
the restroom was swept and picked up about ten minutes before Plaintiff went
in. (Ex. 2, 11:2-25.) Mejia also stated that the last time the floor was mopped
was “a long time, most likely an hour” before Plaintiff fell. (Ex. 2, 12:6-11.)
But Plaintiff submits photographs of the restroom stall, taken while Plaintiff
was still on the floor. (Ex. 2, 65:6-11.) The photographs show trash stuffed
into the wall and part of the seat, a toilet seat cover on the ground, and a
puddle by Plaintiff’s feet. (Ex. 2 63:24-67:9; Ex. 10.) Plaintiff also submits Barrow’s
deposition testimony, where he stated that had a routine maintenance inspection
been done, there would not have been trash in the stall. (Ex. 4, 23:25-25:25.) Plaintiff’s
evidence shows a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether
Defendant’s employee cleaned the restroom shortly before she fell.
 
In
its reply, Defendant states “Plaintiff’s testimony is easily disproven by the
cleaning logs.” (Reply p. 3.) However, Plaintiff has submitted sufficient
evidence showing a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether the
inspection log is accurate. Moreover, to the extent Plaintiff’s testimony
conflicts with Defendant’s inspection log and Mejia’s testimony, those are
triable issues of material fact.
 
Defendant
has not shown that its inspection establishes, as a matter of law, that it did
not have constructive notice of the restroom’s condition. Further, Plaintiff
has submitted evidence satisfying her burden of showing triable issues of
material fact exist regarding whether Defendant’s inspection log is accurate,
whether Defendant’s employee cleaned the restroom shortly before Plaintiff fell,
and whether Defendant had actual notice of the restroom’s condition. Thus, there
are triable issues of material fact regarding whether Defendant had actual or
constructive notice of the restroom’s condition.
 
ii.              
Reasonable
Care
 
a.    
Legal
Standard 
 
“Those
who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise
ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an
unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) The property owner must “exercise ordinary care to
discover dangerous conditions and to make reasonable inspections of its
premises.” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1209.) 
 
“A
store owner exercises ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the
portions of the premises open to customers, and the care required is
commensurate with the risks involved.” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p.
1205.) “[T]he owner must use the care required of a reasonably prudent person
acting under the same circumstances.” (Id.) “As to business invitees,
the owner should conduct frequent inspections.” (Id. at p. 1207.) 
 
b.    
Discussion
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff cannot produce admissible evidence that it failed to exercise
reasonable care. (Motion p. 14.) Defendant submits evidence showing it visually
inspected the restroom twice per hour. (Barrow Declaration ¶ 5.) Barrow’s
declaration states that “Inspections of the bathroom include the floors and
ensuring they are clean and free of debris and any substances.” (Barrow
Declaration ¶ 5.) Defendant also submits evidence showing there were no reports
or complaints involving the bathroom floors reported to maintenance or
management between January 17, 2023, and January 17, 2023. (Barrow Declaration ¶
4.)
 
The
adequacy of a precaution or inspection system is a question of fact for the
jury to decide. (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1208 [“Was a 20-minute
interval between inspections of the aisles commensurate with the exercise of
ordinary care by defendant? This is a question that was properly left with the
jury to decide.”]) Accordingly, Defendant’s evidence is insufficient to show
that, as a matter of law, it exercised reasonable care. Further, as noted
above, Plaintiff submits evidence showing Defendant’s inspection log from the
day of the incident was not accurate, and evidence Defendant’s employee did not
clean the bathroom shortly before Plaintiff fell, which establish triable
issues of material fact as to whether Defendant exercised reasonable care.
 
Accordingly,
this court finds that triable issues of material fact exist as to whether
Defendant exercised reasonable care.
 
iii.            
Causation
 
a.     Legal Standard
 
“A
plaintiff meets the causation element by showing that (1) the defendant’s
breach of its duty to exercise ordinary care was a substantial factor in
bringing about plaintiff’s harm, and (2) there is no rule of law relieving the
defendant of liability. (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.App.4th 1200,
1205.) “These are factual questions for the jury to decide, except in cases in
which the facts as to causation are undisputed.” (Id.)
 
b.     Discussion
 
The
parties dispute whether Defendant’s negligence caused Plaintiff’s injuries.
(Motion p. 14; Opposition p. 14.) Defendant argues “Plaintiff cannot carry her
burden of proof to show any act or omission by Super King was a substantial
factor in causing Plaintiff’s injury” and “Plaintiff lacks competent admissible
evidence that Super King had notice of any allegedly dangerous condition before
the incident occurred. (Motion pp. 14-15.) Defendant also states that
“[Defendant] submits that the plaintiff urinated herself, which is supported by
witness statements attesting to the smell of urine and pictures taken
immediately after the incident showing the liquid concentrated on Plaintiff’s
buttock.” (Motion p. 1.) 
 
Defendant
submits its response to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory No. 4, where
Defendant stated “Pictures and witnesses confirm that Plaintiff urinated
herself, which was the source of the liquid on the floor.” (Ex. D, pp. 6-7.) Defendant
also submits a declaration by its Assistant Manager, Maria Garcia, who went to
the restroom after receiving a call that Plaintiff had fallen. (Garcia
Declaration ¶¶ 1-3.) Garcia’s declaration states she “noticed that Plaintiff’s
pants were wet from her own urine, which was the substance she had slipped and
fallen on.” (Garcia Declaration ¶ 4.) Defendant also submits an exhibit showing
a picture of Plaintiff’s legs and the floor after she fell. (Ex. H.) The
picture shows a wet substance on the ground. (Ex. H.) 
 
Defendant
does not cite to the evidence suggesting Plaintiff urinated on herself in the
argument section of its Motion, but page one of Defendant’s motion states:  “Super King submits that the plaintiff
urinated herself, which is supported by witness statements attesting to the
smell of urine and pictures taken immediately after the incident showing the
liquid concentrated on Plaintiff’s buttock. (See Hoekstra Decl., ¶ 4, Exhibit
E, Super King’s responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, No. 4.)” In contrast,
Defendant’s Reply Separate Statement (p. 29) states that whether Plaintiff
urinated on herself is “Disputed, but irrelevant.”
 
Defendant
submitted evidence showing its negligence did not cause Plaintiff’s fall, so the
burden shifts to Plaintiff.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff states that Defendant’s claim Plaintiff slipped in her
own urine is “[s]pecious” and “just another attempt to avoid responsibility for
substandard maintenance.” (Opposition p. 14.) Plaintiff
submits Plaintiff’s deposition, where she stated she went into the restroom,
tried to close the stall door, and fell. (Ex. 5, 23:1-5.) Plaintiff denied
slipping on her own urine. (Ex. 5, 41:11-22, 75:1-3.) Plaintiff also submits Garcia’s
deposition where Garcia said she was “not sure” whether it was urine on the
ground. (Ex. 2, 69:12-70:16.) 
 
Accordingly,
this court finds that there is a triable issue of material fact regarding whether
Defendant’s negligence caused Plaintiff’s fall. 
 
Thus,
Defendant’s request for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s premises
liability cause of action is denied.
 

Negligence Cause
     of Action

The elements of a
negligence action are: (1) a legal duty to use due care; (2) a breach of such
legal duty; and (3) the breach was the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury. (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913,
917-918.) Thus, the elements of a cause of action for premises liability are
the same as those for a negligence cause of action. (Castellon v. U.S.
Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) 
As discussed above,
triable issues of material fact remain as to whether Defendant had notice of
the dangerous condition, took reasonable care, and whether Defendant’s
negligence caused Plaintiff’s injuries. 
Thus, Defendant’s
request for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action
is also denied.
IV.           
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing
reasons, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is denied.
 
 
 
 
Dated:              October 17, 2024                                  
                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                              Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court