  Case Number:  23CHCV01170    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV01170 Demurrer Filed: 9/13/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Janet Gomez; Ezequiel  Vazquez, aka Ezequiel Gomez Vazquez; and GV Trucking Services, Inc. (collectively,  “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  County of Los Angeles and the People of the State of California (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants  demur against Plaintiff’s entire complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled. Defendants to file their answer to  Plaintiff’s complaint within 30 days.   BACKGROUND    This is a  nuisance action brought by Plaintiff, the County of Los Angeles, on behalf of  itself and the public, against Defendants, who own and operate certain real property  located at 13025 Sierra Highway, Santa Clarita, CA 91390 and 13036 Chrisco  Street, Santa Clarita, CA 91390. Plaintiff alleges that it has received  numerous neighbor complaints, corroborated through its own investigations, that  Defendants have continuously maintained public nuisance conditions at the  subject property in violation of County ordinances, including unpermitted  building alterations, unpermitted grading, unpermitted diesel tank, and zoning  code violations of conducting an unpermitted trucking business at the subject property.   On 4/21/23,  Plaintiff filed its complaint against Defendants, seeking declaratory,  injunctive, and equitable relief based on the following causes of action: (1)  Los Angeles County Code Violations; (2) Public Nuisance; and (3) Unlawful  Business Practices.   On 9/13/23,  Defendants filed the instant demurrer. On 12/4/23, Plaintiff filed its  opposition. On 12/8/23, Defendants filed their reply. // // // ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning  “ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on  the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Defendants  demur to Plaintiff’s entire complaint on the bases that “each cause of action  is patently defective and uncertain, as plaintiffs base each flawed cause of  action on misstatements of fact, applicable law, statutes, codes, and  regulations that are supported with inadmissible hearsay conclusions and  accusations by plaintiffs that lack the legal capacity and standing to jointly  sue defendants.” (Dem. 4:11–16.)   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) “If the parties are not able to  meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is  due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time  within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before  the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty  of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining  the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Id. at subd.  (a)(2).)   Here, Defendants’ counsel declares that on 8/8/23, he sent Plaintiff’s  counsel a letter in an attempt to meet and confer regarding the issues raised  in the instant demurrer, and additionally tried to telephone Plaintiff’s  counsel, but received no response. (8/14/23 Decl. of Gerald N. Silver ¶ 2.)  Counsel subsequently filed his declaration in support of an automatic  extension. Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the  preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Standing   As a  preliminary matter, Defendants argue that there is a “misjoinder of parties”  necessitating the instant demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (d).)  Specifically, Defendants assert that “plaintiffs contend that the County of Los  Angeles and the State of California are empowered to have the Los Angeles  County Counsel to prosecute the entire action, however they cannot be lawfully  joined plaintiffs.” (Dem. 4:23–26.)    “A civil action may be brought in the name of  the people of the State of California to abate a public nuisance, as defined in  Section 3480 of the Civil Code, by the district attorney or county counsel of  any county in which the nuisance exists, or by the city attorney of any town or  city in which the nuisance exists.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 731.) Business and  Professions Code section 17204 authorizes “county counsel of any county within  which a city has a population in excess of 750,000” to bring an action for  violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq. (the “UCL”).   Here,  Plaintiff, represented by County counsel, alleges in its complaint that “Office  of the Los Angeles County Counsel hereby prosecutes this action on behalf of  the People of the State of California pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 731 and Business & Profession Code §§17204, 17206 and 17207.”  (Compl. ¶ 3.) The Court notes that Defendants cite to no legal authority  challenging the lawfulness of the cited statutes permitting Plaintiff to bring  the instant action on behalf of the public. Accordingly, the demurrer is  overruled to the extent that Defendants argue a misjoinder of parties.   C.    Los  Angeles County Code Violations   Plaintiff’s  first cause of action alleges that Defendants violated Los Angeles County Code  sections 1.23.010 et seq. The relevant code sections prohibit persons from  causing or maintaining public nuisances, which include, inter alia, unlawful  construction and operating tank vehicles without an operational permit. (Compl.  ¶¶ 44–53.) Plaintiff alleges that “the conditions at the Subject Property, as  described herein, constitute an active and continuing public nuisance, and that  each day the violations exist constitutes a new and separate violation.  Defendants, and each of them, have maintained and are maintaining the Subject  Property in violation of the Los Angeles County Building, Zoning and Fire Codes  including but not limited to the violations described herein above.” (Id.  at ¶ 54.)   Here,  Defendants argue that “Plaintiffs have not come close to pleading the requisite  element of irreparable injury and damage to the County and its residents.” (Dem.  6:18–20.) However, the Court observes that Plaintiff alleges this element in  paragraph 59 of the complaint. (Compl. ¶ 59 “The County has no other adequate  remedy other than the equitable relief sought herein. Absent the relief  requested herein, the County and its residents will be irreparably injured and  damaged in that the maintenance of the public nuisance by Defendants threatens  the public health, safety, and general welfare.”)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that “the Complaint explains  that the County has declared that ‘any condition on a property that is  maintained in violation of any provision of Title 7 through 32 of this code  shall be deemed unlawful and a public nuisance and may be abated as such.’  (Complaint ¶44; LACC §1.23.040.) The Complaint further identifies no less than  11 violations of the LACC at the Subject property. (Complaint ¶ 20, 25, 36.)”  (Pl.’s Opp. 10:7–11.) Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff has  sufficiently alleged facts to support a cause of action for Los Angeles County  Code Violations, and the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s first cause of  action.    D.    Public  Nuisance   Plaintiff’s  second cause of action alleges against Defendants a public nuisance. Public  nuisances are “substantial and unreasonable” “offenses against, or  interferences with, the exercise of rights common to the public.” (County of  Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 305.) “The  concept of a nuisance per se arises when a legislative body with appropriate  jurisdiction, in the exercise of the police power, expressly declares a  particular object or substance, activity, or circumstance, to be a nuisance.” (Beck  Development Co. v. Southern Pacific Transportation Co. (1996) 44  Cal.App.4th 1160, 1206.) “For nuisances per se, no proof is required, beyond  the actual fact of their existence, to establish the nuisance. No ill effects  need be proved.” (City of Claremont v. Kruse (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1153,  1166 [internal quotations omitted].)   Here,  Defendants assert that “Plaintiffs have not sufficiently plead even one of the  necessary elements for any public nuisance claim that must be pled with  specificity and particularity.” (Dem. 7:12–15.) Defendants further argue that “Plaintiffs  cannot overcome that the alleged public nuisance were not all made by  defendants, and each of them, but by prior owners of the subject property.” (Id.  at 7:3–5.)    Plaintiff  argues in opposition that it has sufficiently alleged a nuisance per se because  “the Complaint alleges the existence of a multitude of County code violations  and substandard conditions, including unpermitted grading work, unpermitted  construction, unpermitted electrical and mechanical work, unpermitted use or  storage of flammable liquids, unpermitted use of the Subject Property (all  conditions declared to be nuisance by the LACC).” (Pl.’s Opp. 11:14–17, citing  Compl. ¶¶ 11–42.)   The Court agrees  and finds that Plaintiff’s factual allegations are sufficient to support a  cause of action for a public nuisance per se. Additionally, the Court notes  that Defendants cite to no legal authority supporting a heightened pleading  standard for a nuisance cause of action. Accordingly, the demurrer to  Plaintiff’s second cause of action is overruled. The Court notes Defendants’  arguments as to the merits of the Plaintiff’s factual allegations but declines  to reach them as they are not appropriate for resolution at the demurrer stage.   E.     Unlawful  Business Practices   Plaintiff’s  third cause of action alleges that Defendants engaged in Unlawful Business  Practices in violation of the UCL. To set forth this cause of action, a  plaintiff must establish that the defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair  or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or  misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, §  17200.)   “In  essence, an action based on Business and Professions Code section 17200 to  redress an unlawful business practice ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and  treats these violations, when committed pursuant to business activity, as  unlawful practices independently actionable under section 17200 et seq. and  subject to the distinct remedies provided thereunder.” (People ex rel. Bill  Lockyer v. Fremont Life Ins. Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 508, 515.) A  plaintiff alleging an “unfair” business practice under the UCL must show that  the defendant's conduct is “tethered to an underlying constitutional, statutory  or regulatory provision, or that it threatens an incipient violation of an  antitrust law or violates the policy or spirit of an antitrust law.” (Graham  v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 613.) “‘Fraudulent,’  as used in the statute, does not refer to the common law tort of fraud but only  requires a showing members of the public ‘are likely to be deceived.’” (Olsen  v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 608, 618.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants engaged in unfair business practices under  the UCL because “Defendants have violated and continue to violate the County  Codes, referenced herein, … by establishing, maintaining, and/or operating an  unpermitted and unlawful commercial trucking business or activity on the  Subject Property. Further, Defendants violated and continue to violate the  County Codes, referenced herein, … by renting, leasing, and/or permitting the  use of the Subject Property for unpermitted and unlawful commercial business  and/or activity.” (Compl. ¶ 75.)   Defendants  argue on demurrer that “Plaintiffs have not alleged how defendants, and each of  them, specifically acted with unfair business practices to harm plaintiffs.” (Dem.  7:24–25.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Defendants as the responsible  persons, as fully outlined in the Complaint, are liable for the maintenance of  the unlawful conditions identified in the Complaint.” (Pl.’s Opp. 10:15–17,  citing Leslie Salt Co. v. San Francisco Bay Conservation etc. Com.  (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 605, 622 [the duty to maintain the safety of a premises  stems from a landowner’s possession and control of the land in question].)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a  violation of the UCL under the “unlawful” prong thereof, by alleging that  Defendants violated various County Codes. Accordingly, the demurrer to  Plaintiff’s third cause of action is overruled.   F.     Uncertainty   Generally  speaking, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly construed  because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of  discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so  incomprehensible that defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)  “Where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently  apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for  uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams  v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)   Here,  Defendants argue that “each of the plaintiffs’ attempted causes of action  contain material allegations that are insufficient and uncertain, as to the  alleged parties, capacity, standing, events, incidents, inspections, notice,  liability, duties, obligations, rights, acts, conduct, violations, causation,  applicable statutes, and damages.” (Dem. 2:5–8.) “It is particularly unclear  and uncertain in regard to any lawful relationship, duty, and/or obligation, if  any exists between plaintiffs and defendants, and each of them.” (Id. at  8:18–20.)   Plaintiff  asserts in opposition that “the Complaint very specifically alleges (1) that  the conditions and uses of the Subject Property have violated numerous  requirements of the LACC, describing the conditions and specifying the Code  Violations involved; (2) that both State and County law authorizes the County  to declare illegal conditions and uses such as those identified as ‘public  nuisances’ and take actions to abate them; (3) that Defendants either own or  otherwise have an interest in the Subject Property, making them legally  responsible for ensuring that the Subject Property complies with the applicable  Code requirements; (4) that the Plaintiffs have given Defendants numerous  opportunities to address the illegal conditions and bring the Subject Property  into compliance; but (5) that Defendants have done nothing to comply or to  abate the nuisance conditions at the Subject Property.” (Pl.’s Opp. 8:7–16.)   In applying  the stringent standard for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that  Plaintiff’s complaint is not “so incomprehensible” that Defendants cannot  respond to it. As Plaintiff contends, “here, the Complaint alleges that  Defendants maintained and failed to abate the violations on the Subject  Property with clear and detailed descriptions of the violations. Because these  allegations are neither uncertain nor unclear, Defendants are hard-pressed to  argue that the Complaint is so confusing that they are unable to adequately  respond to it.” (Id. at 13:15–18.) Even where a complaint is in some  respects uncertain, ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery  procedures. (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38  Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled on this basis.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is  overruled. Defendants to file their answer to Plaintiff’s complaint within 30  days.