 Case Number:  23LBCV02360    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Nano Banc filed this action against Defendants, Global Premier
Regency Palms, LP and Global Premier Development, Inc. for judicial foreclosure
of deed of trust, appointment of receiver, and breach of guaranty.  Plaintiff alleges it loaned Defendant
$20,500,000 on 10/17/19, and the promissory note is secured by a deed of trust,
security agreement, and assignment of rents. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant is in breach of the parties’ agreement by
failing to make rent payments, failing to make timely tax payments, and failing
to comply with the covenant in the agreement to maintain a minimum debt coverage
ratio of greater than 1.35:1.00.  
 
2.    
Motion
for Appointment of a Receiver
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff contends the parties’ agreement permits Plaintiff to have a
receiver appointed in the event Defendant defaults on the loan and related
documents.  Plaintiff seeks appointment of
a receiver in light of the default.
 
Defendant, in opposition, concedes it is in default on the loan and
related agreements.  It also concedes there
is a provision in the documents permitting Plaintiff to have a receiver
appointed in the event of default.  It contends
the motion should be denied because the value of the property more than secures
the subject debt, because the cost of the receiver is exorbitant, and because
alternative and less harsh remedies can be imposed.  
 
b.    
Law
Governing Appointment of a Receiver
CCP §564(b)(11) permits appointment of a receiver “In an action by a
secured lender for specific performance of an assignment of rents provision in
a deed of trust, mortgage, or separate assignment document. The appointment may
be continued after entry of a judgment for specific performance if appropriate
to protect, operate, or maintain real property encumbered by a deed of trust or
mortgage or to collect rents therefrom while a pending nonjudicial foreclosure
under power of sale in a deed of trust or mortgage is being completed.”
 
The Rutter Guide on Civil Procedure Before Trial, in discussing §564(b)(11),
provides the following:
The usual reluctance to appoint a receiver may not apply where a receiver
is sought to enforce an assignment-of-rents provision in a trust deed. This is
because the parties have agreed in advance to the appointment (the trust deed
usually contains an express provision authorizing the appointment). Moreover,
there is usually (not always) less potential for harm in an assignment-of-rents
receivership. As a result, such receiverships are quite common, outnumbering
all other types of receiverships combined.
Such agreements are made under CCP § 564(b)(11); see ¶ 9:736.1.
a. [9:778] Adequacy of other security: Trust deed provisions usually
authorize appointment of an assignment-of-rents receiver without regard to the
adequacy of the security already held by the beneficiary (the value of the land
and buildings, etc.). Such provisions create a prima facie (rebuttable) showing
of entitlement to the appointment of a receiver; i.e., no independent proof is
required that the property is worth less than the mortgage debt. [Barclays Bank
of Calif. v. Sup.Ct. (K.V.E. Shelters, Inc.) (1977) 69 CA3d 593, 602, 137 CR
743, 748]
(1) [9:779] Appointment discretionary: But the appointment is still
discretionary and the court may properly decline to appoint a receiver where
there are strong countervailing equities. [See Barclays Bank of Calif. v.
Sup.Ct. (K.V.E. Shelters, Inc.), supra, 69 CA3d at 602, 137 CR at 748]
 
c.    
Sufficient
Equity to Secure Loan
Defendant’s first argument is that appointment of a receiver is not appropriate
where, as here, there is sufficient equity in the property to secure the deed
of trust.  Defendant relies on Title Ins.
& Trust Co. v. California Development Co. (1912) 164 Cal. 58, 61-62 and
Marsch v. Williams (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 238, 247 to support tis
position.  
 
Plaintiff, in reply, notes that CCP §564(b)(11) was enacted in 1996, and
it specifically permits a receiver under the circumstances of this case.  Plaintiff cites Miller & Starr California
Real Estate §41.35 n.9 (4th Ed.) to support its position that insufficient
collateral is not a factor when appointing a receiver under the parties’
agreement and §564(b)(11); notably, Miller & Starr points out the lack of
appellate authority in this regard, but the reasoning makes sense – the parties
agreed that, in the event of a default, the secured creditor has the right to appointment
of a receiver, and the creditor should be permitted to enforce that
agreement.  Additionally, the Rutter
Guide, cited above, is in accord and notes that appointment of a receiver is
appropriate despite sufficient equity in the property under the circumstances.  
 
d.    
Cost
of Receivership
             Defendant’s next argument is that the cost of
the receivership is disproportionate and will result in Defendant’s profits
being paid to the receiver instead of being used to pay down the loan.  Defendant cites the Rutter Guide on this
issue.  It states:
b. [9:744] Cost of receiverships:
Receiverships are very expensive—often to both parties, since the costs are
normally paid out of an estate in which both parties typically have an
interest. See ¶ 9:782 ff.
(1) [9:745] The receiver is not
merely another executive appointed to run a business or an apartment house.
Rather, a receiver must proceed in a prescribed way, requiring lawyers,
requests to be instructed, bonds, accounts, and the like.
(2) [9:746] Thus, e.g., for a
receiver to be considered seriously, a business or apartment house must
simultaneously have a sufficient margin of profit to pay the costs and be in
immediate danger of a disaster that warrants the cost of a receiver.
…
An assignment-of-rents receivership
is usually relatively easy to obtain (assuming an “equitable” reason or need is
shown). But plaintiff should not make such request unless the subject building
(usually an apartment house) generates enough rent to pay all the costs, liens,
etc., and leaves enough left over to pay the receiver.
 
This is an interesting issue.  The reason Plaintiff seeks appointment of a
receiver is because Defendant is not currently running at a sufficient profit
to meet all of its expenses and pay the loan to Plaintiff.  Clearly, if the costs of receivership are added
to the equation, Defendant will fall even more woefully behind.  The Court wishes to hear argument on this
issue at the time of the hearing.  The Court
notes that the Rutter Guide, while helpful, is not an authority, and that
neither the Guide nor the parties cite any authority on this issue.  
 
e.     Disruption
of Operations
Defendant also argues appointment of a receiver will disrupt the senior
care facility’s operations.  The proposed
receiver is experienced in managing senior care facilities, and the Court is not
concerned about disruption of the day-to-day activities of the home, especially
because management has changed twice in the past year at the facility.
 
f.     
Irreparable
or Imminent Harm
Defendant next argues Plaintiff has failed to show irreparable or
imminent harm.  Again, per the
authorities above, it does not appear a showing of irreparable or imminent harm
is necessary in cases where there is a provision permitting appointment of a
referee upon default in the parties’ agreement. 
this argument is therefore also rejected.  
 
g.    
Other
Remedies
Defendant contends other less severe remedies are appropriate here, and
argues Plaintiff should renegotiate the loan and/or pursue the nonjudicial
foreclosure action against it.  Again,
however, when Defendant entered into the loan agreements, it expressly agreed
to the appointment of a receiver in the event of a default on the loan.  It admits to a default, and also admits that,
in the best of circumstances, it could potentially began making full loan
payments in January of 2025.  Defendant
has therefore not shown that less serious remedies are appropriate.
 
h.    
Continuance
of Hearing
Defendant’s final argument is that the Court should continue the hearing
for 90 days to permit it to cure the default on the loan.  It does not, however, articulate any way that
it can do so.  Instead, it argues it
should be permitted to pay Plaintiff $17,500,000 as a full pay-off of the loan.  There is no obligation, on the part of
Plaintiff, to agree to this pay-off.  The
current amount due on the loan is in excess of $22 million.  Absent a showing that Defendant can pay off
the full $22 million debt if the hearing is continued, the Court is not
inclined to continue the hearing to permit Defendant to attempt to cure the
default.  
 
i.     
Conclusion
The Court wishes to hear from the parties, at the time of the hearing,
about whether there is sufficient money in the debtor’s estate to pay all
expenses on the property and also pay for the receiver.  If the Court is satisfied in this regard, it
will appoint a receiver.  If the Court is
not satisfied, it will not appoint a receiver. 

 
3.    
Motion
for Preliminary Injunction
Plaintiff also seeks a preliminary injunction in connection with the proposed
receivership.  The requested injunction
simply precludes Defendant from interfering with the receiver’s duties.  The request for an injunction will be granted
if the receivership is imposed.
 
4.    
Hearing
The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on the motion for appointment of a receiver and a preliminary injunction.  