 Case Number:  23LBCV00908    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, Zaira Vega Castaneda filed this action against Defendants, Mercedes-Benz
USA, LLC and House of Imports, Inc. for Violation of the Song-Beverly Act and
negligent repair.  
 
Defendant, Mercedez-Benz USA, LLC seeks to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate
her dispute with it.  It concedes it does
not have an arbitration agreement with Plaintiff, but seeks to compel arbitration
under Plaintiff’s agreement with the dealership from whom Plaintiff leased the
subject automobile.  Defendant seeks to compel
arbitration under a third party beneficiary theory and also under an estoppel theory.
 
On 4/04/23, two months before Defendant filed this motion, the Court of
Appeals decided Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th
1324.  In Ochoa, the Court of Appeals
expressly considered whether a manufacturer of an automobile can enforce a
dealership’s arbitration agreement under a third party beneficiary and/or
estoppel theory.  The Court of Appeals
held that it cannot.  Plaintiff opposes the
motion, contending that, among other arguments, pursuant to Ochoa, Defendants
are not entitled to the relief it seeks. 

 
The Court finds Ochoa is indistinguishable from the instant case.  It considered the exact issues presented
here, and found that the manufacturer (and by extension the repairing dealership)
cannot enforce the seller’s arbitration agreement under an equitable estoppel
and/or third party beneficiary theory.  Defendants, in reply, argue Ochoa was wrongly
decided and the Court should follow Felisilda v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 486.  The Court is
aware that there is a split of opinion between Felisilda and Ochoa.  The Court is following Ochoa because it is
from the Second District, because it was decided more recently, and also because
the Court agrees with the analysis of Ochoa over the analysis of
Felisilda.  
 
The Court is also aware that Ochoa has been appealed to the Supreme
Court and is therefore now persuasive and not binding.  The Court, however, finds the analysis of Ochoa
compelling and will follow Ochoa pending any contrary ruling from the California
Supreme Court.  
 
 In light of Ochoa, the motion to
compel arbitration is denied.  
 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party
should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   