 Case Number:  22LBCV00019    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Ariel Knight filed this action against Defendants, Robert
Louis Wood, Jacqueline Amy Wood, The Wood Family Trust, Robert Louis Wood and
Jacqueline Amy Wood as Trustees, and Henry Perry for damages arising out of the
parties’ landlord-tenant relationship.  
 
Plaintiff filed her complaint on 1/18/22.  Perry filed an answer and cross-complaint on
5/23/22.  The Wood Defendants filed a
demurrer and motion to strike on 7/01/22, and the Court sustained the demurrer
and granted the motion to strike with leave to amend on 11/14/22.  Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint
on 12/12/22.  On 5/09/23, the Court heard
the Wood Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike directed at the FAC.  The Court sustained the demurrer in part and
overruled the demurrer in part, and the Court granted the motion to strike in
part and denied it in part.  On 6/05/23,
Plaintiff filed her Second Amended Complaint. 
On 11/07/23, the Court heard the Wood Defendants’ demurrer to the SAC.  The Court sustained the demurrer with leave
to amend and ordered Plaintiff to file a Third Amended Complaint within twenty
days.  The Court ordered the parties to
meet and confer BEFORE Plaintiff filed the TAC, in an attempt to avoid the
necessity of a further pleading challenge.
 
2.    
Motion for Leave to File Untimely Third Amended Complaint

Timeline

The timeline of events that have
occurred since the 11/07/23 ruling is important, and therefore the Court will
detail it here.  Defendant gave notice,
by email, of the Court’s 11/07/23 ruling on 11/07/23.  The TAC was therefore due on or before 11/29/23,
as the twenty-day deadline was extended by two days due to the email
notice.   
 
On 12/07/23, Defendant filed a
proposed order indicating Plaintiff had failed to timely file a Third Amended
Complaint and finding the second and third causes of action to be dismissed
with prejudice and the prayer for punitive and statutory damages stricken with
prejudice.  The Court has not, to date,
signed the order.  
 
On 12/21/23, Plaintiff filed this
motion for leave to file untimely Third Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff indicates, in the motion, that he
provided a copy of the proposed TAC to Defendant on 12/06/23.  He has not, to date, filed a copy of the
TAC.  
 

Law Governing Failure
     to Timely Amend After Demurrer Sustained with Leave

After expiration of the time in
which a pleading can be amended as a matter of course, or after expiration of
the time allowed by the court after demurrer sustained with leave to amend, a
noticed motion must be made for permission to file the pleading.  Leader v. Health Indus. of America, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 612-613.  Unless
properly challenged, however, an amended pleading filed after the time allowed
still prevents default or dismissal. The opposing party's remedy is to file a
noticed motion for an order striking the untimely amended pleading.  CRC 3.1320(i).
 
Where a demurrer has been sustained
or motion to strike has been granted with leave to amend, but no amendment has
been made within the time allowed by the court, the court may dismiss on motion
of either party.  CCP § 581(f)(2) &
(4); see Leader, supra, at 611.  In any
event, dismissal is discretionary, and may well be denied where the plaintiff
furnishes a sufficient excuse for delay in amending.  Contreras v. Blue Cross of Calif. (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d
945, 948.  
 
No formal notice or hearing is
required where plaintiff fails to amend within the time allowed. Defense
counsel can move ex parte for dismissal (but informal notice to plaintiff's
counsel is still required. CRC 3.1320(h); see also Sadler v. Turner (1986) 186
Cal.App.3d 245, 250.  The rule is
different where an amended pleading is filed beyond the date permitted by the
court (and before a motion to dismiss is made). In such cases, the untimely
amendment is subject to a motion to strike upon formal notice and hearing. No
dismissal motion will lie until the amended pleading is stricken. CRC
3.1320(i); Gitmed v. General Motors Corp. (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 824, 827.
 

Analysis

In this case, Plaintiff has not
filed an untimely amended complaint, and Defendant has not filed a motion (or
ex parte application) to dismiss the case. 
Plaintiff’s first filing in connection with the issue is this motion for
leave to file a late amended complaint, and Defendant has only filed a proposed
order dismissing the portions of the complaint that were the subject of the
ruling on the prior demurrer and motion to strike, but has not filed an ex
parte application in connection with the proposed order.
Plaintiff argues leave to amend
should be granted because her attorney had the flu and pneumonia during the
time period when the TAC should have been drafted and filed (and while the
attorneys were required to meet and confer). 
Specifically, Counsel declares he had the flu from 11/02/23 to 11/16/23
and then contracted pneumonia on 11/20/23, which he still has at present (the
TAC was due on 11/29/23).  
 
Defendant, in opposition, argues
the motion should be denied for two reasons. 
First, Defendant points to Plaintiff’s attorney’s pattern and practice
of failing to timely participate in proceedings in connection with this
action.  Second, Defendant contends
Plaintiff’s attorney meaningfully engaged in litigation during the time period
when he contends he was sick, and he never mentioned being sick, needing
additional time to file the TAC, or any problem with timely filing the TAC
while litigating.  Defendant also
contends the proposed TAC remains deficient in all manners previously addressed
in the numerous pleading challenges, and untimely amendment should not be
permitted where, as here, trial is scheduled on 6/10/24, just over four months
from the date of the hearing on the motion. 

 
Any reply to the opposition was due
on or before Thursday, 1/25/24.  The Court
has not received timely reply papers, and will not consider late-filed reply
papers.  The Court is inclined to
exercise its discretion and deny the motion for leave to amend.  By failing to file reply papers, Plaintiff
failed to address Defendant’s arguments in opposition, all of which are
well-taken.  Particularly, the Court notes
Plaintiff’s consistent pattern and practice of failing to timely litigation
this action, even during periods of time when Counsel was not ill.  Second, the Court is very concerned about
Defendant’s evidence showing Plaintiff’s attorney continued to litigate the action
during the time he was ill, including by attending two depositions, but failed
to file the required amended pleading.  
 
The motion for leave to amend is
denied.  
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar today concurrently with the hearing on the above
motion.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion.