 Case Number:  23LBCV00951    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Marilyn Dwellingham
filed this action against Defendants, LB Property Management, Inc. and El Capitan
Homeowners Association for damages arising out of a leak in the common areas of
Plaintiff’s condominium building, which leak effectively shut down her bathroom
for many months.  
 
Plaintiff’s operative complaint is her
First Amended Complaint, which she filed on 8/15/23.  It includes causes of action for negligence,
IIED, and NIED.   
 
2.     Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding
the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised
in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter,
the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and
confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares there were extensive meet and confer efforts
concerning the complaint, which efforts resulted in the filing of the First
Amended Complaint.  There is no
declaration concerning meet and confer efforts after the FAC was filed, but the
Court understands that this is because the parties had already discussed the
relevant issues (the IIED cause of action and companion prayer for punitive
damages) in connection with the original complaint, and were at an impasse
concerning the issues by the time Defendants filed the demurrer.  The Court will rule on the matter on its
merits.
 

Second Cause of Action,
     IIED

Defendants demur to the second
cause of action, contending Plaintiff has not pled extreme and outrageous
conduct to support imposition of liability for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  Plaintiff argues Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921 supports her cause of action.  In Stoiber, the plaintiff alleged the
landlord knew about “leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling,
leaking roof, broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions” and
therefore the question of the outrageousness of landlord's conduct could go to
the jury.  While conclusory allegations
of a failure to repair may not be enough to show outrageous conduct, specific
allegations of knowingly allowing continuing leaking sewage -- conduct which
directly implicates sanitation and health – justified the cause of action as
pled.
 
The Court finds the facts pled here
are substantially similar to those pled in Stoiber.  The Court will not repeat the facts from the
FAC in this ruling, but notes that they show an ongoing pattern of promising to
repair and not returning, telling Plaintiff the problem was hers to repair but
then later admitting it was an association problem, but still not fixing it, leaving
the home open for months on end while feces is present in the home, leaving no
operable bathroom in the unit (which only has one bathroom), leaving Plaintiff,
a grandmother, with the only alternatives of using the clubhouse bathroom,
which was not near her unit and which had constant traffic in the bathroom from
employees, or urinating and defecating into a Home Depot bucket.   
 
Notably, while the problem first
occurred in March of 2023 and was later remedied, but recurred in May of 2023, as
of the filing of the FAC, on 8/15/23, the problem had still not been
remedied.  The allegations are
sufficient, and the demurrer is overruled.
 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in
connection with her second cause of action. 
Defendants move to strike the prayer for punitive damages and all
related allegations, arguing Plaintiff has not pled facts sufficient to show
malice, fraud, or oppression.  
 
The Court finds the same facts that
adequately support a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress could
lead a reasonable juror to find punitive damages are appropriate.  The motion to strike is therefore denied.  
 
4.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer is overruled
and their motion to strike is denied.  They
are ordered to file an answer to the FAC within ten days.  
 
5.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and motion
to strike.  The Court asks Counsel to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing.