  Case Number:  19LBCP00356    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Motion
to Enter Judgment
a.     Procedural History
Plaintiff proceeded to trial against the defendant Veterans Care Coordination,
LLC (“VCC”),  on 11/22/23 and 11/28/23, and
the jury reached a verdict in Plaintiff’s favor in connection with actual and punitive
damages, respectively.  Plaintiff submitted
a judgment, and Defendant objected, contending entering judgment at this point
would violate the one judgment rule because its cross-complaint against Stacy
John Sanchez, Stacys In Home Care, Inc., Another Successful Venture, Inc., and
Lilliana Juliano remains pending.  Trial
on the cross-complaint is currently scheduled for 4/05/24.  
 
b.     Parties’ Positions
The Court requested briefing on the issue of whether the one judgment rule
applies and bars entry of judgment on the complaint.  Plaintiff submitted briefing on 1/05/24, and
Defendant submitted briefing on 1/19/24. 
Plaintiff contends entry of judgment is proper, and Defendant contends
entry of judgment is improper pending resolution of the cross-complaint.
 
c.    
Analysis
CCP §664 requires the Court Clerk to enter judgment within 24 hours after
the jury renders its verdict.  Defendant
argues the Court should not enter judgment in this case because the issues have
not all been disposed of, and the judgment would not be final.  Defendant cites myriad cases concerning
whether a judgment is interlocutory or final, whether it is appealable,
etc.  
 
The Court has researched the issue, and has found the following to be the
law:
In cross-actions, appeals are usually permitted only after entry of a
final judgment resolving all issues between the cross-complaining parties.  Nicholson v. Henderson (1944) 25 Cal.2d 375,
381; Westamerica Bank v. MBG Industries Inc. (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 109, 132;
see  Angell v. Superior Court (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th
691, 698, holding, “when a judgment resolves a complaint, but does not dispose
of a cross-complaint pending between the same parties, the judgment is not
final and thus not appealable.”  For example,
entry of a cross-defendant's default on a cross-complaint ordinarily is not a
final judgment in the lawsuit.  Trujillo
v. Trujillo (1945) 71 Cal.App.2d 257; see also 
Daon Corp. v. Place Homeowners' Ass'n (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1449, 1456;
ECC Const., Inc. v. Oak Park Calabasas Homeowners Ass'n (“ECC II”) (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th
994, 1002.
 
None of the authorities cited by Defendant, nor any found by the Court,
hold that entry of judgment prior to resolution of the issues on the cross-complaint
is improper.  The cases, collectively,
stand for the position that the judgment is not APPEALABLE until there is “one
final judgment” on the entire case.  
 
Notably, in Angell, supra, the trial court entered judgment on the complaint,
and the issue before the Court of Appeals was whether the trial court judgment
was appealable.  Nothing in the Court of
Appeals’ opinion suggests the trial court erred in entering judgment; the
opinion holds only that the judgment is not appealable.  
 
Defendant also argues the judgment cannot be entered because the amount
of attorneys’ fees has not yet been determined. 
Defendant relies on Baker v. Castaldi (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
218, 221, wherein the Court of Appeals held a judgment was not final and was
therefore not appealable because the trial had been bifurcated and the issue of
punitive damages had not yet been decided. 

 
Defendant’s argument fails for several reasons.  First, again, the issue in Baker was whether
the judgment was appealable, not whether it was appropriately entered.  See PR Burke Company v. Victor Valley
Wastewater Reclamation Authority (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1053-54,
holding that, when a judgment determines a party is entitled to attorneys’ fees
but does not determine the amount, the portion of the judgment awarding
attorneys’ fees is nonfinal and not appealable. 
The Court notes that adding an award of attorneys’ fees to a judgment is
a common practice.  Third, the motion for
attorneys’ fees is scheduled for hearing today, concurrently with the hearing
on this motion, and therefore any issue with finality due to attorneys’ fees
will be resolved contemporaneously with entry of judgment.  
 
The Court finds entry of judgment on the complaint is ripe and
proper.  The Court will enter judgment.
 
2.    
Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
a.    
Costs
As an initial note, Plaintiff seeks to recover $203,816.37 in costs by
way of the motion.  Costs are recoverable
by way of a memorandum of costs.  CRC
3.1700.  Plaintiff has set forth no authority
permitting it to recover costs via noticed motion, and the Court knows of none.  The request for costs is therefore denied.  The ruling is without prejudice to Plaintiff’s
right to seek recovery of costs in a manner permitted by the Rules of
Court.  
 
b.    
Attorneys’
Fees
Plaintiff seeks to recover attorneys’ fees in the amount of $2,464,231
incurred in connection with prosecution of this action.  Welfare & Institutions Code §15657.5(a)
mandates an award of attorneys’ fees when a plaintiff prevails in a financial
elder abuse action.  
 
Defendant opposes, arguing (a) the evidence in support of the motion is
deficient, (b) the amount claimed is not reasonable, (c) Plaintiff did not meet
his burden to show the rates charged are reasonable, and they are not
reasonable, (d) the Court cannot determine whether the fees are reasonable
unless the contingency fee agreement is disclosed, (e) Plaintiff failed to
address the factors set forth in the Welfare & Institutions Code for
determining the amount of any award of fees, and (f) a lodestar multiplier is
not appropriate.  Each argument will be
addressed in turn.
 
c.    
Evidence
             Defendant’s first argument is that Plaintiff improperly
relied on the declaration of one attorney, James Morgan, who is not capable of
providing evidence concerning the billing rates and hours billed by the other
attorneys and paralegals at his firm.  As
Plaintiff correctly notes in reply, Defendant cites no authority for its position
that doing so is required.  In Minser v.
Collect Access, LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 781, 796-97, the Court
squarely rejected this contention.  The Court
therefore overrules the objections to the Morgan declaration and finds his
declaration is sufficient to establish the billed hours and rates for all of
the attorneys in his firm.
 
d.     Comparison
of Fees Billed by Plaintiff to Fees Billed by Defendant
Defendant’s second argument is that
the time billed by Plaintiff’s attorneys is not reasonable.  Defendant contends its attorneys billed a
total of 1809 hours in connection with the defense of the entire action, but
Plaintiff’s attorneys are seeking to recover 2055.55 hours spent just against
it (and not against the other defendants). 
Defendant contends this is objectively unreasonable.  
 
Plaintiff, in reply, makes several
good points.  First, Plaintiff points out
the fact that, when the billing records are compared, VCC’s senior attorneys
billed MORE hours than Plaintiff’s senior attorneys, which shows Plaintiff’s
attorneys’ office delegated more tasks to more junior attorneys and
paralegals.  Second, Plaintiff contends
VCC took a “back seat” on the defense of the case, often relying on the
co-defendants to take the lead and merely piggy-backing on their efforts.  Third, and most importantly, Plaintiff
correctly notes that he bore the burden of proof in the case, and it therefore
makes sense that his attorneys would bill more hours than the attorneys
defending the case.  
 
e.     Hourly
Rates
Plaintiff’s attorneys billed at
rates ranging from $350/hour to $775/hour, and Plaintiff’s paralegals billed at
the rate of $175/hour.  Plaintiff
supports the request for fees at these rates with the declaration of his
attorney, James Morgan.  Plaintiff also
supports the request for fees at these rates with the expert declaration of
Richard Pearl.  Defendant submitted
objections to both declarations; the objections are overruled.  The Court has considered the declarations in determining
whether the rates are reasonable.
 
Notably, Plaintiff provides, as
Exhibit A to the Morgan Declaration, an order from the United States District
Court in Zeigler v. County of San Luis Obispo, wherein the Court approved the rates
that Plaintiff’s attorneys are charging here, with one minor exception not relevant
to the analysis.  Defendant argues this
minute order is not relevant because the case was a civil rights action and not
an elder abuse action.  The District
Court, however, used the fact that the attorneys specialize in elder abuse litigation
and not civil rights litigation to suggest their rates should be LOWER because
they were practicing outside of their practice area, not higher; this is so
because they lacked the experience that would justify extremely high awards.  Despite that finding, the District Court
still approved and allowed the rates charged. 

 
VCC also argues the rates are too high
because its own attorneys charged between $250/hour and $300/hour.  The Court is aware, however, that defense
attorneys often bill at lower rates than Plaintiffs’ attorneys.  This is often true due to the consistent nature
of their work, the fact that insurance often pays their fees, etc.  The Court sees no reason to apply VCC”s
defense rates to Plaintiff’s prosecution rates.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff provided
sufficient evidence to support the rates charged, and also finds the rates are reasonable.  
 
f.      Disclosure
of Contingency Fee Agreement
Defendant’s next argument is that Plaintiff’s attorneys must disclose the
contingency fee agreement between them and Plaintiff before fees can be
awarded.  Defendant’s argument concerns
the possibility of double billing and/or the possibility that Counsel would
share fees awarded by the Court with Plaintiff. 
Both double billing and fee-sharing would be in violation of the Rules
of Professional Conduct.  Defendant has,
however, offered no evidence to suggest Plaintiff’s attorneys intend to violate
the Rules of Professional Conduct, and the Court cannot see any reason that it
would need to review the contingency fee agreement to determine if Counsel is intending
to violate those rules.
 
g.    
Welfare
& Institutions Code Factors
Defendant’s next argument is that Plaintiff ignored the factors set forth
in Welfare & Institutions Code §15657.1. 
This is not correct; Plaintiff addressed those factors at pages 9-12 of
the moving papers.  It appears Defendant’s
real argument is that Plaintiff did not make a sufficient showing concerning
those factors, not that he failed to address them.  
 
§15657.1 provides that a court, when ruling on a motion for attorneys’
fees in an elder abuse case, must consider the following factors:
(a) The value of the abuse-related litigation in terms of the quality of
life of the elder or dependent adult, and the results obtained.
(b) Whether the defendant took reasonable and timely steps to determine
the likelihood and extent of liability.
(c) The reasonableness and timeliness of any written offer in compromise
made by a party to the   action.
 
The Court finds the results obtained were excellent.  Not only did Plaintiff’s attorney secure a
compensatory award in favor of Plaintiff, they also secured a punitive damages
award.  The Court notes that Plaintiff
passed away before the action concluded and the action was prosecuted by the
administrator of his estate, his brother, Richard Eber.  The action, therefore, did not improve the
quality of life of the person who was abused, but Defendant should not profit
from the fact that Plaintiff passed away before the action concluded.  
 
The Court finds Defendant did not take reasonable steps to accept
liability.  Instead, Defendant fought the
action tooth and nail, as is evidenced by the fact that the action has been
pending since 2019 and the Court’s docket reflects 132 hearings in the
case.  
 
Finally, the Court finds Defendant did not make a reasonable settlement
offer.  Defendant made a settlement offer
of $100,000 in March of 2023, but the action had already been pending for three
and a half years at that time.  The
settlement offer would not have covered attorneys’ fees and costs, both of
which were already substantial by that time. 
Finally, Plaintiff was ultimately awarded almost $450,000 in damages,
rendering the $100,000 settlement offer insufficient.  
 
h.    
Lodestar
Multiplier
The final issue is whether a lodestar multiplier should be awarded.  On this issue, the Court agrees with
Defendant.  “A trial court should award a
multiplier for exceptional representation only when the quality of
representation far exceeds the quality of representation that would have been
provided by an attorney of comparable skill and experience billing at the hourly
rate used in the lodestar calculation. Otherwise, the fee award will result in
unfair double counting and be unreasonable.”  Ketchum v. Moses, (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1139,
104 CR2d at 389.
 
The Court finds the rates billed at are on the high end of what is reasonable,
and therefore finds a multiplier is not justified.  
 
i.     
Amount
of Fees
Plaintiff seeks to recover $2,464,231 in attorneys’ fees.  That amount, however, includes a 2.8 lodestar
multiplier.  As noted above, the Court is
not inclined to award a multiplier.  When
the multiplier is removed, the total attorneys’ fees comes to $880,082.50,
which the Court finds is reasonable.  The
Court awards Plaintiff attorneys’ fees in the amount of $880,082.50.
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above motions.  The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motions.