  Case Number:  24STCV02617    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
9, 2024                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Soho
Yun v. Kunzang Tsheqang, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV02617

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY:  
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None as of December 3, 2024
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order compelling arbitration between Plaintiff and Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Rasier, LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC and stay pending arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED as to Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Rasier, LLC, and Raiser-CA, LLC ONLY;
2.      The
case is STAYED as to the remaining defendants.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff Soho Yun (Plaintiff) filed a personal
injury Complaint against Defendants Kunzang Tsheqang, Benjamin Khorsandi, Uber
Technologies, Inc., Raiser, LLC, and Raiser-CA, LLC (Defendants) with one cause
of action for Negligence as a result of a motor vehicle accident.
 
On April 12, 2024, Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Rasier, LLC, and Raiser-CA, LLC (Uber Defendants) filed an Answer.
 
On June 18, 2024, Defendant Kunzang Tsheqang filed an
Answer.
 
On July 2, 2024, Defendant Benjamin Khorsandi filed an
Answer.
 
On August 9, 2024, the Uber Defendants filed the instant
Motion to Compel Arbitration.
 
On November 20, 2024, Defendant Tsheqang filed a
non-opposition to the Uber Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration.
 
Oppositions were due on or before November 22, 2024. As of
December 3, 2024, the court has not received any oppositions.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Under California law, the trial
court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2 where a
written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of the parties refuses to
arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n petition of a party
to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the
controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth four grounds upon which
the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to compel
arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a pending
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered depository
institution.¿ 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first
identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope of the
contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional
Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿ 
 
However, when an
arbitration agreement states that the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) governs
enforcement, the FAA governs a motion to compel arbitration. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345-346 (Victrola
89).) “A written provision … to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising … or … to submit to arbitration an existing controversy …
shall be¿valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” [9 U.S.C. § 2¿(emphasis added)] A party to an
arbitration agreement may seek a court order compelling the parties to
arbitrate a dispute covered by the agreement. (9 U.S.C. § 4.) 
 
Under both the FAA and California Law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that
exist at law or equity for voiding a contract.¿ (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
943, 947.)¿ 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Compel Arbitration
 
The Uber Defendants move to compel arbitration on the
grounds that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate by agreeing to its Terms of Service.
They further contend that the Terms of Service contain an arbitration
provision, Plaintiff clicked “I Accept” on a pop-up notification requiring
acceptance of the Terms of Service to continue using Uber’s services, and
Plaintiff continued using Uber’s services. Plaintiff did not file an
oppositions.
 
The FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling arbitration
to two threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate
between the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the dispute.1¿ (Howsam v. Dean
Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84.)
 
Here, the Uber Defendants have met their burden that the
agreement is enforceable. First, the FAA governs the agreement according to its
explicit terms. (Yu Decl. ¶ 13, Exhibit D, Section 2.) Defendants Rasier, LLC
and Raiser-CA, LLC are covered under the agreement as wholly-owned subsidiaries
of Uber. (Yu Decl. ¶¶ 5, 13, Exhibit D.) The Uber Defendants present evidence
that Plaintiff registered for an Uber account on October 5, 2019 and accepted
Uber’s Terms of Service on December 22, 2021 and January 20, 2023. (Yu Decl. ¶¶
8, 9, Exhibit A.) Each of the Terms of Service contain an arbitration
provision. (Yu Decl. ¶ 13, Exhibit D.) Second, the agreement provides that all
disputes and claims between Uber and Plaintiff involving any accidents
resulting in personal injury will be resolved by binding arbitration (Yu Decl.
¶ 13, Exhibit D.) Plaintiff’s Complaint is based on a motor vehicle accident
while she was using Uber’s services. (Complaint ¶¶ 6, 7, 9.) Therefore, the
Uber Defendants have met their burden that the agreement covers the present
controversy. There is no opposition. 
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS the Uber Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED as to Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Rasier, LLC, and Raiser-CA, LLC ONLY;
2.      The
case is STAYED as to the remaining defendants.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              December 9, 2024                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 