 Case Number:  23SMCV05943    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Barrington Pacific LLC v. Tarasyuk
CASE NO.:                23SMCV05943
MOTION:                  Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment
HEARING DATE:   5/9/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
473.5(a) permits the court to set aside a default or default judgment “[w]hen
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him.”  “The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable
time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of:  (i) two years after entry
of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him
or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been
entered .”  (Id.) The phrase “actual notice” means “genuine knowledge of
the party litigant” and does not include constructive or imputed notice to the
client.  (Tunis v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal. App. 3d 1069, 1077.) A
defendant also must show that his “lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his inexcusable neglect or avoidance of
service.”  (Id. at 1077-1078.) Further, the court is “not
required to accept [a] self-serving evidence contradicting the process server's
declaration.” (Rodriguez v. Nam Min Cho (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742,
751.) 
 
Analysis
 

Defendant Olena Tarasyuk moves to
vacate her default and default judgment. Defendant asserts that service of
summons did not result in actual notice. (CCP section 473.5.)
 
The proof of service on file shows
Defendant was served at 1431 Ocean Ave., Apt 601, Santa Monica, via posting and
mailing with return receipt requested. (CCP section 415.45.)  Defendant contends that the service did not
result in actual notice in time to defend the action. Defendant claims that she
was never served with the complaint or any other documentation
regarding this suit. (Tarasyuk Decl., ¶ 2.) She only became aware of the lawsuit
on February 13, 2024, when a member of the management at the apartment complex
said that she had “already been sued and would be evicted.” (Id., ¶ 3.) In
response, Defendant looked up this action online and for the first time became
aware of it. (Id., ¶ 4.) Defendant immediately prepared and attempted to file an
answer but discovered the default precluded her from answering. (Id., ¶ 5.) 
 
Defendant demonstrates that she filed
the motion within a reasonable amount of time after her purported discovery of this
action and default judgment. However, Defendant’s self-serving and conclusory
declaration does not overcome the proof of service on file that indicates a
registered process server was served on January 17, 2024, by posting and
mailing.  In addition to service,
Defendant was sent notices from the Court and counsel regarding the case
status. Therefore, the Court finds it more likely than not that the posting and
mailing service resulted in actual notice. Moreover, the writ of possession has
already been executed rendering the motion moot. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.