 Case Number:  23CHCV02890    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 11-13-24
Case # 23CHCV02890, Christopher Anderson vs. Ashot
Mkhitaryan
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Ashot Mkhitaryan
RESPONDING PARTY: No response has been filed
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Strike
·        
Claim for Punitive Damages [Comp., ¶¶ 11 and 12; and
Paragraph 8 of the prayer]
 
RULING: Motion is granted with leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiff Christopher Anderson (Plaintiff) filed this
case on September 27, 2023. Plaintiff is a FedEx delivery driver and has
alleged that a dog attacked him on premises owned by Defendant Ashot Mkhitaryan
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that he suffered injuries and bites to his right
leg and continues to suffer from residual pain and has been through depression,
anxiety, fear, and embarrassment from the injuries.
 
Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant knowingly
permitted a dangerous dog to be present on the premises and that Defendant was
aware of the dog’s dangerous and aggressive tendencies. Plaintiff also alleges
that Defendant acting willfully and maliciously by permitting the dog on the
premises and that Defendant’s conduct was willful and malicious by allowed the
dog to remain on the premises after the incident occurred and after receiving
notice of its dangerous and aggressive tendencies. (Comp., ¶¶ 11-12.) Because of
Defendant’s alleged willful and malicious conduct, Plaintiff has requested
punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges causes of action related to
negligence and strict liability.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s
complaint was deemed filed after the Court granted Defendant’s motion to set
aside default. Defendant has moved to strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive
damages. No opposition has been filed as of November 6, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
This Court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
 
            Punitive
Damages
Punitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in Civ. Code § 3294. (Coll.
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) In this case,
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant acted with malice by knowingly having a
dog with dangerous and aggressive tendencies on his premises. “Malice is
defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.
at 725.) 
 
Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 1004 explained that “punitive damages sometimes may be assessed in
unintentional tort actions.” Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 894-895 noted that “something more than the mere commission of a tort is
always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation or outrage, such as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive
on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of
the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.”
Indeed, “punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to
levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent
citizens should not have to tolerate.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210 (internal quotation omitted).) 
 
The “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as
intentional, willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
oppression, fraud or malice…within the meaning of section 3294.” (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) 
 
“It is not sufficient to allege merely that defendant ‘acted
with oppression, fraud or malice.’ Rather, plaintiff must allege specific facts
showing that defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent or malicious (e.g.,
that defendant acted with the intent to inflict great bodily harm on plaintiff
or to destroy plaintiff's property or reputation).” (Croskey, et al., Cal.
Prac. Guide: Insurance Litigation Ch. 13-C (Thomson Reuters, 2016) ¶ 13:197.2;
and see, Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 598, 643 [allegations that defendant’s conduct was “intentional,
and done willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with
conscious disregard for Plaintiff's rights” did not satisfy specific pleading
requirements].) 
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that Defendant’s “conduct was
willful and malicious by knowingly permitting the DOG on the PREMISES initially
and/or in permitting the DOG to remain on the PREMISES despite its dangerous
and aggressive tendencies.” (Comp., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff’s complaint also alleges
that Defendant’s “conduct was willful and malicious by allowing the DOG to
remain on the PREMISES after the incident occurred and after receiving notice
of its dangerous and aggressive tendencies.”
 
As defined above, malice is “conduct intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” Plaintiff has not alleged that Defendant acted
intentionally to cause injury to Plaintiff. Therefore, Plaintiff’s allegations
must demonstrate that Defendant acted with a willful and conscious disregard
for the rights or safety of others.
 
Malice must be specifically pleaded. The allegations cannot
be conclusory. Here, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant knew of the dog’s
dangerous and aggressive tendencies and that this constituted willful and
malicious conduct. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant’s conduct was
malicious by allowing the dog to remain on the premises after the incident, but
this may not be actionable since there is no indication from Plaintiff’s
complaint that Plaintiff had any further contact with the dog after the subject
incident. 
 
Taken as a whole, the allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint
do not appear to rise above the level of ordinary negligence to malicious
conduct such that Plaintiff would be able to recover punitive damages. Plaintiff
has not alleged that Defendant acted with a willful and conscious disregard for
the rights of safety of others. As for Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant
knew of the dog’s dangerous and aggressive tendencies, Plaintiff has not
alleged any facts to support this assertion. Plaintiff’s allegations are merely
conclusory. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to
demonstrate that Defendant acted with malice. The requests for punitive damages
is stricken from the complaint. Plaintiff is given leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted.
 
Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend their complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.