 On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff University of Southern California (“USC”) filed the operative Complaint against Defendant Aluminum Precision Products, Inc. for (1) breach of implied contract, (2) violations of UCL, (3) quantum meruit, (4) unjust enrichment, and (5) account stated.   USC alleges that Defendant underpaid for medical care provided at USC’s facilities for three patients.  Defendant now demurs to the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts.  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Statute of Limitations Defendant first argues that “according to the Complaint, Plaintiff’s claims accrued in 2021 when Plaintiff was allegedly not paid the full billed amount for the services provided in 2021. Complaint, ¶¶ 24, 30, 35, 40, 45, 51. Plaintiff filed the complaint on January 17, 2024, more than two years after the alleged breaches in 2021. Consequently, the two-year statute of limitations bars Plaintiff’s claims for Implied Contract, Quantum Meruit, Unjust Enrichment, and Account Stated.” Plaintiff argues that the statute of limitations should not bar this action under principles of equitable estoppel because Defendant’s agent purposely misled Plaintiff with respect to a settlement.   The Complaint, however, contains no such allegations, and counsel’s declaration on this point is extrinsic evidence that cannot be considered for a demurrer.  Plaintiff does not otherwise contest the applicability of the statute of limitations; thus, the Demurrer is sustained as to the first, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action, with twenty days leave to amend.UCLUnder the UCL, a plaintiff is entitled only to restitutionary and/or injunctive relief.  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17203.)  Here, USC only claims that it was underpaid for its services.  This alone does not warrant injunctive relief, which is ordinarily aimed at providing relief where a legal remedy would be insufficient. Further, Plaintiff can only claim restitution if it seeks the return of something given up to or taken by Defendant. (See, e.g., Day v. AT&T (1998) 63 Cal. App. 4th 325, 340; Madrid v. Perot Sys. Corp. (2005) 130 Cal. App. 4th 440, 453.)  There is no basis for restitution because USC did not give property or money to Defendant.  Thus, the Demurrer is sustained as to the UCL claim, without leave to amend. Summary The Demurrer is sustained, with twenty days leave to amend as to the first, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action.  Leave to amend is denied for the second cause of action.Moving party to give notice to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 