On April 19, 2022, Plaintiff Eva Niño filed the Complaint against Defendants El Monte Veterans Apartments, LP (“LP”), El Monte Veterans Apartments, LLC, and Mercy Housing CalWest for (1) retaliatory eviction and anti-harassment, (2) retaliatory eviction, (3) declaratory relief, (4) disability discrimination, (5) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, (6) disability discrimination, (7) disability discrimination, and (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).  On March 27, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings (“MJOP”), finding that this action was barred by res judicata due to a stipulated judgment in a factually related unlawful detainer (“UD”) action. Plaintiff Eva Niño now seeks to set aside the Court’s order granting the MJOP under both the mandatory and discretionary provisions of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).  Plaintiff’s UD counsel, Ana Raya, contends she made a mistake in entering into the aforementioned stipulated judgment as she did not believe it would bar this action.  The mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) provides in relevant part, “Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.”“[A]n attorney affidavit of fault under the mandatory relief provisions of section 473, subdivision (b) need not include an explanation of the reasons for the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Martin Potts & Assocs., Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal. App. 4th 432, 443.)  Moreover, under this mandatory provision “it does not matter whether [counsel’s] neglect was excusable or inexcusable.”  (Ibid.) For the mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) to apply, the dismissal must “be the procedural equivalent of [a] default[] . . . .”  (Leader v. Health Indus. of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 618.)  Examples of dismissals which are the equivalent of a default are dismissals resulting from counsel’s failure to respond to discovery such that terminating sanctions are imposed (Rodriguez v. Brill (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 715, 719), counsel’s failure to oppose a dismissal motion (Bernasconi Comm’l Real Estate v. St. Joseph’s Regional Healthcare System (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1082), and counsel’s failure to tender fees for transfer of venue.  (Gee v. Estate of Jewett (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 477, 491.)Based on its plain language and case law, the mandatory provision of CCP § 473(b) applies only to defaults, default judgments, and dismissals that are the equivalent of a default.  Here, a default or default judgment is not at issue.  To the extent there is a dismissal, at the very least, that dismissal was not the procedural equivalent of a default.  Raya negotiated the stipulated judgment and David Pallack filed an opposition to the MJOP.  Indeed, “The purpose of the statute is to relieve the hardship on those parties who have lost their day in court solely because of counsel's inexcusable failure to act. [ ] Section 473, subdivision (b) was never intended to be a ‘catch-all remedy for every case of poor judgment on the part of counsel which results in dismissal.’ ”  (Gotschall v. Daley (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 479, 483.)  Thus, relief under the mandatory provision is rejected.Next, the discretionary provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) provides, “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  The statute is liberally construed in order to give effect to the policy favoring resolution of disputes on their merits.  (Hopkins & Carley v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410.)  To be entitled to relief under the statute, the moving party must demonstrate a satisfactory excuse for his or her default, as well as diligence in seeking relief after discovery of the default.  Whether the moving party has carried this burden is a question to be resolved in the discretion of the trial court.  (Ibid.)For relief to be warranted, any mistake must be something other than professional incompetence or ignorance of the law.  (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206.)  The term “surprise” refers to “some condition or situation in which a party is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.”  (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.)  Similarly, to be excusable, a litigant’s inadvertence or neglect must have been “such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.”  (Ibid.)Here, the only mistake involved was with respect to the settlement and stipulated judgment in the UD matter.  There is no authority cited to show that the Court can set aside the settlement under CCP § 473(b).  The Court also cannot set aside the stipulated judgment in another action.  Furthermore, even if the MJOP order could be set aside, the stipulated judgment would remain in force and the issue of res judicata would remain. Additionally, discretionary relief cannot be provided because Plaintiff has not shown diligence in seeking relief.  Indeed, the MJOP was granted on March 27, 2024, but the instant Motion was not filed until nearly three months later on June 13, 2024.  (See Younessi v. Woolf (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1145 [unexplained delay of 7 weeks rendered motion untimely].)  For all these reasons, the Motion is denied.  The RJN is granted.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 