 Case Number:  23STCV21211    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs’ Motion to Seal Records
Plaintiffs
Dr. Lincoln Luk, Jr., M.D. and California Society of Pathologists move to seal:
(a) portions of Exhibit A to Avi W. Rutschman’s declaration in support of
plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication, (b) exhibits B-Q and Y to
Rutschman’s declaration, and (c) exhibits B and C to the declaration of Richard
Long.
It
is not clear that the standard procedure for moving to seal records applies.  California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(a)(2)
provides that the general rules on sealing records “do
not apply to records that are required to be kept confidential by law.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(a)(2).)  These records including patients’ protected
health information and personal identifying information, which is required to
be kept confidential under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act (HIPAA).  
Assuming moving to seal
is necessary, plaintiffs show good cause to seal these records.  California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d) provides:  “A court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”
An overriding interest overcomes the right of public
access to the records.  “[M]edical
records are constitutionally private and statutorily confidential.”  (Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th
1036, 1070 (Oiye).)  These records
including patients’ information about their healthcare, among other information
protected by individuals’ privacy rights. 
That overriding interest supports sealing the record.  “The public’s general right of access to
court records recognized in rule 2.550 must give way to the public’s concern
about the privacy of medical information … , particularly when the information
appears so tangentially related to the litigation.”  (Id. at p. 1070.)  This action is a dispute about medical
billing.  The patients’ identities and
the details about the treatment they received is, at most, tangentially related
to the litigation.  These individuals’
privacy rights trump any public need to access this information.
A substantial probability exists that publicly
disclosing the information will prejudice these individuals’ overriding
interest.  As Oiye stated, “We
regard medical records as presumptively private, such that plaintiff was not
required to state the obvious in a declaration, that she would be personally
embarrassed to have her medical records copied into court records.”  (Oiye, supra, 211 Cal.App.4th at p.
1070.) 
The court finds the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored.  Where appropriate, plaintiffs
redacted portions of the documents.  Plaintiffs
do not seek to seal any portions of the moving papers themselves, just the
portions of the supporting evidence that include confidential information.  
Finally, the court finds no less restrictive means
exists to achieve the overriding interest. 
The sealed information, though tangentially related to the litigation,
is necessary to rule on plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication.    
Exhibit R to the
Declaration of Avi W. Rutschman
            Plaintiff lodged exhibit R to the
declaration of Avi W. Rutschman conditionally under seal pursuant to rule 2.550(b)(3),
which governs the procedure for a party not intending to move to seal records
designated confidential.  Under
rule 2.551(b)(3)(A)(iii), a party who files “records produced in discovery that
are subject to a confidentiality agreement or protective order, and does not
intend to request to have the records sealed, must” give notice to the party
that produced the documents.  Rule
2.551(3)(B) provides, “If the party that produced the documents and was served
with the notice under (A)(iii) fails to file a motion or an application to seal
the records within 10 days or to obtain a court order extending the time to
file such a motion or an application, the clerk must promptly transfer all the
documents in (A)(i) from the envelope, container, or secure electronic file to
the public file.”
            Plaintiffs filed proof of service of
notice of lodging exhibit R to the declaration of Avi W. Rutschman
conditionally under seal.   Defendant Local
Initiative Health Authority For Los Angeles County d/b/a L.A. Care Health Plan
did not file a motion to seal that record within 10 days of service.  The clerk therefore must transfer the
unredacted version of that document into the public file.  
Disposition
Plaintiffs
Dr. Lincoln Luk, Jr., M.D. and California Society of Pathologists’ motion to
seal is granted.  The court hereby seals
the unredacted versions of: (a) exhibits A-Q and Y to the declaration of Avi W.
Rutschman in support of plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication, and (b) exhibits
B and C to the declaration of Richard Long in support of plaintiffs’ motion for
summary adjudication.
The
court hereby directs the clerk to transfer Exhibit R to Rutschman’s declaration
to the public file.  