  Case Number:  22STCV28415    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  52 Defendant Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile
Club’s Motion for Order Establishing Requests for Admission
            Defendant Interinsurance Exchange of
the Automobile Club (Interinsurance) moves to deem admitted the truth of the
matters specified in its requests for admission, set one, to plaintiff Gail
Wiggan.  When a party fails to serve a
timely response to requests for admission, the requesting party may move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (CCP § 2033.280(b).)
            Plaintiff failed to serve a timely
response to Interinsurance’s requests for admission, set one.  Interinsurance served its requests for
admission on plaintiff by mail on July 15, 2024.  (Bhatia Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff had not served any responses as of December
2, 2024, when defendant’s counsel executed the declaration in support of this
motion. (Id., ¶ 7.)  Defendant is
therefore entitled to an order deeming admitted the truth of the matters
specified in the requests.
Sanctions
Interinsurance moves for $1,740 in sanctions against plaintiff.  “It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction … on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated [a] motion” to deem
matters admitted.  (CCP § 2033.280(c).)  Plaintiff failed to serve a timely response to
requests for admission.  Her failure to
do so necessitated this motion.  The
court must impose sanctions.
Disposition
            Defendant Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club’s
motion to deem matters admitted is granted.  The truth of the
matters specified in Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club’s
requests for admission, set one, to plaintiff is hereby deemed admitted.  Plaintiff Gail Wiggan is ordered to
pay defendant Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club $1,740 in
sanctions within 30 days.