 Case Number:  23STCV18814    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Marcelino Diaz’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Inspection Demands, Set
Two, and to Produce Responsive Documents
            Plaintiff
Marcelino Diaz moves to compel defendant Blue Cross of California dba Anthem
Blue Cross (Anthem) to serve further responses to demands for inspection, set
two.  Anthem served second supplemental
responses to some of the demands after plaintiff filed this motion.  Plaintiff’s reply indicates he still moves to
compel further responses to Nos. 15-22, 24, 26, 27, 29-31, and 33-38.
            A
requesting party may move to compel further responses to requests for
production if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete,” “[a]
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,”
or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Meet and Confer
            Anthem
argues plaintiff did not meet and confer in good faith to informally resolve
this dispute.  Plaintiff sent Anthem two
detailed meet and confer letters.  (Rose
Decl., Exs. 3-4.)  His efforts were
adequate under the circumstances.
Request Nos. 15, 17, and 19
            Request
Nos. 15, 17, and 19 require Anthem to produce “copies or versions” of certain
statutes and regulations “maintained by Anthem in its system, including in the
Knowledge Library.”  Plaintiff does not
meet his initial burden of showing good cause to request Anthem to produce
copies of publicly available statutes and regulations.  Moreover, Anthem’s second supplemental
responses are code compliant.  Anthem
states that it is unable to comply because copies of the statutes and
regulations “are not maintained in” its systems “as stand-alone documents” and
“never existed in [its] systems as stand-alone documents.”  These responses substantially comply with the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230.  
Remaining Requests
In response to Request Nos. 16, 18, 21, 22, 24, 26,
27, 29-31, and 33-38, Anthem asserted meritless objections and responses that
otherwise fail to comply with the Civil Discovery Act.
When a party responding to a request for production
states it will comply with the request in whole or in part, it must use the
language of Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.220.  In its response to a number of requests,
Anthem failed to comply with this statute.  Instead, it stated, “[s]ubject to” numerous
objections, it shall produce “all non-privileged responsive documents made
available to Grievances and Appeals Department personnel in the Government
Business Division.”  This response leaves
open the possibility that Anthem is withholding non-objectionable
documents.  Moreover, when objecting to demands
for inspection, the responding party must “[i]dentify with particularity any
document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored information falling
within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is being
made.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240,
subd. (b)(1).)  Anthem’s responses do not
identify which documents, if any, it is withholding.  Anthem’s responses are evasive.
Anthem’s objections to Request Nos. 16, 18, 21, 22,
24, 26, 27, 29-31, and 33-38 are meritless. 
Plaintiff shows good cause for each demand.  The demands are reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
Anthem does not adequately justify its objections.  A cause of action for insurance bad faith
requires proving “the reason for withholding benefits [was] unreasonable or
without proper cause.”  (Love v. Fire
Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1151.)  Demands for documents about policies or
practices that generally applied across Anthem are reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence that would support that claim.  
The demands also may lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence regarding the reprehensibility of Anthem’s conduct for
punitive damages.  “By placing the
defendant's wrongful conduct into the context of a continuing pattern and
practice, ‘an individual plaintiff can demonstrate that the conduct toward him
or her was more blameworthy and warrants a stronger penalty to deter continued
or repeated conduct of the same nature.’ ” 
(Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc.
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 592.)
Anthem objects based on undue burden.  Though Anthem presents some evidence of
burden, it does not show that burden is unwarranted.  Plaintiff alleges Anthem’s conduct resulted
in him being permanently blind in one eye. 
Plaintiff’s claims justify the burden on Anthem.
Anthem objects to the requests on grounds of
“privilege, including but not limited to, the attorney-client privilege and the
attorney work product doctrine.”  But
Anthem failed to provide a privilege log, as required by the Civil Discovery
Act.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd.
(c)(1).)  By failing to provide a
privilege log, Anthem failed to meet its burden on its privilege objections.  If Anthem seeks to maintain a privilege
objection, it must provide a privilege log.
Disposition
             Plaintiff Marcelino Diaz’s motion to compel further
responses to demands for inspection, set two, is granted in part.  The
court hereby orders defendant Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue
Cross to serve further verified responses without objections to demands for
inspection Nos. 16, 18, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 29-31, and 33-38 within
30 days.  Anthem shall produce all
additional responsive documents concurrently with its written responses.  In its discretion, the court shall not award
sanctions to either party.