 Case Number:  23STCV17375    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
tenants allege that Defendant landlords have failed to abate uninhabitable
conditions at the apartment, including insect infestation, and unsanitary,
hazardous conditions.
            Plaintiffs
move for leave to file a First Amended Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Plaintiffs
Catherine W. Kiguru, et al.’s motion for leave to file a First Amended
Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are to file a stand-alone copy of the First
Amended Complaint today, which shall be deemed served as of the date of this
order.
            Defendants
have 30 days to file a response.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Leave To File Amended Complaint
Discussion 
“Leave to amend is in general required to be
liberally granted (citation omitted), provided there is no statute of
limitations concern. Leave to amend may be denied if there is prejudice to the
opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation. (Citation omitted.)” 
(Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402.)  Where an additional theory of liability is proposed against an existing
defendant, this is not prejudice which would justify the denial of leave to
amend. (See Hirsa v. Superior
Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490. See
also Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761: “[I]t is irrelevant
that new legal theories are introduced as long as the proposed amendments
'relate to the same general set of facts.' [Citation.]" (Citation
omitted.)) 
 
The motion indicates that the proposed
addition is a ninth cause of action for violation of the Los Angeles Tenant
Anti-Harassment Ordinance (Mun. Code Section 45.33).
 
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(b)
states:
 
A separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify:
 
(1)  The effect of the
amendment;
 
(2)  Why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3)  When the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)  The reasons why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. 

   (Cal. Rules of Court, 3.1324(b).)
 
            The
Declaration of Victoria L. Ersoff originally filed with the moving papers did
not comply with Rule 2.1324(b). Significantly, there is no indication of when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered and why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. The Ersoff Declaration vaguely
states at ¶ 3:
 
3. The proposed amended Complaint is
necessary and proper because as the parties engaged in discovery and
investigation, additional facts and evidence have been uncovered warranting the
new proposed cause of action.  The nature
of the case remains unchanged and this amendment will have no effect on
discovery and trial preparation for the case. 

 
            This is
insufficient to satisfy Rule 3.1324(b).
 
            The Court
continued the hearing on the motion for leave to file a first amended complaint
to this date to permit Plaintiffs to file a supplemental declaration addressing
the factors set forth in Rule 3.1324(b).  
 
            On May 31,
2024, attorney Victoria L. Ersoff submitted a Supplemental Declaration. The
Court has reviewed that declaration and finds that it sufficiently addresses
the factors set forth in Rule 3.1324(b), and in particular when the facts
giving rise to the need for amendment were discovered.
 
            Defendant’s
argument that leave to amend should be denied because Defendant Howard
Management Group’s PMK, Dr. Ronald Bills, had been diagnosed with a brain tumor
and would be unavailable to engage in this litigation while he was receiving
significant medical treatment, is not a persuasive reason. On May 7, 2024, the
Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for a trial preference, so trial remains set
for June 2025. If Defendant requires a continuance of the trial to accommodate
this inability to participate in litigation and conduct discovery as to the new
cause of action, Defendant may bring a properly-noticed motion in this regard. 
 
            As such,
the motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiffs
are to file a stand-alone copy of the First Amended Complaint today, which
shall be deemed served as of the date of this order.
            Defendants
have 30 days to file a response to the First Amended Complaint.