 Case Number:  24STCV01692    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  86 ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE
RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Date:               6/6/24 (1:30 PM) 
Case:                           Ladder Capital Realty III LLC v. 13001 Vanowen LLC, et
al. (24STCV01692) 
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
            
Defendants 13001 Vanowen LLC, 15042 Dickens LLC, and 21133
Saticoy LLC’s request for a preliminary injunction is DENIED. 
 
Defendants seek a preliminary injunction enjoining plaintiff
and cross-defendant Ladder Capital Realty III, LLC, cross-defendant Ladder
Capital Finance LLC, and cross-defendant Chicago Title Company (collectively,
“Lender”) and any agents from undertaking any activity to continue with the pending
non-judicial foreclosure proceeding and trustee’s sale relating to defendants’
properties located at 13001 Vanowen Street in North Hollywood (“Vanowen
Property”), 15042-15046 Dickens Street in Los Angeles (“Dickens Property”), and
21133 Saticoy Street in Los Angeles (“Saticoy Property”) (collectively,
“Properties”). 
 
With respect to whether defendants are entitled to a
preliminary injunction, “[T]he question whether a preliminary injunction should
be granted involves two interrelated factors: (1) the likelihood that the
plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms
that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive
relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554.) 
 
Defendants argue that Lender should be enjoined from
foreclosing on the Properties because they are likely to prevail on their implied
covenant and wrongful foreclosure causes of action asserted against Lender in
their Cross-Complaint. Defendants maintain that, after they requested funding
from Lender, Lender delayed and ultimately denied the requests under the
pretext of needing “unreasonably excruciating detail.” (Farahi Decl. ¶¶ 8-13.) Under
the Loan Agreement, defendants are entitled to disbursement of funds to
renovate the Properties subject to satisfaction of specified conditions. (Farahi
Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. A at § 2.12(a), (e).) Defendants fail to explain why
Lender’s request for additional information, including a breakdown between the
anticipated renovation and capital improvement expenses and a reason why
defendants were using different general contractors for each building, was
unreasonable or not required under the Loan Agreement. (Farahi Decl. ¶¶ 8, 11.)  A review of the communications and
correspondence between the parties regarding the funding requests does not,
without more, appear to establish the unreasonableness claimed by defendant. (See
Farahi Decl. ¶¶ 9-12 & Exs B, C, D, E.) Indeed, Lender’s Managing
Director contends, albeit in largely conclusory fashion, that Lender funded
every request defendants made in accordance with the loan documents and that defendants’
funding requests were deficient in several identified respects.  (Supp. Alexander Decl. ¶¶ 35-38.) On
this record, the Court cannot find defendants have established a likelihood of
success on their claims based on Lender’s purportedly unreasonable conduct.
 
Even assuming Lender’s conditions were unreasonable,
defendants waived any implied covenant or wrongful foreclosure claim by agreeing
to the terms of the Modification, Amendment to Loan Agreement and Other Loan
Documents, Release and Ratification Agreement (“Modification and Release
Agreement”) on June 23, 2023. Specifically, defendants agreed that “[a]ll indebtedness
created under the Loan Documents is validly and unconditionally owing in full
to Lender, in accordance with the terms thereof, as modified hereby, and
Borrower does not have any…claims against Lender or any employee, officer,
director, agent or attorney of Lender in connection with any of the Loan
Documents.” (Supp. Alexander Decl. ¶ 17 & Ex. A at § 3(iv); see also
§§ 5, 14, 15 [provisions waiving claims connected arising out of Loan].) “It
is, of course, well settled that a contracting party may waive provisions
placed in a contract solely for his benefit.” (Isaacson v. G.D. Robertson
& Co. (1948) 85 Cal.App.2d 71, 75.) 
 
Defendants argue that they did not waive their claims
against Lender because they entered into the Modification and Lease Agreement
under economic duress and due to promissory fraud. (See Civ. Code § 1689(b)(1) [party to contract may rescind contract
in cases of duress, mistake, undue influence, economic duress, or fraud].)
 
“The doctrine of ‘economic duress’ can apply when one party
has done a wrongful act which is sufficiently coercive to cause a reasonably
prudent person, faced with no reasonable alternative, to agree to an
unfavorable contract. [Citation.]  The
party subjected to the coercive act, and having no reasonable alternative, can
then plead ‘economic duress’ to avoid the contract.” (CrossTalk Productions,
Inc. v. Jacobson (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 644.) Defendants contend that Lender
first funded tenant buyouts in the first three quarters of 2022 but, when defendants
sought advances to renovate the Properties, Lender unreasonably denied their
funding requests. (Farahi Decl. ¶¶ 8-13; Supp. Farahi Decl. ¶¶ 6, 13.) Lender’s
denial of funding purportedly caused defendants to sustain vacancy losses
through June 2023. (Supp. Farahi Decl. ¶ 12.) Defendants were purportedly coerced
into agreeing to the Modification and Release Agreement after they complained to
Lender about having been stonewalled from completing their business plan, after
which Lender threatened to withdraw the opportunity to modify the Loan. (Farahi
Decl. ¶ 16; Supp. Farahi Decl. ¶ 12.) However, defendants had a reasonable
alternative—to obtain alternative financing or rescue lending, which they
resolved to do by the end of 2022. (Supp. Farahi Decl. ¶ 8.) Although
defendants state they were unable to secure alternative financing or rescue
lending (Reply at 18:18-19), defendants fail to provide any meaningful evidence
of this assertion. (Hebberd-Kulow Enterprises, Inc.
v. Kelomar, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 272, 283 [“An attorney's argument
in pleadings is not evidence”].) Defendants only indicate their plan to obtain
alternate financing and sell the Vanowen Property. (Supp. Farahi Decl. ¶¶ 8,
9.) Although defendants set forth their unsuccessful efforts to sell the
Vanowen Property (Supp. Farahi Decl. ¶¶ 9-11), they do not set forth their
efforts to obtain alternate financing. The Court is unable to find on this
record that defendants had “no reasonable alternative” but to agree to the
Modification and Release Agreement. 

 
Defendants also argue that Lender made promises that they
would quickly distribute funds that they needed for renovation work after
signing the Modification and Release Agreement. (Supp. Farahi Decl. ¶ 13.) Defendants
contend that Lender had no intention of granting their funding requests based
on notices of default filed after defendants agreed to the Modification and
Release Agreement. (Supp. Farahi Decl. ¶ 13.) However, under the Modification
and Release Agreement, defendants agreed to release Lender from any and all
representations and promises arising out of or relating to the Loan and Loan
Documents, including the Modification and Release Agreement. (Supp. Alexander
Decl. ¶ 17 & Ex. A at §§ 2(b), 15, 15(b).) “The general rule is that when a
person with the capacity of reading and understanding an instrument signs it,
he is, in the absence of fraud and imposition, bound by its contents, and is
estopped from saying that its explicit provisions are contrary to his
intentions or understanding [Citations].” (Larsen v. Johannes (1970) 7
Cal.App.3d 491, 501.) Having signed and received the benefits of the
Modification and Release Agreement, defendants cannot argue that they were
fraudulently induced into entering into its terms. 
 
For the foregoing reasons, defendants have not demonstrated
that they are likely to prevail on their breach of the implied covenant and
wrongful foreclosure claims. 
 
Having failed to show a likelihood of prevailing on any
cause of action, defendants’ request for a preliminary injunction is DENIED,
notwithstanding any harm that may result from the denial of defendants’
request. (Jessen v. Keystone Savings & Loan Assn. (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 454, 459 [“In a practical sense it is appropriate to deny an
injunction where there is no showing of reasonable probability of success, even
though the foreclosure will create irreparable harm, because there is no
justification in delaying that harm where, although irreparable, it is also
inevitable”].) 
 
For the foregoing reasons, defendants’ request for a
preliminary injunction is DENIED. The Court’s Order to Show Cause Re:
Preliminary Injunction is DISCHARGED.