  Case Number:  20SMCV01254    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Eidan Gamaty’s Omnibus Motion to Compel the Production of Documents by James Bekhor, Jeremy Bekhor, James S. Bekhor Insurance Services, Inc. and JBEK Insurance Agency, LLC is DENIED.Plaintiff Eidan Gamaty to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff Eidan Gamaty (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for an order compelling Defendants James Bekhor, Jeremy Bekhor, James S. Bekhor Insurance Services, Inc., and JBEK Insurance Agency, LLC (“Defendants”) to produce documents pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1987 on the ground that Defendants served their objections one day too late, thus waiving the objections to the demands. The documents sought in the demands relate to Defendants’ financial condition.Code of Civil Procedure section 1987, subdivision (b), provides:In the case of the production of a party to the record of any civil action or proceeding or of a person for whose immediate benefit an action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended or of anyone who is an officer, director, or managing agent of any such party or person, the service of a subpoena upon any such witness is not required if written notice requesting the witness to attend before a court, or at a trial of an issue therein, with the time and place thereof, is served upon the attorney of that party or person. The notice shall be served at least 10 days before the time required for attendance unless the court prescribes a shorter time. If entitled thereto, the witness, upon demand, shall be paid witness fees and mileage before being required to testify. The giving of the notice shall have the same effect as service of a subpoena on the witness, and the parties shall have those rights and the court may make those orders, including the imposition of sanctions, as in the case of a subpoena for attendance before the court.Code of Civil Procedure section 1987, subdivision (c), further provides:If the notice specified in subdivision (b) is served at least 20 days before the time required for attendance, or within any shorter period of time as the court may order, it may include a request that the party or person bring with him or her books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things. The notice shall state the exact materials or things desired and that the party or person has them in his or her possession or under his or her control. Within five days thereafter, or any other time period as the court may allow, the party or person of whom the request is made may serve written objections to the request or any part thereof, with a statement of grounds. Thereafter, upon noticed motion of the requesting party, accompanied by a showing of good cause and of materiality of the items to the issues, the court may order production of items to which objection was made, unless the objecting party or person establishes good cause for nonproduction or production under limitations or conditions. The procedure of this subdivision is alternative to the procedure provided by Sections 1985 and 1987.5 in the cases herein provided for, and no subpoena duces tecum shall be required.The Court finds that Plaintiff is not entitled to obtain the documents he seeks here. First, it is axiomatic that under Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (c), no pretrial discovery by a plaintiff into the financial condition of the defendant shall be permitted unless the Court enters an order permitting such discovery. Notably, the Court previously issued an order denying Plaintiff’s motion for an order permitting pretrial discovery of Defendants’ financial condition on January 19, 2024, and the Court noted that Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (c), provides that despite the rule generally prohibiting pretrial discovery into a defendant’s financial status, “the plaintiff may subpoena documents or witnesses to be available at the trial for the purpose of establishing” the defendant’s financial condition, “and the defendant may be required to identify documents in the defendant’s possession which are relevant and admissible for that purpose and the witnesses employed by or related to the defendant who would be most competent to testify to those facts,” such that Plaintiff is not without recourse should he prevail on his punitive damages claims at trial.Second, it is not clear from the proof of service whether proper service of the demands was effectuated because the proof of service shows service upon “Debbie” by an individual who is not a registered process server with no statement of who “Debbie” is to allow the Court to conclude that Defendants definitively received the demands on June 18, 2024. Third, even if Defendants were properly served on that date, it is well established that an individual has a privacy right in his or her financial information, and the Court is not inclined to find that this privacy right has been waived when Code of Civil Procedure section 1987, subdivision (c), allows the Court to impose a deadline for objections beyond five days, and Plaintiff simply moved for production of documents based on a mere one day delay in serving objections. For these reasons, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not demonstrated an entitlement to the documents at issue, and Plaintiff Eidan Gamaty’s Omnibus Motion to Compel the Production of Documents by James Bekhor, Jeremy Bekhor, James S. Bekhor Insurance Services, Inc. and JBEK Insurance Agency, LLC is, therefore, DENIED.