  Case Number:  21STCV23520    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



c&m investment group, ltd.,  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
HARVEY CHAMPLIN, 
                        Defendant.


Case No.:


21STCV23520




Hearing Date:


August 14, 2024




Hearing Time:


8:30 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR TRIAL SETTING PREFERENCE PURSUANT TO CAL. CIV. PROC. CODE § 36 
 



 
Background 
Plaintiffs C&M Investment Group, Ltd. and Karlin Holdings Limited
Partnership (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on June 23, 2021 against
Defendant Harvey Champlin (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) intentional interference with contractual relations and (2) intentional
interference with prospective economic benefit. 
Trial in this matter is currently set for September 25, 2024. 
Defendant now moves for trial setting preference. Plaintiffs
oppose.  
Discussion 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36,
subdivision (a) provides as follows: 
“(a) A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may
petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court
makes both of the following findings:
(1) The party has a substantial interest in
the action as a whole.
(2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary
to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.” 
If the Court makes these findings, trial preference is mandatory–the
Court lacks discretion to deny the relief. (Koch-Ash
v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 689, 692.) The purpose of section
36, subdivision (a) is “to safeguard litigants beyond a specified age
against the legislatively acknowledged risk that death or incapacity might
deprive them of the opportunity to have their case effectively tried and the
opportunity to recover their just measure of damages or appropriate redress.” (Kline v. Superior Court (1991) 227 Cal.App.3d 512, 515.) Upon the granting of a
motion for trial preference, “the court shall set the matter for trial not more
than 120 days from that date.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
36, subd. (f).) 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
36.5, “[a]n affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under
subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the
attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as
to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not
admissible for any purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision
(a) of Section 36.” 
In the motion, Defendant asserts that he is “entitled to trial
preference under CCP § 36(a) based on his age and
deteriorating health.” (Mot. at p. 3:20-21.) Defendant states that he is currently
80 years old. (Champlin Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant asserts that his “advanced age
and serious medical comorbidities are such that preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing his interest in the litigation.” (Mot. at p. 5:6-7.) Defendant’s
counsel states in his supporting declaration that “[b]ased on my discussions and
experiences with Champlin and review of medical documentation, I am informed
and believe that he has been diagnosed with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease (‘COPD’) and utilizes a pacemaker for management of cardiac issues.” (Jenkins
Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Defendant’s counsel states that “COPD is a progressive respiratory
condition that impairs function of the lungs, leading to difficulty breathing,
wheezing, fatigue, chronic bronchitis, and irreversible damage to the airways.
COPD worsens over time due to irreversible damage to the airways and lungs and
is exacerbated by the aging process. COPD also poses an increased risk of
developing heart disease.” (Jenkins Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendant’s counsel further
states that “Champlin’s advanced age and medical conditions pose an increased
risk of exacerbation and complications associated with COPD and cardiac issues.
For instance, Champlin had a COPD attack during his deposition on September 27,
2022, requiring the proceeding to be immediately halted and resumed the next
day.” (Jenkins Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Defendant’s counsel states that “[a]s Champlin ages and his health
declines, his ability to participate in physical activities, including
attending lengthy court proceedings for which he is the sole named defendant,
will be impaired…Given Champlin’s age and health comorbidities, there is an
increased likelihood of hospitalization and, even worse, death as time
progresses.” (Jenkins Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Defendant’s counsel states that “Champlin
is an immunocompromised individual who is at greater risk of illness given the
COVID-19 pandemic.” (Jenkins Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Defendant asserts that “[a]s the sole named Defendant in this action,
it is undisputed Champlin has a substantial interest in this action as a whole.”
(Mot. at p. 3:2-3.) Defendant further asserts that “[t]he Court should grant
Champlin preferential status with respect to the existing September 25, 2024
trial date.” (Mot. at p. 6:8-9.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that “to qualify for preference
under § 36(a), [Defendant] must show that his
health is ‘such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing [his]
interest in the litigation.’ Mr. Champlin does not carry this burden.” (Opp’n
at p. 1:3-5.) Plaintiffs argue that “[a]part from comments about the nature of
COPD, Mr. Jenkins provides no facts indicating that Mr. Champlin’s conceded
health issue would impose any prejudice to schedule the trial in a way that
also accommodates the schedule of Plaintiffs’ principal.” (Opp’n at p. 1:9-11.)

But as discussed, Defendant’s counsel states that “[g]iven Champlin’s
age and health comorbidities, there is an increased likelihood of
hospitalization and, even worse, death as time progresses.” (Jenkins Decl., ¶
7.) Defendant’s counsel states that “[a]s Champlin ages and his health
declines, his ability to participate in physical activities, including
attending lengthy court proceedings for which he is the sole named defendant,
will be impaired.” (Jenkins Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has shown that
he is over 70 years of age, that he has a substantial interest in the action as
a whole, and that his health “is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing [Defendant’s] interest in the litigation.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).) Thus, the Court grants Defendant’s motion for
trial setting preference. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for trial setting
preference is granted. As discussed, trial is currently set for September
25, 2024, which is within 120 days of the date of this Order. 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  August
 14, 2024                             ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court