 Case Number:  23SMCV01967    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Osborn v. Maroja, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   23SMCV01967
MOTION:                     Motion to Strike
HEARING DATE:   7/19/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
  
ANALYSIS 
 
Cross-Defendant
Mary Ann Osborn, individually and as Trustee of the Mary Ann Osborn Trust dated
April 2, 2007, moves to strike the punitive damage allegations in
Cross-Complainant Camila Maroja’s Cross-Complaint. Cross-Defendant seeks to
strike the punitive damages allegations related to the seventh cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED). Cross-Defendant
asserts that, at best, the Cross-Complaint only shows that the
parties disagreed regarding ownership of the Property, whether monies paid
toward the Property were a loan or a gift, and that the parties had verbal
altercations on several occasions. Cross-Defendant asserts
that the generic allegations of IIED are insufficient to establish malice as a
matter of fact. 
 
Cross-Defendant focuses entirely on the generic allegations of
the seventh cause of action. However, Cross-Defendant ignores the entirety of
the Cross-Complaint, including facts which were expressly incorporated into the
seventh cause of action. Punitive damages are available where
plaintiff shows that defendant was guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ.
Code § 3294(a).) Section 3294 defines malice as conduct “intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” Despicable is a powerful term used to describe
circumstances that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (Coll. Hosp. v.
Superior Ct. (1994) 9 Cal.4th 704, 726.) The statute “plainly indicates
that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, “malice” requires more
than a “willful and conscious” disregard of the plaintiffs' interests. The
additional component of “despicable conduct” must be found.” (Id., emphasis
added.)  The Cross-Complaint alleges, as
a matter of fact, that Cross-Defendant intended to injure Cross-Complainant
with her course of conduct.
 
The
Cross-Complaint alleges the following facts relevant to the allegations of
malice. Cross-Defendant purchased the Subject Property for Cross-Complainant
and her family (Dustin and Julian Osborn). (CC ¶¶ 9-10.) Cross-Complainant and
her family moved into the Property on April 1, 2020, furnished the Property
with wallpaper and bookshelves designed especially for the Property, and
treated and considered the Property as their own. (Id.) Cross-Defendant
obtained a purchase money loan in the amount of $861,750.00 (the “Loan”),
secured against the Property by a Deed of Trust recorded on March 27, 2020. (CC
¶ 11.) Upon purchase by Cross-Defendant, the Property was acquired on behalf of
and in trust for Cross-Complainant and Dustin Osborn. (CC ¶12.) Cross-Defendant
transferred title to the Property by Grant Deed dated May 7, 2020, to “Dustin
F. Osborn and Camila Maroja, Husband and Wife as Joint Tenants,” and caused
that Grant Deed to be duly recorded on May 27, 2020. (CC ¶ 13.) Dustin Osborn allegedly
reimbursed Cross-Defendant. (CC ¶ 14.) Dustin Osborn also rendered management and
advising services to Cross-Defendant in exchange for compensation and/or offset
of the HOA dues, property taxes, and loan payments. (CC ¶ 15.) Cross-Defendant
also made certain lump sum payments as a gift to Cross-Complainant and Dustin
Osborn. (¶ 16.)
 
Dustin
Osborn died suddenly and unexpectedly on January 6, 2023, whereby
Cross-Complainant became the sole owner of the Property. (CC ¶17.) Cross-Defendant
ceased paying the monthly HOA dues, property taxes, and Loan payments for the
Property. (CC ¶ 18.) Cross-Defendant advised Cross-Complainant that
Cross-Complainant would be financially responsible for all future payments on
the Loan, monthly HOA dues, and property taxes. (Id.) Cross-Complainant has
made or caused to be made all payments regarding the Property. (CC ¶ 19.)
 
Cross-Complainant
further alleges that Cross-Defendant began to act erratically and aggressively
in her interactions with Cross-Complainant. Cross-Defendant told
Cross-Complainant that she hopes her son (Cross-Defendant’s grandson) dies “so
that you know how I feel.” (CC ¶ 20.) Cross-Defendant claimed that the transfer
of the Property was invalid, refused to accept payments on the Loan from
Cross-Complainant, claimed that the Loan was in immediate jeopardy of
foreclosure if title to the Property was not conveyed back to Cross-Defendant,
and threatened to file bankruptcy, among other things, thereby jeopardizing
Cross-Complainant’s home. (Id.)  More
specifically, on February 14, 2023, Cross-Defendant entered the Property
unannounced using a spare key, threatened Cross-Complainant in front of her
four-year old son, calling Cross-Complainant a “bitch,” said that she had only
verbal agreements with Dustin Osborn and that nobody would believe
Cross-Complainant about the agreements concerning the property, said that the
death of a son is much more severe than the death of a husband, and threatened
to declare bankruptcy so that Cross-Complainant would lose the Property. (CC
¶21.)
 
On
February 16, 2023, Cross-Defendant again entered the Property unannounced, this
time threatening to take Cross-Complainant’s four-year old son to New York,
without Cross-Complainant’s consent, while Cross-Complainant was on a scheduled
business trip the following month. (CC ¶ 22.) In response to
Cross-Complainant’s objection, Cross-Defendant said “you will be away, what can
you do?” thereby frightening Cross-Complainant, and subjecting
Cross-Complainant to fear loss of control of her four-year old son, and again
calling Cross-Complainant, among other inappropriate things, a “bitch” and
"crazy" in front of the four-year old child, causing the four-year
old to start crying. (Id.)
 
On
February 20, 2023, after learning that Cross-Complainant changed the lock on
the door to the Property, Cross-Defendant texted Cross-Complainant, stating,
among other things, “Dustin’s salary was never written anywhere. It was only
verbal between him and me. There is no proof that we had a contract at all. The
loan is all in my name. I have the liability only. I am calling the bank
tomorrow to refinance the loan which means payments will be much higher at 7%
for y[o]ur mother.” (CC ¶23.) Cross-Complainant felt unsafe staying in the
Property and no longer comfortable living across the hall from Cross-Defendant
Mary Ann Osborn. (CC ¶ 24.) Accordingly,
Cross-Complainant accepted out-of-state employment, and began staying elsewhere.
(Id.) In March, 2023, Cross-Complainant commenced efforts to sell the Property
in order the pay off the Loan and thereby terminate the ongoing monthly
payments to maintain the Property. (Id.) On April 21, 2023, Cross-Defendant
advised Cross-Complainant that she was going to call the bank on April 27, 2023
and tell the bank to foreclose on the Property. (Id.) Cross-Defendant also interfered
with efforts to sell the Property by accosting an interested buyer on May 2,
2023. (CC ¶ 25.)
 
The
seventh cause of action incorporates the allegations of conversion and invasion
of privacy. On May 30, 2023, without the knowledge or consent of
Cross-Complainant, Cross-Defendant entered the Property and removed various
personal property belonging to Cross-Complainant. The Personal Property
included cherished keepsakes and reminders of Cross-Complainant’s life with her
now-deceased husband, Dustin Osborn, including but not limited to the
following: ·
3 large framed photographs of a solar eclipse; · Dustin Osborn’s framed
UCLA and Yale diplomas; · A framed certificate from the Court of Appeal with a
letter on the back; ·
Several family pictures including Dustin and Camila’s wedding pictures,
postcards of Julian Osborn (then 4 years old), polaroid pictures of Julian
Osborn, and other family photos; · 2 frames photographs of Dustin Osborn; · A
lithograph of a girl and a deer; · A framed picture of Julian Osborn wearing a mushroom
t-shirt and red jacket. (CC ¶43.) Cross-Complainant demanded the return of the
Personal Property, but Cross-Defendant refused to return the items. (CC ¶44.) Cross-Defendant
acted with malice and oppression by taking and thereby converting the Personal
Property. (CC ¶45.) Cross-Defendant “intended her conversion of the Personal
Property to cause Cross-Complainant to suffer harm and emotional distress.”
(Id.)
 
On
February 14, 2023, and again on February 16, 2023, Cross-Defendant Mary Ann
Osborn intentionally intruded on Cross-Complainant’s privacy by entering the
Property unannounced and without permission, and in the presence of both
Cross-Complainant and Julian Osborn, screamed at, belittled and insulted
Cross-Complainant. (CC ¶49.) As a result of this invasion, Cross-Complainant
moved out of state, did not share her new address with Cross-Defendant, and
took precautions to preserve the confidentiality of her new residential
address. (CC ¶ 50.) Despite these efforts, on November 7, 2023, Cross-Defendant
entered the mailroom of the condominium complex in which the Property is
located, found a package addressed to Cross-Complainant and/or her son, opened
the package, examined the contents, and discovered Cross-Complainant’s new
residential address. (CC ¶51.) Cross-Defendant’s intrusions into the Property
and her unauthorized opening of Cross-Complainant’s mail would be highly
offensive to a reasonable person and were in fact highly offensive to
Cross-Complainant. (CC ¶ 52.) 
 
According
to the seventh cause of action itself, Cross-Defendant’s alleged conduct was
“outrageous.” (CC ¶56.) Cross-Defendant “intended to cause Cross-Complainant
emotional distress and/or acted with reckless disregard for the probability
that Cross-Complainant would suffer emotional distress.” (CC ¶57.) As a result,
Cross-Complainant suffered severe emotional distress. (CC ¶¶58-59.)
 
Throughout
the Cross-Complaint, Cross-Complainant establishes as a matter of fact that
Cross-Defendant’s conduct was intended to cause Cross-Complainant injury. Conversion
may subject a defendant to punitive damages when performed with the requisite malice,
oppression or fraud. (Krieger v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1981) 119
Cal.App.3d 137, 148.) Cross-Defendant does not explain how the above factual
allegations are insufficient to support the pled intentional harm. Taken as a
whole, a reasonable person could conclude that the above course of conduct was
intended to cause injury and/or emotional distress. Further, these acts are
independent of the alleged breach of contract claim. As such, the
Cross-Complaint establishes sufficient facts in support of the allegations of
malice for pleading purposes.
 
Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED.