 Case Number:  24SMCV00313    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Razavi v. Nigro,
et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00313
MOTION:                  Motion
for Trial Preference (§36(d))
HEARING DATE:   7/18/2024

 
 
Legal
Standard
 
“In its discretion, the court
may also grant a motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing
medical documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an
illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that
party beyond six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of
justice will be served by granting the preference.”  (CCP § 36(d).)
 
Moreover, the court has the
general discretionary power to grant priority to any case upon a showing of
good cause, i.e. “that the interests of justice will be served by granting
this¿preference.” (CCP § 36(e).) 
 
 
Analysis
 

Plaintiff Ziba Razavi moves for
trial preference on terminal illness grounds. However, Plaintiff fails to
present “clear and convincing” evidence using “medical documentation” which
shows that there is a substantial medical doubt of Plaintiff’s survival beyond
six months.
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice is DENIED. Studies on the lifespan of rural Iranian females in 2008 and/or
the reduction of lifespan based upon chronic diseases or medical conditions are
not facts subject to judicial notice.
 
Even considering the attached
exhibits, Plaintiff still does not present sufficient evidence. Counsel states
that Plaintiff suffers from coronary artery calcification, carotid artery
disease, mitral valve prolapse associated with mitral regurgitation,
hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, sleep apnea, breast cancer (post
partial mastectomy and lymphadenectomy after metastasized and chemotherapy and
radiation therapy), splenectomy, orthopedic issues, depression, and anxiety. (Frank
Decl., ¶ 7.) Counsel believes that these medical conditions should lower
Plaintiff’s life expectancy by 17.6 years based upon a single, apparently
inapposite medical study. (Id.) Coupled with the average lifespan of rural
Iranian females in 2008 (approx. 74.4 years), and Plaintiff’s current age of
67, counsel expects Plaintiff to have died about a decade ago. The court would
not consider this argument, which lacks any sort of robust statistical
foundation, to be sufficient evidence of Plaintiff’s current medical conditions
and the likelihood of her survival considering her specific conditions.
 
Plaintiff also submits a
declaration from a doctor that offers the conclusion that a patient with
Plaintiff’s medical issues “may pass within the next six months however some
patients do live longer so not a certainty.” (Brooks Decl.) The doctor’s
declaration equivocates on this point, and thus cannot be considered “clear and
convincing” evidence that there is a “substantial doubt” of Plaintiff’s
survival beyond six months.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.