  Case Number:  18STCV05076    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants Sina and  Azadeh Mardani’s Motion for Summary Judgment
or Adjudication against the Complaint of Plaintiff County of Los Angeles is
DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
County of Los Angeles to provide notice. 
 
I.                  
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff County of Los Angeles submits objections to the declarations of
Azadeh Mardani, her counsel, and Kevin Cook. Objections No. 3 and 7 are
SUSTAINED in part, specifically as to Azadeh’s testimony concerning Sina
Mardani’s subjective reliance on any given fact, for which she lacks basis in
personal knowledge. Objections No. 11–24 are SUSTAINED in part, specifically as
to the truth of the matters asserted, not as to Azadeh’s lack of knowledge of
them at the time of executing the settlement agreement. The remaining
objections to Azadeh Mardani Declaration are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s objections
to the Cook declaration, based largely on relevance, are OVERRULED. The
objections to the declaration of Sarvena Bahar are also OVERRULED.
 
II.               
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
A party may move for
summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there
is no defense to the action or proceeding.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted,
and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for
summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for
summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendants Sina and
Azadeh Mardani (Defendants) move for summary judgment against the claims made
by Plaintiff County of Los Angeles (Plaintiff) in the consolidated Complaint
filed on November 6, 2019, in LASC Case No. 19STCV35515. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s claims arise from a settlement agreement executed in December 2013,
nominally requiring them to install a backwater valve on their private sewer
line. But they argue that this agreement is unenforceable, as the requirement
to install a backwater valve is implicitly dependent upon said installation
being within the $500 allowance included in the settlement agreement. (Motion
at pp. 9–14.) Defendants also argue that Plaintiff cannot establish the
requirements for specific performance, because the $500 allowance was not
adequate consideration for the requirement of installation, and requiring
Defendants to install the valve at present would cost them upwards of
$50,000.00, rendering the consideration inadequate and the requirement
unreasonable as applied to them. (Motion at pp. 14–17.) Defendants also argue
that Plaintiff’s claims for breach of contract are barred by the four-year
statute of limitations, since Defendants were obligated under the contract to
install the valve by June 2014, and Plaintiff filed the claim in 2019. (Motion
at pp. 17–18.) Defendants argue that the settlement agreement was void at the
time of its formation, as it contravened existing law allowing public entities
to be held strictly liable for sewage overflows. (Motion at pp. 18–19.)
Defendants finally argue that the contract claims are barred by the doctrine of
equitable estoppel and unclean hands. (Motion at pp. 19–20.)
 
The interpretation of a contract
involves “a two-step process: ‘First the court provisionally receives (without
actually admitting) all credible evidence concerning the parties' intentions to
determine “ambiguity,” i.e., whether the language is “reasonably susceptible”
to the interpretation urged by a party. If in light of the extrinsic evidence
the court decides the language is “reasonably susceptible” to the
interpretation urged, the extrinsic evidence is then admitted to aid in the
second step—interpreting
the contract.
[Citation.]’ (Winet v. Price (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165, 6
Cal.Rptr.2d 554.) The trial court's determination of whether an ambiguity
exists is a question of law, subject to independent review on appeal. (Ibid.)
The trial court's resolution of an ambiguity is also a question of law if no
parol evidence is admitted or if the parol evidence is not in conflict.
However, where the parol evidence is in conflict, the trial court's resolution
of that conflict is a question of fact and must be upheld if supported by
substantial evidence. (Id. at p. 1166, 6 Cal.Rptr.2d 554.)
Furthermore, ‘[w]hen two equally plausible interpretations of the language of a
contract may be made ... parol evidence is admissible to aid in interpreting
the agreement, thereby presenting a question of fact which precludes summary judgment if
the evidence is contradictory.’ 
(Wolf
v. Superior Court (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1343, 1351.)
 
Defendants’
arguments as to the interpretation of the contract are as follows. The
settlement agreement’s requirement for installation of a backwater valve is
included in paragraph 3.1, which states, “This Release is executed with the
full understanding that Claimants agree to install a backwater valve on their
private sewer lateral line as a corrective action measure.” (Complaint Exh. 1.)
Defendants refer to a statement of loss, sent by the claims manager to
Defendants, indicating that of the settlement’s $29,511.39 total payment,
$28,861.39 was to pay vendors employed in rectifying the sewer overflow and
directly compensating Plaintiff. (Motion Exh. 26.) The claims manager sent
county counsel a letter prior to the parties’ execution of the agreement that
the extra $500 was an “allowance toward a backwater valve.” (Motion Exh. 25.)
 
Defendants
thus argue that the covenant to install a backwater valve is an “independent
covenant,” incidental to the overall settlement agreement. (Motion at p. 11.)
Defendants argue that their installation of the valve was conditioned on their
doing so “in accordance with all applicable provisions of the Plumbing Code.”
(Motion at p. 12; Complaint Exh. 1.) And their obligation was conditional upon
their ability to do so within the limits of the $500 allowance. (Motion at p.
12.) Because the evidence shows that installing a Plumbing Code-compliant
backwater valve would cost them in excess of $50,000 (Cook Decl. ¶ 13), they
argue that they are not bound to install such an agreement. (Motion at pp.
12–13.)
 
This argument is unpersuasive. The settlement agreement
does not specifically earmark $500 as consideration for the backwater valve.
Rather, the agreement states that the whole of the $29,511.39 sum payable
constitutes “valuable consideration” for Defendants’ “release and . . .
discharge” of their claims. (Complaint Exh. 1.) The paragraph describing the
backwater valve states that Defendants execute the release “with the full
understanding that Claimants agree to install a backwater valve.” (Complaint Exh.
1.) The installation is therefore a part of Defendants’ overall agreement to
dismiss their claims. And even if the $500 allowance were to be considered an
“independent covenant” whose sole consideration was Defendants’ obligation to
install a backwater valve (Colaco v. Cavotec SA (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th
1172, 1183), Defendants received the $500. There is no indication in the
contract’s text, the statement of loss, or surrounding communications that
their obligation to do so was contingent on Defendants’ ability to accomplish
installation for less than the $500 received. 
Defendants argue that the
settlement agreement does not represent a meeting of the minds, since the
agreement does not specify a deadline to install a backwater valve, does not
state what the Plumbing Code requires, and does not state how the $500 was calculated.
This argument is also unpersuasive. “If no time is specified for the
performance of an act required to be performed, a reasonable time is allowed.”
(Civ. Code § 1657.)[1]
Defendants present no authority for the proposition that the parties’
subjective ignorance as to the applicable provisions of the Plumbing Code or
the manner in which the $500 was calculated are grounds for invalidating the
agreement.
 
Defendants next argue that Plaintiff cannot prevail on its
claim for specific performance — specifically requiring Defendants to install a
backwater valve — because they did not receive adequate consideration for the requirement
to install the backwater valve, because enforcing that requirement against them
here is unfair and unreasonable, and because Defendant misrepresented their
knowledge of the status of the sewer main line on their property before they
signed the agreement. (Motion at pp. 14–17.) 
 
“A claim for specific performance is an equitable
one.” (Benach v. County of Los Angeles (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)
“To obtain
specific performance
after a breach
of contract, a plaintiff must generally
show: “(1)
the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2)
an underlying contract that is both reasonable
and supported by adequate consideration; (3) the existence
of a mutuality
of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are
sufficiently definite to enable the court to know
what it is
to enforce; and (5) a substantial
similarity of the requested performance to that promised in the contract.” (Real
Estate Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 472.)
 
Civil Code § 3391 states that “[s]pecific performance cannot
be enforced against a party to a contract in any of the following cases:”
 
1.
If he has not received an adequate consideration for the contract;
 
2.
If it is not, as to him, just and reasonable;
 
3.
If his assent was obtained by the misrepresentation, concealment,
circumvention, or unfair practices of any party to whom performance would
become due under the contract, or by any promise of such party which has not
been substantially fulfilled; or;
 
4.
If his assent was given under the influence of mistake, misapprehension, or surprise,
except that where the contract provides for compensation in case of mistake, a
mistake within the scope of such provision may be compensated for, and the
contract specifically enforced in other respects, if proper to be so enforced.
 
(Civ. Code § 3391.) 
 
Defendants argue once more that the $500 allowance was not
adequate consideration for the requirement to install the backwater valve,
which they estimate will cost more that $50,000.00. (Motion at p. 14.) They
argue that, for the same reasons, the contract is not fair and reasonably
applied to them here. (Motion at p. 15.)
 
Defendants’ arguments concerning the adequacy of
consideration and the reasonableness of the requirement to install a backwater
valve do not require judgment as a matter of law. This is because Defendants’
arguments as to the reasonableness of the requirement address only the $500
allowance weighed against the cost of the valve’s installation, rather than the
probable value of the valve’s installation. The estimated $55,000 cost would
represent a pure loss to Defendants, assuming the truth of Defendants’ argument
that a backwater valve would not have prevented any of the sewage overflows
that thereafter occurred. (Separate Statement No. 72.) But Plaintiff disputes
this contention, reasoning that a backwater valve would have prevented those
parts of the sewage overflows that occurred on the interior of Defendants’ dwelling.
(Plaintiff’s Responsive Separate Statement to Undisputed Material Facts (PUMF)
No. 72–74.) The contract at issue expressly frames the installation of the
backwater valve as a “corrective action measure.” (Complaint Exh. 1.) The
adequacy of consideration and reasonableness of the requirement’s application
is appropriately measured, not merely by the cost of its installation, but by
the probable damage that any such installation would have prevented. As triable
issues exist on that fact, these arguments do not support summary adjudication.
 
Moreover, triable issues remain as to whether the settlement
was procured by concealment or misrepresentation. Defendants present evidence
that after the June 2013 sewage overflow, County engineer Robert Swartz
belatedly reviewed video of a televised inspection of the main line taken by
contractors in 2010. PUMF No. 41.) The County did not conduct a new televisual
inspection after the June 2013 overflow, as its policies require. (PUMF No.
34–35, 39.) Swartz’s review of the earlier video revealed a sag in the main
sewer line filled to a large extent with water, which prevented further visual
inquiry. (PUMF No. 41.) Swartz did not order a further inquiry, but instead
confirmed the suspected cause relayed by the crew leader on the scene of the
overflow, who informed Defendants that the cause of the overflow was blockage
by tree roots. (PUMF No. 38, 48, Azadeh Decl. ¶ 3.) Although the crew leader
who responded to the later 2018 overflow testified that a sag in the line
increased the likelihood of overflow (PUMF No. 76), Swartz testified that sags
are not necessarily structural defects, and that the line as reviewed was
allowing wastewater to pass at appropriate velocities. (Motion Exh. 31 at pp.
159, 177–178.) Swartz testified at deposition, however, that the prior
maintenance rating for the line should have been given a structural rating,
warranting further evaluation. (Motion Exh. 31 at pp. 166–167.) Maintenance
superintendent Paul Bradford testified that his search of maintenance history
revealed no prior overflows on the property. (PUMF No. 4.)  Defendants contend that the records reveal
three overflows on the property prior to 2008, but the parties dispute the
interpretation of these records. (PUMF No. 5; Bahar Decl. 31–40, Exhs. 38, 39.)
The corrective action that Plaintiff implemented after the 2013 overflow
consisted of an expedited cleaning schedule for the line. (PUMF No. 9.) Based
on the above, triable issues exist as to whether Plaintiff concealed any
material information from Defendants, as Swartz disputes the materiality of the
sag.
 
Defendants next argue that the
statute of limitations bars Plaintiff’s claim, because more than four years
elapsed between the payment of the settlement funds in 2014 and Plaintiff’s
filing of the operative complaint in 2019. (Motion at pp. 17–18; Code Civ.
Proc. § 337.) But “[t]he statute of limitations for a
breach of contract
claim begins
to run at the time of breach (that is, when one
party fails
to perform as contractually required).” (Piedmont
Capital Management, L.L.C. v. McElfish (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 961, 964.)
Here, because the contract specified no deadline in which to install the
backwater valve, the time to perform was any “reasonable time.” (Civil Coe §
1657.) Plaintiff does not allege to the contrary in the Complaint. (Complaint ¶
24.) In the absence of facts showing what a reasonable time constituted, the
limitations argument is unpersuasive.
Defendants’ argument as to the contract being void for
containing unlawful provisions is also unpersuasive. Defendants rely on case
authority holding for the proposition that public entities are strictly liable
for the damages proximately caused by overflowing sewer mains, in effect at the
time of the 2013 settlement. (Motion at p. 18, citing California State
Automobile Assn. v. City of Palo Alto (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 474, 479 [41
Cal.Rptr.3d 503, 506] disapproved of by City of Oroville v. Superior Court
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 1091.) But this authority did not hold for the proposition
that public entities cannot settle inverse condemnation claims, or that
plaintiffs bringing such claims cannot bind themselves by contract to
mitigating measures.
Defendants’ final arguments as to equitable estoppel and
unclean hands rely on the same facts as their argument addressed to
misrepresentation, and warrant the same result. The elements of equitable
estoppel are: “(1) The party to be estopped
must know
the facts; (2)
he must
intend that his
conduct shall
be acted upon, or must so act that the party
asserting the estoppel had the right to believe
that it was
so intended;
(3) the party
asserting the estoppel must be ignorant of the true
state of facts;
and (4)
he must
rely upon the conduct to his injury.” (Migliore v. Mid-Century Ins. Co.
(2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 592, 606.) Although Defendants argue that the County
should have disclosed the true cause of the sewer overflow and the “seriously
compromised condition of the sewer line,” triable issues exist as to whether
the sewer line was seriously compromised at that time, or that the County had
knowledge of such defects. Triable issues thus also exist as to whether
Plaintiff’s failure to disclose this information was inequitable or done in the
absence of good faith, as would be necessary to invoke the doctrine of unclean
hands. (Meridian Financial Services, Inc. v. Phan (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th
657, 685.)
The motion is therefore DENIED.


