 Case Number:  23STCP03573    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  61 Petitioner The Royalton Drive Trust’s Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award is GRANTED.
 
Petitioner to provide notice.
 
I.       MOTION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD
Petitioner The Royalton Drive Trust
(Petitioner) seeks to confirm a $2,233,079.70 arbitration award entered against
Respondent Kolin Klein Construction. 
 
A.    CONTENTS OF THE PETITION
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition
the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award. The petition shall name as
respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any
other persons bound by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) A
petition must include (a) the substance of or have attached a copy of the
agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an
agreement, (b) the names of the arbitrators, and (c) a copy of the award and
the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)
The petition here includes the arbitration agreement, the name of the
arbitrator (Hon. Anita Rae Shapiro), and a copy of the award. 
B.    
Service
“No petition may be served and filed under
this chapter until at least 10 days after service of the signed copy of the
award upon the petitioner.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.4.) “A copy of the
petition and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof and
any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be served in the manner
provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4, subd. (a).)  
Subdivision (b) provides:
If
the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service
shall be made and the person upon whom service is to be made has not previously
appeared in the proceeding and has not previously been served in accordance
with this subdivision: 
(1)
Service within this State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the
service of summons in an action. 
(2)
Service outside this State shall be made by mailing the copy of the petition
and notice and other papers by registered or certified mail. Personal service
is the equivalent of such service by mail. Proof of service by mail shall be
made by affidavit showing such mailing together with the return receipt of the
United States Post Office bearing the signature of the person on whom service
was made. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, if service is made
in the manner provided in this paragraph, the petition may not be heard until
at least 30 days after the date of such service.
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1290.4, subd. (b).)
Here,
Petitioner served the petition by personal service upon Respondent. No
opposition to the petition has been filed. 
The
petition is therefore GRANTED.