 Case Number:  24STCV06491    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  61 AUDRA KARIM vs SECURITY BUILDING LOFT PARTNER L.PTENTATIVEDefendant Security Loft Partners LP’s Motion for Attorney Fees and Costs is DENIED as to attorney fees, and costs are awarded in the amount of $765.57.Clerk to give notice.DISCUSSION“Except as attorney's fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but parties to actions or proceedings are entitled to their costs, as hereinafter provided.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.)“In any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).) “[T]he party prevailing on the contract shall be the party who recovered a greater relief in the action on the contract.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (b)(1).)In determining the proper amount of fees to award, courts use the lodestar method. The lodestar figure is calculated by multiplying the total number of reasonable hours expended by the reasonable hourly rate. “Fundamental to its determination . . . [is] a careful compilation of the time spent and reasonable hourly compensation of each attorney . . . in the presentation of the case.” (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 48 (Serrano III).) A reasonable hourly rate must reflect the skill and experience of the attorney. (Id. at p. 49.) “Prevailing parties are compensated for hours reasonably spent on fee-related issues. A fee request that appears unreasonably inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial court to reduce the award or deny one altogether.” (Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635 (Serrano IV).) The Court in Serrano IV also stated that fees associated with preparing the motion to recover attorneys’ fees are recoverable. (See id. at p. 624.)Defendant Security Building Loft Partners LP (Defendant) seeks $27,064.50 in attorney fees, and $1,084.32 in costs, following this court’s order sustaining Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend on August 19, 2024. This request for fees is based on a fees provision in the lease executed by Defendant and Plaintiff Audra Karim (Plaintiff) in 2018. (Swenson Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) That provision states:INDEMNIFICATION : Subject to applicable law, you shall indemnify and hold the owner, its agents and employees, harmless against all claims, expenses, damages, actions, and liabilities of whatever nature, including reasonable attorney's fees, arising from or relating to injury, loss or damage relating to your, your guest's or occupant's negligence, tenancy and/or your failure to comply with this Lease Contract. (Swenson Decl. Exh. A, § 32.) The $27,064.50 represents 70.4 hours of attorney work at $384.00 per hour, spent responding to Plaintiff’s pleading, propounding discovery and related motions, and drafting and defending the present unopposed motion. (Hunter Decl. ¶¶ 2–4.)Defendant is not entitled to the fees sought because the provision it relies upon is a third-party indemnification clause, not one for attorney fees to be awarded in litigation between the contracting parties. A detailed explanation of the standards applicable to analysis of an indemnity provision forming the basis for a prevailing-party attorney fees claim is set out in Alki Partners, LP v. DB Fund Services, LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 574:Generally, an indemnification provision allows one party to recover costs incurred defending actions by third parties, not attorney fees incurred in an action between the parties to the contract. Courts look to several indicators to distinguish third party indemnification provisions from provisions for the award of attorney fees incurred in litigation between the parties to the contract. The key indicator is an express reference to indemnification. A clause that contains the words “indemnify” and “hold harmless” generally obligates the indemnitor to reimburse the indemnitee for any damages the indemnitee becomes obligated to pay third persons—that is, it relates to third party claims, not attorney fees incurred in a breach of contract action between the parties to the indemnity agreement itself.Courts also examine the context in which the language appears. Generally, if the surrounding provisions describe third party liability, the clause will be construed as a standard third-party indemnification provision. The court will not infer that the parties intended an indemnification provision to cover attorney fees between the parties if the provision does not specifically provide for attorney's fees in an action on the contract. (Alki Partners, LP v. DB Fund Services, LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 574, 600–601, internal citations and quotation marks omitted.)The provision at issue here speaks of “indemnification,” and of the tenant’s obligation to “indemnify and hold harmless” Defendant for all damages suffered as a result of the tenant’s negligence or breach of the agreement. These linguistic markers strongly indicate the provision is for third-party indemnification, not first-party attorney fees. The clause is contained amidst other “miscellaneous” provisions, none of which indicate an obvious focus on either first- or third-party liabilities. But the agreement elsewhere speaks of attorney fees being awarded to a prevailing party — specifically in connection with actions by the landlord for eviction and unpaid rent. (Hunter Decl. Exh. A, § 31.) This is not such an action. If the parties intended the indemnification provision to allow first-party fees to a prevailing party, they had the language to make it so, yet did not use it.Accordingly, the motion is DENIED as to the $27,064.50 in fees. The motion is GRANTED as to $765.57 in costs, which does not include the costs sought in connection with filing fees associated with motions to compel and deem admitted, which were never heard, and which were filed while Defendant’s demurrer was pending.The motion is therefore DENIED as to attorney fees, and costs are awarded in the amount of $765.57.