 Case Number:  24STCV10311    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  61 GUANGZHOU BEAVER COSMETIC CO. LTD., A CHINESE CORPORATION, et al. vs LUSETA BEAUTY INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATIONTENTATIVECross-Defendant Beaver Singapore Pte, Ltd.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is CONTINUED to April 2, 2025, at 10:00 am, to permit Luseta to conduct discovery into jurisdictional issues.Cross-Defendants Guangzhou Beaver Cosmetic Co. Ltd., Guangzhou Beaver Industrial, Co. Ltd., Guangzhou Evergreen Brands Co., Ltd, Guangzhou Fortune Brands Management Co., Ltd. Beaver Cosmetics, Corporation, JJC Brands Partners, Inc., Hongkui Zhang, Hongpeng Zhang, and Fang Liu’s Demurrers and Motions to Strike Portions of Defendant Luseta Beauty, Inc.’s Cross-Complaint are SUSTAINED with leave to amend, within 20 days, as to the first, second, third, seventh, and eighth causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, breach of duty of loyalty, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, and intentional and negligent misrepresentation. The motions to strike are GRANTED as to the prayer for punitive damages and the prayer for disgorgement of profits contained in paragraph 99, with leave to amend within 20 days. The demurrers and motions to strike are otherwise OVERRULED.Sarita Smithee and Blake Beckham’s Applications to be Admitted as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants are GRANTED.Plaintiffs to give notice.DISCUSSIONI. OBJECTIONSCross-Defendant Beaver Singapore Pte. Ltd.’s objections to the declaration of Junhua Huang are SUSTAINED as to Objections No. 2, to that portion of Huang’s testimony where he states that Defendants “used all of these Beaver entities for various purposes regarding the manufacturing of cosmetics products for Luseta and for payment purposes,” which is offered without foundation. Objection No. 4 is SUSTAINED for much the same reason, as to Huang’s testimony that Defendants “used the different Beaver entities to conduct business with Luseta.” The remaining objections are OVERRII. MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONSA defendant may serve and file a motion to quash service of summons on the grounds of a lack of jurisdiction over him or her. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10 subd. (a)(1).) A plaintiff opposing a motion to quash service for lack of personal jurisdiction “has the initial burden to demonstrate facts establishing a basis for personal jurisdiction.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) If satisfied, the burden then shifts to defendant to show that exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Id.)A court may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of California or of the United States. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) The exercise of personal jurisdiction is constitutionally permissible only “if the defendant has sufficient ‘minimum contacts’ with the forum state so that the exercise of jurisdiction ‘does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” [Citations.]’ ” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (“HealthMarkets, Inc.”) (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1166 [citing International Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316].) A defendant’s conduct with the forum state must be such that the defendant has “fair warning” that its activities might subject it to personal jurisdiction. (HealthMarkets, Inc., supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1166–1167; Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 472.)“Minimum contacts exist where the defendant's conduct in the forum state is such that he should reasonably anticipate being subject to suit there, and it is reasonable and fair to force him to do so. [Citations.] In contrast, contacts that are random, fortuitous, or attenuated do not rise to the minimum level, and general jurisdiction cannot be exercised under these circumstances.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 795.)A defendant that has substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts with the forum state is subject to general jurisdiction in the state, meaning jurisdiction on any cause of action. Absent such extensive contacts, a defendant may be subject to specific jurisdiction, meaning jurisdiction in an action arising out of or related to the defendant's contacts with the forum state. Specific jurisdiction depends on the quality and nature of the defendant's forum contacts in relation to the particular cause of action alleged. (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.)A nonresident defendant may be subject to specific jurisdiction if three requirements are met: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed itself of forum benefits with respect to the matter in controversy; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant's contacts with the forum; and (3) the exercise of jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice. (Burdick v. Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 18.)Cross-Defendant Beaver Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Beaver Singapore) moves to quash the service of summons upon it based on the contention that it is a Singapore company without minimum contacts with California sufficient to establish this court’s jurisdiction over it. Beaver Singapore presents the declaration of Hongpeng Zhang, “the shareholder of . . . Beaver Singapore,” who states that Beaver Singapore is a corporation formed in Singapore with its principal place of business in Singapore, which does not do business in, or have any employees are accounts or customers in, the state of California. (Zhang Decl. ¶¶ 1–10.) Zhang denies that Beaver Singapore ever did any business with Defendant and Cross-Complainant Luseta Beauty, Inc. (Luseta). (Zhang Decl. ¶¶ 11–16.)Beaver Singapore is included as a cross-defendant in Luseta’s cross-complaint on the allegation that it, along with various other “Beaver” entities, are actually owned and controlled as one entity by Cross-Defendants Hongkui Zhang, Hongpeng Zhang, and Fang Liu, with a unity of interest existing between them. (XC ¶¶ 16–18.) The only allegation specifically pertaining to Beaver Singapore is the following:On information and belief, Cross-Defendant Beaver Singapore Pte., Ltd. is a Singaporean corporation with its principal place of business in Guangzhou, China. From May 2022 through January 2023, Luseta was instructed to pay this Beaver entity approximately $4.35 million despite the fact that Luseta did not work with this entity.(XC ¶ 15.)Luseta presents the declaration of Junhua Huang, “a shareholder of Luseta.” (Huang Decl. ¶ 2.) Huang states that he has communicated with Cross-Defendants Hongpeng Zhang and Hongkui Zhang, and Feng Liu, who have “continuously represented to me that they were owners and executives of all the Beaver entities in the Beaver enterprise,” including Beaver Singapore. (Huang Decl. ¶ 6.) In these communications, they “did not distinguish between the different Beaver entities when interacting with Luseta.” (Huang Decl. ¶ 7.)Huang states that at various points from May 2022 through January 2023, Luseta was directed by a Beaver sales representative Ella Lai to make payments into the bank account of Beaver Singapore, which Luseta did in the total amount of $4.35 million. (Huang Decl. ¶ 10, Exhs. B, C.)Luseta presents the corporate information form for Beaver Singapore, which indicates that Hongpeng Zhang is one of its three directors. (Huang Decl. Exh. D.) And Huang testifies that it was Hongpeng Zhang, acting as the principal of the other Beaver entities appearing in this action, who made misrepresentations as to the price of goods alleged in the Cross-Complaint. (XC ¶¶ 14–16.) Luseta also presents the information page for a California corporation in which Hongpeng Zhang is listed as the CEO and agent for process, with an address in Azuza, California. (Huang Decl. ¶ 16, Exh. E.)It is undisputed that this court lacks general jurisdiction over Beaver Singapore, because the company is incorporated in Singapore and has its principal place of business there. And Luseta has not demonstrated that Beaver Singapore ever purposefully availed itself of doing business in California, for the purposes of specific jurisdiction. “The purposeful availment inquiry ... focuses on the defendant's intentionality. This prong is only satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs his activities toward the forum so that he should expect, by virtue of the benefit he receives, to be subject to the court's jurisdiction based on’ his contacts with the forum.” (LG Chem, Ltd. v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 348, 362, internal quotation marks and citations omitted)Luseta has demonstrated it dealt with one of Beaver Singapore’s directors in making the transactions at issue, but also that it evidently did not understand this director to be acting for Beaver Singapore specifically. And although Luseta was directed to make some payments to the account of Beaver Singapore, the evidence that Luseta presents suggests that this employee was not affiliated with Beaver Singapore, but with “beaver-cn.com,” whose website evidences no connection with Beaver Singapore. (Huang Decl. ¶¶ 8–9, Exh. A.) “California courts have consistently concluded that a foreign corporation purposefully avails itself of the benefits of the California forum when it knowingly sells and ships its products to California businesses for use in California.” (LG Chem, supra, 80 Cal.App.5th at p. 363.) But Luseta has not shown that Beaver Singapore engaged in such conduct here. Luseta has, however, demonstrated entitlement to a continuance to permit it to conduct discovery into this court’s jurisdiction over Beaver Singapore. A trial court has the discretion to continue the hearing on a motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction to allow the plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues. In order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction. (Preciado v. Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 972, internal citations and quotation marks omitted.)Here, Luseta seeks leave to propound discovery to “trace the $4.35 million payments to Beaver Singapore and further investigate Beaver Singapore’s relationship with other Beaver entities, as well as a limited deposition of the declarant, Mr. Zhang,” to inquire into the positions taken and omitted in his declaration. (Opposition at p. 5.) Although Luseta has not established Beaver Singapore’s minimum contacts with California, it has presented evidence suggesting that the discovery it proposes could yield information establishing such jurisdiction, since Luseta had dealings with Beaver Singapore’s director, and was directed by an affiliated company to make payment to Beaver Singapore for the transactions at issue.Beaver Singapore objects that this request for a continuance is ill-timed and procedurally non-compliant, because Luseta did not previously propound discovery into jurisdiction issues, and only seeks a continuance in opposition to the present motion. (Reply at pp. 8–10.) But as noted in the authority cited above, trial courts may continue a hearing on a motion to quash to allow a plaintiff to conduct jurisdictional discovery, and Beaver Singapore identifies no authority stating that such a request cannot be made in the opposition to the motion to quash. It is true, as Beaver Singapore notes, that Luseta has evidently delayed seeking the discovery it proposes since the motion was filed in July 2024. (Reply at p. 9.) But the circumstances of this delay are unlike those held to justify a denial of a continuance in discovery in Preciado v. Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 973, in which the party seeking additional discovery not only delayed the request, but described the proposed discovery in only vague terms, seeking “to take depositions, engage in limited written discovery, and probe the connections of the moving party to the forum state.” (Preciado, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 972.) Luseta’s request for discovery here is comparatively narrow, and builds on a foundation of evidence already presented to this court.Accordingly, the hearing on the motion to quash is CONTINUED to April 2, 2025, at 10:00 am, to permit Luseta to conduct discovery into jurisdictional issues.I. DEMURRERA demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§ 430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311: “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Id. at p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. [Citation.]”)“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be clearly stated.” (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)1. Beaver Entities and Zhang DemurrerCross-Defendants Guangzhou Beaver Cosmetic Co. Ltd., Guangzhou Beaver Industrial, Co. Ltd., Guangzhou Evergreen Brands Co., Ltd, Guangzhou Fortune Brands Management Co., Ltd. Beaver Cosmetics, Corporation, JJC Brands Partners, Inc., Hongkui Zhang, and Hongpeng Zhang (Cross-Defendants) demurrer to the Cross-Complaint of Defendant and Cross-Complainant Luseta Beauty, Inc. (Luseta).Cross-Defendants argue that the Cross-Complaint fails for uncertainty, because allegations are pleaded against Cross-Defendants as a block, rather that specifically identifying which defendants are alleged to have committed which acts. (Demurrer at pp. 9–10.) But while the use of such pleading methods may create uncertainty, the allegations made collectively against Cross-Defendants here are based on the allegation that they are only nominally separate, and are in fact alter egos of their owners, individual cross-defendants Hongpeng Zhang, Hongkui Zhang, and Fang Liu. (XC ¶¶ 17–18.) The Cross-Complaint thus alleges that precise differentiation of the acts of each corporate defendant would be impractical and unhelpful.But Cross-Defendants are correct that no fiduciary duty is alleged for the purposes of the first, second, or third causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, breach of duty of loyalty, and aiding and abetting the breach of a fiduciary duty, for the simple reason that no Cross-Defendant is alleged to have owed a fiduciary duty to Luseta. Luseta relies on allegations that Hongkui Zhang and Fang Liu have (or at least assert) controlling ownership interests in Luseta. (XC ¶¶ 34, 40, 47.) But majority stockholders owe a fiduciary duty to minority stockholders, not the company that they own and control. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 179 [“A controlling stockholder . . . owes fiduciary duties to minority stockholders”].) Luseta disputes whether Cross-Defendant Fang Liu in fact owns the 71% interest in Luseta that she claims (XC ¶ 27), and alleges that Hongkui Zhang owns 45.54% of Luseta, a share equal to that owned by Junhua Huang. (XC ¶ 25.) But taking either of these ownership tallies as true would not create a fiduciary duty by Zhang or Liu toward Luseta. The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED as to the first, second, and third causes of action with leave to amend.Cross-Defendants’ argue that Luseta’s fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action for interference with contract and intentional and negligent interference with economic relations are also ill-pleaded because Plaintiff does not allege facts supporting required elements of the claims An interference with contract claim requires proving “(1) the existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant's knowledge of that contract; (3) the defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1148.) And intentional interference with economic relations requires proving “(1) the existence, between the plaintiff and some third party, of an economic relationship that contains the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the defendant's action.” (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 512.)Cross-Defendants’ arguments are unpersuasive, since Luseta has alleged ultimate facts to support the claims. Included among the allegations of wrongdoing alleged against Cross-Defendants are the allegations that they short-shipped products to Luseta and misappropriated Luseta’s logo and bottle designs to mislead customers. (XC ¶¶ 30–31.) Luseta also alleges the existence of contracts with Burlington and Ross-DD Stores, which Cross-Defendants disrupted. (XC ¶ 54.) It is alleged that Cross-Defendants knew of these relationships. (XC ¶ 53.) Although Luseta does not allege the identity of the third parties whose economic relations were disrupted by Cross-Defendants’ conduct, Cross-Defendants identify no authority requiring such allegations. The demurrer to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action are OVERRULED.Cross-Defendants’ arguments with respect to the fraud claims in the seventh and eighth causes of action are persuasive, however, as the claims have not been pleaded with particularity. The elements of fraud are “(1) a representation, (2) that is false, (3) made with knowledge of its falsity, and (4) with an intent to deceive, coupled with (5) actual detrimental reliance and (6) resulting damage.” (Lim v. The.TV Corp. Internat. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 684, 694 [121 Cal.Rptr.2d 333, 339]Fraud causes of action must be pleaded with particularity, meaning that the plaintiff must allege “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “While there is some conflict in the case law discussing the precise degree of particularity required in the pleading of a claim for negligent misrepresentation, there is a consensus that the causal elements, particularly the allegations of reliance, must be specifically pleaded.” (National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, PA v. Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 35, 50.)Here, Luseta alleges that Hongpeng Zhang and unspecified employees of Beaver represented to Junhua Huang of Luseta that Beaver was offering Luseta the “best deal,” that it was making “almost no profit” on the transactions, and that it would “continue to lower prices moving forward.” (XC ¶ 52.) But Luseta does not allege where and by what means these representations were made, and does not allege the identities of the employees who made them, other than Hongpeng Zhang. Nor does Luseta plead the elements of reliance or damages with particularity, instead averring that at some point in 2023 it discovered that Cross-Defendants were “vastly overcharging” Luseta. (XC ¶¶ 32, 79–80.) These are not the particular allegations required of fraud causes of action. The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the seventh and eighth causes of action for fraud and negligent misrepresentation.Cross-Defendants’ arguments as to the remaining ninth and tenth causes of action for unfair competition and unjust enrichment are unpersuasive. They argue that Luseta has not alleged a predicate instance of unlawful conduct to support Luseta’s claim for unfair business practices. (Demurrer at p. 17, citing Berryman v. Merit Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.) Yet the Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants misappropriated Luseta’s logo and bottle design to confuse consumers. (XC ¶ 30.) And Cross-Defendants do not explain how Luseta’s pleading of unjust enrichment is infirm, as the Cross-Complaint alleges what such a claim requires: “the “receipt of a benefit and [the] unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Peterson v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.) Specifically, the Cross-Complaint alleges that Luseta made a $4.35 million payment to Cross-Defendants which was overcharged to them, and that Cross-Defendants obtained formulas and customers from their relationship with Luseta which they used to compete against it. (XC ¶¶ 101–102.) The demurrer is OVERRULED as to these claims.The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the first, second, third, seventh, and eighth causes of action, and is otherwise OVERRULED.2. Fang Liu’s DemurrerCross-Defendant Fang Liu’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint largely repeats the arguments raised in the demurrer of the other cross-defendants, with the added argument that no allegations are made specifically against Fang Liu herself. However, the Cross-Complaint alleges that Fang Liu is the owner and alter ego of the other cross-defendants, and that Fang Liu was part of a tortious conspiracy with these same cross-defendants, the sufficiency of which allegations Luseta does not challenge. (XC ¶¶ 16–18.) The underlying claims are as good against Liu as against the other cross-defendants, and the same reasoning is appropriate.Accordingly, Fang Liu’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the first, second, third, seventh, and eighth causes of action, and is otherwise OVERRULED.I. MOTION TO STRIKEAny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of Court Rule 3.1322.)The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)Cross-Defendants move to strike the prayer for punitive damages from Luseta’s Cross-Complaint, on the grounds that insufficient facts are alleged to establish malice, oppression, or fraud. (Motion at pp. 6–8.) Cross-Defendants move to strike the prayer for profits and gains gotten by Cross-Defendants in their unfair competition claim, reasoning that such non-restitutionary damages are not available. (Motion at pp. 8–9.)Punitive damages are allowed in non-contract cases when a defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) The terms are defined as:1. “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.2. “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.3. “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c).)Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. (Dawes v. Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and willful. (College Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College Hospital”).)Cross-Defendants’ arguments with respect to the prayer for punitive damages are persuasive, as Luseta has failed to allege the existence of either a fiduciary duty or fraud, and has merely alleged ultimate facts supporting the existence of a tort with respect to its claims of interference with contractual and economic relations. While sufficient to uphold these claims against demurrer, such allegations do not lend support to the conclusory allegation that Cross-Defendants acted with malice, oppression, or fraud. Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED as to the prayer for punitive damages, with leave to amend.The language in Luseta’s UCL claim requesting disgorgement of profits is also properly stricken. Luseta seeks “to recover any gains, profits and advantages obtained by Cross-Defendants as a result of their conduct.” (XC ¶ 99.) Yet the only remedies available under the UCL are injunctive relief and restitution to “actual direct victims” of the unfair practices. (Feitelberg v. Credit Suisse First Boston, LLC (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 997, 1012.) “[D]isgorgement of . . . profits is not an authorized remedy in an individual action under the UCL.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1140.) Although Luseta argues that it only seeks restitutionary remedies, its request for relief is not so limited. The motion to strike is therefore GRANTED as to this request, with leave to amend.Cross-Defendants also move to strike allegations that Fang Liu owes Luseta a fiduciary duty. As this argument is addressed with the sustaining of the demurrer to all such claims, the motion to strike is DENIED as to this allegation.II. PRO HAC VICE“A person who is not a member of the State Bar of California but who is a member in good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any United States court or the highest court in any state . . . and who has been retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of this state, may in the discretion of such court be permitted upon written application to appear as counsel pro hac vice, provided that an active member of the State Bar of California is associated as attorney of record.” (Cal. Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 9.40(a).) An applicant may not be a resident of the State of California, regularly employed in the State of California, or regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of California. (CRC 9.40(a)(1–3.)“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a verified application together with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office.” (CRC 9.40(c)(1).) Notice must be given sixteen days before the hearing.“The application must state; (1) The applicant's residence and office address; (2) The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) That the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) The title of court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) The name, address, and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.” (CRC 9.40(d)(1–6.) Additionally, a $50 must be paid to the California Bar. (CRC 9.40(e).)The present applications pertain to Blake Beckham and Sarita Smithee, who seek to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice for Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Guangzhou Beaver Cosmetic Co. Ltd., Guangzhou Beaver Industrial, Co. Ltd., Guangzhou Evergreen Brands Co., Ltd, Guangzhou Fortune Brands Management Co., Ltd. Beaver Cosmetics, Corporation, JJC Brands Partners, Inc., Hongkui Zhang, Hongpeng Zhang, and Fang Liu.Smithee submits a declaration stating that she resides and works in Dallas, Texas, and is admitted to practice in that state. (Smithee Decl. ¶¶ 1–3.) Smithee is a member in good standing and has not been suspended or disciplined by any court, and has filed no pro hac vice applications in California. (Smithee Decl. ¶¶ 4–6.) The California State Bar has been notified of this application and the requisite fee has been paid. (Brackey Decl. ¶ 7.)Beckham submits his own declaration, stating that he resides and works in Dallas Texas, and is admitted to practice in that state. (Beckham Decl. ¶¶ 1–3.) Beckham is a member in good standing and has never been suspended or disciplined. (Beckham Decl. ¶¶ 4–6.) He has submitted two pro hac vice applications in this state within the past two years, both of which were granted. (Beckham Decl. ¶ 6.) The bar has been notified of this application and the fee has been paid. Brackey Decl. ¶ 7.)The applications are GRANTED.