 Case Number:  23VECV03176    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV03176 Saavedra v City
of LA
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant City of Los Angeles, LAPD Officers
Brianne Hollon and Senndy Baide, and LAFD Paramedics Aceanyer Brown and Adrien
Garcia’s’ Amended Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED in Part and
DENIED in Part.  The motion is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the seventh cause of action, DENIED as to punitive
damages, and otherwise GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the
pleading defects and not to allege new causes of action.
Plaintiffs Josefina Saavedra,
Lidia Miller, and Guadalupe Sosa’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but
not as to any disputed facts or hearsay.
INTRODUCTION 
Defendants City of Los Angeles
(City), LAPD Officers Brianne Hollon and Senndy Baide, and LAFD Paramedics
Aceanyer Brown and Adrien Garcia (collectively, Defendants) move for judgment
on the pleadings against Plaintiffs Josefina Saavedra, Lidia Miller, and
Guadalupe Sosa’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) Complaint.  The motion placed into issue all seven causes
of action (COA):  (1) Civil Rights
Violation Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. sec. 1983; (2) Failure to Perform Mandatory
Duties Pursuant to Government Code sec. 815.6, Vehicle Code sec. 17004.7; Penal
Code sec. 13519.8; California Code of Regulations, Title 11 secs. 1005(f) and
1081, et seq.; (3) Negligence; (4) Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision and
Retention; (5) Assault & Battery; (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (IIED); and (7) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED) and
also the claim for punitive damages.
PROCEDURE
Plaintiffs argued lack of proper
service of the Amended Motion because Michael Libman did not receive the
Amended Motion.  However, Defendants
submitted the email showing email service of the Amended Motion upon Co-Counsel
Gary Berkovich.  Service was properly
made despite Plaintiffs’ contention otherwise. 
Further, Plaintiffs’ opposition addressed the merits of the Amended
Motion showing that Plaintiffs did not suffer prejudice.
DISCUSSION 
Defendants argued that there are
insufficient facts to plead the first COA alleging civil rights violation.  Because this action involves an auto accident
involving a stolen LAFD ambulance and an LAPD pursuit, it is not readily
apparent what civil right is being placed into issue.  Plaintiffs asserted that the right at issue
is an unreasonable seizure under the Fourth Amendment to the United States
Constitution.  However, Plaintiffs fails
to present any application of the facts and law to show that an auto accident
due to a police pursuit could constitute an unreasonable seizure.  It is unclear from the Complaint or
opposition that any seizure took place. 
Plaintiffs only make a conclusory contention that the Fourth Amendment
was violated.  Without sufficient
argument, the Court is not persuaded by Plaintiffs’ conclusory assertion.  The Court further is persuaded by Defendants’
multiple case law authority to support their contention that police pursuits
that result in personal injury are insufficient to claim a civil rights
violation.  
The first COA is also premised
upon a mandatory duty under Government Code sec. 815.6.  Defendants argued that Plaintiffs failed to
allege any enactment that imposed a mandatory duty.  Plaintiffs alleged several grounds to
purportedly support the COA:  Vehicle
Code sec. 17004.7; Penal Code sec. 13519.8; California Code of Regulations
Title 11, secs. 1005(f) and 1081; and LAPD Policy sec. 306.2.1.  Determining whether an enactment imposes a
“mandatory duty” is a question of statutory interpretation for the Court.  (B.H. v. County of San Bernardino (2015) 62
Cal.4th 168, 180.)  None of the statutory
or regulatory provisions or LAPD Policy provisions present a mandatory duty,
especially a mandatory duty that would impose public entity liability because
of a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the operation of a motor
vehicle.  As argued by Defendants,
Vehicle Code sec. 17004.7 (Section 17004.7), read in part with Penal Code sec.
13519.8, California Code of Regulations Title 11, secs. 1005(f) and 1081 et seq.,
and LAPD Policy sec. 306.2.1, does not impose a mandatory duty upon City.  Section 17004.7 is expressly stated to be a
discretionary provision (Veh. Code, sec. 17004.7(a)) and a provision which, if
complied with, would impart immunity upon City (Veh. Code, sec.
17004.7(b)-(d)).  The Court makes clear
that there is no ruling on any issue or argument as to immunity because
reviewing immunity under Section 17004.7 requires a review of facts that are
beyond the four corners of the pleading, specifically City’s adoption and
promulgation of police pursuit policies or lack thereof.  
The motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the first COA is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants argued that the
remaining common law tort COAs are deficiently pled because they are not based
upon statute.  Plaintiffs alleged that
the tort claims are based upon Government Code, sec. 815.2 – respondeat
superior liability.  (Compl. pars.
17.)  However, the allegation is only
alleged as to Doe Defendants and not alleged against the individual LAPD
officers or LAFD paramedics.  The
allegations as to respondeat superior liability per Government Code sec. 815.2
are not sufficiently alleged to support the tort claims.  Further, there are insufficient allegations
to plead liability per Government Code sec. 820.  None of the common law tort claims, except
for the second COA for negligent hiring, training, or supervising, alleged
liability under Government Code sec. 820. 
(Compl. par. 71.)  Plaintiffs’
argument that the claims are sufficiently alleged under Government Code section
815.6 is unpersuasive because the common law tort claims are not alleged to be
based upon statutes/enactments subjecting a public entity to a mandatory
duty.  On this pleading defect alone, the
common law tort COAs are insufficiently pled with supportive facts.  The motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to the common law tort claims is GRANTED. 
Specifically as to the second and
fourth COAs for negligent hiring, training, supervision, there are insufficient
facts alleged to plead negligent hiring, training, or supervision by any City
employees.  On this defect alone, there
is good cause to grant the motion.  The
facts alleged only the taking of the ambulance and the accident.  Nothing in the Complaint is there alleged any
negligent hiring, training, or supervision of the LAPD officers and LAFD
paramedics.  On this defect, there is
insufficient pleading of facts for vicarious liability for negligent hiring,
training, or supervision.    
As to direct liability for
negligent hiring, training, or supervision, Plaintiff must plead a statutory
ground imposing a duty, as reviewed above. 
Plaintiff failed to plead any statutory grounds for the negligent hiring,
training, or supervision COA.  
Plaintiffs’ reliance upon the
allegations already made in the Complaint to argue that the claims is
sufficiently pled is unpersuasive.  
The Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings against the second and fourth COAs is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
The seventh COA for NIED is not
an independent tort.  The motion for
judgment on the pleadings as to the seventh COA is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
Specific to the COAs for IIED and
Assault and Battery, there are insufficient facts pled to allege any
intentional conduct against Defendants. 
The facts alleged are insufficient to plead severe or extreme emotional distress
to support IIED.  The facts alleged are
insufficient to plead an intent to harm or cause offensive contact as to
assault and battery.
The motion for judgment on the
pleadings against the fifth and sixth COA is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants’ motion against
punitive damages is improper.  A motion
for judgment on the pleadings is the functional equivalent of a demurrer.  A demurrer, as well as the instant motion,
tests the legal sufficiency of the causes of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 438.)  A claim for punitive damages is not a cause
of action.  
The motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to punitive damages is DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.