 Case Number:  24STCV06565    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Henry C. Hernandez’s Four
Motions to Compel Discovery Responses, Motion to Deem Matters Admitted, and
Motion to Compel Deposition
Four Motions to Compel Responses
Defendant Henry C. Hernandez moves
to compel plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC to respond to form interrogatories – general, form
interrogatories – unlawful detainer, special interrogatories, and requests for
production.  When the responding party
fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories or requests for production,
the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(b) [interrogatories]; 2031.300(b)
[request for production].)  The party who
fails to serve a timely response also waives any objections.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(a); 2031.300(a).)  
Plaintiff did not serve a timely
response to these four sets of written discovery.  Plaintiff’s counsel served responses purportedly
on behalf of non-party FRSV, LLC instead of responses by plaintiff Bellevue La
Veta, LLC.  (Hermansen Decl., ¶ 5.)  Those do not constitute responses by plaintiff,
the party to whom the discovery was directed. 

Plaintiff argues the motions “are
moot because Bellevue is no longer the legal owner of the Subject Property and
there currently is a pending motion for Leave to Amend the Complaint to
substitute the Plaintiff from Bellevue to FRSV.  If the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for
Leave to Amend, the Court will no longer have jurisdiction over Bellevue and
will not have the ability to compel their responses.”  (Opp., p. 4.) 
The motions are not moot. 
Plaintiff’s argument presupposes that the court will grant the pending
motion for leave to amend the complaint. 
That is not a valid basis for refusing to answer discovery due before
the court hears that motion.   
Many of these requests concern
information the subject property’s new owner would not have.  For example, special interrogatory No. 1
asks, “State the number of times you increased Defendant’s rent throughout her
[sic] tenancy at PREMISES.”  No. 7 asks,
“Identify all persons who witnessed the person who YOU claim
served the FOURTEEN DAY NOTICE TO PAY RENT OR QUIT in this case.”  Similarly, request for production No. 1
demands “Your rent ledger for the Defendant’s residence.”  No. 2 demands “All receipts for any repairs
to the PROPERTY obtained in 2015-2024.”  
Defendant is entitled to this discovery.  Plaintiff cannot avoid its discovery
obligations by seeking to substitute a new plaintiff after the deadline to
serve responses.
Plaintiff also argues defendant did
not make a sufficient effort to meet and confer before filing these
motions.  Assuming that requirement
applies, plaintiff met it.  “[T]hough
some effort is required in all instances [citation], the level of effort that
is reasonable is different in different circumstances, and may vary with
the prospects for success.”  (Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 432–433.)  In the circumstances of this summary
proceeding for unlawful detainer, plaintiff’s efforts were reasonable. 
Motion to Deem Matters Admitted
            Defendant
Henry C. Hernandez moves for an order deeming admitted the truth of the matters
specified in requests for admission, set one, to plaintiff Bellevue La Veta,
LLC.  When a party fails to serve a
timely response to requests for admission, that party “waives any objection to
the requests” (CCP § 2033.280(a)), and “[t]he requesting party may move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction”
(id., subd. (b).)  “The court
shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Id.,
subd. (c).)
            Plaintiff
Bellevue La Veta, LLC relies on the same arguments rejected above.  For the same reasons as the other written
discovery, plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC did not serve a timely response to defendant’s
requests for admission.  Nothing in the
record shows plaintiff served a proposed response that substantially complies
with section 2033.220.  The court
therefore will order the matters deemed admitted. 
Motion to Compel Deposition
            Defendant
Henry C. Hernandez moves to compel the deposition of plaintiff Bellevue La
Veta, LLC’s person(s) most knowledgeable on numerous matters of
examination.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action …, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination … the party giving the notice may
move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony.”
            Defendant
is entitled to an order compelling plaintiff’s deposition.  Plaintiff did not serve a valid objection to
the notice of deposition under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410.  Instead, the evening before the deposition, plaintiff’s
counsel wrote, “The PMK of the new ownership is ready, willing, and able to
appear tomorrow.”  (Zadeh Decl., ¶ 5, Ex.
2.)  Defendant is entitled to depose
plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC’s person most knowledgeable.  Like defendant’s written discovery, the
notice of deposition includes numerous matters the new owner would know nothing
about.  For example, No. 8 is, “All
communications between BELLEVUE LA VETA LLC and the Defendants in this matter
regarding the PROPERTY since 2016.”  No.
10 is, “The circumstances regarding the service of the Fourteen Day Notice to
Pay Rent or Quit attached to the Complaint in this action.”  No. 22 is, “All written communications
between Nancy E. Nowotny and Mission Property Services regarding the
Defendants’ tenancy.”  Plaintiff’s
pending motion for leave to amend the complaint does not justify refusing to
attend the deposition.  
            Defendant
again argues plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith.  Doing so is not required “when the deponent
fails to attend the deposition.”  (CCP §
2025.450(b)(2).)  In that circumstance, the
moving party must submit “a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Ibid.)  “Implicit in” that requirement “is a requirement
that counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith attempt to
resolve the issue.”  (Leko v.
Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1124.)  In these circumstances, defendant met that
obligation.  Plaintiff’s failure to
appear was not an oversight as in Leko.  Plaintiff’s counsel did not offer to produce
the deponent—plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC’s person(s) most
knowledgeable.  Instead, plaintiff
offered to produce the new owner’s person most knowledgeable.  That is not the person for whom defendant
noticed a deposition.  
Sanctions
            In
each of defendant’s four motions to compel discovery responses, he moves for
$1,500 in sanctions against plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC and its counsel
Jacob H. Zadeh.  Failing to respond to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process subject to
monetary sanctions.  (CCP § 2023.010(d).)  Plaintiff failed to respond to defendant’s
four sets of written discovery.  It did
not act with substantial justification. 
Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  Defendant reasonably incurred $1,500 in
expenses for each motion.
In the motion to deem matters
admitted, defendant again moves for $1,500 against plaintiff and its
counsel.  “It is mandatory that the court
impose a monetary sanction … on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure
to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated [a] motion”
to deem matters admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(c).)  Plaintiff did not serve a
timely response to requests for admission. 
Its failure to do so necessitated defendant’s motion.  Defendant reasonably incurred $1,500 in expenses
for this motion.
Finally, in the motion to compel
deposition, defendant moves for $3,250 in sanctions.  When moving for discovery sanctions, the
motion must be “accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction sought.” 
(CCP § 2023.040.)  Unlike the
declarations in support of defendant’s other motions, the declaration in
support of this motion does not attest to facts supporting the request for
$3,250 in sanctions.  (Hermansen Decl., ¶¶
1-5.)  The court therefore will not impose
any sanctions on this motion.
Disposition
            Defendant
Henry C. Hernandez’s motion to compel responses to form interrogatories –
general is granted.  Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC is ordered to serve verified responses without objections
to defendant’s form interrogatories – general on or before noon on August 14,
2024.  Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC and
its counsel Jacob H. Zadeh are ordered to pay
defendant Henry C. Hernandez $1,500 in sanctions within 14 days.
Defendant Henry C. Hernandez’s
motion to compel responses to form interrogatories – unlawful detainer is granted. 
Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to defendant’s form
interrogatories – unlawful detainer on or before noon on August 14, 2024.  Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC and its
counsel Jacob H. Zadeh are ordered to pay
defendant Henry C. Hernandez $1,500 in sanctions within 14 days.
Defendant Henry C. Hernandez’s
motion to compel responses to special interrogatories is granted. 
Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to defendant’s special
interrogatories on or before noon on August 14, 2024.  Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC and its
counsel Jacob H. Zadeh are ordered to pay
defendant Henry C. Hernandez $1,500 in sanctions within 14 days.
Defendant Henry C. Hernandez’s
motion to compel responses to requests for production is granted. 
Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to defendant’s requests
for production on or before noon on August 14, 2024.  Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC and its
counsel Jacob H. Zadeh are ordered to pay
defendant Henry C. Hernandez $1,500 in sanctions within 14 days.
Defendant Henry C. Hernandez’s
motion to deem matters admitted is granted.  The court hereby deems admitted the truth of the matters specified in requests
for admission, set one, to plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC.  Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC and its
counsel Jacob H. Zadeh are ordered to pay
defendant Henry C. Hernandez $1,500 in sanctions within 14 days.
Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC and
its counsel Jacob H. Zadeh are jointly and severally liable for all monetary
sanctions.
Defendant Henry C. Hernandez’s
motion to compel the deposition of plaintiff’s person most knowledgeable is granted. 
Plaintiff Bellevue La Veta, LLC is ordered to produce its person(s) most knowledgeable about each matter of
examination for deposition within 10 days.
Trial Continuance
            On
its own motion, the court hereby continues the
non-jury trial set for August 15, 2024, to August 22, 2024, at 10:00 a.m.