 Case Number:  22NWCV01065    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  C HERRERA v. RODRIGUEZ
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV01065
HEARING:  04/04/24
 
#2
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (set
one) as to Defendant MELVIN RENE MORALES ASTORGA is GRANTED.  
 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
No
Reply filed as of March 29, 2024. 
 
This
personal injury action was filed on October 20, 2022. On June 7, 2023,
Plaintiff served Request for Production of Documents (set one). (Kiran Decl.,
¶2.) On August 11, 2023, Defendant MELVIN RENE MORALES ASTORGA (“Defendant”)
served responses. (Id. ¶5.) On August 25, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet
and confer letter to Defense Counsel regarding purported deficiencies in Defendant’s
responses. (Id. ¶6.) On September 15, 2023, attorneys for Defendant provided
amended responses, which Plaintiff argues are not code-compliant. (Id. ¶8.) 
 
On
September 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed the subject Motion to Compel Defendant
Melvin Rene Morales Astorga’s further responses to Request for Production of
Documents (set one). There is no indication that any meet and confer efforts
took place regarding Defendant’s Amended Responses served on September 15,
2023. Although Plaintiff’s Counsel’s Declaration reflects that they met and
conferred with Defendant’s Counsel over Defendant’s original responses, the
Declaration of Mark Kiran does not reflect that Plaintiff met and conferred as
to the September 15, 2023 Amended Responses. 
 
In
addition, the Notice of Motion incorrectly states that this matter is set for
hearing on April 24, 2023, when it is actually scheduled for Thursday, April 4,
2024. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court does not find that counsel have exhausted their meet and confer
obligations pursuant to the Code and further finds that this matter was
improperly noticed. 
 
However,
in the interests of judicial efficiency, the lack of prejudice to the Opposing
Party, and in favor of adjudicating the issues on the merits, the Court will
waive the procedural deficiencies and issue a substantive ruling on the merits.

 
Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 1-27 and 29 which seek various
documents relating to the Subject Incident. 
 
In
Opposition, Defendant argues that the Amended Responses served on September 15,
2023 are code-compliant, and that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer over the
Amended Responses. 
 
“On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A state of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response
is without merit or too general.” (CCP §2031.310(a).) 
 
A motion to
compel further responses to a request for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.” (CCP §2031.310(b).) “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery
where specific facts show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial
preparation to prevent surprise at trial. (Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v.
Sup. Ct. (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583,588.) Where there is no privilege issue or
claim of attorney work product, the burden to show “good cause” is met simply
by a fact-specific showing of relevance. (Glenfed Development Corp. v. Sup.
Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
 
Defendants
responses to each RPD are mostly identical and state either: 
 
·       
After a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, Responding Party has no responsive
documents in possession, custody, or control. Discovery is ongoing and
Responding Party reserves the right to amend or supplement these responses; or 
·       
Responding
Party will produce all documents to this request within his possession,
custody, or control. Discovery is ongoing and Responding Party reserves the
right to amend or supplement these responses. 
 
CCP
§2031.230 states: “A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant’s
responses to RPD Nos. 1-27 and 29 are insufficient because they do not comply
with CCP §2031.230. Specifically, there is no indication that “the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party.”
Further, if Defendant has knowledge of third-parties possessing such documents,
their identities must also be provided. 
 
The Motion is
GRANTED. Defendant MELVIN RENE MORALES ASTORGA is ORDERED to provide further
responses within 30 days from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. 
 
Given the
number of procedural deficiencies affecting the subject Motion, the Court does
not find that sanctions are warranted in favor of the moving party. Sanctions
are DENIED.   
 