 Case Number:  23STCV05114    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Defendant Volkswagen Group Of America, Inc.’s Motion To Compel Deposition Of
Plaintiff Eyal Claud Cohen; Request For Sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND
EYAL COHEN (“Plaintiff”) filed a Lemon Law Complaint
against VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. (“Defendant”) in connection with Plaintiff’s
leased 2019 Audi E-Tron. Defendant has filed a motion for an order compelling
Plaintiff’s deposition and imposing monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes the
motion and seeks sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Section 2025.450(a) provides that after service of a
deposition notice, if a party fails to appear without service of a valid
objection, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the
deposition. A motion to compel deposition attendance must include a declaration
showing that the moving party inquired about the nonappearance.  CCP §2025.450(b)(2).   “Implicit in the requirement that counsel
contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a requirement that
counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith attempt to resolve
the issue," including by rescheduling. 
Leko v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App.
4th 1109, 1124.  
ANALYSIS
Defendant adequately shows that Plaintiff did not attend
the deposition and that Defendant inquired about the nonattendance. For this
reason, the Court will grant the motion to compel. The Court is disappointed,
however, in the way in which counsel dealt with the scheduling of the
deposition. Plaintiff’s objections to the deposition notice stated that Plaintiff
and counsel were unavailable on the unilaterally noticed date. Rather than pick
up the telephone to find a mutually agreeable date for the deposition, defense
counsel waited until the morning of the deposition to inquire about Plaintiff’s
appearance. When Plaintiff did not appear, counsel apparently took no further
action to address the scheduling of the deposition until filing this motion to
compel a month later. 
Plaintiff’s counsel also has a part to play in this completely
avoidable and costly discovery dispute. When Plaintiff served objections to the
deposition notice, Plaintiff provided no alternative dates for the deposition.
Nor did Plaintiff pick up the telephone to schedule the deposition with defense
counsel. Plaintiff’s counsel appears to have taken no further action on the
deposition scheduling until filing the opposition and simultaneously offering
dates for the deposition. 
The Court expects better from both counsel. Counsel
shall meet and confer prior to the 3/12/24 hearing to find a date for Plaintiff’s
deposition within one month of the hearing (i.e., by 4/12/24). The Court finds
substantial justification for both parties’ positions in this matter given the woeful
meet and confer efforts, and therefore exercises its discretion to deny both
sanctions requests. In the future, the Court expects the parties to schedule an IDC before filing any motions to compel. 