  Case Number:  20STCV43263    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



KILINA AMERICA, INC., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
LOVE VINTAGE, INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  20STCV43263
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 26, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant Angie Kim moves for an award of attorney’s fees
against Plaintiff Kilina America, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) in the amount of $13,320.
 
The Court GRANTS Kim’s motion in part.  Plaintiff shall be liable for $4,050 in Kim’s
attorney’s fees.    
 
Background
 
            This
is a contract case. Plaintiff sued Love Vintage and Kim (collectively,
“Defendants”) to recover on an account for materials that Love Vintage
purchased from Plaintiff. The purchase contract provided that the prevailing
party in litigation to enforce it would be entitled to recover attorney’s fees.
 
Plaintiff alleged that Kim was the sole owner of Love Vintage
and its alter ego. However, at trial, Plaintiff admitted that it was unable to
provide evidence in support of the alter ego allegations.
 
After a one-day bench trial, the Court entered a judgment
for Plaintiff against Love Vintage. The Court found that Plaintiff had not met
its burden to establish personal liability against Kim.
 
Legal Standard
 
“In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
“The court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall
determine who is the party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section, whether or not the suit proceeds to final judgment. Except [where an
action has been voluntarily dismissed or dismissed pursuant to a settlement of
the case], the party prevailing on the contract shall be the party who
recovered a greater relief in the action on the contract. The court may also
determine that there is no party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (b).)
 
The moving party bears the burden of proof as to
“reasonableness” of any fee claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(5).)
The party seeking fees has the burden of documenting the appropriate hours
expended and hourly rates. (City of Colton v. Singletary (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 751, 784.) This burden requires competent evidence as to the nature
and value of the services rendered. (Martino v. Denevi (1986) 182
Cal.App.3d 553, 559.) A plaintiff’s verified billing invoices are prima
facie evidence that the costs, expenses, and services listed were necessarily
incurred. (Hadley v. Krepel (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 677, 682.) 
 
Discussion
 
Appropriateness of Fees
 
Plaintiff argues that Kim is not a prevailing party in this
case because she closed Love Vintage “with no intent to pay for the judgment
amount.” (Opposition at p. 3:10-13.) Plaintiff appears to be arguing either
that Kim did not achieve her litigation objectives because she had to close her
business, or that Kim has fraudulently withdrawn assets from the business in
order to prevent them from being used in satisfaction of Plaintiff’s judgment
against Love Vintage.
 
If the latter is the case, Plaintiff has a clear remedy: to
file an action for fraudulent transfer. If Plaintiff’s argument is the former,
then it is resolved by Plaintiff’s failure to establish its alter ego
allegations. Kim and Love Vintage are legally separate; thus, even if Kim is
Love Vintage’s sole owner and manager, the alleged fact that Love Vintage shut
down as a result of this litigation (and may have necessarily have that
shutdown conducted by Kim) speaks to whether Love Vintage achieved its
litigation objectives of avoiding liability. Kim, a separate party, had a clear
objective: to avoid personal liability for the debts of Love Vintage.
She achieved this objective. Kim is therefore a prevailing party and may
recover her attorney’s fees.
 
Fee Amount
 
Kim and Love Vintage are both represented by counsel David
Romley in this case. Kim was formerly represented by Steven J. Bankin. Kim
seeks fees for Romley only, and not Bankin.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel David Romley declares that his hourly
rate for this case is $450.00. The Court finds this rate reasonable in light of
Romley’s litigation experience.
 
Kim requests 29.60 hours for Romley. The problem for Kim,
however, is that she gives only scant information about how this time was spent
and for what tasks these fees were incurred. 
Importantly, she provides almost no information about what portion of
this fee applies to the attorney’s fees allocated to work for Kim, who
prevailed, as opposed to work for Love Vintage, which did not prevail.
 
Based on the Court’s review of the billing invoices attached
to the motion for attorney’s fees, as well as the Court’s familiarity with the
issues from the bench trial, the Court deems 9 hours of attorney time
reasonable with respect to the defense of Kim in this action.  Plaintiff adding Kim as a Defendant required
Kim to seek discovery on the basis of the claim and to defend that issue at
trial.  Other than that, Kim provides no
further information, and the Court notes that the main thrust of Plaintiff’s case
was against Love Vintage, not against Kim. 

 
Accordingly, the Court awards Kim nine hours of attorney’s
fees.  At Romley’s rate of $450 per hour,
this comes to $4,050.  