 Case Number:  23SMCV03382    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiffs Chloe Fogel, Arthur Fogel, and the Arthur Fogel/Kaleen Lemmon Family Trust’s Motion for an Order Appointing Receiver is DENIED.Plaintiffs Chloe Fogel, Arthur Fogel, and the Arthur Fogel/Kaleen Lemmon Family Trust to give notice.REASONINGPlaintiffs Chloe Fogel, Arthur Fogel, and the Arthur Fogel/Kaleen Lemmon Family Trust (“Plaintiffs”) move the Court for an order appointing a receiver to take control of Defendants Carolwood Homeowners Association, Inc. and HOA Organizers, Inc. (“Defendants”), giving the receiver the power to assume full control of the entities, enter and inspect the property, make necessary repairs, maintain the property, and hire entities to assist the receiver in carrying out his duties, among other duties. Plaintiffs also ask the Court to issue a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendants from interfering with the receiver’s work or otherwise interfering with the ability to repair the property, among other conduct.Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant Carolwood Homeowners Association, Inc. (“the HOA”) requests judicial notice of the First Restatement to the Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions Establishing a Plan for Condominium Ownership for Carolwood Homeowners Association, Inc., recorded in the Official Records of Los Angeles County, California on July 14, 2015, as Document No. 20150845374 (hereinafter “the CC&Rs”). The HOA’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c).AnalysisCode of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(1), provides that a receiver may be appointed by the Court “[i]n an action by . . . partners or others jointly owning or interested inany property” and “[i]n all other cases where necessary to preserve the property or rights of any party.” Notably, “[t]he appointment of a receiver is a drastic remedy” such that the Court must “carefully weigh the propriety of such appointment in exercising [its] discretion to appoint a receiver particularly if there is an alternative remedy.” (Barclays Bank of California v. Superior Court (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 593, 597, quotation marks omitted.) Again, the drastic nature of appointment of a receiver is such that “courts are strongly discouraged—although not strictly prohibited—from appointing a receiver unless the more intrusive oversight of a receiver is a necessity because other, less intrusive remedies are either inadequate or unavailable.” (Medipro Medical Staffing LLC v. Certified Nursing Registry, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 622, 628, quotation marks omitted.)Plaintiffs request that the Court take the drastic action of appointing a receiver to take over Defendants because Plaintiffs are unsatisfied with Defendants’ maintenance and repair of common area of the Carolwood Condominiums, i.e., Plaintiffs argue that Defendants have violated various provisions of the CC&Rs. Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiff Chloe Fogel has made demands to the HOA to make repairs of common area components, but they have made inadequate repairs, and any mitigation efforts have been minimal. (Mot., p. 5, ll. 6-7.) Put simply, this is not the sort of situation where appointment of a receiver is warranted.First, while the HOA argues that Plaintiffs’ failure to seek appointment of receiver in their complaint dooms this motion, the Court is not convinced, as appointment of receiver is a motion based on statute, and the HOA cites to no legal authority stating that a receiver can only be appointed where one was requested in the complaint. However, the Court repeats that appointment of a receiver is a drastic remedy, and Plaintiffs provide only the declarations of Plaintiffs’ counsel, who purports to describe the duties of the HOA, and the proposed receiver, who describes his prior receivership work. They provide no evidence to support their arguments that appointment of a receiver is necessary to preserve their property interests, i.e., that their property will be destroyed absent the appointment of a receiver. It is not clear that Plaintiffs will suffer any further damage than the damage purportedly suffered to date, and Plaintiffs’ counsel lacks the authority to opine about the propriety of a receiver and the duties of the HOA. Further, in opposition to the motion, the HOA provides evidence that it is working to fix the leaks causing water intrusion, it has retained a construction expert and consultant to oversee the repairs, it has engaged in efforts to fund the repairs, and efforts to repair are ongoing. (Opp’n, Yanni Decl. ¶¶ 3-11; Brady Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) It is also easy to conclude that the requested scope of work that would be performed by a receiver far exceeds what is necessary, as Plaintiffs simply seek repairs, but they seek to take over every aspect of Defendants’ business operations. Accordingly, Plaintiffs Chloe Fogel, Arthur Fogel, and the Arthur Fogel/Kaleen Lemmon Family Trust’s Motion for an Order Appointing Receiver is DENIED.Evidentiary ObjectionsThe HOA objects to certain statements within the declaration of Thomas Citron. The HOA’s objections are SUSTAINED in their entirety. 