 Case Number:  20SMCV00739    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Tizabgar v.
Abrahams
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00739
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   11/16/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
            A party may move for summary
judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The
purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to
cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (CCP, § 437c(f)(1).) If a party seeks summary
adjudication as an alternative to a request for summary judgment, the request
must be clearly made in the notice of the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior
Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1544.)  “[A] party may move for
summary adjudication of a legal issue or a claim for damages other than
punitive damages that does not completely dispose of a cause of action,
affirmative defense, or issue of duty pursuant to” subdivision (t).
(CCP, § 437c(t).) 
 
            To
prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law. (CCP, § 437c(c).) The motion cannot succeed unless the
evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the
court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when a material fact is the witness’s state of
mind and “that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s]
affirmation thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).) 
 
            Once
the moving party has met their burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(1).) “[T]here is no obligation on the opposing party... to establish
anything by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated
facts establishing every element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his
favor.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) 
 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary
judgment motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment
is to delimit the scope of the issues and to frame the outer measure
of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity
National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations
and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff's theories of
liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a moving party need
not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the
pleadings.” (Ibid.) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendants
Keith Abrahams and Stacey Abrahams move for summary adjudication of the second,
third and fourth causes of action, and the claim for punitive damages.
 

Issues 1 and 3: Statute of Limitations to Trespass to
Land 
 
Trespass is the physical intrusion
upon property of another without the permission of the person lawfully entitled
to possession. (Martin Marietta Corp. v. Insurance Co. of North America
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1131 – 1132.) The elements of trespass are: (1) the
plaintiff’s ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant’s
intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of
permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm. (Ralphs
Grocery Store v. Victory Consultants Inc., (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245,
261-62.)
 
“Anything which is injurious to
health, including, but not limited to, the illegal sale of controlled
substances, or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property . . . is a nuisance.” (CCP, § 3479.) Virtually any disturbance of
the enjoyment of property may amount to a nuisance, so long as the interference
is substantial and unreasonable. (Monks v. City of Rancho Palos Verdes
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 263, 302.)
 
Defendants first argue that the
claims are barred by the applicable statute of limitations. The limitations
period for a cause of action for trespass or injury to real property is three
years. (CCP, § 338.) A cause of action for nuisance involving real property is
also subject to a three-year statute of limitations. (Id.)
 
Generally, a cause of action accrues when
“the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.” (Norgart
v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 397.) However, the
accrual of the statute of limitations for both instant claims depend on the
nature of the encroachment. (See Starrh & Starrh Cotton Growers (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 583, 594 [“[G]enerally the
principles governing the permanent or continuing nature of a trespass or
nuisance are the same and the cases discuss the two causes of action without
distinction.”].)
 
An
encroachment may be continuing or permanent. (Beck Development Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1219-1222.) A permanent encroachment is an
intrusion on property that does not vary over time or cannot be discontinued at
any time in a reasonable manner for a reasonable cost. (Starrh, supra,
153 Cal.App.4th 583, 592.) For example, encroaching buildings, walls and
foundations may be considered permanent trespasses. (Castelletto
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 64, 65.) The
statute of limitations for an action to remove a permanent trespass and
associated claims accrues on the date the trespass was first committed,
regardless of when the plaintiff learns of the encroachment. (Id.; Spar
(1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1480, 1481.) 
 
The Starrh court offered the
following guidance to determine whether a particular trespass is permanent or
continuing:
 
“A permanent trespass is an intrusion on property under
circumstances that indicate an intention that the trespass shall be
permanent. In these cases, the law considers the wrong to be completed at
the time of entry and allows recovery of damages for past, present, and future
harm in a single action, generally the diminution in the property's
value. The cause of action accrues and the statute of limitations begins
to run at the time of entry…
 
[On the other hand,] a continuing trespass is an intrusion
under circumstances that indicate the trespass may be discontinued or abated.
In these circumstances, damages are assessed for present and past damages only;
prospective damages are not awarded because the trespass may be discontinued or
abated at some time, ending the harm. Pursuant to Civil Code section 3334,
damages allowed for continuing trespass include the value of the use of the
property, reasonable cost of repair or restoration to the property's original
condition, and the costs of recovering possession. Continuing trespasses
are essentially a series of successive injuries, and the statute of limitations
begins anew with each injury.  In order to recover for all harm inflicted
by a continuing trespass, the plaintiff is required to bring periodic
successive actions.” 
 
(Starrh, supra, at 594.) Thus, if a trespass or nuisance is
continuing, “ ‘an action may be brought at any time to recover the damages
which have accrued within the statutory period, although the original trespass
occurred before that period.’ ” (Polin v. Chung Cho (1970) 8 Cal.App.3d
673, 678 [the defendant diverted a stream and storm drain onto
plaintiff's adjoining lot, eroding the plaintiff’s land during rain].) However,
courts caution that in doubtful cases “the plaintiff has an election to treat a
[trespass] as permanent or continuing.” (Starrh, supra, at 592-93.) Further, whether a trespass is continuing or
permanent “is a question of fact properly submitted to the jury”. (Id.
at 597.)
 
In Madani
v. Rabinowitz (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 602, the Second District Court of Appeal considered
whether a boundary fence that encroached on plaintiff's land and
inoperable cars parked on plaintiff's driveway were both continuing or
permanent encroachments for limitations purposes. The fence was erected prior
to 1979, well outside the three-year limitations period. (Id. at 608.) However,
the fence was replaced in 2015, and testimony suggested the existing fence
could be moved for a comparatively modest cost. (Id. at 609.) The
testimony showed that the defendant would have to break the concrete where the
fence's supporting posts were cemented, pour new concrete in the area where the
posts had to be moved, relocate the fencing material, and reconfigure the gate
closest to his garage door to accommodate the fence. (Id.) The defendant
provided a $5,000 to $6,000 estimate to move the fence. (Id.) On these
undisputed facts, the court agreed with the trial court that the expense defendant
would incur in moving his fence was not sufficient to regard the fence as a
permanent installation. (Id.) The court commented that “it is difficult
to conceive of a case where relocation of a boundary fence or wall would be so
costly as to render it a permanent encroachment.” (Id.) 
 
Here, Defendants evidence
demontrates that all the spa/hardscape/planter construction work was finished
in March 2016, when all construction was finalized. (UMF 24.) On April 22,
2016, the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety (LADBS) gave Defendants
final conditional approval for the spa improvements. (UMF 25.) The
spa/hardscape/planter structure was designed and built to last decades,
withstand the forces of nature, and to stay in its current location. (UMF 26.) Further,
Plaintiffs had presumptive notice of these encroachments when they purchased
their property in May 2016. These facts reasonably show that Defendants
intended for these constructions to be permanent in nature. Under these
undisputed facts alone, the cause of action would have accrued in 2016 and be
barred by the three-year limitations period.
 
However, there are competing
inferences which may support seeing the encroachment as a continuing
encroachment. Defendants do not present evidence that their encroachment cannot be abated in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
cost. Defendants only present a conclusory statement from their expert that the
structure “cannot be reconfigured easily or cheaply without performing
significant demolition that would affect electrical and plumbing systems and
cost large sums of money due to the current costs of building materials and
labor.” (Jones Decl., ¶ 50.) This is not specific and substantial evidence
regarding what demolition work would be required and how much such work would
cost. Thus, making all reasonable inferences in favor of Plaintiff, the Court
may infer that the wall and spa encroachment could be abated.
 
Further, Plaintiff presents a
dispute of fact as to whether the encroachment may be reasonably abated.
Plaintiff presents competent evidence that the cost to Defendants for removing
the encroachments would be approximately $14,000-$25,000. (AMF 1; Downey Decl.,
¶ 13.) Defendants object to this estimate, attacks the witness’s expertise and
credibility, and contend that the estimate is itself is unreasonable and a
forgery. However, these arguments only underscore the factual nature of this
dispute. Therefore, whether this abatement is reasonable would be a question of
fact for a jury to determine. 
 
Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs
have never been in possession of the disputed area inside Defendants’
backyard. Defendants point to evidence that Plaintiffs did not even own the
property at the time that Defendants completed the spa project on March 23,
2016. (SSUF 24, 25.) Further, Defendants contend that because the section of
the backyard was completely enclosed prior to their purchase of 864 N. Norman,
and had been that way for decades, that Plaintiffs lack the right of
possession. Defendants therefore assert that they are the ones in “actual
possession” as they control the day-to-day management of that strip of land.
(UMF 29.) However, this does not demonstrate that Plaintiffs cannot maintain a
trespass or nuisance cause of action. Notably, neither cause of action requires
exclusive possession of property. Defendants point to no authority suggesting
this. Rather, Plaintiff must have “ownership or control” of the property for
trespass, or some other property right for nuisance. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
as to issue nos. 1 and 3.
 
Issue no. 2: Ejectment
 
Defendants move for summary adjudication
of the ejectment cause of action on the grounds that such a claim cannot lie
against them as owners of the express easement at issue. (See Wood v.
Truckee Tpk. Co., (1864) 24 Cal. 474 [ejectment does not lie for a right of
way, or other easement]; Fresno St. R. Co. v. S. Pac. R. Co., (1901) 135
Cal. 202 [railroad right of way over a public highway, based upon an
incorporeal easement, will not sustain an action of ejectment].) The elements
of ejectment are ownership disclosing a right to possession, the defendant’s
possession, and a withholding of the possession from the plaintiff. (Baugh
v. Consumers Associates, Limited (1966) 241 Cal.App.2d 672, 675.)
 
Defendants show that they have an
express easement in their vesting deed allowing them to use the disputed area
“for right of way, for landscaping, horticulture purposes, in, under, across
and over” the specified portion of Plaintiffs’ property. (UMF 2, 4.) Defendants
describe the encroachment as including hardscape around the spa and a small
semi-circular planter directly behind it with landscaping in the form of small
hedges for privacy. (UMF 20, 26, 31, 42.) 

 
Defendants correctly cite that an
action of ejectment will not lie against someone claiming an easement in land
to prevent him from enjoying said use, since such a right is incorporeal and
does not naturally confer possession. However, Defendants do not demonstrate,
as a matter of law, that they did not exceed the scope of their easement. Defendants
phrase the easement as permitting right of way, landscaping, and horticulture. Notably,
both the hardscape and planter inadvertently extended into the Parcel 2 Easement.
Defendants do not precisely define what hardscape means in this case. The Court
assumes this refers to the concrete structure surrounding the spa, separate
from the concrete planter. Defendants highlight no evidence suggesting that
this structure could be fairly described as right of way, landscaping, or for horticulture
purposes. Viewing this evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiffs, the
hardscape supporting the spa and pool would not fall into the plain meaning of
such categories.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
as to issue no 2.
 
Issue no. 4: Punitive Damages
 
Defendants move against the claim
for punitive damages on the grounds that there is no evidence of malice,
oppression or fraud required for puntivie damages. Plaintiffs seek punitive
damages from the Abrahams for trespass to land (second), ejectment (third), and
nuisance (fourth) causes of action. Each of these causes of action stem from
the above discussed encroachments. 
 
In order to present a prima facie
claim for punitive damages, plaintiff must demonstrate the elements as stated
in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code Section 3294. (Coll.
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory
elements include allegations that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294 (a).) "Malice" means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ Code § 3294(c)(1).) "Oppression"
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ Code § 3294(c)(2).) Both
categories require “despicable” conduct, which is defined as conduct so “vile,
base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked
down upon and despised by ordinary decent people." (Mock v. Michigan
Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331.) Thus, more than a
“willful and conscious” disregard of Plaintiffs’ interests is required, there
must be an additional component of “despicable” conduct. (Coll. Hosp., supra,
8 Cal. 4th at 725.) 
 
Additionally, the evidence
supporting the claim must be “clear and convincing”. (Civ. Code, § 3294(a).) This
standard requires “a finding of high probability .... ‘so clear as to leave no
substantial doubt’; ‘sufficiently strong to command the unhesitating assent of
every reasonable mind.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188,
1211.) Therefore, mere carelessness, negligence or ignorance does not justify
the imposition of punitive damages. Instead, "[s]uch conduct has been
described as '[having] the character of outrage frequently associated with
crime.'” (American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton,
(2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 1017, 1050.)
 
Defendants present evidence that
they did not have the requisite state of mind for their acts to be considered
malicious, oppressive or fraudulent.  Defendants
also present evidence that they did not have actual notice of the Flag Area or
the easement, such that their encroachment was innocent. Defendants’ realtor
specifically asked the prior owners of their property who had owned it since
1998 if there were any lot line issues with the east and south neighbors, and
their written response was "no disputes." (UMF 80-81.) The Abrahams
also testified that they felt confident that their backyard was completely
theirs, and they did not imagine in their wildest dreams there was the Flag
Area at the rear southerly portion of their backyard. (Id.) Defendants assert
that at no time prior to the construction did anyone from the Grossman family (the
prior owners of the Tizabgar Property), advise the Abrahams that the rear
portion of their backyard was the Flag Area. (UMF 81.) The Abrahams did not
even understand that they had an easement involving the Flag Area. (Id.) When
they purchased their property, the fence on the east side was very old and
weathered and obviously had been there for several decades, and the entire
backyard was self-contained with no fence. (Id.) Further, the Flag Area was not
demarcated in any way--it was just part of the backyard. (Id.) The prior owners
of their property told them there were no boundary issues with neighbors. (UMF
85.) When they had Aquatecture construct their spa, Defendants had no idea that
there was any Flag Area in their backyard, or any section of their backyard was
part of 870 N. Norman's legal description. (UMF 81.) Kozak did not feel there
was a need to conduct a survey prior to construction because the spa and
related components would be located completely in the Abrahams' backyard. (K.
Abrahams Deel., ¶ 15; S. Abrahams Deel., ¶ 15.) If they had known, they would
have constructed the hardscape and planter in such a way that no part of them
fell inside the Flag Area regardless of the Parcel 2 Easement. (Id.)
 
Defendants present evidence that
their construction was ordinary and not intended to harm anyone. Defendants
constructed the encroachment with all appropriate permits and plan checks by a
licensed contractor. (UMF 82.) On May 29, 2015, Plaintiff signed the Swimming
Pool Construction Terms and Specifications (including Deck Addendum Contract) with
Richard Kozak of Aquatecture. (UMF 73.) Kozak spent several months designing
the project and working with Plaintiffs on specifics, colors, components, and
textures. (UMF 74.) Aquatecture successfully applied for a building permit with
the LADBS. (Id.) As discussed extensively above, the final design ultimately
included a section of hardscape around the spa and a small semi-circular
planter directly behind it. (UMF 75.) Kozak did not feel there was a need to
conduct a survey prior to construction because the spa and related components
would be located completely in their backyard. (Id.) From beginning to end, the
project took about six months. (UMF 77.) On July 31, 2014, Defendants were
issued a title policy by Chicago Title Insurance Company, which listed many different
easements affecting their property described in very brief terms with recording
numbers. (UMF 84.) This included the Parcel 2 easement, but as lay people, they
did not have the training or knowledge to understand these references and determine
that one of them involves a Flag Area at the rear of their property or had any
implications involving the Tizabgar Property. (Id.) 
 
Defendants therefore meet their
burden to demonstrate that their encroachment lacked the requisite malice,
oppression or fraud. The burden shifts to Plaintiffs to demonstrate malice,
oppression or fraud.
 
Plaintiffs cite various portions of
Defendants’ depositions which show evidence consistent with Defendants’
evidence. (See K. Abrahams Depo., 14:6- 13; 20:4-11; 39:2-4; 120:4- 121 :24;
138:12- 142:24].) This evidence demonstrates that Defendants were aware of the
property lines, and may have seen the legal description of the property,
including the Parcel 2 easement. Even read in the light most favorable to
Plaintiffs, this evidence would not suggest that Defendants knowingly
disregarded the property line. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that malice may be
inferred because Defendants have not yet removed the encroachment during the
course of this lawsuit. Plaintiffs cite no authority which would suggest that
Defendants choice to litigate this dispute could be considered malicious,
oppressive or despicable conduct. Certainly, this is not clear and convincing
evidence that Defendants “know” the encroachment is unlawful and still refuse
to remove it. This is especially true onsidering that the parties dispute
whether the encroachment is illegal or is within the easement. The alleged
construction of the spa and planter, which took place before Plaintiffs even
lived at the property, without more, does not rise to the level of malice and
despicable conduct to justify punitive damages. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to this issue.
 
Issue no. 5: Chain of Title of Parcel 2 Easement
 
Adjudication of this issue would not dispose of the entirety of any
complete cause of action. Therefore, adjudication of this issue would be
improper on a motion for summary adjudication.
Conclusion
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to issue no. 4, and DENIED as to the remainder.