 Case Number:  23SMCV01076    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Alers v. Cedars
Sinai Medical Center, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01076
MOTION:                  Motion
to Strike; Motion for Leave to Amend to Add Punitive Damages
HEARING DATE:   11/16/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
Motion to Strike
 
            Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and
upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
Motion for Leave
 
In any action¿for professional negligence¿against a health
care provider, no claim for punitive damages may be included in an original
complaint.¿¿(CCP,¿§ 425.13 (a).)¿Rather, a¿plaintiff must file a motion¿for
leave¿to amend the complaint and add a prayer for punitive damages. 
¿ 
A¿motion¿for leave to amend under section 425.13¿must be
supported by declarations establishing facts sufficient to support a finding
there is a “substantial probability” the¿plaintiff will prevail on the punitive
damages claim. “Substantial probability” requires the plaintiff to show a
legally sufficient claim substantiated by competent, admissible evidence.¿(College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 719.)¿
The plaintiff must make a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain
the punitive damage claim,¿taking into
account¿the higher “clear and convincing”
standard of proof required for such claims under Code of Civil Procedure
section 3294.¿(Looney v. Superior Court¿(1993)¿16 Cal.App.4th 521,
538-540.)¿“Consistent with the legislative intent to protect health care
defendants from the drastic effects of unwarranted punitive damage claims, the
entire package of materials submitted in support of the¿section 425.13(a) motion
should be carefully reviewed to ensure that a genuine contestable claim is
indeed proposed.” (College Hospital, supra,¿8 Cal.4th at pp.
719–720.) 
 
Nevertheless, the court may not assess credibility or weigh
conflicting evidence.¿(Id.¿at 539; see also Looney, supra,
16 Cal.App.4th at p. 539 [“In making this judgment, the trial court’s
consideration of the defendant’s opposing affidavits does not permit a weighing
of them against the plaintiff’s supporting evidence, but only a determination
that they do or do not,¿as a matter of law,¿defeat that
evidence”].)¿The¿court must not reject a well-pled and factually supported
punitive damages claim simply because the court believes the evidence is not
strong enough for probable success before a jury.¿(College Hospital, supra,¿8
Cal.4th¿at¿709.) 
 
The basic elements of a punitive damages claim are set out
in section 3294 of the Civil Code.¿There must be proof of “oppression, fraud,
or malice.” (Civ. Code § 3294 (a).) As defined in Civil Code section 3294(c),
“the punishable acts which fall into these categories are strictly defined.¿
Each involves ‘intentional,’ ‘willful,’ or ‘conscious’ wrongdoing of a
‘despicable’ or ‘injur[ious]’ nature. [Citation].” (College Hospital Inc.,¿supra,¿8
Cal.4th at 721.)¿Punitive damages are only proper when the tortious conduct
arises to the level of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level
which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.¿(Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co.¿(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)¿Despicable conduct
has been characterized as conduct that is so vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people.¿(Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co.¿(1992)
4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.)  
 
Motion
to strike Analysis
 
Defendants Cedars Sinai Medical Center and Michelee
Nicole Neely Akhmerov MD move to strike certain portions of plaintiff Hazel
Aler’s First Amended Complaint (FAC) constituting Alejandro Alers Jr.’s
unauthorized practice of law. Specifically, Defendants seek to strike Alers
Jr.’s signature, his name and contact information, verification, and other
specified sections of the FAC.
 
Strictly speaking, the instant motion does not apply to
the operative pleading. The Court is not in receipt of a FAC. On May 31, 2023, the Court sustained
Defendants’ demurrer to the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of
action. The Court granted leave to amend as to the second and third causes of
action. Plaintiff failed to file an amended complaint. Defendants provide that
a first amended complaint was served on June 8, 2023. However, there is no
record of this FAC being filed with the Court. Until Plaintiff demonstrates
that she properly filed the FAC, or Plaintiff requests leave to amend, Plaintiff’s
operative pleading remains the complaint which states a single remaining cause
of action for negligence by Plaintiff Hazel Alers only. (Compl., ¶¶ 16-20.) As
the FAC is not on the record, it is difficult for this Court to determine the
propriety of the FAC. 
 
In any event, the majority of the motion to strike
pertains to Mr. Alers Jr.’s unlicensed practice of law, which also applies to
the operative complaint. Defendants are correct that Mr. Alers Jr.’s continued
representation of his mother goes beyond the limitations of an attorney-in-fact
and constitutes unlicensed practice of law. Generally, no person shall
practice law in California unless the person is an active licensee of the State
Bar. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6125; see also CRPC Rule 5.5(b).) Any person
advertising or holding himself or herself out as practicing or entitled to
practice law or otherwise practicing law who is not an active licensee of the
State Bar, or otherwise authorized pursuant to statute or court rule to
practice law in this state at the time of doing so, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6126(a).)
 
“[A]s the term is generally
understood, the practice of the law is the doing and performing services in a
court of justice in any matter depending therein throughout its various stages
and in conformity with the adopted rules of procedure. But in a larger sense it
includes legal advice and counsel and the preparation of legal instruments and
contracts by which legal rights are secured although such matter may or may not
be depending in a court.” (People v. Merchants Protective Corp. (1922)
189 Cal. 531, 535.) "[A]scertaining whether a particular activity falls
within this general definition may be a formidable endeavor." (Baron v.
City of Los Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 542, 543.) "In close cases, the
courts have determined that the resolution of legal questions for another by
advice and action is practicing law “if difficult or doubtful legal questions
are involved which, to safeguard the public, reasonably demand the application
of a trained legal mind.” (Id.; see also People v. Landlords
Professional Services, Inc. (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 68 [Defendant LPS
practiced law when it advertised eviction services to landlords, clients came
to LPS's offices where they were given a booklet discussing typical forms used
in an unlawful detainer action and explaining how they should be completed,
LPS's employees conducted personal interviews with clients during which they
explained the unlawful detainer process, answered the clients’ questions, and
filled out the necessary forms and documents].) 
A power of attorney does not authorize an attorney in fact to act as an
attorney at law. (See People v. Malone (1965) 232 C.A.2d 531, 537
[condemnation action brought against two brothers (P and C). Brother P gave
Brother C power of attorney; C filed an answer for both in pro per,
participated in the pretrial hearing, appeared at the trial, helped select the
jury and ultimately stipulated to a compromise settlement. The settlement was
rejected by the court of appeal, as C was not authorized to practice law].)
 
Mr. Aler’s prosecution of his
mother’s action goes beyond the permitted activities of a non-attorney, such as
clerical or scrivener work. (See Altizer v. Highsmith (2020) 52
Cal.App.5th 331 [filling out form was not unauthorized practice of law where
Plaintiff did not hold himself out as an attorney, offer any legal advice, or
resolve any difficult or doubtful legal questions that might reasonably demand
the application of a trained legal mind].) On this record, it is clear that he
has prepared all or most of his mother’s legal instruments (see Farnham v
State Bar of California (1976) 17 Cal 3d 605 [disciplined a suspended
attorney who had drafted a complaint during the period of his suspension]), and
is appearing in court on behalf of his mother. (Gresham v Superior Court of
Los Angeles County (1941) 44 Cal App 2d 664). Thus, Alers Jr.’s signature,
name and contact information in the counsel identification section, and
verifications are not presented in conformity with the law. Therefore, the
Court strikes the Alers Jr.’s signature, name and contact information and
verifications from the operative complaint. 
 
As to the FAC-specific allegations,
the Court cannot rule on the motion. As noted above, the FAC has not been filed
with the Court and therefore, not part of the record. 
 
PUNITIVE
DAMAGES Analysis
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to amend to add punitive
damages. Alers Jr. drafted, presented, and attempts to argue this motion. As
discussed above, this would be the unauthorized practice of law. Therefore, the
instant motion is taken OFF CALENDAR.
 
Substantively, the Court would deny the motion. As noted,
the sole remaining cause of action is for negligence. To prevail on a
cause of action for negligence, Plaintiff must show (1) a legal duty owed to
plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage
to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006)
137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.) Further, Plaintiff must demonstrate entitlement to
punitive damages by showing oppression or malice,
including the additional element of despicable conduct.
 
Plaintiff has failed to meet their burden to show, by
clear and convincing evidence, a substantial probability that Plaintiff will
succeed on the merits of their negligence claim or punitive damages. In total,
Plaintiff presents the declaration of Alejandro Alers Jr., Plaintiff’s son, and
the verified Complaint. Even considered together, Plaintiff has failed to
present evidence in support of the punitive damages claim.
 
The verified Complaint does not provide sufficient
evidence that shows entitlement to punitive damages. The Complaint provides
that Plaintiff, Hazel Alers, who prior to her doctor visit on March 14,
2022, was independent, active, and an employed 88 year old. (Compl. ¶ 8.) Alers
visited Dr. Neely complaining of pain in the right shoulder, right hip and
right knee. (Id., ¶ 9.) Dr. Neely prescribed an increase in dosage of Lyrica
from 50mg to 100mg, which was not in accordance with the drug manufacturer’s
dosage recommendations. (Id.) As a result of the increase in dosage, Ms. Alers
suffered side effects of hallucinations and the inability to stand or walk. (Id.,
¶10.) Ms. Alers went to the hospital and was observed for approximately 6 days.
(¶ 11.) Alers was discharged home under primary caregiver, Mr. Alers. (¶ 11.) Ms.
Alers has suffered various side effects, including hallucinations and
dizziness. (¶ 12.) Dr. Neely breached her duty as a medical practitioner by
increasing the dosage of Lyrica, against the recommendation of Pfizer. (¶17.)
Dr. Neely did not consider Ms. Aler’s stage 3 kidney disease. (¶ 17.) Dr. Neely
breached her duty of care to Hazel Alers by over prescribing Lyrica’s single
dosage from 50mg to 100mg; not reducing the Lyrica single dosage for patients
with kidney diseases; not disclosing to Hazel Alers all the side effects that
could occur in taking Lyrica; and failing to refer Hazel Alers to Cedars Sinai’s
pain management department. (¶ 18.) Plaintiff does not present evidence of fraudulent, oppressive or
malicious conduct with these verified allegations. Plaintiff does not claim
that Dr. Neely intentionally over prescribed the medication with the intent to
harm Plaintiff, or did so with reckless disregard for the safety of Plaintiff.
Further, a doctor prescribing medication for its intended use, even if it was
negligent, cannot be said to be despicable as required for punitive damages. Even
viewed in the light most
favorable to Plaintiff, this evidence merely shows medical negligence. 
 
The declaration of Ms. Alers also does not show such
conduct. Mr. Alers provides three exhibits, including a power of attorney, a
certified letter mailed by Cedars Sinai to Ms. Alers that discontinued Ms.
Alers’ physician-patient relationship, and a true and correct copy of Ms.
Alers’ medical conditions. Simply put, this does not evidence fraudulent or
despicable conduct (as required for malice or oppression). First, this conduct
is unalleged. Even ignoring this issue, Plaintiff has not presented evidence that
Defendant was not entitled under the relevant agreement to discontinue services.
Without this, the Court cannot conclude that this evidence shows “despicable”
conduct, that is, vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people. Further,
any cause of action stemming from the discontinuance of services would be for a
breach of contract, which cannot support a claim for punitive damages without
further facts showing a bad faith denial. (Civ. Code § 3294(a) [no
punitive damages arising from contract].) Therefore, punitive
damages remains unavailable even in light of this evidence.
 
Plaintiff additionally requests
that the court order that Defendant “cease and desist” and “reinstate” the
physician patient relationship between Defendant and Alers. The Court cannot
grant this substantive relief with the present motion.
 
Accordingly, the motions is taken
OFF CALENDAR.