  Case Number:  23SMCV01199    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE ruling
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01199




MOTION


Motion for Attorneys’ Fees
  and Costs




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Princeton Lofts,
  Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Princeton Lofts, Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) brought suit against Defendant Gamma Investors, Group, LLP
(“Gamma”) to abate a barking dog nuisance on the property.  Default was entered against Defendant on May
9, 2023.  Subsequently, Defendant agreed
to and did abate the barking dog nuisance, but has refused to settle with
Plaintiff regarding the legal fees Plaintiff expended in bringing the instant
lawsuit.  
 
On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a motion seeking $12,000 in attorneys’ fees and $744.96 in litigation
costs as the “prevailing party” pursuant to Civil Code section 5975, subdivision
(c).  Defendant did not oppose the
motion.  At the hearing, Plaintiff made
an oral motion to dismiss the case against Defendant, in light of the fact that
the nuisance had been abated, which the court granted. The Court denied the
original motion for attorneys’ fees without prejudice on the basis that it had
not been noticed sufficiently in advance of the hearing.
 
On January 16, 2024, the Court continued
the hearing to allow Plaintiff to effectuate service of the notice of motion
and motion on Gamma.  (January 16, 2024
Minute Order.) Plaintiff subsequently filed a proof of service, indicating
Plaintiff served Gamma the notice of continued hearing by mail on January 18,
2024.
 
Plaintiff now moves again for
$12,000 in attorneys’ fees and $744.96 in litigation costs.  No opposition was filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Civil Code section
5975 provides:
 
(a) The
covenants and restrictions in the declaration shall be enforceable equitable
servitudes, unless unreasonable, and shall inure to the benefit of and bind all
owners of separate interests in the development. Unless the declaration states
otherwise, these servitudes may be enforced by any owner of a separate interest
or by the association, or by both.
 
(b) A governing
document other than the declaration may be enforced by the association against
an owner of a separate interest or by an owner of a separate interest against
the association.
 
(c) In an action
to enforce the governing documents, the prevailing party shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Prevailing
Party”
 
“The Davis-Stirling Common Interest
Development Act (Davis-Stirling Act or the Act) governs an action to enforce
the recorded CC&Rs of a common interest development.”  (Champir, LLC v. Fairbanks Ranch Assn.
(2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 583, 590 (hereinafter Champir).)  “In determining the prevailing party under
the Davis-Stirling Act, the trial court should compare the relief awarded on
the claim or claims with the parties' demands on those same claims and their
litigation objectives as disclosed by the pleadings, trial briefs, opening statements,
and similar sources. The prevailing party determination is to be made by a
comparison of the extent to which each party has succeeded and failed to
succeed in its contentions.”  (Id.
at p. 592.)
 In other words, the test for determining
whether a party is a “prevailing party” for purposes of Civil Code section 5975
“is a pragmatic one, namely whether a party prevailed on a practical level by
achieving its main litigation objectives.” 
(Artus v. Gramercy Towers Condominium Assn. (2022) 76 Cal. App. 5th
1043.
 
Here, as the
Court has previously noted, Plaintiff achieved the main purpose of the
litigation, namely Defendant’s cessation of the barking dog nuisance.  Therefore, Plaintiff is the “prevailing
party” for purposes of Section 5975.  
 
Timeliness of
Motion
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b) provides:
 
Unless otherwise
ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting papers shall
be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing. The moving and supporting
papers served shall be a copy of the papers filed or to be filed with the
court. However, if the notice is served by mail, the required 16-day period of
notice before the hearing shall be increased by five calendar days if the place
of mailing and the place of address are within the State of California, 10
calendar days if either the place of mailing or the place of address is outside
the State of California but within the United States, 12 calendar days if the
place of address is the Secretary of State's address confidentiality program
(Chapter 3.1 (commencing with Section 6205) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the
Government Code), and 20 calendar days if either the place of mailing or the
place of address is outside the United States, and if the notice is served by
facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing
for overnight delivery, the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing
shall be increased by two calendar days. Section 1013, which extends the time
within which a right may be exercised or an act may be done, does not apply to
a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers governed by this
section. All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court
and a copy served on each party at least nine court days, and all reply papers
at least five court days before the hearing.
The court, or a
judge thereof, may prescribe a shorter time.
 
The Court notes
that Plaintiff filed a proof of service indicating that the Notice of Continued
Hearing was served on Gamma by mail on January 18, 2024.  The Notice of Continued Hearing indicates
that the motion and supporting papers were also served on Gamma concurrently
with the Notice.  Therefore, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has provided the requisite minimal procedural due process
to defendant as required by Code of Civil Procedure, section 1005.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1005 [“all moving and
supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the
hearing.”] 
 
Conclusion
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees and costs is granted.  Plaintiff shall file a proposed order in
conformance with the Court’s ruling for the Court’s consideration and approval.  
 
Further, Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service
regarding the same.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  February 20, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 