 Case Number:  24NWCV00342    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  C ZUNIGA v. PIH HEALTH WHITTIER
HOSPITAL, et al.
CASE NO.:  24NWCV00342
HEARING:   9/18/24
@ 10:30 A.M.
 
#9
TENTATIVE RULING
 
I.               
Defendant PIH Health Whittier Hospital’s demurrer is OVERRULED.

II.             
Defendant PIH Health Whittier Hospital’s motion to strike
is DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
1.    DEMURRER
 
Background
 
This
is about a patient who died while in the care of defendant PIH Health Whittier
Hospital and other medical providers. As the
complaint alleges, Alfred Zuniga, plaintiff, complained of abdominal pain and
visited PIH Hospital where he received a gallstone diagnosis. (Compl, ¶ 36.) The
medical providers there referred him for a surgical consultation and
recommended he get a cholecystectomy. (Compl., ¶ 37.) On January 17, 2023, he got
the cholecystectomy. (Compl., ¶ 39.) Then, he vomited profusely. (Compl., ¶
40.) He also experienced extreme abdominal pains and reported them to his
providers. (Compl., ¶ 40.) He experienced further symptoms. (Compl., ¶ 41.) Defendants
did not adequately and timely address the symptoms. (Compl., ¶ 42.) On February
1, 2023, Plaintiff died at PIH Health Whittier Hospital. (Compl., ¶ 49.)
 
Plaintiff Alfred
Zuniga (“Plaintiff”), by and through his successor-in-interest Robert Zuniga sues
defendants
PIH Health Whitter Hospital; David Anderson, M.D.; Patrick Fulgencio, D.O.;
Minh Vuong-Dac, M.D.; Samuel Kim, M.D.; Raquel Caldera, P.A.; Katherine Kim,
M.D.; Adam Dost, M.D., and Alvin Shon, M.D., asserting causes of action for the
following:
 
1.   
Dependent Adult Abuse and Neglect
2.   
Negligence
3.   
Negligent Hiring, Supervisions, and
Retention
4.   
Professional Negligence
5.   
Wrongful Death. 
Defendant PIH Health Whittier Hospital (“Defendant”)
demurs to the first and third causes of action on the grounds that
they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are
uncertain.  
 

Meet and Confer
 
The parties adequately met-and-conferred. (Decl.
Magaña, ¶ 2; Code.
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading by raising questions of law. (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  
 
First
Cause of Action: Dependent Adult Abuse and Neglect
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s statements are conclusory and recitations of law.
Defendant also argues that the Plaintiff’s allegations are about professional
negligence, not custodial care as required by the Elder Abuse and Dependent
Adult Civil Protection Act. 
 
The
Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act provides for steep penalties against those who abuse an
elder or a dependent adult. Dependent adult abuse includes physical abuse,
neglect, isolation, deprivation by a care custodian of necessary goods or
services, and financial abuse. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a).)

 
          Neglect
 
Neglect
includes failure to assist in personal hygiene, failure to provide medical care
for physical and mental health needs, and failure to protect from health and safety
hazards. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (b).) 
 
The
plaintiff must allege that the defendant (1) had responsibility for meeting the
basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration,
hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or
dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3)
denied or withheld goods or services¿necessary to meet the elder or dependent
adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially
certain to befall the elder or dependent adult if the plaintiff alleges
oppression, fraud or malice or with conscious disregard of the high probability
of such injury¿if the plaintiff alleges recklessness. (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC¿(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 407.) The
plaintiff must also allege that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult
to suffer physical harm, pain, or mental suffering. (Ibid.)  Finally, the facts constituting the neglect
and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury must be
pleaded with particularity. (Ibid.) 
 
In addition, the plaintiff must allege that the
defendant had “care or custody” of the victim. (Winn v.
Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148.)  Winn explained that in
determining whether a defendant has care or custody requires “a robust
caretaking or custodial relationship - that is a relationship where a certain
party has assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one
or more of an elder's basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult
would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.” (Id. at
158.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff pleads that Defendant did not do the following: 
 
(1)
assess the existence of
signs, symptoms, and injuries; 
(2)
did not adequately and
timely communicate the signs and symptoms of a bile leak and its sequelae and
Plaintiff’s change of condition to his physicians; 
(3)
accurately and
routinely monitor, assess, recognize, and report Plaintiff’s signs and symptoms
of the iaotrogenic common bile duct injury and subsequent conditions to his
family members and physician; and
(4)
provide him with
effective pain management. (Compl., ¶ 59.)
 
Plaintiff
also pleads that Defendant did not do the following: 
 
(1)
monitor Plaintiff for
post-surgery for signs and symptoms of known complications; 
(2)
accurately and
routinely assess and recognize Plaintiff’s deteriorating conditions and report
the same; provide effective pain management; employ adequate staff. (Compl., ¶
59.) 
 
In
addition, Plaintiff pleads that Defendant did not effectively develop,
implement, and modify care plans for Plaintiff’s individualized care needs. (Compl.,
¶ 59.) 
 
Plaintiff
adequately pleads that PIH Health Whittier Hospital had a custodial, not just
professional, relationship because Plaintiff “was bedridden and often
with altered levels of consciousness throughout his hospitalization, and he
was, therefore, dependent on [Defendant] for assistance with all of his
activities of daily living …” (Compl. ¶ 65.) Plaintiff “was not able-bodied and
was unable to take care of his own needs during the time he was under the care
and custody of [the Defendant]” who had “a substantial ongoing caretaking and
custodial relationship with Mr. Zuniga while he was admitted to their
facilities.” (Compl., ¶ 66.) 
 
Based
on the above, Plaintiff adequately alleged neglect.
 
          Causation 
 
Without a natural inference of causation from the
allegations of duty and breach, specific facts affording such an inference that
the breach caused injury or harm must be alleged. (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 528.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that
when Plaintiff developed multiple signs and symptoms of a bile leak and,
subsequently, bile peritonitis during his hospitalization at PIH Hospital, his
condition continued to worsen and compound due to PIH Hospital and DOES 1
through 100’s staff neglect in monitoring Mr. Zuniga’s condition and neglect in
notifying his physicians of the signs and symptoms of known complications of
his surgery and his change of condition.  (Compl., ¶ 61.) Plaintiff also alleges, “An
undetected and untreated bile leak caused by an iatrogenic common bile duct
injury poses a serious threat to life. A person who suffers an untreated bile
leak is at risk of developing bile peritonitis, which can further progress to
sepsis and death, as was the case with Mr. Zuniga.” (Compl., ¶ 62.) 
 
Based
on the above, Plaintiff adequately pleaded causation.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Third Cause of Action:
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
 
Defendant
argues that the negligent hiring, supervision, and retention cause of action is
duplicative of the second cause of action of negligence. 
 
Negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention requires pleading the following: 1) an
employer hiring an employee; 2) who is incompetent or unfit; 3) employer had
reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and
4) the harm occurs. (Federico v. Super. Court (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-14)
 
Plaintiff
argues that Negligence and Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention is not
duplicative of Negligence because the latter focuses on legal duties owed
directly to Plaintiff, whereas the former is aimed specifically at Defendant’s
hiring and retention of individuals who were unfit to perform their job duties.  The Court agrees.  The Court determines that the two causes of
action are not duplicative.  
 
Here,
Plaintiff pleads that PIH Health Whittier Hospital negligently hired,
supervised, and/or retained employees who were unfit to perform their job
duties, and that PIH Health Whittier Hospital did not conduct sufficient
background checks and monitor job performance that would have put them on
notice that these persons were not fit to perform their job duties at PIH
Health Whittier. (Compl., ¶¶ 96-100.) As a result, Plaintiff experienced
injury. (Compl., ¶ 101.) Thus, Plaintiff has adequately pleaded negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.   
 
2.   
MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings which are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words,
phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 435, 436 & 437.) A
motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Meet and Confer
 
The parties adequately met-and-conferred. (Decl.
Magaña, ¶ 2; Code.
Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendants move to strike attorney
fees and costs and exemplary damages. 
 
Attorney
Fees and Costs
 
Welfare and Institutions Code
section 15657 states the following: “Where it is proven by clear and convincing
evidence that a defendant is liable for physical abuse, negligent, or fiduciary
abuse, and the defendant has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or
malice in committing that abuse, the Court shall award Plaintiff reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs.” 
 
Defendants move to strike attorney
fees and costs because the allegations relate only to professional negligence. 
 
 
As decided in the demurrer above, Plaintiff
adequately pleaded elder abuse and neglect.  Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant made a
conscious choice to understaff their hospital to increase profitability, in conscious
disregard of patient care needs. (Compl., ¶ 68.) The Court determines that the
Complaint, taken as a whole, adequately pleads recklessness.  Thus, the prayer for attorney’s fees and
costs pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657 is proper.  
 
          Punitive
Damages 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
425.13 states in relevant part:
 
“In any action for damages arising
out of the professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim for
punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless the
court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for
punitive damages to be filed.” 
 
Defendants move to strike punitive
damages under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13 because Defendant is a health
care provider sued for professional negligence, and Plaintiff cannot include a
claim for punitive damages unless the Court allows it.
 
However, as Plaintiff points out, Defendant’s argument has
been rejected by our state’s high court in Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771.  

 
Thus,
the motion to strike attorney fees and costs and exemplary damages is DENIED. 