 Case Number:  20STCV03662    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  C VALLES vs. INCLUSION SERVICES, LLC,
et al.
CASE NO.:  20STCV03662
HEARING:   9/18/24
@ 9:30 A.M.
 
#1
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
 
Opposing party to give NOTICE.
 
 
Background
 
This
lawsuit is about a patient who escaped a care facility and attacked Plaintiff
Gloria Valles. She sues for the following: (1) negligence; (2) negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision; (3) premises liability; (4) negligence; (5)
assault; (6) battery; (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (8)
negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
 
Defendants
Inclusion Services, LLC and Inclusion Specialized Supported Living Services,
LLC move to strike those portions of Plaintiff’s second amended complaint which
allege punitive damages.  
 
Motion
to Strike
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings which are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words,
phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 435, 436 & 437.) A
motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Meet and Confer
 
The parties adequately met-and-conferred.
(Decl. Kremenetsky, ¶ 8; Code.
Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendants move to strike those
portions of Plaintiff’s second amended complaint which allege punitive damages.
Defendants argue that those allegations assume that Defendants had a duty to
proactively restrain or confine the patient, but under the Lanterman
Developmental Disability Services Act, Defendants were prohibited from doing
so.  
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the motion to strike should be denied because
it is an improper motion for reconsideration. 
On October 28, 2021, the Court denied Defendants’ motion to strike the
punitive damages allegations in Plaintiff’s first amended complaint, which are
identical to the punitive damages allegations in Plaintiff’s second amended
complaint.  
 
The name of a motion
is not controlling, and a motion asking the trial court to decide the same
matter previously ruled on is a motion for reconsideration (See Powell v. County of Orange (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1573, 1577.) Upon reviewing the first
amended complaint, the court agrees that a motion to strike punitive damages was
already decided in the motion to strike punitive damages in the first amended
complaint. 
 
A non-prevailing
party may make a motion to reconsider and enter a different order if the motion
is: (1) brought before the same judge that made the order sought to be
reconsidered; (2) made within 10 days after service upon the party of the
notice of entry of the order; (3) based on new or different facts,
circumstances or law than those before the court at the time of the original
ruling; (4) supported by a declaration stating the previous order, by which
judge it was made, and the new or different facts, circumstances or law claimed
to exist; and (5) made and decided before entry of judgment.  (Code Civ.
Pro., §1008.)  Here, Defendants have not met any of these
requirements.  In this motion, Defendants
raise a new argument based upon the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Services Act.  However, Defendants fail to raise new or
different facts, circumstances or law to warrant a motion for
reconsideration.  
 
Thus, the motion
is DENIED.  
  