 Case Number:  24NWCP00263    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  C In re Petition of PALM GATE
AGENCY, LLC
CASE
NO.:  24NWCP00263
HEARING:
 9/18/24 @ 9:30 A.M. 
 
#4
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Petitioner Palm Gate Agency, LLC’s petition is DENIED without
prejudice.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE. 
 
The motion is unopposed as of September 10, 2024. 
 
 
On
February 23, 2024, Petitioner Alfredo Aside, LLC filed this petition for
approval of transfer of structured settlement payment rights. On August 20,
2024, the Petitioner amended the notice of motion. The petition seeks the
transfer of certain structured settlement payment rights held by D.B. as
Trustee of the K.R. Special Needs Trust. 
 
Best
Interests of Payee
 
To
approve a transfer of structured settlement payment rights, the Court
must determine that the transfer is in the best interest of the payee, considering
the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents. (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a).) 
 
To make this
determination, the Court must consider the totality of the circumstances,
including: 
 
(1)        
the reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete the
proposed transaction, taking into account the payee’s age, mental capacity,
legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level; 
 
(2)        
the stated purpose of the transfer; 
 
(3)        
the payee’s financial and economic situation;
 
(4)        
the terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is
transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her
future payments;
 
(5)        
whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments
that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to pay for the
future medical care and treatment of the payee relating to injuries sustained
by the payee in the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether
the payee still needs those future payments to pay for that future care and
treatment; 
 
(6)        
whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments
that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to provide for the
necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs the
future structured settlement payments to pay for future necessary living
expenses; 
 
(7)        
whether the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to
require future medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee
sustained in connection with the incident that was the subject of the
settlement and whether the payee lacks other resources, including insurance,
sufficient to cover those future medical expenses; 
 
(8)        
whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside from the
structured settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer,
sufficient to meet the payee’s future financial obligations for maintenance and
support of the payee’s dependents, specifically including, but not limited to,
the payee’s child support obligations, if any; 
 
(9)        
whether the financial terms of the transaction, including the discount
rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the expenses and
costs of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee, the size of the
transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee to achieve the
payee’s stated objectives, are fair and reasonable; 
 
(10)      whether the payee completed previous transactions
involving the payee’s structured settlement payments and the timing and size of
the previous transactions and whether the payee was satisfied with any previous
transaction;
 
(11)      whether the transferee attempted previous
transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement payments that were
denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits,
within the past five years; 
 
(12)       whether,
to the best of the transferee’s knowledge after making inquiry with the payee,
the payee has attempted structured settlement payment transfer transactions
with another person or entity, other than the transferee, that were denied, or
which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the
past five years;
 
(13)      whether the payee, or his or her family or
dependents, are in or are facing a hardship situation; 
 
(14)      whether the payee received independent legal or
financial advice regarding the transaction; and 
 
(15)      any other factors or facts that the payee, the
transferee, or any other interested party calls to the attention of the
reviewing court or that the court determines should be considered in reviewing
the transfer.
 
(Ins. Code., § 10139.5, subd. (b).) 
 
Here, the petitioner does not provide any of the information described
above. For example, Petitioner states, “…Petitioner alleges that the transfer
of structured settlement payment rights in the present matter is fair and
reasonable and in the best interests of the Payee, taking into account the
welfare and support of the Payee’s dependents, if any.” (Petition, ¶ 10.) But
the Petitioner does not state more. Thus, the Court cannot determine if the
transfer would be in the best interests of the payee. 
 
Other
Findings
 
In
addition, the Court must make the following findings:

(2) The payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek
independent professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received
that advice or knowingly waived that advice in writing.

(3) The transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that
complies with Section 10136 and the transfer agreement complies with Sections
10136 and 10138.

(4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order
of any court or other government authority.

(5) The payee reasonably understands the terms of the transfer agreement,
including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement required by Section
10136.

(6) The payee reasonably understands and does not wish to exercise the
payee's right to cancel the transfer agreement.
 
(Ins.
Code § 10139.5, subd. (a). See also 321
Henderson Receivables Origination LLC v. Sioteco (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
1059, 1066.) 
 
Here, the Petitioner has not submitted adequate evidence of the other
requirements of Insurance
Code section 10139.5, subdivision (a). Petitioner has attached exhibits stating
what appears to be relevant language, but there are redactions where a
signature would be. (Petition, Ex. B, C.) 
 
Petition Requirements
 
Also,
every petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment
rights shall include all the following:  
 
(1)        
The payee’s name,
address, and age. 
 
(2)        
The payee’s marital
status, and, if married or separated, the name of the payee’s spouse.
 
(3)        
The names, ages, and
place or places of residence of the payee’s minor children or other dependents,
if any. 
 
(4)        
The amounts and sources
of the payee’s monthly income and financial resources and, if presently
married, the amounts and sources of the monthly income and financial resources
of the payee’s spouse.  
 
(5)        
Whether the payee is
currently obligated under any child support or spousal support order, and, if
so, the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of any individual, entity, or
agency that is receiving child or spousal support from the payee under that order
or that has jurisdiction over the order or the payments in question. 
 
(6)        
Information regarding
previous transfers or attempted transfers, as described in paragraph (11),
(12), or (13) of subdivision (b). The transferee’s inability to provide
the information shall not stop the court from approving the proposed transfer,
if the court determines that the information is not available to the transferee
after the transferee has made a reasonable effort to secure the information,
including making an inquiry with the payee. 
 
(Ins.
Code § 10139.5, subd. (c).) 
 
The
information required to be included in the petition can also be provided at the
scheduled hearing through oral testimony or documentary evidence filed with the
court and made a part of the record consistent with the rules of evidence and
procedure. (Ins. Code § 10139.5,
subd. (d).) 
 
Here, the petitioner
does not provide sufficient evidence of the required information. Petitioner has attached
exhibits stating what appears to be relevant language, but there are redactions
where a signature would be. (Petition, Ex. D.) 
 
Based
on the above, the petition is DENIED without prejudice.  Palm Gate Agency, LLC, may refile a petition
which includes the required information. 
