 Case Number:  23NWCV03837    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  C VASQUEZ vs. CALIFORNIA METRO
PATROL, LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV03837
HEARING:   9/18/24
@ 10:30 A.M.
 
#3
TENTATIVE RULING
 
I.            
Defendant California Metro Patrol, LLC; Jonathan Chicas;
Richard Rodriguez, and Miguel Solorzano’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint for
damages is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part with 20 days leave to
amend.  
II.           
Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED
with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
DEMURRER
 
Background
 
Plaintiff
Leticia Vasquez (“Plaintiff”) is an elected member of the Governing Board of
the Central Basin Municipal Water District, a California local public entity.
In that capacity, she regularly attends monthly Central Basin board and
committee meetings.  On November 27,
2023, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendant California Metro Patrol, a
security guard company, and three of its security guard employees, Defendants
Jonathan Chicas (“Chicas”), Richard Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”), and M. Solorzano
(“Solorzano”).  
 
Plaintiff
alleges that on March 27, 2023, Plaintiff attended a Central Basin board
meeting at the Doubletree Hotel in Whittier, California. (Complaint, ¶11.) The
meeting was open to the public. (Ibid.) Also present at the meeting were
Defendants Chicas and Rodriguez, both of whom were armed. (Ibid.) At the
meeting, Plaintiff witnessed Joey Martinez, “one of the local activists”,
address the board. (Id., ¶12.) Before he could finish, however, Board
President Arturo Chacon ordered the security guards to stop Martinez from
speaking. (Id., ¶13.) Defendant Rodriguez approached Martinez, grabbed
the microphone, and told him to stop talking. (Ibid.) When Martinez
continued to speak, Defendant Chicas grabbed Martinez by his left arm and
escorted Martinez out of the meeting room. (Ibid.) As this was
happening, Plaintiff was standing behind Defendant Chicas waiting for her turn
to speak at the podium. (Ibid.)
 
After
Martinez left the meeting, Plaintiff approached the podium to make a public
comment. (Id., ¶15.) Board President Arturo Chacon, Central Basin
General Manager Alex Rojas, and Central Basin General Counsel Robert Baker
shouted at Plaintiff that she could not speak, and Defendant
Rodriguez grabbed the microphone to prevent her from doing so. (Ibid.)
“Because [Plaintiff] reasonably feared and believed that she would be injured
and physically grabbed and thrown out of the room in the same manner as the defendants
had just thrown Mr. Martinez out of the room, [Plaintiff] decided not to risk
injury and her personal safety and she backed away and returned to her seat at
the dias.” (Ibid.) “This outrageous conduct by defendants Chicas and
Rodriguez instilled fear, anxiety, severe emotional distress, humiliation,
consternation and embarrassment in [Plaintiff] and she reasonably believed and
felt that at some point the California Metro Patrol armed guards, Chicas and
Rodriguez, would physically grab her, beat her up, drag her out of the meeting
room and/or shoot her if she tried to publicly speak out and exercise her first
amendment rights.” (Id., ¶16.) 
 
Later,
when Plaintiff began to speak at the meeting, Board President Chacon shouted
she was out of order. (Id., ¶18.) The meeting was abruptly adjourned. (Ibid.)
Then, Defendants Chicas and Rodriguez suddenly
surrounded Plaintiff and demanded that she leave the building. (Id.,
¶19.) After several minutes of a “standoff” with Defendants Chicas and
Rodriguez, they left the room. (Id., ¶22.) 
 
Plaintiff
also alleges that Defendants Chicas, Rodriguez, and M. Solorzano (“Solorzano”)
refused to allow Plaintiff to enter the La Habra Heights Water District
building on four occasions so she could attend Central Basin committee meetings
held at the location. (Id., ¶25.) After one of the committee meetings,
Defendants Chicas and Rodriguez told Plaintiff to move her car. (Id.,
¶27.) As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff has suffered “severe
emotional distress, to be frightened, harassed, embarrassed, unnecessarily
humiliated, threatened, intimidated and coerced, anguish, horror, nervousness,
grief, anxiety, worry, shock, shame and the loss of her right to free speech
and assembly, the loss or her right to serve as an elected official and member
of the Central Basin Governing Board.” (Id., ¶28.)
 
Based
thereon, the Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 1) assault, 2) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, 3) negligent infliction of emotional
distress, 4) Bane Act violations, and 5) false imprisonment 
 
Defendants
demur
to all five causes of action on the grounds that they fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 

 

Meet and Confer
 
The parties adequately met-and-conferred. (Decl.
Doty, ¶¶ 3-4; Code.
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading by raising questions of law. (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  
 
First
Cause of Action: Assault
 
The essential elements of a cause of action for assault
are the following: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or
offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive
manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed [he or] she was about to be touched
in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that
defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to
defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was
a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that at the March 27, 2023 board meeting, Defendant
Rodriguez grabbed the microphone to prevent her from speaking. (Complaint,
¶15.) Although she feared that she would be grabbed and thrown out of the
meeting, Plaintiff alleges no facts tending to show that Defendant Rodriguez
attempted to grab her or intended to do so. 

 
The demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend.  
 
Second Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Pleading intentional infliction of emotional
distress requires the following: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional
distress; and (3) the defendant's extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual
and proximate cause of the severe emotional distress.”  (Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of
Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007.)
 
The conduct must be so extreme as to be beyond
all bounds of decency tolerated by society. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46
Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) Mere indignities, insults, threats, annoyances, petty
oppressions, and the like are not enough. (Id. at 1051.) Whether the
alleged conduct is outrageous is usually a question of fact. (So v. Shin
(2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 672.) To avoid demurrer, Plaintiff must allege
such acts with great specificity. (Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc.
(2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 160-161.)
 
Here, the Court determines that the Complaint,
as it currently stands, fails to allege conduct so extreme as to be beyond all
bounds of decency.  
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Third
Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff does not allege facts that establish a duty on Defendants’
behalf or the severe emotional distress sufficient to plead negligent
infliction of emotional distress. 
 
The elements of negligent infliction of
emotional distress are the following: (1) legal duty to use due care; (2)
breach of duty; (3) damage or injury; and (4) cause of the resulting damages or
injury. (Huggins v. Longs Drug Stores Calif., Inc. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 124,
129.) Serious emotional distress is an essential element of the cause of action
of negligent infliction of emotional distress. (Bogard v. Employers Casualty
Co. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 602, 618.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff pleads the following: “While
serving as security guards at such public meetings and premises, the defendants
had an obligation and duty to act reasonably and responsibly and not to
threaten, harass, intimidate, scare, and otherwise frighten those in attendance
at the meetings. This obligation and duty was specifically owed to those in
attendance at the public meetings including the public officials and members of
the public.” (Complaint, ¶41.) 
 
The Court has determined that Rodruguez’s act
of grabbing the microphone to prevent Plaintiff from speaking is insufficient
to constitute an assault.  Similarly,
such an act is insufficient to establish a breach of duty owed to Plaintiff.  Here, Rodriguez grabbed the microphone after
the board president, general manager, and general counsel instructed Plaintiff
not to speak.  
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend.   
 
Fourth
Cause of Action: Bane Act Violations 
 
To state a cause of action under section
52.1 there must first be violence or intimidation by threat of violence. (Cabesuela v. Browning-Ferris Indus. of Calif., Inc.
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 101, 111.) Second, the violence or threatened violence
must be due to plaintiff's membership in one of the specified classifications
set forth in Civil Code section 51.7 or a group similarly protected by
constitution or statute from hate crimes. (Ibid.)
 
Here, for the reasons stated above,
Plaintiff fails to adequately plead violence or intimidation by threat of
violence.  Moreover, Plaintiff did not
plead that she belongs to one of the specific groups. 
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Fifth
Cause of Action: False Imprisonment 
 
The elements of a tortious claim of false imprisonment are the following: “(1) the nonconsensual,
intentional confinement of a person, (2) without lawful privilege, and (3) for
an appreciable period of time, however brief.” (Lyons v. Fire Insurance
Exchange (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 880, 888.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges, [a]s other people were gathering their
belongings and preparing to leave the meeting room, the two armed guards,
defendants Chicas and Rodriguez, suddenly surrounded Director Vasquez and
demanded that she leave the building. Defendant Rodriguez stood directly in
front of [Plaintiff] only an arm’s length away totally blocking her view of the
public as she sat at the Directors’ table. Defendant Chicas stood within inches
of her and directly behind her, hemming her between the director’s table and
the chair in which she sat. Chicas was very close to her and may have even been
touching her chair.” (Complaint, ¶19.) 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff was free to leave but chose to remain in
the meeting room specifically to fight with Defendants after the meeting was
over.  Defendants raise factual issues
which cannot be adjudicated at this stage of the proceedings.  The Court determines that the fifth cause of
action is adequately pleaded.  
 
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED.   
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings which are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words,
phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 435, 436 & 437.) A
motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Defendants move to strike punitive
damages. Defendants argue that the complaint does not allege any facts showing
that Defendants acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. 
 
To state a prima facie claim for
punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Super. Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)
“Malice” is defined in as conduct “intended by the defendant to cause injury to
plaintiff, or despicable conduct that is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(1); College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th
at p. 725.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.”
(Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(3).) 
 
Further, an employer shall not be
liable based on an employee’s acts unless the employer had advance knowledge of
the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others; authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct; or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
(Civ. Code., § 3294, subd. (b).) For a corporate employer, the advance
knowledge and consciousness must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation. (Civ. Code., § 3294, subd. (b).)
 
Here, Plaintiff does not plead that
California Metro Patrol had advanced knowledge of the unfitness of the employee;
authorized or ratified the conduct; or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. 
 
As
to the individual defendants, the Court does not find that their conduct
constitutes malice, fraud, or oppression. The individual defendants confronted Plaintiff
in a public space, and although Plaintiff feared defendants would escalate the
matter, they did not do so.   
 
Thus,
the motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED with 20 days leave to
amend.  