


[1]As an initial
matter, Plaintiff notes that Defendant’s memorandum of points and authorities
in support of the motion exceeds the applicable page number limit set forth in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1113, subdivision (d).
This provision provides, inter alia, that “[e]xcept in a summary
judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum
may exceed 15 pages.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1113, subd. (d).) Defendant’s memorandum of points and authorities in
support of the motion is 16 pages. Accordingly, the Court disregards the
sixteenth page of Defendant’s memorandum. The Court declines to reject
Defendant’s motion in its entirety, as Plaintiff requests.  


[2]The Court notes
that Defendant’s RJN states that Exhibit 1 is the “Complaint in Richter v.
Deluxe Media Inc., Case No. 2:24-cv-04835-MRA-MRW, currently pending in the
United States District Court, Central District of California.” However, Exhibit
1 to Defendant’s RJN shows a Complaint captioned Stefan Richter v. Deluxe
Media Inc., et al., Case No. 24STCV09989, filed in the Los Angeles
County Superior Court.   


[3]Defendant asserts
that “[n]otably, the only claim in the PAGA Complaint that is not in the Class
Action Complaint is the claim for failure to keep accurate payroll records
under Labor Code Section 1174(d), a claim that is
entirely derivative of the underlying Labor Code violations (e.g., failure to
provide accurate records of hours worked and meal periods) and thus does not
raise any new issues of law or fact.” (Mot. at p. 4:2-5, emphasis omitted.) Defendant
cites to paragraph 86 of the Complaint in the instant action, which alleges
that “Defendants intentionally and willfully failed to keep accurate and
complete payroll records showing the hours worked daily and the wages paid to
Plaintiff and the Aggrieved Employees.” (Compl., ¶ 86.) 
 


[4]In Shaw, “Petitioners
brought a representative suit under the Labor Code Private Attorneys General
Act of 2004 (PAGA)…They conceded that their suit arises from the same facts and
theories as another PAGA action pending in Los Angeles. While their petition
for judicial coordination…with the Los Angeles PAGA suit was pending, the trial
court in this case stayed petitioners’ suit. After the petition for
coordination was denied, the trial court denied petitioners’ motion to lift the
stay, concluding that the stay was warranted under the doctrine of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction.” (Shaw v. Superior Court, supra, 78 Cal.App.5th at p. 251.) The Court of Appeal
found that “the trial court did not err in applying the exclusive concurrent
jurisdiction rule to this dispute.” (Ibid.)
 


[5]In light of the
foregoing, the Court need not and does not address Defendant’s remaining
alternative arguments in the motion. 


