 Case Number:  24STCV13238    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



INSIDE THE PARK, LLC, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
21 IN RIGHT, INC., et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 
  24STCV13238




Hearing Date:


October 30, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO THE FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION (DECLARATORY RELIEF)
  IN PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



            
Background
On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff Inside The Park LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against a number of defendants. On July 24,
2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants 21 In Right Inc., Luis R. Clemente, Roberto Clemente, Jr., CMG
Worldwide, Inc., Mark Roesler, Legendary Pictures Productions, LLC, Teton Ridge
Entertainment, LLC, and Tre Dev Co, LLC. The FAC alleges causes of action for
(1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (3) fraud, (4) specific performance, and (5) declaratory relief.[1]  
Teton Ridge Entertainment, LLC and Tre Dev Co,
LLC (jointly, “Teton”) now demur to the fifth cause of action of the FAC. Legendary
Pictures Productions, LLC joins in the demurrer. Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer. 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the FAC  
In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges that in or about March 2022, Plaintiff communicated with Roberto
Clemente, Jr., inquiring about film rights to his father, Roberto Clemente’s
life story. (FAC, ¶ 18.) “[I]n or about May 2022, the Clemente Family brought
in its business agent CMG Worldwide to negotiate a possible deal with [Plaintiff]
for the Rights.” (FAC, ¶ 19.) 
“In or about June 2022,
[Plaintiff], by and through its principals, Jonah Hirsch and Angel Munoz, met
with CMG agent Tina Xu and Mark Roesler in Los Angeles to discuss a possible
deal for the Rights. During these and in subsequent negotiations and discussions,
Luis R. Clemente, Roberto Clemente Jr., Ms. Xu and Mark Roesler verbally
represented that 21 In Right was the unencumbered owner of the Rights and had
the ability and authority to convey the option to the Rights and the Rights,
themselves, to [Plaintiff] should a formal agreement be reached.” (FAC, ¶ 20.) “In
or about January 2023, after nearly a year of discussions, meetings, calls and
protracted negotiation, [Plaintiff] and Defendant 21 In Right signed the ITP
Option Agreement…” (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
“The ITP Option
Agreement received widespread press coverage and interest, including without
limitation a widely circulated article in Deadline published on March 2,
2023.” (FAC, ¶ 23.) Thereafter, “an attorney named Steve Pena sent an email to
Mark Roesler of CMG on behalf of Teton Ridge notifying them that the Rights
were held by his client. Neither this email, nor the ultimate fact that [Plaintiff’s]
option of the Rights was disputed, was disclosed to [Plaintiff] by CMG or Mark
Roesler. With this information being deliberately withheld from [Plaintiff], [Plaintiff]
took substantial steps and expended considerable sums to commence development
and production of a feature film based on the Rights.” (FAC, ¶ 24.)  
“On or about March 16,
2023, [Plaintiff], by and through Jonah Hirsch and Angel Munoz, participated in
Zoom call with an A-list director...The director had his agent reach out to [Plaintiff]
upon seeing the March 2, 2023 news release in order to set up the call as he
was extremely interested in directing the film…” (FAC, ¶ 26.) “It was discussed
and agreed the next step was to set up a follow up call in which the Clemente
Family would speak directly to the director as soon as he wrapped shooting on
his current film.” (FAC, ¶ 26.) 
“In or about April 2023,
Angel Munoz traveled to Pittsburgh where he was told by Dwayne Rieder, the head
of the local Clemente Museum and close friend of Mr. Tull, that Mr. Tull was
also developing a film based on the life of Roberto Clemente.” (FAC, ¶ 27.) Plaintiff
alleges that Teton Ridge Entertainment, LLC and Tre Dev Co, LLC are owned
and/or controlled by Thomas Tull, the former Chairman and CEO of Legendary
Pictures Productions, LLC. (FAC, ¶¶ 12, 13.) “[A]fter a few weeks of very tense
back and forth…the Clemente Family finally acknowledged they had indeed
received the payment from Legendary and that Legendary was the true owner of
the Rights.” (FAC, ¶ 27.) Plaintiff attaches as Exhibit C to the FAC a “copy of
the Legendary Option Agreement.” (FAC, ¶ 27.) 
“In or about August 2023, CMG, sensing [Plaintiff] was running out of
patience, decided to return its commission on the transaction (approximately
$18,000). [Plaintiff] told CMG that, while the gesture was necessary, this was
not sufficient to settle the matter and [Plaintiff] was looking for a
resolution that would either: (a) clear the Rights so [Plaintiff] can move
forward with a feature film as originally intended or (b) compensation
sufficient to compensate [Plaintiff] for the two years of work it had put in
the project, as well as other damages.” (FAC, ¶ 29.) “In or about October 2023,
the Clemente Family returned the remaining portion of fees [Plaintiff] paid
totaling $42,000, but nothing else. Immediately after the payment was sent, the
Clemente Family blocked Angel Munoz from all communication and refused to
engage in any further communication with [Plaintiff] regarding the Rights or
the ITP Option Agreement.” (FAC, ¶ 31.)  
C.   
Fifth Cause of Action for Declaratory
Relief
In the fifth cause of
action for declaratory relief, Plaintiff alleges that “an actual controversy
has arisen and now exists between [Plaintiff] and Defendants regarding the
ownership of the Rights as well as the nature and scope of the rights
purportedly optioned to and purchased by Legendary and/or Teton Ridge and
whether any of these rights overlap or interfere with the Rights possessed by [Plaintiff]
as set forth in the ITP Option Agreement.” (FAC, ¶ 61.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[a] judicial
declaration is necessary and appropriate at this time under the circumstances
so that [Plaintiff] and Defendants may ascertain their respective rights and
obligations and so that [Plaintiff] can move forward with its anticipated film
based upon the Rights and in order to avoid a multiplicity of actions and
disputes going forward and so that motion pictures created by Defendants and/or
other third parties utilizing the Rights do not proceed further and destroy the
unique production and development opportunities regarding the Rights bargained
and contracted for by [Plaintiff].” (FAC, ¶ 62.) 
In the demurrer,
Teton asserts that the declaratory relief cause of action fails because “there
is no actual controversy.” (Demurrer at p. 12:15.) In Linda
Vista Village San Diego Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Tecolote Investors, LLC (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 166, 181,
cited by Teton, the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he fundamental basis of
declaratory relief is the existence of an actual, present controversy over a proper
subject.” The Linda Vista Court further noted that “[i]n the context of
a demurrer, the courts evaluate whether the factual allegations of a complaint
for declaratory relief reveal that an actual, ripe controversy exists between
the parties. A matter is not justiciable or appropriate for resolution
through declaratory relief unless the proper criteria are present, that there
is an actual controversy that is currently active, and both standing and
ripeness are appropriate criteria in making that determination. In
applying the basic criteria, we evaluate the nature of the rights and
duties that the plaintiff is asserting, which must follow some recognized
or cognizable legal theories that are related to subjects and requests for
relief that are properly before the court.” ((Id. at pp. 181-182 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].) 
Teton asserts that
the declaratory relief cause of action “fails as a matter of law for the
straightforward reason that [Plaintiff] admits in the FAC (multiple times) that
Legendary owns the Rights, and later executed an option agreement with Teton.”
(Demurrer at p. 13:2-4.) As noted by Teton, the FAC alleges that “[t]he
Clemente Family and its agent, CMG, fraudulently induced [Plaintiff] to
purchase an exclusive option to the rights to Roberto Clemente’s life story for
development of a feature film but failed to inform and deliberately concealed
from [Plaintiff] the fact that the Clemente Family had already optioned and, in
fact, sold those very same rights to Legendary Pictures years earlier.”
(FAC, ¶ 1, emphasis added.)[2] Teton
also notes that the FAC alleges that “in late May 2023, [Plaintiff] discovered
the previous option agreement signed by the Clemente Family and Legendary in
2015 had not, in fact, expired…” (FAC, ¶ 3, emphasis in original.) In
addition, as discussed, Plaintiff alleges that “the Clemente Family finally
acknowledged…that Legendary was the true owner of the Rights.” (FAC, ¶ 27.) Teton
asserts that accordingly, “[Plaintiff’s] admissions in the FAC belie its claim
that this Court’s intervention is necessary to adjudicate the parties’
respective rights concerning the production of a feature film that would depict
Roberto Clemente’s life story.” (Demurrer at p. 13:14-16.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that “there is an actual controversy supporting Plaintiff’s
declaratory relief cause of action.” (Opp’n at p. 8:19-20.) As discussed,
paragraph 1 of the FAC alleges that “[t]he Clemente
Family and its agent, CMG, fraudulently induced [Plaintiff] to purchase an
exclusive option to the rights to Roberto Clemente’s life story for development
of a feature film but failed to inform and deliberately concealed from [Plaintiff]
the fact that the Clemente Family had already optioned and, in fact, sold
those very same rights to Legendary Pictures years earlier.” (FAC, ¶ 1,
emphasis added.) Plaintiff contends that this allegation does not establish the
lack of a controversy, because “this allegation has nothing to do with the
current ownership of Roberto Clemente’s rights…simply because [21 In Right,
Inc.] previously optioned Roberto Clemente’s rights does not mean that
Legendary exercised that option and/or that Legendary or Teton currently owns
the rights…” (Opp’n at pp. 10:26-11:1, emphasis omitted.) However, Plaintiff
does not appear to point to any allegations of the FAC stating that Teton or
Legendary do not own the subject rights. 
As discussed above,
Plaintiff also alleges that “[u]pon further investigation and questioning by [Plaintiff]
over the next few weeks, in late May 2023, [Plaintiff] discovered the
previous option agreement signed by the Clemente Family and Legendary in 2015
had not, in fact, expired as repeatedly and falsely represented by 21 In
Right, Luis R. Clemente, Roberto Clemente Jr. and CMG.” (FAC, ¶ 3, emphasis
added.) Plaintiff argues that this allegation also does not establish the lack
of a controversy. Plaintiff asserts that it “was provided with an email wherein
Steve Pena, one of Teton’s attorneys, wrote to CMG asserting that Teton still
owned the rights to Roberto Clemente. But simply because Steve Pena and Thomas
Tull made representations to Plaintiff that Teton owns the rights does not make
it true.” (Opp’n at p. 11:14-17.) But again, Plaintiff does not cite to
allegations of the FAC stating that although “the previous option agreement
signed by the Clemente Family and Legendary in 2015 had not, in fact, expired,”
(FAC, ¶ 3), Teton and/or Legendary still purportedly do not own the subject
rights. As noted by Teton in the reply, Plaintiff does not appear to allege “that
Legendary/Teton do not own the exclusive rights, nor that the rights did not
vest.” (Reply at p. 9:27-28.) 
The Court agrees with
Teton that Plaintiff does not appear to allege facts demonstrating a dispute
regarding ownership of the subject rights. 
Plaintiff also argues
that “the agreements themselves contemplate two different productions and there
is a dispute as to whether and/or where there is any overlap between the two
option agreements. Specifically, Plaintiff’s agreement contemplates production
of a ‘first class feature film’ based on the book ‘Clemente – The True Legacy
of an Undying Hero’ (see FAC, Ex. A ¶ 3), while Legendary’s agreement
contemplates production of a theatrical motion picture based on certain life
rights (see FAC, Ex. C at 1).” (Opp’n at p. 12:7-12.) But the FAC does not
appear to contain any specific allegations discussing such a dispute, and
Plaintiff does not point to any. Moreover, as noted by Teton, “[w]hile
inconsistent theories of recovery are permitted, a pleader
cannot blow hot and cold as to the facts positively stated.” (Brown v. City of Fremont (1977) 75 Cal.App.3d
141, 146 [emphasis in original, reference to [citation] omitted].) 
As discussed, Plaintiff pleads that “[t]he
Clemente Family and its agent, CMG, fraudulently induced [Plaintiff] to
purchase an exclusive option to the rights to Roberto Clemente’s life story for
development of a feature film but failed to inform and deliberately concealed
from [Plaintiff] the fact that the Clemente Family had already optioned and,
in fact, sold those very same rights to Legendary Pictures years earlier.”
(FAC, ¶ 1, emphasis added.) As noted by Teton, Plaintiff appears to assert that
“the Clemente Family and 21 In Right previously sold the rights to produce a
film based on the life of Roberto Clemente to someone other than [Plaintiff],
and in the same breath, asserts that [Plaintiff] is not sure whether it owns
these rights.” (Reply at p. 14:3-5.) 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court sustains Teton’s demurrer to the fifth cause of
action of the FAC, with leave to amend. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Teton’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action
of the FAC is sustained, with leave to amend. The Court orders Plaintiff to
file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this
Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of this Order, the Court
orders Teton to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 30 days
of the date of this Order.¿¿Teton is ordered to give notice of this
Order.  
 
DATED:  October 30, 2024                           ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


