 Case Number:  23VECV02555    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  W ALLY BANK v. JESSICA SKELTON, et al.
 
plaintiff’s application for writ of possession
 
Date of Hearing:        September
21, 2023                         Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV02555
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Ally Bank   
Responding
Party:     No opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
alleges Defendants Jessica Skelton and Maxwell Murphy entered into a written
Contract with Plaintiff’s assignor for a 2019 Jeep Cherokee motor vehicle.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants then defaulted on the terms of the Agreement
by failing to make the payment due and owing. At the time of filing, the total
unpaid amount was $30,077.82. 
 
Plaintiff
filed the complaint on June 12, 2023 for claim and delivery and money on
contract. 
 
Plaintiff
now seeks a Writ of Possession against Defendants. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Application for Writ of
Possession is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession,
the Defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2)
a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any
affidavit in support thereof. (CCP §512.030.) 

 
The
court file reflects proper service of the summons, complaint, notice of
application, and application upon Defendants Skelton and Murphy. As a result, the court addresses the merits of the application below.
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and include: 1)
Plaintiff’s basis for the claim and entitlement to possession; 2) Defendant’s
wrongful detention; 3) description of the property; 4) location of the property
and  probable cause to believe that such
property is located there; and 5) the property has not been taken for a tax,
assessment or fine or seized under an execution against the property.  
 
Plaintiff provides the declaration of Amber
Gilbert, an authorized signatory of Plaintiff, to establish the facts relevant
to the writ application. Plaintiff has demonstrated an entitlement to
possession of the property claimed due to Defendant’s default under the
Agreement and the probable validity of Plaintiff’s claims for claim and
delivery and money on contract. (Gilbert Decl. ¶¶5-8.) The evidence
demonstrates the existence of the Agreement between Plaintiff’s Assignor and
Defendant. (Gilbert Decl. ¶5, Exh. A.) Plaintiff also provides the California
Certificate of Title evidencing Plaintiff’s first priority perfected security
interest in the motor vehicle. (Gilbert Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B.) Plaintiff attests
Defendants failed to make the payments due and owing under the contract from
May 3, 2022 and on. (Gilbert Decl. ¶6.) Plaintiff has made a demand for
Defendants to surrender the vehicle pursuant to the contract, but Defendants
have not done so. (Gilbert Decl. ¶6.) As of May 24, 2023, there is due and
owing $30,077.82 with other charges as provided in the Contract. (Gilbert Decl.
¶6.) Accordingly, the court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated it has been
damaged by being deprived of possession of the vehicle.
 
Plaintiff has also provided a particular
description of the property and the value of the property. (Application ¶4.)
Moreover, Plaintiff has provided that the vehicle has not been taken for a tax,
assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution
against the property of the plaintiff. (Application ¶8.) Plaintiff further
claims the vehicle is in possession at Defendants’ residence. (Gilbert Decl.
¶8.)  
 
Plaintiff has met its burden in demonstrating
their entitlement to a writ of possession. As a result, Plaintiff must file an undertaking
“in an amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's interest in the
property or in a greater amount” unless the court finds the defendant has no
interest in the property. (CCP §515.010(a), (b).) “The value of the defendant's
interest in the property is determined by the market value of the property less
the amount due and owing on any conditional sales contract or security
agreement and all liens and encumbrances on the property, and any other factors
necessary to determine the defendant's interest in the property.” (Id.) 
 
The approximate retail value is $26,675.00. (Gilbert
Decl., ¶7 Exh. C.) Plaintiff contends Defendant owes $30,077.82. Since
Defendants owe more than the market value of the Vehicle, Defendants have no
interest in the Vehicle pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010.
The court thus waives the requirement to file an undertaking for Defendant’s
interest. 
 
The application for writ of possession is GRANTED.
