 Case Number:  BC616434    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling   Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47     HEARING DATE:     December 4, 2024                  TRIAL  DATE: May 5, 2025                                                             CASE:                         US Construction Law, et al. v. Jean  Pierre Christopher Murray, et al.   CASE NO.:                 BC616434; consolidated with BC594432               MOTION  FOR LEAVE TO REOPEN DISCOVERY    MOVING PARTY:               Defendant/Cross-Complainant Jean Pierre Christopher  Murray   RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant  US Construction Law & Cross-Defendant Sean Reynolds   CASE  HISTORY: ·          09/11/15: Complaint filed (BC594432) ·          04/11/16: Complaint filed (BC616434) ·          06/13/16: Cross-Complaint filed (BC616434) ·          02/22/19: Cases consolidated; this case  designated as lead case.   STATEMENT  OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:                          This is a dispute concerning legal representation. US Construction Law provided  legal services to Jean Pierre Christopher Murray, and alleges that the Murrays  have refused to pay the legal fees owed. The Murrays, as counter-claimants,  allege that US Construction Law and Attorney Sean Reynolds were professionally  negligent.   Defendant Murray moves for leave to  reopen discovery.              TENTATIVE RULING:   Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s  Motion to Reopen Discovery is GRANTED.                Defendant/Cross-Complainant  may propound discovery pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure into the amount  of coverage remaining on Cross-Defendants’ eroding professional liability  insurance policy. Discovery cutoffs for this limited issue shall be calculated  from the current May 5, 2025 trial date. Discovery remains closed as to all  other matters.    DISCUSSION:   Defendant/Cross-Complainant Murray  moves for leave to reopen discovery.   Legal Standard to  Reopen Discovery               The discovery cut-off date to  complete discovery is the 30th day before the date initially set for the trial;  the cut-off date to have discovery motions heard is the 15th day before the  date initially set for the trial. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.020(a).) “Except as  provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial date  does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” (Code Civ. Proc. §  2024.020(b).)               Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 2024.050, the Court may grant leave to complete discovery closer to the  trial date or to reopen discovery after a new trial date is set:   (a)  On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery  proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the  initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.  This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040.   (b)  In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take  into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but  not limited to, the following:   (1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.   (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery  or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was  not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.   (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery  motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise  interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.   (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set,  and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.   (c)  The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with  Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully  makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds  that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or  that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.   (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)   Meet and Confer               A party  seeking to reopen discovery must file a declaration in which states facts  “showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each  issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040; 2024.050(a).)                Although Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s  counsel has provided a declaration describing the underlying matters into which  Defendant seeks to conduct discovery, that Declaration merely asserts that  Cross-Defendant Reynolds’s counsel has refused to respond to inquiries into  Cross-Defendant’s malpractice insurance. (Declaration of Keith Turner ISO Mot.  ¶¶ 16-19.) Those discussions relate to the underlying factual issues, not to  the reopening of discovery, on which the Turner Declaration is silent. Defendant  has not satisfied his statutory meet-and-confer obligations. Nevertheless, the  Court addresses the merits of the motion in the interest of an expeditious  resolution of this dispute.    Analysis               Defendant/Cross-Complainant  seeks to reopen discovery as to the policy limits of Cross-Defendant Sean  Reynolds’s legal malpractice insurance. Cross-Defendant Reynolds served his  initial responses to Cross-Complainants’ Form Interrogatories – General on  January 5, 2016. (Turner Decl. Exh. B.) Those interrogatories included, as  relevant here, Form Interrogatory 4.1, which sought information pertaining to  any applicable insurance coverage for the instant claims, including the type of  coverage, the contact information of the insurance company and the named  insured, the policy number, the limits of coverage, whether any reservation of  rights existed, and the contact information of the policy custodian. (Id.  Exh. B. No. 4.1.) Cross-Defendant responded to that interrogatory, identifying  his professional liability insurance, providing the requested contact  information and policy numbers, stating that a reservation of rights exists,  and, critically, that the total limit of coverage was $1 million. (Id.)  However, on January 22, 2024, which was the previously-scheduled trial date,  counsel for Cross-Defendant disclosed that Cross-Defendant’s insurance coverage  was subject to a “burning” or “eroding” limit and had been mostly depleted.  (Turner Decl. ¶ 16.)    1.       Necessity of Discovery   Defendant/Cross-Complainant  contends that further discovery is necessary because the limits of coverage for  Cross-Defendant’s malpractice insurance is directly relevant to Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s  potential recovery on the Cross-Complaint, and, therefore, to the entire  litigation strategy. Defendant/Cross-Complainant also claims that this  discovery might inform whether to attempt a new round of settlement negotiations—a  contention in which the Court places little stock in light of the age of this  case and Cross-Defendants’ spirited opposition.    For their part, Cross-Defendants  dismiss Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s justification as a “sham,” asserting  that, since Cross-Complainants’ counsel claims expertise in attorney  malpractice claims and insurance matters, counsel should have been aware of the  possibility of an eroding limits policy. Bare assertions in Cross-Defendants’  opposition regarding common practices of insurance policies are not evidence of  those practices, and, moreover, Cross-Defendants’ contentions do not bear on  whether the proposed discovery is necessary to the litigation. As  Cross-Defendants admit, discoverable information includes, inter alia  any information which might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case. (City  of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.) Information  pertaining to the practical limits of a party’s recovery is information which,  on its face, might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case. The Court  therefore finds that this factor weighs in favor of reopening discovery.    2.       Diligence in Seeking Discovery               Turning to  Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s diligence in pursuing the discovery sought, Defendant/Cross-Complainant  claims that this motion was necessitated by Cross-Defendant’s late disclosure,  and, further, that the nine-month delay between the disclosure and this motion  was caused by Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s efforts to informally resolve this  dispute.    `           Cross-Defendant’s  response to the relevant form interrogatory was served on January 5, 2016.  (Turner Decl. Exh. B.) Defendant/Cross-Complainant does not state whether any  further discovery was conducted into Cross-Defendant’s insurance coverage  before the close of discovery, but Defendant/Cross-Complainant contends that  the policy’s eroding nature was only discovered on January 22, 2024, some eight  years after receiving Cross-Defendant’s Interrogatory Responses. (Turner Decl.  ¶ 16.) Although Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s counsel asserts that they have  “repeatedly” asked Cross-Defendant for information, the Turner Declaration only  describes a single email from co-counsel Scott Humphrey dated June 5, 2024.  (Turner Decl. ¶ 17.) A single unanswered email in the nine months between  Cross-Defendant’s disclosure of the eroding policy limit on January 22, 2024  and this motion’s filing and service on October 31 is not evidence of  diligence. The Court therefore finds that this factor does not weigh in favor  of reopening discovery    3.       Likelihood of Interference with Calendar or  Prejudice   Defendant/Cross-Complainant asserts  that there will be no interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to the  other parties in light of the current trial date of May 5, 2025 and the narrow  scope of further discovery sought. The Court concurs with  Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s assessment and finds, that, based on this record,  this factor weighs in favor of reopening discovery.  4.       Length of Time Since Previous and Current Trial  Date               Trial  in this action was previously set for January 22, 2024, at which time it was  continued to February 6, 2024. (January 22, 2024 Minute Order.) On January 26,  2024, the Court advanced and vacated the February 6 trial date. (January 26,  2024 Minute Order.) The current trial date of May 5, 2025 was set at a June 12,  2024 Trial Setting Conference. (June 12, 2024 Minute Order.) This motion was  filed on October 31, 2024, nine months after the January 22, 2024 trial date,  and seven months in advance of the current trial date.               Although  Defendant/Cross-Complainant has not offered satisfactory evidence of diligence  in pursuing the discovery sought, the Court finds that lack of diligence is  offset by the narrow scope of the request, the facially-apparent relevance of  the information sought, and the relative distance of the current trial date. The  Court therefore finds that discovery should be reopened for the limited purpose  of conducting discovery into the amount of coverage remaining on  Cross-Defendants’ eroding professional liability insurance policy.    CONCLUSION:                 Accordingly,  Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Motion to Reopen Discovery is GRANTED.                Defendant/Cross-Complainant  may propound discovery pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure into the amount  of coverage remaining on Cross-Defendants’ eroding professional liability  insurance policy. Discovery cutoffs for this limited issue shall be calculated  from the current May 5, 2025 trial date. Discovery remains closed as to all  other matters.                Moving  Party to give notice.   IT IS SO ORDERED.   Dated:  December 4,  2024                              ___________________________________                                                                                     Theresa  M. Traber                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court                Any party may submit on the  tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day  before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It  should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still  conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you  have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you  should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an  order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.  US CONSTRUCTION LAW V. MURRAY,
Case No. BC616434 TENTATIVE RULINGS ON TRIAL ISSUES AND MOTIONS IN
LIMINE Trial date:  May 5, 2025 Plaintiffs’ Claim for Account Stated and
Claim for Hourly Fees“The essential elements
of an account stated are: (1) previous transactions between the parties
establishing the relationship of debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between
the parties, express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to the
creditor; (3) a promise by the debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount
due. [Citations.]”  (Leighton v.
Forster (2017) 8 Cal. App. 5th 467, 491.)Defendants have submitted
a brief asking the Court to bar Plaintiffs from asserting a claim for account
stated at trial and seeking recovery of hourly fees on several grounds.  First, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs “gained
a substantial advantage over the Murrays when [Reynolds] unilaterally imposed
the Hourly Fee Agreement on them. (Defendants’ Brief, p. 6.)  Second, Defendants point to Plaintiffs’
alleged breaches of the professional standard of care and their fiduciary
responsibilities, contending that this misconduct invalidates any claim for
fees.  (Id., pp. 6-7.) Third,
Defendants complain about bills for legal defense work done before the
cross-complaint was filed against the Murrays. (Id., p. 7.)  These are all factual issues which, if
pertinent to the account stated claim, must be resolved by the jury. Defendants’ final attack
on the account stated claim is the contention that it cannot be asserted as a
matter of law because the Contingency Fee Agreement and Business and
Professions Code section 6148 require that an enforceable fee agreement be in
writing and signed by both parties.  A
reading of the Contingency Fee Agreement belies Defendants’ assertion, since
section 2 of that agreement states only that work outside the scope of the
covered services, including defense of a cross-complaint, are not covered under
the agreement and, if needed, “Attorney and Client will either negotiate a separate
agreement . . . or Client will engage separate counsel.”  Thus, the signed Contingency Fee Agreement
cannot be construed as mandating a signed written contract for defense
work but only a “separate agreement.” 
(Murray Decl., Exh. A, p. 1.)  As
a result, Defendants’ argument, based on the Contingency Fee Agreement, that an
account stated claim may not be asserted without a signed written contract is
not supported by the plain language of that agreement.Turning to the mandates
of section 6148, the statute provides, in relevant part:   (a) In any case not
coming within Section 6147 in which it is reasonably foreseeable that total
expense to a client, including attorney fees, will exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000), the contract for services in the case shall be in writing.
 At the time the contract is
entered into, the attorney shall provide a duplicate copy of the contract
signed by both the attorney and the client, or the client's guardian or
representative, to the client or to the client's guardian or representative.
The written contract shall contain all of the following:(1)
Any basis of compensation including, but not limited to, hourly rates,
statutory fees or flat fees, and other standard rates, fees, and charges
applicable to the case.(2)
The general nature of the legal services to be provided to the client.(3)
The respective responsibilities of the attorney and the client as to the
performance of the contract.(b) All bills rendered by
an attorney to a client shall clearly state the basis thereof. Bills for the
fee portion of the bill shall include the amount, rate, basis for calculation,
or other method of determination of the attorney's fees and costs. Bills for
the cost and expense portion of the bill shall clearly identify the costs and
expenses incurred and the amount of the costs and expenses. Upon request by the
client, the attorney shall provide a bill to the client no later than 10 days
following the request unless the attorney has provided a bill to the client
within 31 days prior to the request, in which case the attorney may provide a
bill to the client no later than 31 days following the date the most recent
bill was provided. The client is entitled to make similar requests at intervals
of no less than 30 days following the initial request. In providing responses
to client requests for billing information, the attorney may use billing data
that is currently effective on the date of the request, or, if any fees or
costs to that date cannot be accurately determined, they shall be described and
estimated.(c) Failure to
comply with any provision of this section renders the agreement voidable at the
option of the client, and the attorney shall, upon the agreement being
voided, be entitled to collect a reasonable fee.(d) This section
shall not apply to any of the following:(1)
Services rendered in an emergency to avoid foreseeable prejudice to the rights
or interests of the client or where a writing is otherwise impractical.(2)
An arrangement as to the fee implied by the fact that the attorney's services
are of the same general kind as previously rendered to and paid for by the
client.(3)
If the client knowingly states in writing, after full disclosure of this
section, that a writing concerning fees is not required.(Bus. & Prof. Code § 6148 [Emphasis added].)  Plaintiffs defend their
account stated claim and prayer for recovery of hourly fees based on the
language of section 6148.  Relying on
subsection (c), Plaintiffs suggest Defendants have never exercised their right
to void the fee agreement with Plaintiffs so it is enforceable even if not
compliant with the statutory requirements. 
In addition, subsection (d) lists factual situations where the absence
of a signed written retainer agreement will not invalidate an arrangement to
provide legal services and recover unpaid fees based on that arrangement.  It is apparent from Plaintiffs’ responsive
brief that they intend to demonstrate the existence of an enforceable contract
under one or more of the listed situations. 
(Plaintiffs’ Opposition, p. 5.) 
Accordingly, the question of whether Plaintiff’s account stated claim is
viable is one for the jury.  It would be
improper for the Court to prohibit that claim from being presented at trial.  Plaintiffs’ Claims for Indebitatus
Assumpsit and Open Book Account            Defendants
argue Plaintiffs cannot assert claims for indebitatus assumpsit or open book
account because they cannot prove there was a valid contract giving rise to a legitimate
debt to be collected.  “[W]hen a contract
has been fully performed and nothing remains to be done under it except the
payment of money by defendant, plaintiff may declare generally in indebitatus
assumpsit.”  (Haggerty v. Warner
(1953) 115 Cal. App. 2d 468, 474.)  Such
a claim may be joined with a breach of contract claim.  (Id.) 
The indebitatus assumpsit is grounded on proof that services were
“performed at the request of defendants, that they promised to pay for them and
failed to do so.”  (Id., at p.
475.)  As an alternative common count, a
plaintiff seeking payment for services rendered may bring a quantum meruit
claim, which seek payment of the reasonable value of the services given.  (Id.) 
            “The
term ‘book account’ is defined by statute to mean ‘a detailed statement which
constitutes the principal record of one or more transactions between a debtor
and a creditor arising out of a contract or some fiduciary relation, and shows
the debits and credits in connection therewith, and against whom and in favor
of whom entries are made, is entered in the regular course of business as
conducted by such creditor or fiduciary, and is kept in a reasonably permanent
form and manner and is (1) in a bound book, or (2) on a sheet or sheets
fastened in a book or to backing but detachable therefrom, or (3) on a card or
cards of a permanent character, or is kept in any other reasonably permanent
form and manner.’ ([Code Civ. Proc.] § 337a.) 
A book account is ‘open’ where a balance remains due on the account. [Citation].”
(Eloquence Corp. v. Home Consignment Ctr. (2020) 49 Cal. App. 5th 655,
664-665.)  Generally, where there is an
existing contract, a claim for open account will not lie; the exception to this
rule is where the parties have agreed to treat money due under an express
contract as items under an open book account. 
(Id., at p. 665.)              The
availability of claims for indebitatus assumpsit or open book depends on the application
of Business and Professions Code § 6148. 
If the jury finds there is an oral agreement covering the fees
Plaintiffs seek to recover and Defendants choose to invalidate it under §
6148(c), Plaintiffs cannot assert claims for indebitatus assumpsit or open book
but only one for quantum meruit, because under those circumstances, Plaintiffs
may recover only a reasonable fee.  (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 6148(c).)  If the jury
finds Plaintiffs have demonstrated a right to recover under one of the
subsection (d) scenarios, then a valid fee contract will exist despite the
absence of a signed written agreement and Plaintiffs will be entitled to assert
a parallel claim for indebitatus assumpsit. 
Whether an open book claim is also available depends on proof that the
parties agreed to treat money due under the contract as part of an open book
account.  Given the intertwined nature of
the various claims and the need for jury verdicts to resolve them, the Court
cannot find as a matter of law than Plaintiffs are barred from asserting
indebitatus assumpsit or open book claims.  Plaintiffs’ Claim for Quantum Meruit            In
addition to arguing about factual issues that must be resolved by the jury, Defendants
urge the Court to bar litigation of Plaintiffs’ claims for a quantum meruit
recovery of their fees based on their decision to withdraw from representation
of Defendants.  But the cases on which
Defendants rely make clear that a withdrawing attorney is entitled to seek a
quantum meruit recovery when the attorney has justifiable cause for
withdrawing.  (Estate of Falco
(1987) 188 Cal. App. 3d 1004, 1014 [Emphasis in original].) “An attorney who
voluntarily abandons a case without good cause will be denied compensation.”  (Id.) 
Since a claim for quantum meruit is tried to a jury, it is for the jury
to decide whether Plaintiffs’ voluntary withdrawal from representing Defendants
was justifiable under the applicable legal standards.  TENTATIVE RULINGS ON SOME MOTIONS IN
LIMINEPlaintiff’s MIL # 1:  to exclude
evidence regarding Sean Reynold’s expunged misdemeanor DUI convictions, arrests
and incarcerations or, in the alternative, request for 402 hearing   TENTATIVE RULING:  Pre-trial
hearing under Evidence Code §402 is warranted.  Plaintiff
has not demonstrated that the expungement of Reynold’s DUI convictions under
Penal Code § 1203.4 functions as a per se exclusion as evidence in a
civil case like this.  As the Court of
Appeal explained in People v. Weidersperg (1975) 44 Cal. App. 3d 550, 553-554: Section
1203.4 provides that in any case in which the defendant has successfully
completed the period of probation he may be permitted by the court to withdraw
his guilty plea, after which the court shall dismiss the information against
him, ‘and he shall thereafter be released from all penalties and disabilities
resulting from the offense of which he has been convicted.’ However, the
expungement procedure does not eradicate the conviction. Even though the
information has been dismissed, the ‘expunged conviction may be pleaded and
proved in a subsequent case as a prior conviction. For example, “a defendant
may be convicted of possession of a firearm by a prior felon, based upon his
expunged conviction.” (Id., at p. 554; Adams v. Cnty. of Sacramento
(1991) 235 Cal. App. 3d 872, 878.)  The
“penalties
and disabilities” that are released by an expungement refer to “criminal
penalties and disabilities or to matters of a kindred nature.” (Copeland v.
Dep't of Alcoholic Beverage Control (1966) 241 Cal. App. 2d 186, 188.)  “But the disciplining of licensees . . .  is for the protection of the public in the
exercise of the police power and not for the purpose of punishing any licensee.”  (Id.) 
Thus, the fact of the conviction is admissible to suspend or revoke a
business of professional license or to take other disciplinary action against a
professional that may be predicated on criminal misconduct. (Id.; Meyer
v. Board of Medical Examiners (1949) 34 Cal.2d 62, 66-67 [suspension of
medical license]; Fountain v. State Board of Education (1958) 157
Cal.App.2d 463, 469 [revocation of teaching credential]; In re Phillips
(1941) 17 Cal.2d 55, 61 [disbarment of attorney].) Thus, if the convictions are
relevant to the issues in this case, the expungement under section 1203.4 poses
no bar to their admissibility here. Plaintiffs urge the Court
to exclude the convictions under Evidence Code §§ 788 and 787.  Under Evidence Code § 788, the credibility of
a witness may be attacked by showing that he or she has been convicted of a
felony, but misdemeanor convictions are not similarly admissible impeachment.  (People v. Chatman (2006) 38 Cal.4th
344, 373.) Evidence Code § 787 bars admission of specific instances of conduct
relevant only to prove a character trait to attack the credibility of a
witness.  Defendants disclaim any
intention to offer the convictions as impeachment evidence, however. Plaintiffs also argue
that the convictions should be excluded, under Evidence Code § 1101(a), if they
are being offered as specific instances of conduct used to prove Plaintiff
Reynold’s conduct on a specific occasion. 
Specifically, Plaintiffs contend the convictions cannot be used to show
that Reynolds had a propensity to abuse alcohol and, thus, that he was abusing
alcohol during his representation of Defendants.  Plaintiffs also object that any minimal
relevance of the convictions will be outweighed by the danger of prejudice,
emotional bias, undue consumption of time, and confusing the jury, thus
mandating exclusion under Evidence Code § 352. 
Defendants counter that
the convictions would not be offered to prove misconduct on a particular day
but rather that Reynolds had an alcohol and drug abuse problem that rendered it
unreasonably difficult for him to carry out his representation of Defendants,
thus resulting in a violation of his professional duties under Rules 1.1 and
1.16 of the Professional Rules of Conduct. Defendants also argue that the
convictions tend to clarify why Reynolds committed the acts of alleged
professional negligence that form the basis of Defendants’ claims.  The Court notes, however, that the reasons
for Reynolds’ actions that were below the standard of care are not relevant to Defendants’
legal malpractice case, which rests solely on proof that such substandard conduct
caused damage to Defendants.  (E.g.,
CACI 4101.)  Defendants fail to
explain how the expunged DUI convictions in 2007 and 2013 tend to prove that
Reynolds suffered from alcohol or drug abuse that was so severe it would
constitute a violation of his professional responsibilities or what legal
standard would apply to measure such a mental or physical condition.  The Court questions whether the convictions,
standing alone, demonstrate any violation of the professional rules or conduct
below the standard of care.  Nor is there
any obvious causal relationship between the convictions and the alleged acts of
negligence of which Reynolds is accused. 
To the extent that Defendants seek to prove Reynolds’ ongoing
representation constituted a violation of his professional duties because he
had a serious substance abuse disorder, the Court looks to disciplinary actions
for the proper standard of proof.   In In re Kelley (1990)
52 Cal.3d 487, the California Supreme Court addressed the evidentiary value of
a DUI conviction in the context of its review of recommended disciplinary
action against an attorney who had two such convictions.  The attorney challenged the recommended
discipline, inter alia, because her actions involved neither moral
turpitude, nor a violation of her professional oath and duties, and were
unrelated to her practice of law.  (Id.,
at p. 493.)  Addressing the standards for
levying discipline, the Supreme Court first held that, because convictions for
drunk driving “do not per se establish moral turpitude,” a finding of such immorality
“must be based on the particular circumstances surrounding the convictions.”  (Id., at p. 494.)  The Supreme Court confirmed its authority to
impose discipline for “other misconduct warranting discipline,” even where it
does not involve moral turpitude, “as an exercise of [its] inherent power to
control the practice of law to protect the profession and the public.” (Id.)  Finding that some form of discipline was
appropriate, the Court emphasized the attorney’s disobedience of the probation
order in effect after the first conviction, which reflected “a lapse of
character and a disrespect to the legal system that directly relate to an
attorney’s fitness to practice law and serve as an officer of the court.”  (Id., at p. 495 [Citation
omitted].)  The Supreme Court also
concluded that the two drunk driving convictions within a short period of time
and the circumstances surrounding those transgression were strong indications
of alcohol abuse that was “adversely affecting petitioner’s private life” and
threatened to impact her practice of law. 
(Id.)  A recent State Bar Opinion
and Order applied the standards outlined in Kelley to an attorney who had
two misdemeanor DUI convictions based on incidents in 2010 and 2018.  (Matter of Herich (2021) 5 Cal. State
Bar Ct. Rptr. 820.)  Because Herich’s
convictions were conclusive proof of his crimes, the issue before the State Bar
was whether the facts and circumstances surrounding the convictions involved
moral turpitude or other misconduct warranting discipline.  (Id., at p. 827.)  Based on a thorough examination of the circumstances,
the State Bar concluded that Herich’s actions justified discipline, because he repeatedly
lied to the police officers at the scene, was arrested for drunk driving only
two years after the end of his criminal probation for his first DUI, thus
reflecting an alcohol problem, and his second drunk driving incident caused a
collision that injured two victims and caused property damage.  (Id., at p. 828.)  Although they address the
standards for imposing discipline on attorneys for drug driving convictions,
these cases teach that the significance of a DUI conviction in the context of
an attorney’s compliance with professional conduct requirements derives not
from the conviction itself but from the facts and circumstances surrounding
such a conviction.  Based on these cases,
the Court concludes there is a need for an evidentiary hearing under Evidence
Code § 402 to explore the facts and circumstances surrounding Reynolds’ two DUI
convictions.  This will allow the Court
to evaluate the probative value of this evidence for proving a violation of Reynolds’
professional duties under Rules 1.1 and 1.16 of the Professional Rules of
Conduct, as Defendants seek to do, and to weigh this probative value, if any,
against the potential that admission of the convictions will necessitate undue
consumption of time or risk undue prejudice to Plaintiffs, under Evidence Code
§ 352. Plaintiff’s MIL # 2:  to exclude evidence regarding confidential
State Bar complaints, investigations and proceedings or, in the alternative,
request for 402 hearing.   TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED, as all evidence of State Bar complaints, investigations, are
proceedings are confidential and privileged where there is no public filing of
disciplinary charges.  (See, e.g.,
Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 6086.1(b), 6094(a); Rules of the State Bar, Rule
2302.)Plaintiff’s MIL # 3:  to exclude
evidence regarding Reynolds’ therapy with Dr. Jeffrey P. Jones and preclude
references to Reynolds having “substance abuse problems” and “mental health
issues” or, in the alternative, request for 402 hearing.   TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED,
except as to references to “substance abuse problems” which will be the subject
of the Section 402 hearing ordered in connection with the Court’s ruling on
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1.Reynolds’ communications
with his therapist, the substance of his therapy, and records generated in
connection with any therapy are privileged and protected from disclosure under
the psychotherapist-patient privilege and Reynolds’ constitutional right to
privacy.  Contrary to Defendants’
argument, Reynolds has not placed his mental health at issue by filing this
lawsuit.  His claim for payment of legal
services rendered must be grounded on proof that Defendants requested legal
services from Reynolds which he performed but was not paid to complete.  (CACI 371.) 
The idea that a simple claim to recover payment on a service contract
exposes the plaintiff to intrusive inquiries into his mental health is not
supported by any authority cited by Plaintiffs. 
Further, Reynolds’ defense to Defendants’ cross-complaint for legal
malpractice did not inject his psychological state into this action.  As noted above, the Court disagrees with
Defendants that the reasons for
Reynolds’ alleged malpractice is irrelevant to their causes of action for
professional negligence.  While
Defendants may be able to mount a claim for fiduciary breach based on Reynolds’
efforts to represent them while suffering from an incapacitating substance
abuse problem, such a contention will not be advanced at trial until the Court
evaluates the basis for the claim during an evidentiary hearing under Evidence
Code §402.  As to the argument that
Plaintiff can be impeached on the number of therapy visits he attended, the
Court will not permit impeachment on a collateral issue such as this.   Plaintiff’s MIL # 4:  to exclude
evidence regarding other lawsuits against Plaintiffs or, in the alternative,
request for 402 hearing.   TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED,
but reserving Defendants’ right to seek a pre-disclosure ruling on any prior lawsuit
evidence it may offer at trial.Because prior lawsuits are
generally not relevant to prove that the defendant engaged in negligence or
other misconduct in connection with the claims at bar and, thus, must be
excluded under Evidence Code §§ 350 and 1101(a).  Defendants’ broad arguments that such
lawsuits may be admissible to prove motive, intent, knowledge, plan, or absence
of mistake are untethered to any specific evidence and so theoretical as to be
of no force.  The same must be said of
their effort to reserve the right to cross-examine or impeach Plaintiffs based
on prior lawsuits against them.  Because
the potential for prejudice and/or undue consumption of time is clear, any
intention to raise a prior lawsuit against Plaintiffs at trial must be
disclosed by Defendants to the Court and Plaintiffs in advance of any public
comments about that evidence in the presence of the jury. Using this procedure,
the Court will be able to make timely rulings on the relevance and
admissibility of the proffered evidence under Evidence Code §§ 350, 1101, and
352. 









































































































 