  Case Number:  19STCV32597    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  34 Cross-Defendant North
Beverly Park Homeowner’s Association, Inc.’s Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
On September 12, 2019, George Santopietro
filed his Complaint against James Harden, Jeff Wiseman, Patrick Michael, Lia
Vasdekis, LA Estate Rentals LLC, and Solimar Management LLC. The causes of
action arise from damage that allegedly occurred after these individuals and
corporate entities rented George Santopietro’s real property. 
 
On February 20, 2020, Jeff Wiseman and
Solimar Management LLC filed their Cross-Complaint against George
Santopietro.  
 
On April 13, 2020, LA Real Estate Rentals
LLC filed: (1) Answer to the Complaint; and (2) Joinder to the
Cross-Complaint.  
 
On July 20, 2020, the court granted
summary adjudication in favor of Solimar Management LLC and against George
Santopietro as to the second cause of action (breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing) in the Complaint.  
 
On April 13, 2021, Jeff Wiseman (now
without Solimar Management LLC) filed his First Amended Cross-Complaint
(“Wiseman FACC”).  
 
On May 5, 2021, George Santopietro filed
his Answer to the Wiseman FACC.  
 
On June 30, 2023, by request of George
Santopietro, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice Lia Vasdekis from
the Complaint.  
 
On January 19, 2024, James Harden filed:
(1) Answer to the Complaint; and (2) Cross-Complaint against “Beverly Park
North Homeowners Association” and “Vmw Trust.” 
 
On January 22, 2024, James Harden filed
his First Amended Cross-Complaint (“Harden FACC”) against “North Beverly Park
Homeowner’s Association” and “V.M. Rosich.” 
 
On January 26, 2024, George Santopietro
filed his First Amended Complaint (“Santopietro FAC”).  
 
On February 5, 2024, Patrick Michael
filed his First Amended Answer to the Santopietro FAC.  
 
On February 5, 2024, Capital Investment
Realty Group, LLC, filed its First Amended Answer to the Santopietro FAC. 
 
On February 6, 2024, James Harden filed
his First Amended Answer to the Santopietro FAC.  
 
On February 6, 2024, Jeff Wiseman and
Solimar Management LLC filed their First Amended Answer to the Santopietro
FAC.  
 
On February 20, 2024, the court found
related cases 19STCV32597 and 23STCV19315, and designated 19STCV32597 as the
lead case.  
  
On April 5, 2024, the court sustained
V.M. Rosich’s Demurrer to the Harden FACC and dismissed with prejudice V.M.
Rosich from the Harden FACC. 
 
On April 10, 2024, Jeff Wiseman and Solimar Management LLC filed
their Motion for Summary Adjudication (“Wiseman MSJ”) as to the Santopietro
FAC. 
 
On April 11, 2024, Patrick Michael and LA Estate Rentals LLC
filed their Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication (“Michael MSJ”)
as to the Santopietro FAC. 
 
On April 11, 2024, James Harden filed his Motion for Summary
Judgment or Summary Adjudication ("Harden MSJ") as to the Santopietro
FAC.
On April
16, 2024, George Santopietro filed "Notice of Naming 2 Doe
Defendants." George Santopietro substituted Does 1 and 2 with "Lil
Baby" and "Lil Baby Touring", respectively. 
On
April 18, 2024, George Santopietro filed another "Notice of Naming 2 Doe
Defendants." George Santopietro substituted Does 3 and 4 with "George
Kahwaji" and "Rodeo Realty Inc.", respectively.
On May 2,
2024, the court sustained North Beverly Park Homeowner's Association Demurrer
to the second cause of action for (contract liability of indemnity) in the
Harden FACC. 
On May 8,
2024, the court granted James Harden' s ex parte application for a court
order regarding proof of service and ordered George Santopietro to notify James
Harden within five days of serving any new parties. 
On May 8,
2024, George Santopietro filed two proofs of service: (1) a proof of service
regarding George Kahwaji and Rodeo Realty; and (2) a proof of service regarding
Lil Baby Touring. 
On
May 22, 2024, North Beverly Park Homeowner’s Association filed its Answer to
the Harden FACC.
On
September 3, 2024, George Santopietro dismissed Defendant "Lil Baby"
without prejudice. 
On
September 3, 2024, the court denied George Santopietro’s Motion to Bifurcate as
to all parties but without prejudice as to North Beverly Park Homeowner’s
Association, Inc. only. 
On
September 9, 2024, the court granted Kahwaji and Rodeo Realty Motion to Quash
dismissing Kahwaji and Rodeo Realty with prejudice from the Santopietro FAC.
The court granted in part the Wiseman MSJ, Michael
MSJ, and Harden MSJ as to the fifth cause of action alleging a violation of
Penal Code section 496 in the Santopietro FAC; and denied in part
as to the remaining issues. The court denied Harden’s Motion to Compel
Deposition and North Beverly Park Homeowner’s Association’s Request for
Sanctions. 
On October
2, 2024, North Beverly Park Homeowner’s Association filed this Motion to
Bifurcate. On October 9, 2024, James Harden filed his opposition to North
Beverly Park Homeowner’s Association’s motion. 
On October
16, 2024, the court denied George Santopietro’s Motion for Reconsideration of
the court’s September 9, 2024 ruling granting the Wiseman
MSJ, Michael MSJ, and Harden MSJ as to the fifth cause of action alleging a
violation of Penal Code section 496 in the Santopietro FAC. 
Legal Standard
 
“The
court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the
economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on
motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof in the case . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
 
“The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)
 
 
Discussion
 
            Cross-Defendant North Beverly Park Homeowner’s
Association, Inc. (“Beverly”) requests that the court bifurcate Beverly from the
instant action. (Motion to Bifurcate, at p. 4.) Beverly argues that bifurcation
would promote judicial economy and efficiency since the claims asserted against
Beverly by Defendant/Cross-Complainant James Harden (“Harden”) can all be
addressed concurrently with the trial adjudicating Plaintiff George Santopietro’s
claims against Lia Vasdekis in the related case, Case No.
23STCV19315, which is set for trial in
April 2025. (Id., at p. 5.) Beverly argues that since Beverly was a late
added party to this action, Beverly has not had sufficient opportunity to
prepare its defense and will be prejudiced if compelled to go to trial in
January 2025 as scheduled in this action. (Id., at pp. 5-6.) Beverly
contends that Beverly has not had an opportunity to file a motion for summary
judgment due to the timing of the present action. (Ibid.) As such
bifurcating Beverly would allow time for Beverly to move for summary judgment,
otherwise Beverly would be severely prejudiced as it will be forced to defend a
claim at trial that could be disposed by way of motion. (Ibid.) Beverly
also argues that bifurcating Harden’s claims against Beverly would not
prejudice Plaintiff George Santopietro or Harden. (Id., at p. 6.) 
 
            In opposition, Harden argues that bifurcation of Beverly
would punish Harden as Harden has cooperated with every discovery request from
Beverly. (Opp., at p. 2.) Harden argues that Beverly could have filed a motion
for summary judgment on January 26, 2025, the day Beverly was served with
Harden’s cross-complaint rather than answering until May 22, 2024. (Ibid.)
Additionally, Harden argues that since it is highly likely that the outcome of the
related action will bring about settlements, then judicial economy is better
served where all parties are in the first action. (Id., at p. 3.) Harden
argues that not having Harden and Beverly in the same trial would confuse the
jury. (Ibid.) Lastly, Harden argues that Harden should also be granted
bifurcation along with Beverly. (Id., at p. 4.)
 
            The court finds that bifurcation is appropriate, as to
Beverly only. Judicial economy and efficiency will be better served by
bifurcating Beverly from the instant action to the related action due to
Beverly’s unique procedural posture compared to the remaining litigants in this
case. 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendant
North Beverly Park Homeowner’s Association, Inc.’s Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED.
