 Case Number:  223STCV13462    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
            



KCS
  WEST, INC.,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
5959
  LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV13462 [c/w 22TRCV00350; 22TRCV00639]




Hearing Date:


October 3, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
MOTION TO
  ENFORCE JUDICIAL REFERENCE PROVISIONS IN CONTRACTS
 




AND RELATED
  CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
On April
22, 2022, Plaintiff KCS West, Inc. (“KCS”) filed this action against Defendants
5959 LLC (“5959”) and Koar Airport Associates, LLC. The Complaint asserts
causes of action for (1) foreclosure of
mechanic’s lien, (2) breach of contract, (3) common count – quantum meruit, and
(4) violation of prompt payment statutes. 
On July 15, 2022, a Cross-Complaint
was filed in this action by 5959 against KCS and Kajima U.S.A. Inc. (“Kajima”).
On May 26, 2023, 5959 filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint in this
action against KCS, Kajima, and Kohler Co. (“Kohler”) asserting causes of
action for (1) breach of contract, (2) express indemnity, (3) statutory
indemnity, (4) recovery on guarantee agreement, (5) strict products liability,
(6) breach of implied warranty of merchantability, and (7) breach of implied
warranty of fitness for a particular purpose. 

On
August 30, 2022, KCS filed a Cross-Complaint in this action against 5959 and
Johnson Diversified, Inc., dba Plumbing Solutions (“Plumbing Solutions”). KCS
filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint in this action on September
16, 2022, asserting causes of action for (1) breach
of contract, (2) negligence, (3) breach of contract third party beneficiary,
(4) express indemnification, (5) implied indemnification,
(6) declaratory relief, (7) strict product liability, (8) breach of express/implied
warranty of
merchantability, (9) breach of express/implied
warranty of fitness for a particular purpose, (10) strict product liability -
failure to warn, and (11) negligence - duty to warn.
On July 5, 2023, Kohler filed a
Cross-Complaint in this action against KCS and Plumbing Solutions, asserting
causes of action for (1) indemnification, (2) apportionment of fault, (3)
declaratory relief, and (4) express indemnity. 
On
July 10, 2023, Plumbing Solutions filed a Cross-Complaint in this action against
Ferguson Enterprises, LLC (“Ferguson”) and Kohler, asserting causes of action
for (1) express contractual indemnity, (2) express contractual defense, (3)
implied contractual indemnity, (4) implied equitable indemnity, (5) breach of
contract, (6) negligence, (7) strict liability, (8) contribution, (9) breach of
express warranty, (10) breach of implied warranties, (11) declaratory relief
re: duty to indemnify, and (12) declaratory relief re: duty to defend. 
On
August 11, 2023, Ferguson filed a Cross-Complaint in this action against Kohler
and Plumbing Solutions, asserting causes of action for (1) implied indemnity,
(2) comparative equitable indemnity/apportionment, (3) declaratory relief, and
(4) express indemnity. 
On May 4, 2022, Land Mark Electric, Inc.
(“LME”) filed a Complaint entitled Land Mark Electric, Inc. v. KCS West,
Inc., et al., Case No. 22TRCV00350, against KCS, 5959, and Hudson Insurance
Company. LME filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) in Case No.
22TRCV00350 on September 16, 2022 against KCS, 5959, and Harco National
Insurance Company, asserting twelve causes of action.   
On
July 28, 2022, Plumbing Solutions filed a Complaint entitled Johnson Diversified, Inc., doing business as Plumbing
Solutions v. 5959, LLC, et al., Case No. 22TRCV00639, against 5959 and
KCS. Plumbing Solutions filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) in Case No. 22TRCV00639 on October 11, 2022 against 5959, KCS, and Harco
National Insurance Company. The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) breach of
contract, (2) common counts, (3) wrongful withholding of payment, (4)
enforcement of stop notice, and (5) claim on bond to release mechanic’s lien. 
As set forth in the Court’s March 6, 2023
Order in the instant action, the Court granted the motion to consolidate filed
by KCS
on January 25, 2023. The Court’s March 6, 2023 minute order provides, inter
alia, “[t]he Court orders the following cases, 22STCV13462, 22TRCV00350,
and…22TRCV00639, consolidated and assigned to Department 50 in Stanley Mosk
Courthouse for all purposes. The Court designates 22STCV13462 as the lead
case.” 
5959
now moves “for an order to enforce the judicial reference provisions in the
Contracts in this matter.” KCS opposes. 
On
May 11, 2023, the Court issued an Order continuing the hearing on 5959’s motion
to enforce judicial reference provisions to August 3, 2023. The hearing was
then continued to October 3, 2023. The Court’s May 11, 2023 Order provides, inter
alia, that the parties may file and serve
supplemental briefing in advance of the continued hearing date, no later than 5
court days before the hearing,
that addresses the impact of any newly added
parties on the motion. On September 19, 2023, Ferguson and Kohler filed oppositions to 5959’s
instant motion. On September 25, 2023, 5959 filed a supplemental brief in
support of the motion, and on September 26, 2023, KCS filed a response to
5959’s supplemental brief. 
Discussion 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 638 provides in pertinent part as follows: “[a]
referee may be appointed upon the agreement of the parties filed with the
clerk, or judge, or entered in the minutes, or upon the motion of a party to a
written contract or lease that provides that any controversy arising therefrom
shall be heard by a referee if the court finds a reference agreement exists
between the parties:
(a) To hear and determine any or all of the issues in an action
or proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a statement of
decision.
(b) To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to
determine an action or proceeding.”   
As set forth in the Court’s May 11, 2023 Order
on 5959’s instant motion, in Case No. 22STCV13462, KCS alleges in its Complaint
that “[o]n or about March 29, 2018, [KCS] and 5959
LLC entered into a written contract (‘Contact’) in which [KCS] agreed to act as
the general contractor for the renovation and rehabilitation of an existing
office building located at the Property into a hotel building (the ‘Project’).”
(KCS Compl., ¶ 7.) KCS attaches as Exhibit A to its Complaint “[a] true and
correct copy of the Contract without its voluminous exhibits.” (KCS Compl., ¶
7, Ex. A.) In the instant motion, 5959 notes that Section 13.2 of the contract attached to KCS’s
Complaint provides as follows: 
            
“§ 13.2 BINDING DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
For any Claim subject to, but not resolved by
mediation pursuant to Section 15.3 of 
AIA Document A201-2007, the method of binding
dispute resolution shall be as follows: 
(Check the appropriate box. If the Owner and
Contractors do not select a method of binding dispute resolution below, or do
not subsequently agree in writing to a binding dispute resolution method other
than litigation, Claims will be resolved by litigation in 
a court of competent jurisdiction.) 
 
[   ]     Arbitration pursuant to Section 15.4 of AIA Document A201-2007
 
[   ]     Litigation in a court of competent
jurisdiction
 
[X]     Other
(Specify) Judicial Reference per California Code
of Civil Procedure section 638.” 
 
(KCS Compl., ¶ 7, Ex. A, § 13.2, emphasis omitted.) 
5959 thus states that “[t]he Prime
Contract, upon which KCS has based its claims in its Complaint, expressly
provides for judicial reference.” (Mot. at p. 5:5-6.) 5959 contends that
judicial reference should accordingly be compelled in this action. 
5959
also asserts that “[t]he Court’s order compelling judicial reference should
also extend to the claims of KCS’ subcontractors, LME and Plumbing Solutions –
both of whom have sued 5959, in addition to KCS, for damages – because the
subcontracts expressly incorporate the dispute resolution provisions in the
Contract.” (Mot. at pp. 5:27-6:2.)[1] In
support of the instant motion, 5959 submits the Declaration of its counsel, Ted
R. Gropman. Mr. Gropman attaches as Exhibit 4 to his Declaration a copy of the
subcontract agreement between Plumbing Solutions and KCS. (Gropman Decl., ¶ 5,
Ex. 4.) 5959 notes that Section 11.4 of the
subcontract agreement provides as follows: 
 
“11.4 Joinder.
Subcontractor acknowledges that the Project is being constructed in accordance
with the Contract and the Contract Documents. To the extent that there is a
conflict between the provisions set forth in this Article 11 and the dispute
resolution procedures set forth in the Contract, the dispute resolution
procedures in the Contract will govern. Subcontractor consents to joinder of
Owner, Architect and other design professionals, other subcontractors and
suppliers and any other party that Contractor deems necessary to resolve claims
filed by or against Contractor that arise out of similar facts, issues or incidents
and are related to the Project to prevent inconsistent dispute resolution
awards or judgments. Subcontractor agrees to be bound by the decision of any
court, arbitration panel or other tribunal to the full extent to which
Contractor is bound.” 
(Gropman
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 4, §§ 11.4 [internal emphasis
omitted].)
5959
contends that “because…Plumbing Solutions expressly agreed to (1) follow the
dispute resolution provisions in the Prime Contract; (2) consent to joinder for
claims filed ‘by or against Contractor’ to prevent inconsistent dispute
resolution awards; and (3) be bound to such dispute resolution awards…Plumbing
Solutions agreed to have their claims resolved by judicial reference.” (Mot. at
p. 6:13-18.)  
As discussed in the Court’s May 11, 2023
Order, KCS contends in its opposition that “[t]he issue of judicial reference
should be determined once Kohler and Ferguson have appeared in the lawsuit and…are
provided an opportunity to weigh in on the issue. Without the inclusion of
Kohler and Ferguson in this matter, it would be inequitable and unfair to force
half of the case to proceed via judicial reference while the balance remains in
litigation.” (Opp’n at p. 5:21-25.) As set forth above, on July 5, 2023, Kohler filed a
Cross-Complaint in this action, and on August 11, 2023, Ferguson filed a
Cross-Complaint in this action. In addition, as
set forth above, Kohler and Ferguson each filed oppositions to the instant
motion. 
As also discussed in the Court’s May 11, 2023
Order, KCS asserts that the Court has discretion regarding the enforcement of
5959’s motion to compel judicial reference. KCS cites to Tarrant
Bell Property, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 538, 540, where the
California Supreme Court noted that it “granted review…to decide
whether, under Code of Civil Procedure section 638, a
trial court has discretion to refuse to enforce a predispute agreement
providing that, in the event of dispute, a referee may hear and decide certain
contested issues. The Court of Appeal held that a trial court has such
discretion and that the trial court here properly exercised that discretion on
the facts of this case. We agree with the Court of Appeal’s holding and affirm
its judgment.” 
In Tarrant, “120
current and former lessees and residents of a mobilehome park in California
(real parties in interest) sued the park’s current and former owners
(defendants) for failing properly to maintain the park’s common areas and
facilities and for otherwise subjecting park residents to substandard living
conditions. The lease agreements between defendants and about 100 of the real
parties in interest provide (1) the parties will submit to arbitration any
tenancy dispute (with certain exceptions for actions by the owner), including
claims regarding maintenance, condition, nature, or extent of the
facilities, improvements, services, and utilities provided to the space, park,
or common areas of the park; and (2) ‘[i]f these arbitration provisions are
held unenforceable for any reason … all arbitrable issues in any judicial
proceeding will be subject to and referred on motion by any party or the court
for hearing and decision by a referee (a retired judge or other person
appointed by the court) as provided by California law, including’ section 638.” (Tarrant Bell Property, LLC v.
Superior Court, supra, 51
Cal.4th at p. 540.) “The trial court agreed with real parties in
interest and refused to compel arbitration or appoint a referee under section 638. Regarding the latter determination, it first
noted the possibility of inconsistent judgments were it to order reference only
as to real parties in interest who had signed a predispute reference agreement,
but, citing Greenbriar Homes Communities, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 337…found that that circumstance was not a proper
basis for denying a motion for general reference. Nevertheless, as a matter of
discretion, the court refused to appoint a referee, reasoning: [I]n this case
the purposes of section 638 would not be
promoted by a general Reference of some claims and not others….Ordering
two groups of real parties in interest to try their cases in separate but
parallel proceedings would not reduce the burdens on this court or the parties,
result in any cost savings, streamline the proceedings, or achieve efficiencies
of any kind. The parties would be required to conduct the same discovery,
litigate[,] and ultimately try the same issues in separate but parallel
forums. A general reference would thus result in a
duplication of effort, increased costs, and potentially, delays in resolution.
Moreover, it would not reduce any burden on this Court, which would almost
certainly have to hear, and decide, all of the same issues.” (Id at p. 541 [internal
quotations omitted].) The California Supreme Court found that certain
legislative history confirmed “the Court of Appeal’s conclusion that the trial
court, in refusing to enforce the predispute reference agreements, did not
abuse its discretion in considering the risk of inconsistent rulings and
considerations of judicial economy.” (Id. at p. 544.)
In the reply, 5959 notes that KCS does not
dispute that it agreed to use judicial reference as the dispute resolution
method under the terms of KCS’s contract with 5959. In addition, 5959 notes
that KCS does not dispute 5959’s position that KCS’s subcontract with Plumbing
Solutions incorporates the dispute resolution provisions in the contract
between KCS and 5959. 
In addition, 5959 argues in the reply that
even if Kohler and Ferguson are ultimately added as parties, there is no
potential for litigating in separate forums or conflicting rulings, due to the
“Joinder” provision in the Plumbing Solutions subcontract. As set forth above,
this provision provides as follows: 
 
“11.4 Joinder.
Subcontractor acknowledges that the Project is being constructed in accordance
with the Contract and the Contract Documents. To the extent that there is a
conflict between the provisions set forth in this Article 11 and the dispute
resolution procedures set forth in the Contract, the dispute resolution
procedures in the Contract will govern. Subcontractor consents to joinder of
Owner, Architect and other design professionals, other subcontractors and
suppliers and any other party that Contractor deems necessary to resolve claims
filed by or against Contractor that arise out of similar facts, issues or
incidents and are related to the Project to prevent inconsistent dispute
resolution awards or judgments. Subcontractor agrees to be bound by the
decision of any court, arbitration panel or other tribunal to the full extent
to which Contractor is bound.” (Gropman Decl., ¶5, Ex. 4, § 11.4 [internal emphasis omitted, underline added].)
5959 asserts that accordingly, “for the same
reason that Plumbing Solutions…[is] subject to the judicial reference
provision, so are Ferguson and Kohler.” (Reply at p. 5:11-13.)
In
its opposition to the instant motion, Ferguson asserts that “no proposed Order
on FERGUSON was served that specifically identifies the relief sought by 5959,
LLC in its Motion to Enforce.” (Ferguson Opp’n at p. 2:18-19.)
Kohler also asserts in its opposition that “[t]he Motion to Enforce is vague as
to whether it seeks to submit the entire action to judicial reference, or just
the disputes between the signatories to the subject contracts – (1) 5959, LLC;
(2) KCS West, Inc.; (3) Landmark Electric, Inc.; and (4) Johnson Diversified
dba Plumbing Solutions.” (Kohler Opp’n at p. 1:23-26.) 
The
Court notes that 5959’s notice of motion states that 5959 moves “for an Order
to Enforce the Judicial Reference Provisions in the Contracts in this matter.”
(Mot. at p. 2:5-6.) The Conclusion section of the motion states that “5959
respectfully requests that that the Court issue an Order Enforcing the Judicial
Reference Provisions in the Contracts and Compelling Judicial Reference
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section
638, and appoint a Referee in accordance with the Contract, the
subcontracts and Section 640(b) of the California Code
of Civil Procedure.” (Mot. at p. 7:17-20.) The Court agrees with Kohler and
Ferguson that the instant motion is vague as to whether it seeks to submit the
entire action to judicial reference, or just 5959, KCS, and Plumbing Solutions.
In addition, in its supplemental brief in support of the motion, 5959 states
that it “requests that that the Court issue an Order enforcing the judicial
reference provisions in the Contracts and compelling judicial reference as to
at least 5959, KCS and Plumbing Solutions pursuant to California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 638…” (5959’s Supplemental Brief at p.
5:11-14.) 
In its opposition to the instant motion,
Ferguson also asserts that “there are no grounds to compel Ferguson…to
participate in a judicial reference proceeding.” (Ferguson Opp’n at p. 2:4-7.)
Ferguson asserts that “[t]he
argument contained in plaintiff’s Motion is directed at those with contractual
obligations, but there is no argument or authority presented that FERGUSON, a
product supplier, can be compelled to participate in judicial reference as
there are simply no such grounds in contract or law.” (Id. at p.
2:14-17.) Ferguson also cites to Tarrant, and asserts that “[s]ending only certain
parties to a judicial reference could result in inconsistent rulings and would
result in duplicative litigation.” (Id. at p. 3:3-4.)   
Kohler
also argues in its opposition that there is no legal basis for Kohler to be
compelled to participate in the contemplated judicial reference proceeding. Kohler
asserts that it is “not a party to any of the subject contracts (neither, for
that matter, is the recently named Cross-Defendant Ferguson Enterprises, LLC).
Kohler is merely a product manufacturer who manufactured a product (Kohler
K-9177 Bellwether shower pans), which it then sold to a distributor (Ferguson),
who in turn sold that product to customer (Johnson Diversified) who apparently
chose to install that product at a construction project.” (Kohler Opp’n p.
2:23-27.)  Kohler also cites to Tarrant,
and asserts that the risk of inconsistent rulings and considerations of
judicial economy “weigh strongly against submitting the disputes between the
construction entities to a judicial reference proceeding.” (Id. at p. 4:13-14.)

In its
supplemental brief, 5959 reiterates its assertion that Ferguson and Kohler are
subject to the judicial reference provision pursuant to the joinder provision
in Plumbing Solutions’ subcontract. However, as
set forth above, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 638, “[a] referee may be appointed upon the agreement
of the parties filed with the clerk, or judge, or entered in the minutes, or
upon the motion of a party to a written contract or lease that provides that
any controversy arising therefrom shall be heard by a referee if the court
finds a reference agreement exists between the parties: (a) To hear and determine any or all of the issues in an action
or proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a statement of
decision. (b) To
ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to determine an action or
proceeding.” (Underline added.) 5959 does not appear to argue that Kohler and
Ferguson are parties to the subject contract and subcontract referenced above. 
In its response to 5959’s supplemental brief, KCS
states that it “agrees with Kohler and Ferguson that they
cannot be compelled to participate in judicial reference, as neither is a party to the judicial reference
provision. The language of C.C.P. § 638 makes it
clear that Kohler and Ferguson could agree to participate in a judicial
reference, or, alternatively, can be
ordered to do so on a motion by a party if, and only if, Kohler and Ferguson are parties to a contract that contains a
provision requiring disputes to be resolved by judicial reference.” (KCS’s Response at pp. 2:25-3:5.)
The Court agrees that 5959 has not shown that Ferguson and Kohler are parties to a contract that contains a provision requiring disputes
to be resolved by judicial reference. 
5959
also asserts that “even if Kohler and Ferguson are not joined…there is no
prejudice in having two forums or risk of inconsistent rulings. Instead, as
articulated by the O’Donoghue court, having two forums will likely lead
to settlement which would be beneficial to all parties.” (5959’s Supplemental
Brief at p. 4:25-28.) In O'Donoghue v. Superior Court (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th
245, 248-250, the Court
noted that “[i]n a commercial real estate
transaction, Paraic O’Donoghue, Tony Manning, Enda G. Quigley, Sean Murphy,
Daniel Walsh, and Christopher Flood (collectively defendants) each signed a
separate personal continuing guaranty in favor of a lender. The guaranty
agreements (agreements) contained a provision authorizing dispute resolution
through judicial reference…In its action to enforce the agreements, Performing
Arts, LLC (plaintiff), moved for appointment of a referee pursuant to the
judicial reference provision…in the agreements; the trial court granted the
motion and appointed a referee. Defendants [sought] writ relief from the order granting
plaintiff’s motion to compel judicial reference.” (Internal citation omitted.)
The Court of Appeal denied the
petition for writ of mandate/prohibition. (Id. at p. 250.) 
The
Cout of Appeal in O’Donoghue noted, inter alia, that “Defendants’ final
argument is the court abused its discretion by granting the reference motion
because ordering reference would cause duplicative parallel proceedings, create
a risk of inconsistent rulings, and would not promote judicial economy.
Defendants rely on Tarrant Bell, where the California Supreme Court held ‘a
trial court has discretion to refuse to enforce a predispute agreement
providing that, in the event of dispute, a referee may hear and decide certain
contested issues’ (Tarrant
Bell, supra, 51 Cal.4th at p.
540) and determined the trial
court ‘acted well within its discretion in basing its refusal to appoint a
referee on the risk of inconsistent rulings and considerations of judicial
economy’…” (O'Donoghue v. Superior Court, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at pp.
265-266.) The O’Donoghue Court noted that “[d]efense counsel repeatedly argued
having dual tracks was a basis to deny the motion under Tarrant Bell. In response, the court stated, ‘I
don’t see it as a detriment here. If anything, I see the other side of it that
might be a good idea.’ When defense counsel began to discuss the ‘consequences
of a dual track action,’ the court responded, ‘[w]e have that all the time’ and
said, ‘I know exactly what you mean. Sure. It settles—that’s often very
helpful.’ The court then stated the presence of indemnity claims in the
court litigation was not ‘a drawback.’ These comments suggest the court
considered—and rejected—defense counsel’s Tarrant Bell arguments. On this record, we
cannot conclude the court failed to exercise its discretion.” (Id. at
p. 268.) 
As noted by KCS West, the Court of Appeal in O'Donoghue also found that “[t]here may have been sound
reasons to deny the reference motion. Requiring defendants to defend plaintiff’s
complaint before the referee but litigate their cross-complaints in court could
force the parties…‘to conduct the same discovery, litigate[,] and ultimately
try the same issues in separate but parallel forums’… (Tarrant Bell, supra, 51 Cal.4th at p. 541) because the defenses asserted
by defendants in response to the complaint are based on identical facts as
their cross-claims against Cassidy and Centrix. In addition, requiring
reference could create a risk of inconsistent rulings because Cassidy is not subject
to the reference order, raising issues of collateral estoppel as the reference
and trial court actions proceed at different times. That
another court might reasonably have reached a different result on this issue,
however, does not demonstrate an abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion may be
found only if…no judge could have reasonably reached the challenged result…[A]s
long as there exists…a reasonable or even fairly debatable justification, under
the law, for the action taken, such action will not be … set aside…We cannot
conclude there is an abuse of discretion here.” (O'Donoghue v. Superior Court, supra,
219 Cal.App.4th at pp. 268-269.) 
In its response to 5959’s supplemental brief, KCS
asserts that “[o]rdering judicial reference between 5959,
KCS West, and Plumbing Solutions while leaving Kohler and Ferguson (both necessary parties to the underlying
claim) as part of the dispute to be resolved in Court would prevent resolution of the entire matter
in one venue and risk inconsistent rulings.
And without Kohler in particular—determined to be a ‘necessary party’ by the Court—a judicial reference proceeding
could not possibly accord full relief to the parties, and would be a waste of the parties’ time and
resources.” (KCS’s Response to Supplemental Brief at p. 3:6-11.) KCS asserts
that “[i]f only 5959, KCS West, and Plumbing Solutions were ordered to
participate in judicial reference, and Kohler and Ferguson remained in Court,
the issue of whether Kohler’s product is at the heart of a manufacturing defect
cannot be fully and completely adjudicated. It would be grossly inefficient (if
not impossible) to try KCS West’s claims in judicial reference without Kohler’s
participation.” (Id. at p. 5:19-24.) KCS notes
that on May 11, 2023, the Court issued an Order granting KCS’s motion to compel
joinder. The May 11, 2023 Order provides, inter alia, that “[b]ased on the foregoing, the Court finds that
KCS has shown that in the absence of Kohler, ‘complete relief
cannot be accorded among those already parties.¿’ (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 389, subd. (a)¿.)” (May 11, 2023 Order at p. 8:13-15.)
 Based
on a consideration of the foregoing, the Court finds that KCS has the better
argument that 5959’s motion should be denied. The Court does not find that 5959
has demonstrated that a “reference agreement exists between” 5959 and Ferguson or Kohler. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 638.) The Court agrees with KCS that there is a risk of
inconsistent rulings if only some parties are sent to judicial reference and
others remain in Court. KCS also raises the argument, as discussed above, that without Kohler, a judicial reference proceeding may not accord full
relief to the parties. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, 5959’s motion to enforce judicial reference
provisions is denied. 
KCS is ordered to give
notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  October 3, 2023                              
________________________________
Hon.
Rolf M. Treu
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 


