  Case Number:  223STCV07028    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MISS JENNIFER L. JACKSON,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
DR. KYEONG-HEE ALEX KIM, 
 
                        Defendant.


Case No.:


22STCV07028




Hearing Date:


October 3, 2023




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE: 
 
MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT ON BEHALF OF KYEONG-HEE ALEXANDER KIM, M.D
 



 
 
Background
Plaintiff Miss Jennifer
L. Jackson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on February 25, 2022 against
Defendant Dr. Kyeong-Hee Alex Kim. Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) on May 5, 2023, alleging one cause of action for general
negligence. 
In the SAC, Plaintiff
alleges that Dr. Kyeong-Hee Alex Kim negligently performed breast reduction
surgery on Plaintiff in violation of the standard of care. (SAC, p. 4.) Plaintiff
alleges that she is “left with grossly disfigured breasts, the right breast
being an ‘A’ cup and the left a ‘C’ cup, with surgical incisions, much larger
and longer…than described and consented to pre-opp, and with left breast pain,
and chronic bilateral shoulder pain, all of which has caused [Plaintiff] pain
and suffering, past and future medical expenses, and the need for future
restorative surgery performed during 2022.” (SAC, p. 4.)  
Kyeong-Hee Alexander
Kim, M.D., erroneously sued and served as Dr. Kyeong-Hee 
Alex Kim (“Defendant”) now moves for an
order granting summary judgment in his favor and 
against
Plaintiff. The motion is unopposed.  
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
When a defendant seeks summary judgment or summary adjudication,
he/she must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action
cannot be established; or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  
Discussion 
            As set forth above,
Plaintiff’s first (and only) cause of action is for general negligence.
Paragraph 10(f) of the SAC alleges “medical malpractice.” (SAC, p. 3.) 
“¿The elements of
a medical malpractice claim are: (1) the duty of the professional to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.¿” (¿Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 468, fn. 2 [internal quotations omitted]¿.)  
            Defendant asserts that here, Plaintiff’s action is
without merit because the care provided by Defendant was within the applicable
standard of care. Specifically, Defendant asserts that 
“Dr. Kim can successfully negate the essential element of breach
of duty by proving the care and treatment rendered by him to plaintiff complied
with the applicable standard of care. His supporting declaration establishes
that the care rendered to Ms. Jackson complied with the standard of care
required of physicians providing services to patients like Ms. Jackson, and
under similar circumstances.” (Mot. at p. 7:11-15.) 
            The Declaration of Kyeong-Hee Alexander Kim, M.D. was
submitted in support of the motion. Defendant states that he is a “physician
licensed to practice medicine in the State of California.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 1.)
Defendant states that “[b]ased on my care and treatment of Ms. Jackson and a
review of her medical records, as well as my education, training, and
experience, it is my opinion that the care and treatment that I provided to Ms.
Jackson was at all times within the applicable standard of care.” (Kim Decl., ¶
16.) 
            Defendant states that
“[Plaintiff’s] breast
reduction surgery was indicated based on excessively large breasts
and associated neck and shoulder pain. In a breast reduction procedure on an
obese person,
[Plaintiff] was 5’2” and weighed 248 lbs. at the time of her initial
consultation, it is common for a large amount of excess fat to remain on the side
of the chest. As the result of the excess fat, a second procedure is
indicated, as it was in [Plaintiff’s] case, to remove the excess fat.” (Kim
Decl., ¶ 17.) “[Plaintiff] consented to both procedures, the breast reduction
and removal of excess skin, and an authorization was requested from her medical
insurance provider for the procedures to be performed on the same day.” (Kim
Decl., ¶ 18.) 
Defendant states that
“[Plaintiff’s] insurance company denied the removal of the excess skin
as being medically unnecessary. Prior to the breast reduction surgery, [Plaintiff]
was informed that her insurance had denied the removal of excess skin. She was
further informed that as a result, the breast reduction would need to be
performed first, and then after approximately six months when her surgical
wound healed from the breast reduction, approval for the removal of excess skin
would be obtained.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 19, emphasis omitted.) Defendant further
states that “[Plaintiff] consented
to the breast reduction procedure, which was performed on
October 8, 2021, without complications.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff “did not
return to [Defendant] for follow up regarding the second part of the procedure
to remove the excess skin, but instead sought treatment from another
physician.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 21.) 
            Defendant also asserts
that “[t]here is no evidence to support Plaintiff’s contention that the
care provided by [Defendant] caused or contributed to any harm to Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 9:21-22.) Defendant
states in his declaration that “[b]ased
on my treatment of [Plaintiff] and a review of her medical records, as well as my education, training, and
experience, it is my opinion that to a reasonable degree of medical probability, nothing I did or
did not do during my care and treatment of [Plaintiff] contributed to or was a
substantial factor in causing her alleged injuries because I complied with the
standard of care at all times.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 22.) 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has met his initial burden of
demonstrating that Plaintiff’s cause of action for general negligence is
without merit. Plaintiff did not file any opposition to the instant motion.
Thus, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of
material fact as to her cause of action for general negligence. Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.
            Lastly,
the Court notes that Defendant filed a “Notice of Lodging Exhibits ‘G,’ ‘H,’
and ‘I’ in support of Defendant Kyeong-Hee Alexander Kim, M.D.’s motion for
summary judgment.” Defendant’s Exhibits G, H, and I do not appear to be
referenced in Defendant’s separate statement in support of the motion, and are
not cited in the instant order on Defendant’s motion. However, Exhibits G, H,
and I were not attached to the “Notice of Lodging” Defendant filed on July 14,
2023. The Court notes that it is improper to provide “courtesy copies” of
documents that have not been filed. Thus,
the Court orders Defendant to immediately file a copy of Defendant’s “Notice of
Lodging” with Exhibits “G,” “H,” and “I” attached.  
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is granted. The Court orders
Defendant to file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days of the date of
this Order.
///
///
///
///
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of this
Order. 
 
DATED:  October 3, 2023                              ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los Angeles
Superior Court
 