  Case Number:  23PSCV01913    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  K 1.         See below.
2.         Plaintiff Claremont
Stars Soccer Club’s Motion to Compel Defendant Carlos Morrell to Provide a
Supplemental Response to Request Nos. 3, 16, 24-26, and 28 of the Request for
Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Morrell is
ordered to provide further,
Code-compliant responses within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
Sanctions are awarded against Morell in the reduced amount of $1,460.00 and
are payable within 30 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
3.         Defendant Brian Wiesner’s Motion for
Leave to File Documents Under Seal for In Camera Review is DENIED.
Background    
Plaintiff Claremont Stars Soccer Club (“Club”) alleges as
follows:
Club is a non-profit organization
governed by a Board of Directors (“Board”). Brian Wiesner (“Wiesner”) and
Carlos Morrell (“Morell”) formerly served as President and Treasurer,
respectively, of the Club. Starting in approximately March 2022, Wiesner and
Morrell decided to increase Club fees charged for each participant without
providing any justification. On February 22, 2023, the Board elected to remove
Weisner as Club President. Five of the Board members responsible for Weisner’s
removal and notification of removal, were subsequently notified by an attorney,
who had been hired by Wiesner and Morrell with Club funds, that they were
expelled from the Club. On March 8, 2023, the Board held its meeting, voted to
confirm their removal of Weisner and Morrell as President and Treasurer,
respectively, and elected a new set of officers. Wiesner and Morrell opened a
new Team Snap account to directly compete with the Club’s Team Snap account and
create confusion among the parents as to who was actually running the Club.
Wiesner and Morrell have refused to recognize the newly elected officers of the
Club and have falsely represented to the community and parents that they are
still officers of the Club. The Board has since found evidence that Wiesner and
Morrell have stolen Club funds of over $250,000.00.
On June 27, 2023, Club filed a complaint, asserting causes
of action against Wiesner, Morrell and Does 1-10 for:
1.              
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
2.              
Conversion
3.              
Unjust Enrichment
A Case Management Conference is set for September 4, 2024.
1.         Motion to Compel Furthers Re: Request
for Production of Documents (i.e., as to Wiesner)
Legal Standard
“[T]he demanding party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that. .
. (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete[,] (2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive
[and/or that] (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
The
moving party must demonstrate a “reasonable and good faith attempt” at an
informal resolution of each issue presented. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040,
2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) “In lieu of a separate statement required under the
California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(3).) A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents must “set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
Notice of the motion must be provided “within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.310, subd. (c).)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction. . . against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the court for an order compelling Wiesner to
provide further supplemental responses, without objections, and responsive
documents to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set No. One
(i.e., Nos. 25 and 26). Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Wiesner in the
amount of $3,970.00.
Plaintiff’s counsel Greg K. Hafif (“Hafif”) represents as
follows:
On September 20, 2023, the subject
discovery was served. (Hafif Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A.) On November 6, 2023, Wiesner
served responses. (Id., ¶ 3, Exh. B.) On
December 7, 2023, Hafif asked Weisner’s counsel Chris Hellmich (“Hellmich”),
for a 4-week extension to file any needed motion to compel furthers, to which
Hellmich agreed. (Id., ¶ 7, Exh. C.) On January 9, 2024, counsel agreed
to another extension of the motion deadline, through January 31, 2024. (Id.,
¶ 3, Exh. D.) On January 29, 2024, counsel agreed to a third extension of the
motion deadline, until the end of February 2024. (Id., ¶ 9, Exh. E). The
court required that an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) be held before the
instant motion could be filed. (Id., ¶ 13). On March 4, 2024, Morell
provided supplemental responses to Requests Nos. 25 and 26, which did not cure
the deficiencies noted in the original responses. (Id., ¶ 14, Exh. F)
The IDC was held on March 25, 2023, but did not resolve the issues. (Id.,
¶ 16).
Request No. 25 asks for all emails and text messages between
Wiesner and Morrell from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2023. Request No.
26 asks for all emails and texts between Wiesner and Jeff George (“George”).
Wiesner initially objected to No. 25 on the basis of work
product, burden, privacy, relevancy and overbreadth and to No. 26 on the basis
of attorney-client communication, work product, burden, equally available,
privacy and relevance. Both responses stated, “[d]iscovery is continuing and
Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement and/or amend her response to this
request at any time.” Wiesner’s response to No. 26 further stated that “Mr.
George is the former attorney for the Club and, as such, all such documents are
already within the Club’s possession.”
Wiesner’s supplemental response to No. 25 advised that he
lacked the ability to comply with the request for emails because he no longer
had access to the Club email account he would have used for official Club
business. Wiesner advised, with respect to the request for texts, that he would
make his personal cell phone available for inspection and copying of relevant
text messages to Plaintiff’s counsel at Plaintiff’s counsel’s office pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.220.
Wiesner’s supplemental response to No. 26 advised that he
lacked the ability to comply with the request because he no longer had access
to the Club email account he would have used for official Club business. Wiesner
also advised that Plaintiff had the ability to recover any responsive emails
from George, inasmuch as George was counsel to Plaintiff.
Hellmich, in his declaration accompanying Wiesner’s
opposition, represents that Wiesner has since provided second supplemental
responses. (Hellmich Decl., ¶ 13, Exh. 3.) Hellmich further represents that he
and Wiesner have reviewed the texts contained in Weisner’s personal cell phone
and identified approximately 700 text messages, which have since been exported
to an Excel spreadsheet, that they are nearly all irrelevant because they are
personal messages unrelated to the subject of the litigation, that the vast
majority of the messages pertain to Defendants’ new soccer team and the minor
girls on it and, as such, are irrelevant and implicate third party privacy
rights, that 8 messages pertain to this lawsuit but are protected by the
Defendants’ common interest agreement and that Wiesner has reserved a June 11,
2024 hearing regarding a motion for leave to file text messages under seal and
to request an in camera review. (Id., ¶¶ 8-11). With respect to
the issue of emails, Wiesner contends that any responsive communications would
be contained in a Club account that he can no longer access and that Plaintiff
has access to same. (Opp., 7:12-15).[1]
The motion is granted as to Nos. 25 and 26 (i.e., as to the
request for emails), to the extent that the court orders Wiesner to provide a
further response furnishing his username and password for the Club email
account Wiesner used for official Club business. Wiesner is also ordered to
provide a further response clarifying his statement made in his second
supplemental response as to text messages (i.e., that “Subject to and without
waiving Defendant’s prior objections, after a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with this Request, the Defendant
lacks the ability to comply with the request because to the extent any
responsive documents existed and were in the Defendant’s possession, he is no
longer in the possession, custody or control of the items as he does not have
possession, custody or control over any text messages with Mr. George. Indeed,
Mr. George’s contact information does not even appear in the Defendant’s IPhone Contact list”), Wiesner must provide a
response compliant with Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.230 (i.e., specifying
the reason for the inability to comply).
The motion is otherwise granted as to No. 25 (i.e., as to the
request for text messages); however, the court believes that Wiesner’s
objections regarding relevancy and overbreadth are well-taken and limit any
further response and production to documents regarding Morrell’s and Wiesner’s
communications regarding Club activities or business. The court determines that
any third-party privacy concerns may be addressed via redaction.
The court notes that Wiesner did, in fact, assert a “work
product objection” in his initial response to No. 25; however, it is unclear to
the court how communications between two co-defendants would implicate the
attorney work product doctrine, defined as “[a] writing that reflects an
attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.”
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030.). Although Wiesner claims that the
aforesaid texts are protected by a common interest doctrine, “a party seeking
to rely on the common interest doctrine does not satisfy its burden to justify
a claim of privilege simply by demonstrating that a confidential communication
took place between parties who purportedly share a common interest. Rather, the
party seeking to invoke the doctrine must first establish that the communicated
information would otherwise be protected from disclosure by a claim of privilege.”
(OXY Resources California LLC v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
874, 890.) “[T]he common interest doctrine cannot be invoked unless there is an
underlying claim of privilege.” (Id. at 893). Wiesner has not satisfied
his burden.
Wiesner is ordered to provide further, Code-compliant
responses, subject to the above limitations, within 20 days from the date of
the notice of ruling.
Sanctions
Again, Plaintiff seeks sanctions
against Weisner in the amount of $3,970.00 [calculated as follows: 0.5 hours
reviewing motion, plus 0.5 hours reviewing opposition, plus 1 hour attending
hearing at $425.00/hour, plus 5.2 hours preparing motion and 2 hours reviewing
opposition and preparing reply at $425.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee].
Utilizing a Lodestar approach, and
in view of the totality of the circumstances, the court finds that the total
and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work
performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,110.00 (i.e., 3 hours at
$350.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee). Sanctions are payable within 30 days from
the date of the notice of ruling.
2.         Motion to Compel Furthers Re: Request
for Production of Documents (i.e., as to Morrell)
Legal Standard
See Motion #1.
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the court for an order compelling Morrell to
provide further supplemental responses, without objections, and responsive
documents to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set No. One
(i.e., Nos. 3, 16, 24-26 and 28). Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Morrell
in the amount of $3,842.50.
Hafif represents as follows:
On September 20, 2023, the subject
discovery was served. (Hafif Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A.) On February 2, 2024, Morrell
provided responses. (Id., ¶ 3, Exh. B.) Hafif met and conferred with
Morrell’s counsel Scott Doonan (“Doonan”), but Doonan did not agree to provide
any further responses or to produce responsive documents. (Id., ¶ 23). The
court required that an IDC be held before the instant motion could be filed. (Id.,
¶ 25). The IDC was held on March 25, 2023, but did not resolve the issues. (Id.,
¶ 26).
Request No. 3 asks for all documents that show who Desiree
Ashcrft (“Ashcrft”) is and why she received certain payments on 10/01/2021,
10/04/2021, 11/01/2021 and 11/03/2021.
Morrell’s response to Request No. 3 was that, after a
reasonable and diligent search, he was unable to comply with this request “in
whole,” that he was not in possession, custody or control of any documents
responsive to this request and believed Plaintiff was in possession, custody
and/or control of responsive documents, that all entries to Ashcrft were for
payments for the purchase of field lights and that Morrell believed that
Ashcrft was previously contacted by a member of Plaintiff after the current administration
of Plaintiff took over.
Plaintiff is entitled to a further response to Request No. 3.
Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.230 requires that a representation of inability
to comply with a demand “also specify whether the inability to comply is
because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed,
has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party.” Morrell’s inclusion
of the phrase “in whole” is not problematic to the court for this instant
response, since he provided substantive information identifying Ashcrft.
Request No. 16 asks for all documents that show why Elite
Group Investments, LLC (“Elite Group”) received certain identified payments
between 09/01/2020 and 12/29/2022.
Request No. 24 asks for all bank statements for Elite Group
from January 1, 2020 to the present.
Request No. 25 asks for all emails and text messages between
Wiesner and Morrell from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2023.
Request No. 26 asks for all emails and texts between Morrell
and George.
Request No. 28 asks for any documents that show the
username, password and any other login credentials for the Club Quickbooks
account.
Morrell’s response to Requests Nos. 16, 24-26 and 28 was
that, after a reasonable and diligent search, he was unable to comply
with this request “in whole,” that he was not in possession, custody or control
of any documents responsive to this request and believed Plaintiff was in
possession, custody and/or control of responsive documents.
Again, Plaintiff is entitled to further responses to Requests
Nos. 16, 24-26 and 28, for the same reasons identified as to Request No. 3. Additionally,
Morrell’s inclusion of the phrase “in whole” suggests that Morrell is at least
able to comply in part with the request.
The motion, then, is granted. Morrell is ordered to
provide further, Code-compliant responses within 20 days from the date of the
notice of ruling.
Sanctions
Morrell’s request for sanctions is summarily denied. Again,
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Morrell in the amount of $3,842.50 [calculated
as follows: 4.4 hours preparing motion, plus 2 hours reviewing opposition and
preparing reply at $425/hour, plus 1 hour preparing part of separate statement
and reviewing motion, plus 0.5 hours reviewing opposition and 1 hour attending
hearing at $425/hour, plus $60 filing fee].
Utilizing a Lodestar approach, and
in view of the totality of the circumstances, the court finds that the total
and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work
performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,460.00 (i.e., 4 hours at
$350.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee). Sanctions are payable within 30 days from
the date of the notice of ruling.
3.         Motion to
File Documents Under Seal
Legal Standard
California Rules of Court Rules 2.550 and 2.551 “apply to
records sealed or proposed to be sealed by court order.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 2.550(a)(1).) “These rules do not apply to discovery motions and records filed or
lodged in connection with discovery motions or proceedings. However, the rules
do apply to discovery materials that are used at trial or submitted as a basis
for adjudication of matters other than discovery motions or proceedings.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(a)(3).)
Discussion
Wiesner moves the court for leave to file an Excel
spreadsheet containing approximately 700 text communications between Morell and
Wiesner (the “Texts”) under seal and for an in camera review.
Evidentiary Objections
The court rules on Plaintiff’s objections to the Hellmich declaration
as follows: Overruled.[2]
Merits
California Rules of Cout rules 2.550 and 2.551 are not
applicable in the context of a discovery dispute. (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550(a)(3).) Wiesner’s motion is summarily denied on this basis. 


