  Case Number:  24VECV01645    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  T 24VECV01645 U-HAUL V MANOUKIAN
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendants U-Haul Co. of California, U-Haul Co. of Arizona, and Arcoa Risk Retention Group, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Cross-Complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the request for punitive damages in the first cause of action for breach of contract and GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the request for punitive damages in the fifth and sixth causes of action for fraud and intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Introduction
Cross-Defendants U-Haul Co. of California (UHCC), U-Haul Co. of Arizona (UHCA), and Arcoa Risk Retention Group, Inc. (Arcoa) (collectively, Cross-Defendants) moved to strike portions of Cross-Complainant Volodia Manoukian’s (Cross-Complainant) Cross-Complaint (XC).  The motion  placed into issue the request for punitive damages under the first cause of action (COA) for breach of contract (see XC par. 52), the fifth COA for fraud (see XC par. 96), and the sixth COA for intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED) (see XC par. 129), and Item 4 of the Prayer. 
This motion was previously set to be heard on October 21, 2024.  However, at that hearing, the only briefs in the Court file were the motion (filed on September 6, 2024) and the reply filed on October 11, 2024.  The Court noted that Cross-Complainant’s opposition may have been rejected for e-filing.  An opposition to the motion is now in the file and the Court notes that the opposition was filed on October 15, 2024.  Cross-Defendants re-filed their motion to strike on November 6, 2024.  The November 6, 2024 and the September 6, 2024 motions to strike are the same, except for Cross-Defendants’ added reference to what occurred prior to the October 21, 2024 hearing.  For the instant hearing, the Court reviewed both motions to strike, the opposition, and the reply. 
Discussion
Cross-Defendants asserted that the request for punitive damages in the breach of contract COA is improper because the relief is not available for breach of contract.  The Court agrees.  Cross-Complainant did not address this argument in the opposition.  Cross-Complainant argued that punitives are proper for bad faith claims, which is the second COA.  It is undisputed by Cross-Defendants that a bad faith claim, as a tort, if properly alleged can be grounds for punitive damages.  However, the motion placed into issue the request for punitive damages made in the contract claim for breach of contract and did not place into issue any request for punitive damages under the second COA and the second COA did not request punitive damages.  Because Cross-Complainant failed to refute the argument as to the first COA, Cross-Defendants’ argument is persuasive. 
The motion to strike punitive damages from the first COA is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
As to the fifth COA for fraud and the sixth COA for IIED, Cross-Defendants argued that Cross-Complainant failed to allege specific facts to allege malice, oppression, or fraud.  To support the claim for punitive damages, Cross-Complainant alleged that Cross-Defendants’ reasons for refusing to pay on the claim was false and bogus.  (XC pars. 44, 57, 82, 84, and 117.)  Cross-Complainant alleged that Cross-Defendants fraudulently claimed that Cross-Complainant colluded with the third parties to stage the accident and the claim amounted to insurance fraud.  (XC pars. 7, 30, 65, 84, and 123.)  However, the allegation of collusion and/or insurance fraud is not seen as despicable conduct carried out with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights of others.  At most, the factual allegation is seen as Cross-Defendants exercising their rights under the policy to determine the veracity of the insurance claim.  Without more and specific facts to allege despicable conduct, the allegations fall short of alleging facts to plead malice, oppression, or fraud, as defined by Civil Code, section 3294.
Cross-Defendants further argued that Cross-Complainant failed to allege punitive damages with respect to a corporate entity/employer.  Cross-Defendants argued that there are insufficient facts to plead advance knowledge or conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, malice, or fraud by an officer, director, or managing agent.  The Court agrees with this contention.  The Cross-Complaint failed to plead any facts by an officer, director, or managing agent.  Again, Cross-Complainant failed to address this issue raised by the motion.  The allegations in support of the bad faith COA are not sufficient to support the punitive damages claim against a corporate employer.  Because Cross-Complainant failed to address this issue, the motion to strike punitives from the fifth and sixth COA is further insufficiently pled.
The motion to strike punitive damages from the fifth and sixth COAs is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
[NOTE:  Cross-Complainant’s opposition added an argument asserting that their request for attorneys’ fees was proper.  (Oppo. pg. 11:7-15.)  However, the motion did not place attorneys’ fees into issue and made no argument against the request for attorneys’ fees.  Because attorneys’ fees is a non-issue/not argued in the motion, the court did not review the request for attorneys’ fees.]
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.