  Case Number:  23SMCV03111    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant The Regents of the University of California’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Defendant The Regents of the University of California’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.Defendant The Regents of the University of California shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Defendant The Regents of the University of California to give notice. REASONINGDefendant The Regents of the University of California (“Defendant”) demurs to each claim alleged in Plaintiff Janis Hoffman (“Plaintiff”)’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), and Defendant moves to strike certain portions of the FAC.Legal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)DemurrerStatute of LimitationsDefendant argues that Plaintiff’s entire FAC is barred by the statute of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5, which provides that “[i]n an action for injury or death against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged professional negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first” absent tolling due to fraud. The statute further provides that “[a]ctions by a minor shall be commenced within three years from the date of the alleged wrongful act except that actions by a minor under the full age of six years shall be commenced within three years or prior to his eighth birthday whichever provides a longer period,” and “[s]uch time limitation shall be tolled for minors for any period during which parent or guardian and defendant’s insurer or health care provider have committed fraud or collusion in the failure to bring an action on behalf of the injured minor for professional negligence.” (Ibid.) A fraud claim is governed by a three-year statute of limitations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338.)Plaintiff alleges in the FAC that the minors were born on December 28, 2009, and the minors were transported, which allegedly caused the harm at issue here, when they were five days old, which would have been on January 2, 2010, or on January 5, 2010, or on January 9, 2010; it remains unclear from the pleading. (FAC ¶¶ 15, 21, 24, 28.) As to Plaintiff’s injury, she had three years from the date of injury in 2010, or one year after she discovered the injury, to file this action, and as to the minors’ injury, they had until three years from the date of the wrongful act or until their eighth birthday on December 28, 2017, but the action was not filed until July 23, 2023.Plaintiff alleges fraud, which tolled the statute of limitations, because she did not have a suspicion that the minors should not have been transported until July 15, 2022, and she requested records on July 11, 2022, which was not completed immediately, and Plaintiff alleges she was not able to discover the harm until September 15, 2022 because the records were not available earlier. (FAC ¶¶ 36-293.) Upon amending the complaint, Plaintiff omits information and asks the Court to conclude, based on the omitted information, that she was unaware of the harm she suffered until approximately 13 years after the conduct at issue. Notably, Plaintiff has omitted a prior allegation that the minors required continued care for 13 months. (Compl. ¶ 34.) It is not clear why the records alone did not inform Plaintiff’s belief of injury to the minors when they were under continued care immediately after the transfer, the minors were in “severe stress and medical decline” upon arriving to the hospital before the transfer (FAC ¶ 32), and Plaintiff has expended 12 years of time caring for the minors (FAC ¶ 118), such that she could have been aware of the harm before reading the records on September 15, 2022. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that she requested records on January 26, 2015 (FAC ¶ 64), suggesting she was aware of harm on that date, providing only a conclusory statement that she did not suspect harm on that date, and she fails to describe how any purportedly omitted records made her aware of the nature of the injury she alleges here such that she could not have known of the harm before 2022. Further, the minors’ claims were only extended beyond the three-year deadline where the parent or guardian and defendant’s insurer or health care provider committed fraud or collusion in the failure to bring an action on behalf of the injured minor for professional negligence (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5), and there are no allegations to this effect.Put simply, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that Plaintiff’s claims are not barred by the applicable statute of limitations. While Plaintiff has alleged fraud claims, those claims, as described below, appear to be no more than claims for medical malpractice, as they are currently stated, such that Plaintiff is bound by the statute of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5. Plaintiff has added many more facts to this amended pleading, such that her pleading with relatively simple claims is now 72 pages long, but none of the new facts allow the Court to conclude that Plaintiff’s claims may not be barred by the statute of limitations.Second, Third, Fourth, and Sixth Causes of Action: Intentional Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation, Concealment, and Fraud“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “The elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.)The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)Plaintiff has failed to allege the four fraud claims with the required specificity. Plaintiff alleges that “the defendants” told Plaintiff it was safe to transport the minors, but it was not safe, and Defendant concealed the risk from Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 145-148.) Plaintiff provides no specific allegations about what was said to her, the speaker’s authority to speak for Defendant, what they said, and when it was said; Plaintiff states only that a neonatal doctor advised Plaintiff to approve the ambulance transfer, that there was a care plan in place, and that it was safe to transport. (FAC ¶¶ 144-148.) Further, Plaintiff alleges that the fraud induced her to care for the minors and to sign a consent form (FAC ¶¶ 118, 158, 159, 162, 199, 202, 203, 258, 278, 294, 317), but this does not describe an injury that occurred due to the fraud, as it appears the injury occurred due to the purported medical malpractice, if any, and the trier of fact could not reasonably conclude that Plaintiff cared for her children solely because of fraud that allegedly occurred.The Court lacks a basis to conclude that Plaintiff can amend the pleading to cure the deficiencies identified herein. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to all causes of action.Motion to StrikeGiven the ruling on Defendant’s demurrer, Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED as MOOT.