  Case Number:  22NWCV00977    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  F Joseph
Construction vs. Andy Tran, Case No. 22NWCV00977
 
This
is a breach of contract action. Defendant Andy Tran moves ex parte to continue
the trial. 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states
that although disfavored, the trial date may be continued for “good cause,”
which includes (without limitation): (1) unavailability of trial counsel or
witnesses due to “death, illness, or other excusable circumstances”; (2) the
addition of a new party depriving the new party (or other parties) from
conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3) “excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated change in the status of the
case” preventing it from being ready for trial. 
 
Other relevant considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of
the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension
of time, or delay of trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the
continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of alternative means to address
the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶]
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the
continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting,
the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs
the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7)¿The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial counsel
is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by a
continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.” (California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332 (c).) 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action only because an issue in this
matter after the demurrer ruling on or about May 28, 2024. Defendant also
argues that the identifies of the new parties, Cross-Defendant Razmik
Construction and Cross-Defendant Razmik Minasian have been discovered recently
and named as a party. The Court notes that Defendant filed amendments to the
complaint on May 14, 2024. 
 
Based
on the above, the motion is GRANTED. Trial is continued from October 28, 2024
to March 24, 2025. 
 
Moving
party to give notice. 