 Case Number:  BC691050    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  D 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Calendar:         6
Date:               7/5/2024
Case No.         BC
691050                                
Case Name:     Steger
v. CSJ St. Providence Medical Center, et al.
 
MOTIONS FOR RECONSIDERATION (3)




 
Moving
Party:                         Plaintiff Jason Steger 
                                                            Defendant Olympus America, Inc. 
                                                            Defendants
John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D.       

Responding
Party:       Defendant Olympus America,
Inc. 
                                                            Defendants
John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D. 

                                                            Plaintiff
Jason Steger      
   
FACTUAL
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:
On January 22, 2018, plaintiff
Jason Steger filed this action, alleging that in October of 2016, plaintiff was
admitted to defendant CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center with abdominal
pain, and that defendants, various medical providers, negligently performed a
colonoscopy procedure on plaintiff which perforated his colon in multiple
areas.  Plaintiff alleges that after the
procedure, his pain worsened, and he went into septic shock.  Plaintiff alleges that he ultimately
underwent a total colectomy with ileostomy and other procedures, and his entire
colon was removed. 
 
On September 6, 2019, the court
heard a motion for summary judgment brought by defendant Providence St. Joseph
Medical Center, which was granted, and the trial court’s orders as to that
defendant were affirmed on appeal.   
 
On July 6, 2020, plaintiff filed an
Amendment to Complaint, substituting defendant Olympus America, Inc. as the
true name of the defendant designated in the complaint as Doe 1.   
 
            The
operative complaint alleges that defendant Olympus America sells, markets and
services medical products, including endoscopes such as the specific endoscopes
involved in the subject incident, that the endoscopes were defective, that the
Olympus defendants performed inadequate evaluation and testing of the scopes,
including failing to properly determine that the scope’s reprocessing protocol
adequately disinfected the device for safe subsequent use in multiple
endoscopic patients, and fraudulently marketed the scopes, as a result of which
plaintiff suffered injuries. 
 
            Beginning
in October of 2022, the court entered various orders and heard motions
concerning the five-year deadline applicable to this case, as well as discovery
motions. 
 
            On December
1, 2023, the court heard a motion concerning augmenting plaintiff’s expert
witness list, and two motions to dismiss the action for failure to bring the
matter to trial, one filed by defendant Olympus, and one filed by defendants
Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao.  
            At the
hearing, the court issued a tentative ruling via posting on LACourt.org
website, which was to continue the hearing for further briefing in connection
with the motions to dismiss of a narrow issue designated by the court:
“Defendant Olympus America Inc.’s
Motion to Dismiss Action for Failure to Bring the Matter to Trial is CONTINUED
to December 22, 2023 for further briefing on the narrow issues of whether
plaintiff can meet his burden pursuant to CCP section 583.340(c) of
establishing that it is impossible, impractical, and/or futile to bring the
case to trial within the five-year statutory period during the time the parties
are engaging in preparing and amending their long-cause package, and the matter
is under evaluation for submission to long-cause. The Court will expect further
legal briefing and a further factual record limited to the issues of trial
readiness, causality and the exercise of reasonable diligence in connection
with the above issue, and in light of the recently filed published decision of Oswald
v. Landmark Builders, Inc. (2023) Cal.App.5th__, 2023 WL 7581095.
Supplemental Opposition is to be filed and served by no later than December 11,
2023. Supplemental Replies are to be filed and served no later than December
15, 2023.”
[Minute Order 12/02/2023, p. 37]. 
 
            A similar
order was made in connection with the motion to dismiss brought by Dr. Kasher
and Dr. Kao.  
 
On December 6, 2023, defendant
Olympus filed and served a Notice of Ruling Re: Proceedings Held on December 1,
2023, and attached a copy of the court’s December 1, 2023 minute order.   
 
            Supplemental
briefs were then filed, served, and considered by the court and at the hearing
on December 22, 2023, the court denied a motion by plaintiff for
reconsideration of the court’s September 15, 2023 orders in connection with the
deposition of plaintiff’s expert Dr. Gazi and monetary sanctions, and granted
the two motions to dismiss under CCP section 583.360 for failure to have
brought the case to trial within five years, as extended by the COVID statute
by six months.  Plaintiff’s motion to
augment and substitute experts was deemed moot in light of the granting of the
motions to dismiss. 
 
            On January 12, 2024, the court signed and filed a Judgment
of Dismissal as to Defendant Olympus America, Inc., ordering, adjudging and
decreeing that plaintiff’s operative Second Amended Complaint was dismissed
pursuant to CCP sections 583.310 as to defendant Olympus America, Inc.  The judgment further states that defendant
“shall recover its costs of suit from Plaintiff Jason Steger in accordance with
a bill of costs to be filed after entry of this judgment.”  A similar Judgment of Dismissal as to
Defendants John
A. Kasher, M.D., and James Kao, M.D.
was filed and signed the same date. 

 
            Also on
January 12, 2024, the court signed and filed an Order
on Monetary Sanctions Award from September 15, 2023 Hearing in Favor of Defendant
Olympus America, Inc., ordering plaintiff Jason Steger, plaintiff’s counsel of
record Blake J. Lindemann and Lindemann Law Firm, APC to pay the monetary
sanctions in the amount of $6,672.90, plus interest, jointly and severally, to
defendant Olympus America, Inc. within thirty days of notice of entry of the
order.   A similar Order on Monetary
Sanctions Award from September 15, 2023 Hearing in Favor of John A. Kasher, M.D.,
and James Kao, M.D.  was filed and signed
the same date, ordering the payment of monetary sanctions in favor of
defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D. in the sum of $3,351.93,
payable within thirty days of notice of the entry of the order. 
 
            Also on
January 12, 2024, the court entered an Order on Monetary Sanctions Award from
August 6, 2021 Hearing in Favor of Defendant Olympus America Inc., summarizing
an August 6, 2021 minute order which awarded sanctions in connection with four
discovery motions, three for responses to written discovery, and one to deem
requests for admissions deemed admitted, which motions had been rendered moot
by the service of belated responses prior to the hearing.  The court awarded monetary sanctions in the
total amount of $2,825.00 in favor of defendant Olympus America, Inc. and
against plaintiff Jason Steger.  The
order provides, “Plaintiff Jason Steger is ordered to pay the monetary
sanctions to Defendant Olympus America Inc. within thirty (30) days of notice
of entry of this order.”   
 
            On January 18, 2024,
the clerk filed and served a Notice of Entry of Dismissal, giving notice of the
entry of the order of dismissal on January 12, 2024, and of entry of the orders
for monetary sanction awards filed on January 12, 2024. 

 
On March 6, 2024, plaintiff filed a
Notice of Appeal indicating that plaintiff Jason Steger, Blake J. Lindemann and
Lindemann Law Firm, APC filed a notice of appeal to the court of appeal:
“from the Notice of Ruling
Dismissing this Case pursuant to the Five-Year Rule, dated December 27, 2023,
any subsequently signed Judgment, and all interim adverse rulings and findings
previously issued in the Case through and including January 12, 2024, and any
adverse rulings in the case made pre or post-judgment.”
 
            On May 3,
2024, the court heard a motion to by plaintiff to clarify stay or to clarify
that not paying discovery sanctions will not constitute a willful act of
disobedience, seeking to stay the enforcement of the orders imposing monetary
sanctions in this matter pending appeal, as well as a motion by plaintiff to strike,
tax or disallow costs sought by defendant Olympus and defendants James Kasher
and John Kao in their memoranda of costs. 
 
            The motion
to clarify stay was denied, the court noting that to the extent the motion
sought clarification of the court’s sanctions orders, judgments of those orders
had been entered as final judgments on January 12, 2024, so that the court was
without power to reconsider or change those judgments.  [Minute Order 5/3/2024, pp. 11, 12].   
 
            The motion
to strike and tax with respect to the memoranda of costs filed by the
defendants was granted in part, the court awarding costs to defendants Dr.
Kasher and Dr. Kao in the sum of $20,120.15, and to defendant Olympus in the
sum of $1,379.64.  
 
ANALYSIS:   
Plaintiff’s Motion

 
 
Procedural
Judgment
Entered 
            Plaintiff’s
motion does not clearly indicate what plaintiff is seeking to have the court
reconsider, but it appears from the notice of motion and memorandum to be some
unspecified determination in the December 6, 2023 Notice of Ruling.  The proposed order submitted with plaintiff’s
motion seeks an order “that the Motion to Reconsider is granted such that
nothing in the December 6, 2023 NOR precludes
determination of the legal issues and factual bases raised in the December 11,
2023 supplemental filings by Plaintiff.” 
[[Proposed] Order, received 5/22/2024].  It is not clear what such a ruling would
mean. 
 
            In any case, a review of the
December 6, 2023 Notice of Ruling shows that the December 1, 2023 ruling dealt
with the motions to dismiss and motion to augment and substitute experts.  The Notice of Ruling refers to five distinct
rulings, as well as rulings concerning supplemental briefing, and attaches a 39-page
minute order.   It is not clear which of
the numerous rulings are being challenged by this motion, but it is clear that
all of those matters are subject to the dismissal which has been entered in
this matter, filed on January 12, 2021, with notice of entry of order of
dismissal and orders for monetary sanction awards having been filed and served
by the clerk on January 18, 2024.  As
noted above, plaintiff has appealed from these orders, and all orders predating
the January 12, 2021 dismissal.  Those issues
are now within the exclusive jurisdiction of the court of appeal.     
 
It is held that once a judgment has
been entered, a court may not reconsider it or make changes to the judgment.  Passavanti v. Williams (1990) 225 Cal.
App. 3d 1602, 1606 (“A court may reconsider its order granting or denying a
motion and may even reconsider or alter its judgment so long as judgment has
not yet been entered. Once judgment has been entered, however, the court may
not reconsider it and loses its unrestricted power to change the judgment. It
may correct judicial error only through certain limited procedures such as
motions for new trial and motions to vacate the judgment.”) See also, Ramon
v. Aerospace Corp. (1996, 2nd Dist.) 50 Cal.App.4th 1233,
1237-1238. (“After entry of judgment, a party must use statutory methods to
attack the judgment in the trial court or must file an appeal.”)  Accordingly, the court here has no authority
to make a ruling concerning the scope of the determinations of legal issues and
factual bases raised in the December 6, 2023 Notice of Ruling, or the effect of
any supplemental filings.
 
            The motion accordingly is denied, as
this court lacks authority to hear it.
 
            Plaintiff
seems to argue in the motion that since defendants have brought motions for
reconsideration of the motions to tax costs to be heard the same date, if the
court considers those motions for reconsideration, it must also hear
plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration. 
As argued in the opposition, the motion to tax costs was appropriately
considered by the court post-judgment and post-appeal, as the perfecting of an
appeal does not prevent the trial court from determining costs, as an award of
costs “is a collateral matter which is embraced in the action but is not affected
by the order from which an appeal is taken.” 
Bankes v. Lucas (2nd Dist. 1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 365,
369, citing CCP section 916 (a) and In re Marriage of Sherman (2nd
Dist. 1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 1132, 1140.   As noted in Kajima Engineering and
Construction, Inc. v. Pacific Bell (2002) 103 Cal.App. 4th 1397,
“A postjudgment order awarding or denying costs is a separately appealable
order.” Kajima, at 1402, citations omitted. The cost orders were appropriately
issued post-dismissal, and the court continues to have jurisdiction to
reconsider those orders if reconsideration is properly sought.  This procedural posture has no bearing on the
court’s lack of authority to consider plaintiff’s current motion for
reconsideration.   

 
Motion Untimely
            The opposition also points out that
the motion must be denied as untimely. 
 
          CCP § 1008(a) provides, in pertinent
part:
“When
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or
court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or
revoke the prior order.”  
(Emphasis
added). 
 
            The Notice
of Ruling upon which the motion is evidently based was served on December 6,
2023.  This motion was filed and served
on May 22, 2024, over five months later. 
The motion is therefore untimely and is not considered by the
court.  
 
Plaintiff seems to argue that this
motion is a renewed motion for reconsideration, brought because the court took
off calendar a motion for reconsideration which plaintiff filed on December 18,
2023, within ten days of the December 6, 2023 notice of ruling.  
 
There is no legal authority cited
for bringing such a “renewed” motion, and for not bringing it within ten days
of any court order declining to consider the prior motion. 
 
In addition, the opposition submits
a transcript of the hearing at which the hearing on the motion for
reconsideration was evidently advanced and vacated, on December 22, 2023, and
it appears that at that hearing, counsel for plaintiff withdrew the previous
motion, and the court also found that it was moot, as the materials submitted
in support of the motion had all been considered by the court.  Specifically, at the hearing, the following
exchange took place concerning the motion for reconsideration noticed to be
heard on March 8, 2024:
THE COURT:  SO LET ME JUST CLARIFY, MR. LINDEMANN. 
ARE YOU KEEPING IT
ON CALENDAR OR ARE YOU WITHDRAWING IT? 
 
MR. LINDEMANN: I THINK BASED ON THE
POSTURE OF THIS RECORD, I HAVE TO KEEP IT ON CALENDAR, BECAUSE IN YOUR
TENTATIVE YOU STATED, YOU KNOW, WE SHOULD’VE RAISED IT IN DECEMBER 2ND. 
WE THINK THE
ISSUES ARE RELATED. BUT IF YOU SAID YOU CONSIDERED EVERYTHING TODAY THAT WE
SUBMITTED WITH OUR EVIDENCE AND OUR ARGUMENT, AND YOU FAIRLY LOOKED AT IT, THEN
I'M OF THE BELIEF THAT IT WOULD BE UNNECESSARY. 
BUT I’M JUST
HEARING THAT. 
 
MR. HOFFMAN:  IF THE ARGUMENTS THAT THEY MADE TODAY ABOUT
THE APPEAL, THE ILLNESSES, THAT STUFF. THAT’S THE STUFF THAT THEY RAISED NEW
TODAY. 
THE COURT:· HOLD ON JUST A MINUTE.

 
MR. HOFFMAN:· I MEAN, MR.
LINDEMANN, CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG, BUT I BELIEVE YOUR DECLARATION FOR THAT
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION IS THE EXACT SAME AS YOUR DECLARATION WITH YOUR
SUPPLEMENTAL OPPOSITION? 
 
MR. LINDEMANN:· THAT IS CORRECT. WE
SIMPLY HAD ADDED THE DECLARATIONS FROM THE SUPPLEMENTAL OPPOSITION. 
AND IF THOSE
HAVE BEEN CONSIDERED AND MR. BORSUK'S POINTS ARE CONSIDERED, MY POINTS ARE
CONSIDERED, AND THEY'RE NOT PRECLUDED BY WHAT WAS RULED ON DECEMBER 2ND, AND
THEY WERE HEARD TODAY AND CONSIDERED, THEN I'M OKAY. 
BUT OTHERWISE WE
WOULD LIKE IT TO BE HEARD ON THE PENDING APPEAL. 
 
THE COURT: THE COURT'S MAKING
TWO RULINGS ON THAT. 
ITS VACATING
THE HEARING DATE. AND ALSO THE COURT'S FINDING THAT IT'S MOOT.  AND IT'S BEEN ADDRESSED IN TODAY'S HEARING.

SO ON BOTH GROUNDS
THE COURT IS NOT GOING TO HEAR THE MATTER SET FOR MARCH 8TH. IT'S VACATED
BECAUSE THE CASE IS OVER. 
SECONDLY, IF IT'S
NOT VACATED, IT'S MOOT. BECAUSE ALL THOSE ARGUMENTS WERE ADDRESSED AT THE
HEARING TODAY. 
THE RECORD
SHOULD REFLECT THAT I'VE GONE ONLINE TO LOOK AT IT, QUICKLY LOOK AT THAT MOTION.”
[Hoffman Decl., para. 10, Ex. 6, pp. 66-68, emphasis
added].  
 
The current motion is untimely and is
denied on that ground. 
 
Declaration

          As noted
above, the declaration submitted with the moving papers fails to comply with
any of the requirements applicable to a motion for reconsideration.  
 
CCP
§ 1008(a) specifically requires: 
“The party making the application shall
state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”
 
          Subdivision
(d) provides that a violation of this section may be punishable as contempt and
warrant sanctions.   Subdivision (e)
provides “No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a
previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according
to this section.”   
 
          Here,
the declaration of counsel submitted in support of the renewed motion fails to
identify what application was made before, what order or decisions were made
which defendant would like to have reconsidered, which is particularly puzzling
here, and what new or different facts, circumstances or law are claimed to be
shown.   The declaration mentions
numerous hearings and rulings, but makes no mention of the December 6, 2023
Notice of Ruling, which the proposed order appears to pinpoint as the order
being challenged.   
 
            This posture makes it difficult for
the court to determine which of the numerous decisions and rulings made at the December
1, 2023 hearing which was the subject of the Notice of Ruling are being
challenged.  It also bears noting that at
that hearing, the court permitted supplemental briefing from the parties.  A Supplemental briefing was filed by
plaintiff on December 11, 2023, and that briefing, consisting of a memorandum
and declarations dated December 11, 2023, are what is submitted in support of
this motion for reconsideration.  The
ruling of December 1, 2023 was then considered again, with the court in its subsequent
ruling on December 22, 2023 noting repeatedly that it had considered the
supplemental briefing in making that final ruling.  [Hoffman Decl., Ex. 5, Minute Order
12/22/2024, pp. 6, 69].
  
          The
motion does not refer to any new law, and the only facts or circumstances
mentioned in the declaration all occurred well before the December 6, 2023 and
December 22, 2023 hearings.   
 




          When
bringing a motion for reconsideration based on new facts, the moving party must
present “a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence
earlier, which can only be described as a strict requirement of diligence.”  Garcia v. Hejmadi, (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 674, 690.  
 
          The
motion for its evidence relies on declarations prepared and signed on December
11, 2023, and fails to explain why these facts were not presented at the
December 1, 2023 or December 22, 2023 hearing, when it appears that identical
declarations were before the court by December 11, 2023, and considered by the
court. 
 
          The
motion for reconsideration pursuant to CCP section 1008 is denied on the
additional ground that plaintiff has failed to submit the information required
in the moving declaration. 

 
Substantive
          CCP § 1008(a) provides, in pertinent
part:
“When
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and
based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order.”  
 
           This subdivision further provides:
 “For a failure to comply with this subdivision
any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on ex
parte motion.” 
 
Under
CCP section 1008, subdivision (e):
“This section specifies the
court's jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its
orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to
reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous
motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or
final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous
motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this
section.”
 
The trial court’s determination
of a motion for reconsideration is reviewed for abuse of discretion.  See Wiz Technology, Inc. v. Coopers &
Lybrand (2003, 2nd Dist.) 106 Cal.App.4th 1, 16.
 
            As discussed above, plaintiff has
failed to establish that there are any new or different facts presented here
which could not have been previously submitted, which were not in fact
previously presented, and which the court did not in fact previously
consider.  As detailed above, the court
at the December 22, 2023 hearing represented on the record that it had
considered the declarations sought to be considered here.  The minute order of that hearing also
repeatedly states that the supplemental briefing had been considered,
indicating, “Supplemental briefs have been filed and served and considered by
the court,” and “The Court has analyzed the factors and facts,… and considered
supplemental briefing by the parties on the issue…”  [Hoffman Decl., Ex.
5, Minute Order 12/22/2024, pp. 6, 69].

 
            The motion does not establish that
reconsideration here is warranted under CCP section 1008 based on new or
different facts, circumstances or law.  
 
            In addition, the moving papers do
not clearly indicate what the court should be reconsidering with respect to the
rulings made.  Plaintiff’s motion
accordingly is denied both procedurally and on its merits. 
 
Defendant
Olympus’ Motion
          Defendant Olympus seeks to have the
court reconsider its determination of costs to be awarded to defendant in this
matter, which was made in connection with a motion to tax costs brought by
plaintiff. 
 
          CCP § 1008(a)
provides, in pertinent part:
“When an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party
of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.”  
 
           This
subdivision further provides:
 “For a
failure to comply with this subdivision any order made on a subsequent
application may be revoked or set aside on ex parte motion.” 
 
 
Under CCP section 1008, subdivision (e):
“This
section specifies the court's jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.”
 
The
trial court’s determination of a motion for reconsideration is reviewed for
abuse of discretion.  See Wiz
Technology, Inc. v. Coopers & Lybrand (2003, 2nd Dist.) 106
Cal.App.4th 1, 16.

 
            Defendant argues
that reconsideration is necessary because different caselaw sets forth the
showing and burden with respect to claiming or challenging costs.  The cases now relied upon were all in
existence at the time of the prior hearing, and, in fact, most were cited to, and
argued to, the court at the hearing.  [See
Hoffman Decl., Ex. E, Transcript pp. 14-17]. 

 
            Reliance on
new or different law is held to require a showing of diligence.  In Baldwin v. Home Savings of America
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1192, the court of appeal found the trial
court had abused its discretion in granting a motion for reconsideration of a
motion for attorney fees and costs based on “different” law without providing
an explanation for why a two-year-old case had not been cited earlier.  The court of appeal reasoned:
“If
counsel need not explain the failure to earlier produce pertinent legal
authority that was available, the ability of a party
to obtain reconsideration would expand in inverse relationship to the
competence of counsel. Without a diligence requirement the number of times a
court could be required to reconsider its prior orders would be limited only by
the ability of counsel to belatedly conjure a legal theory different from those
previously rejected, which is not much of a limitation.”
Baldwin, at 1199.  
 
            The
case law and legal argument relied upon here were presented at the hearing and
relate to the standards and burdens to be applied to a party seeking costs,
which was fundamental to a motion to tax costs, and was reasonably placed at
issue in this matter at the prior hearing. 
The law and argument are accordingly not new or different from what was
previously considered by the court.  
 
The fact that counsel did not effectively
argue then existing matters known to counsel, or that the court misinterpreted the
existing law is not considered a “new” or “different” matter constituting a ground
for reconsideration.   Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500. 
As pointed out in the opposition, the court of appeal in Gilberd
held that CCP section 1008 is the “exclusive means for modifying, amending, or
revoking an order,” and that, “That limitation is expressly
jurisdictional.”  Gilberd, at 1499,
citation omitted.  The court of appeal
held, “According to the plain language of the statute, a court acts in excess
of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon
‘new or different facts, circumstances, or law.’”  Gilberd, at 1500. 
 
            Plaintiff
in opposition also relies on Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc.
v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, in which the California
Supreme Court set forth the following interpretation of CCP section 1008:
“Section 1008's purpose is “‘to conserve judicial resources by
constraining litigants who would endlessly bring the same motions over and
over, or move for reconsideration of every adverse order and then appeal the
denial of the motion to reconsider.’ ” (Sen. Com. on Judiciary, Analysis of
Assem. Bill No. 1067 (2011–2012 Reg. Sess.), as amended Apr. 25, 2011, p. 4.)
To state that purpose strongly, the Legislature made section 1008 expressly
jurisdictional, as subdivision (e) explains: “This section specifies the
court's jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its
orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to
reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous
motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or
final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous
motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this
section.” (§ 1008, subd. (e).) To deter parties from filing noncompliant
renewed applications, the Legislature provided that “[a] violation of this
section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by Section
128.7.” (§ 1008, subd. (d).)”
Even
Zohar, at 839-841, italics in original. 

            The
Court in Even Zohar cites to Garcia v. Hejmadi (1998) 58
Cal.App.4th 674, in which the court of appeal found that the trial
court erred in granting a motion to set aside an order granting summary
judgment under CCP § 473 based on plaintiff’s filing of untimely supplemental
opposition papers in reaction to the trial court’s tentative ruling on
the motion.  The court of
appeal found that relief was not properly granted under CCP § 473, and also
found that, although the trial court had not ruled on plaintiff’s motion to the
extent it sought reconsideration under CCP § 1008, that there was no
“satisfactory” explanation for not filing earlier a declaration of plaintiff
consisting of facts “obviously always within his possession.”   Garcia, at 690.  
 
            To the extent defendant argues that
new circumstances have arisen because the court’s ruling raised new issues and
arguments, the court’s ruling was available to defendant the day before the hearing,
and it did not raise any arguments which were not within the scope of the
arguments made by all parties.  As noted,
at the hearing defendant’s counsel clearly had reviewed the tentative ruling in
advance, done research, and made extensive argument citing to the cases relied
upon, which the court and plaintiff’s counsel pointed out had not been included
in the opposition papers. [Transcript, pp. 13-24].  Defendant’s counsel also argued that those
issues had been raised for the first time in the court’s ruling, with
plaintiff’s counsel countering by arguing that the moving papers had been
sufficient to challenge the costs on the grounds at issue.  [Id.]  Defendant
at the hearing did not request a continuance of the hearing to submit further
briefing, which may have been an effective way to address any purported
misunderstanding with respect to the tentative ruling.  [See Transcript].  Instead, defendant’s counsel permitted the
tentative ruling to become the final ruling, while representing a motion for
reconsideration would be filed, or the order would be appealed.  Defendant failed at the hearing to effectively
persuade the court that the case law warranted the issuance of a different
order, and failed to even request a continuance, or to effectively argue that
defendant had been prejudiced by the purported raising of purported new issues
in the tentative ruling and required a continuance.  Under such
circumstances, the requirements for reconsideration have not been
established.   
 
            The
motion accordingly is denied. 

 

Defendants
Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao’s Motion
Procedural
Declaration

            The declaration submitted with the
moving papers fails to comply with the requirements applicable to a motion for
reconsideration.  
 
CCP § 1008(a) specifically
requires: 
“The
party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”
 
            Subdivision (d) provides that a
violation of this section may be punishable as contempt and warrant
sanctions.   Subdivision (e) provides “No
application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may
be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this
section.”   
 
            Here, the declaration of counsel
submitted in support of the motion for reconsideration fails to identify what
application was made before, mentioning several rulings but not identifying
which ruling defendants would like to have reconsidered, attaching only the
tentative ruling from May 2, 2024, but not the May 3, 3024 ruling which
apparently is the subject of the motion. 
The declaration also fails to identify to what judge the previous application
was made, fails to state what the objectionable ruling was, and fails to
identify what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are relied
upon.  There is no mention in the
declaration of any new or different law, presumably because identifying such
law would reveal that it is not new but decided before the previous hearing.  Also, the declaration refers to facts and
exhibits evidently in support of an argument that there are new facts, which
consist entirely of facts which are not new, but had been known to defendants
well before the hearing on the motion to tax costs, with no explanation why
those facts, exhibits, and highlighted versions of exhibits had not been
submitted previously.  [See Tomlinson
Decl., paras. 5-15].   
            



            When bringing a motion for
reconsideration based on new facts, the moving party must present “a
satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence earlier, which can
only be described as a strict requirement of diligence.”  Garcia v. Hejmadi, (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 674, 690.  
 
            There is no diligence mentioned or
established by the declaration, and there is no reason why the facts, receipts
and other new materials could not have been presented with the opposition or
prior to the hearing on the motion to tax. 

 
            The motion for reconsideration
pursuant to CCP section 1008 is denied on the grounds that defendants have failed
to submit the information required in the moving declaration. 
 
Substantive
            Defendants Dr. Kasher and Dr. Kao
argue that the court applied incorrect legal burdens in consideration of the
motion to tax costs, setting forth many of the same arguments asserted by
defendant Olympus, above, and vaguely seem to argue that defendants now can clarify
and submit receipts and other explanations concerning their claims for specific
cost. 
 
          Again, CCP § 1008(a) provides, in
pertinent part:
“When
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and
based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order.”  
 
           This subdivision further provides:
 “For a failure to comply with this subdivision
any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on ex
parte motion.” 
 
Under
CCP section 1008, subdivision (e):
“This section specifies the
court's jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its
orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to
reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous
motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or
final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous
motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this
section.”
 
The trial court’s determination
of a motion for reconsideration is reviewed for abuse of discretion.  See Wiz Technology, Inc. v. Coopers &
Lybrand (2003, 2nd Dist.) 106 Cal.App.4th 1, 16.
 
            As was the case in connection with
the Olympus motion, the law cited is not new, as the cases now relied upon were
all in existence at the time of the prior hearing, and co-defendant in fact
cited them to the court and argued their applicability at the hearing, as
discussed above.  
 
            Moving defendants here do not submit
a transcript of the hearing, and do not explain why their counsel did not bring
such authorities to the attention of the court at the prior hearing.  Moving defendants do not include in their
papers any attempt to show diligence in pursuing these legal arguments
previously.  The motion accordingly is
denied with respect to the argument concerning new or different law for the
same reasons stated above in connection with the Olympus motion.  
 
            There is no argument that there are
new or different circumstances which would warrant reconsideration.  
 
            Defendants instead seem to argue
that they are entitled to recover their costs for electronic filing or service
fees, and for the costs they claimed as “Other” based on new evidence submitted,
in effect, new or different facts. 
Specifically, defendants in connection with the claims for electronic
filing or service fees, submit orders and highlight exhibits which the court
previously had identified as not cited or submitted, or sufficiently
identified.  In connection with the other
costs, which are primarily for courtcall charges and travel expenses,
defendants now submit receipts and explain that some, but not all, of this
travel was related to depositions. 
 
            To the extent this approach is an
argument that new or different facts are now presented, these are not facts
which were not fully known to defendants at the time they drafted and submitted
their showing in support of their opposition to the motion to tax costs.     
 
            When bringing a motion for
reconsideration based on new facts, as when bringing such a motion based on new
law, the moving party must present “a satisfactory explanation for failing to
provide the evidence earlier, which can only be described as a strict
requirement of diligence.”  Garcia v.
Hejmadi, (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690. 

 
            A motion for reconsideration is
properly denied where it is based on evidence that could have been presented in
connection with the original motion.  Morris
v. Afga Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460, 1468 (noting
with approval a trial court’s ruling that expert medical causation evidence was
“improper for reconsideration because it could have been presented with the
motion.”).
 
            The evidence sought to be submitted
here unquestionably could have been presented with the original opposition but
was not.  As noted above, the declaration
fails to explain why the evidence, which was known to defendants long ago,
could not have been presented earlier.  
 
            The requirements for reconsideration
have not been established.   
 
            The motion accordingly is denied. 
 
RULING:       
Plaintiff’s Renewed Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED. 
Procedurally, dismissal has been
entered, and the court is without authority to reconsider or change any orders
sought to be reconsidered.  The motion is
extremely untimely.  The declaration in
support of the motion fails to comply with CCP § 1008, as it fails to indicate what
application was made before, to what judge, what order or decisions were made
which plaintiff would like to have reconsidered, and what new or different law,
facts or circumstances are presented.  

Substantively, the declaration and moving papers fail to show
any new or different law, facts, or circumstances which
were not known to the moving party or could not have been or were not argued in
connection with previous hearings, as required under CCP § 1008.  The arguments
asserted were in fact addressed to the Court in virtually identical writings
which the Court repeatedly represented it had considered.  
 
Defendant Olympus America Inc.’s Motion for Reconsideration
Regarding Plaintiff’s Motion to Tax Costs is DENIED. 
Defendant has failed to establish
that the motion is based on new or different facts, circumstances, or law, which
were not known to the moving party or could not have been or were not argued in
connection with previous hearings, as required under CCP § 1008.  

 
Defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and James Kao, M.D.’s Motion
for Reconsideration of Costs Taxed or Stricken on May 3, 2024 is DENIED.   
Procedurally, the declaration in support of the motion fails
to comply with CCP § 1008, as it fails to clearly indicate to what judge the
previous application was made, what order or decisions were made which defendants
would like to have reconsidered, and what new or different law, facts, or
circumstances are presented.  
Substantively, defendants have failed to establish that the
motion is based on new or different facts, circumstances, or law, which were
not known to the moving party or could not have been or were not argued in
connection with previous hearings, as required under CCP § 1008.  
 
 
DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING
TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
 
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative. 
 
 