 Case Number:  BC699002    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Calendar:                                 7                                              
Date:               7/5/2023                                              
Case
No:                                 BC 699002
                             Trial Date:       None Set 
Case
Name:                             Goodrich
v. Padilla, Jr., et al.
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AMENDED ANSWER 
TO CROSS-COMPLAINT
                                                                              
 
Moving
Party:                         Cross-Defendant Erik Goodrich    
Responding Party:     
Cross-Complainants Guillermo Eduardo Padilla, Jr. and 
Greenwood Motor
Lines, Inc. dba R-L Carriers (No Opposition) 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
            Order
granting leave to file an Amended Answer to Cross-Complaint 
 
Effect of Amendment 
Reflects that York & Wainfeld
now represents only cross-defendant Erik Goodrich, adds three additional
affirmative defenses. 
 
RELEVANT FACTS:
Plaintiff Lisa Goodrich alleges
that on June 19, 2017, while she was a passenger in a vehicle which was
entering an intersection, defendant Guillermo Eduardo Padilla, Jr., driving a
tractor-trailer, made an unsafe left-hand turn, causing a massive collision,
which totaled the vehicle where plaintiff was a passenger and caused a
life-changing injury to plaintiff requiring a cervical fusion surgery.  The complaint alleges that defendant was
negligent per se and caused the collision in violation of the California
Vehicle Code (failure to yield right of way while making left hand turn).  The complaint alleges that at the time of the
collision, defendant was driving a truck owned by defendant R+L Carriers in the
course and scope of defendant Padilla’s employment with defendant R+L
Carriers.  
 
Defendants Padilla and R+L Carriers
have filed a cross-complaint for negligence, contractual and equitable
indemnity, contribution and declaratory relief against plaintiff and
cross-defendant Erik Goodrich, alleging that Lisa Goodrich was the owner of the
vehicle which defendant Erik Goodrich was driving with the permission and
knowledge of Lisa Goodrich, and that cross-defendants negligently owned,
operated and controlled the vehicle causing it to collide with the truck owned
and operated by cross-complainants.   The
cross-complaint alleges that at all relevant times Lisa Goodrich should have
known that Erik Goodrich was incompetent and unfit to drive her vehicle. 
 
The cross-complaint also alleges
that on April 6, 2018, Erik Goodrich entered into an agreement with R+L
Carriers pursuant to which he agreed to indemnify, defend and hold harmless
cross-defendants and to pay fees and costs in connection with any and all
liabilities, damages, or losses arising out of or related to the Incident, so
that cross-complainants are entitled to recover fees and costs in connection
with Lisa Goodrich’s lawsuit.  The
cross-complaint alleges causes of action for negligence, contractual indemnity,
equitable indemnity, contribution and declaratory relief.   
 
The file shows that on April 2, 2021, the court heard a motion for summary
adjudication of the cross-complaint claims for express indemnification and
negligent entrustment filed by cross-defendants Lisa Goodrich and Erik
Goodrich.  The motion was denied.  The court made a further ruling on the motion
as follows:
“The Court finds no substantive
unconscionability when Mr. Goodrich was represented by Counsel and the alleged
substantive unconscionability arises out of a contractual drafting issue that
could have been fixed or remedied by proper contractual language. And there is
no evidence in the record that such language was presented and rejected causing
Mr. Goodrich to say, ‘Well I guess I have to go with that because it has been
presented to the other side and they rejected it.’"
 
            The
matter went to a jury trial in January and February of 2024, the court having
bifurcated trial for the issue of indemnification on the cross-complaint except
for negligence. 
 
            On February
16, 2024, the special verdict was read and filed, the jury finding that
defendants were not negligent, that cross-defendant Erik Goodrich was
negligent, but that the negligence of Erik Goodrich was not a substantial
factor in causing harm to Lisa Goodrich.  
The jury also found that Lisa Goodrich had not proved damages.  The court took oral waivers for judgment
pursuant to CCP section 664. 
 
ANALYSIS:   
Procedural
The
motion fails to comply with several procedural requirements for filing such a
motion. 
 
Rule
3.1324(a) of the CRC provides that a motion to amend a pleading before trial
 “must:..
(2)
State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allocations
are located; and
(3)
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the additional allegations
are located.”
 
Subdivision
(b) requires that a separate declaration accompany the motion which 
“must
specify:...
(1)
The effect of the amendment;
(2)
Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Although
the motion and declaration indicate generally that certain affirmative defenses
are added and changes regarding the party being represented by counsel, the
changes are not set forth, although the memorandum does specify that the
amended answer has been amended to add the affirmative defenses at page 5,
lines 4 through 15.   In addition, the
declaration does not specify when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered, and the reasons the request for amendment was not
made earlier.  The declaration in fact
seems to suggest that the facts have been known by both sides and previously
litigated without objection to the failure to separately specify the equitable
defense theories.  The motion could be
denied for failure to comply with the statutory requirements, but the court
elects not to do so.  However, there is
no opposition to the motion, so no objection on this ground.  In the defendants’ Statement Regarding
Cross-Complaint Issues filed on June 26, 2024 as ordered by the court for the Status
Conference set for July 3, 2024, defendants stated that they do not oppose
cross-defendant Erik Goodrich’s Motion to Amend his answer to the
cross-complaint.  
 
Substantive
            Cross-defendant Erik Goodrich seeks
an order to amend his answer to the cross-complaint to reflect that his counsel
is now only representing him, and to add three affirmative defenses:

A 20th affirmative defense that the contractual
     indemnity provision in the release is invalid, as it is a general
     indemnity clause, does not refer to indemnitee’s negligence, and does not
     permit an interpretation providing for indemnity against claims of
     negligence; 
A 21st affirmative defense that the contractual
     indemnity provision in the release is procedurally and substantively
     unconscionable; and 
A 22nd affirmative defense that the contractual
     indemnity provision in the release is contrary to public policy and
     therefore void, invalid, and unenforceable. 

 

CCP § 473 (a)(1) provides that “The
court may..., in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading...”  The court’s discretion should usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of pleadings.    Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1971)
6 Cal.3d 920, 939.  This outcome is
especially true where the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of
the motion will not prejudice the opposing party.  Morgan v. Superior Court (1959, 2nd
Dist.) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.  
 
The Second District in Record v.
Reason (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 472, set forth the standard for reviewing the
trial court’s discretionary determination on a motion to amend:
“"[T]he trial court has wide
discretion in allowing the amendment of any pleading [citations], [and] as a
matter of policy the ruling of the trial court in such matters will be upheld
unless a manifest or gross abuse of discretion is shown. [Citations.]"
(Bedolla v. Logan & Frazer (1975) 52 Cal. App. 3d 118, 135-136 [125 Cal.
Rptr. 59].)”
Record, at 486.
 
            With
respect to amendment of answers, the court of appeal in Hulsey v. Koehler
(1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150 observed that permitting amendment of answers is
particularly favored:
“Section 473 permits the trial
court in its discretion to allow amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of
justice.  Ordinarily, courts should
“exercise liberality” in permitting amendments at any stage of the proceeding.  In particular, liberality should be
displayed in allowing amendments to answers, for a defendant denied leave to
amend is permanently deprived of a defense. 
Hulsey, at 1159, citations omitted, emphasis added.
In this case, cross-defendant
argues that the original answer included affirmative defenses that the
contractual causes of action go against the intent of the parties and against
the release, that the release does not contain language supporting the
indemnity sought, that the language is misinterpreted, and that there is no
duty to defend or indemnify based on the release relied upon.  [Exhibit A, Affirmative defenses, 6, 7,
12-15, 17-19].   Cross-defendant argues
that these existing affirmative defenses put cross-complainants on notice that
Erik Goodrich intends to assert the defense that the contractual indemnity
claim is invalid and does not reflect the intent of the parties.   Cross-defendant argues that he now seeks
additional clarity with the 20th affirmative defense specifying the
basis for the invalidity as a general indemnity clause, and to clarify the
assertion of the additional equitable defenses of unconscionability in the 21st
affirmative defense, and violation of public policy in the 22nd
affirmative defense.  Cross-defendant
argues that these defenses have been fully explored in discovery and were the
subject of a motion for summary adjudication. 
 
The motion argues that there is
good cause here to permit the amendments, as counsel through oversight did not
realize the numerous equitable defenses in the original answer might not have adequately
stated the equitable defenses of unconscionability and violation of public
policy.  
 
The motion also argues that
defendants have no basis to claim prejudice by this amendment, as no second
trial date is yet set, trial will go forward as the court orders, and there
will be no further discovery necessary or further costs, as the defenses are
not new matters.  
 
A review of the motion for summary
adjudication, filed on May 4, 2020, originally opposed by cross-complainants on
July 9, 2020, and ultimately heard on its merits on April 2, 2021, shows that in
the motion cross-defendants did in fact argue that the indemnity provision was
unconscionable and in violation of public policy.  These arguments were addressed in the court’s
order and were addressed and successfully opposed by cross-complainants, with
no apparent objection that the theories had not been sufficiently alleged or
put in issue by the answer.  As set forth
above, the court made a specific further finding concerning the
unconscionability theory.   It would
appear that cross-defendants have been aware of these theories since May of 2020,
for over four years, and there would be minimal if any prejudice from
permitting the theories to be more specifically and separately alleged.  It would also appear that permitting leave
could serve the positive purpose of better organizing the second phase of the
trial.    
 
There is no opposition here, so no
showing of prejudice if leave to amend is permitted, and no obvious prejudice
appears, and certainly not the type of prejudice that would render the
delay in amendment sufficient to overcome the policy of having all matters
resolved in this single action.   As
pointed out in the moving papers, absent prejudice, delay alone is held not to
be a sufficient ground for denial of leave to amend, and where no prejudice is
shown, “the liberal rule of allowance prevails.”  Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.   There is no
prejudice apparent which is the type of prejudice which would ordinarily
justify denying leave to amend, such as loss of evidence which due to the delay
has been destroyed, cannot be recollected, or cannot be replaced.  It has been held, for example, that it is not
an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where a plaintiff knew for
several months of the facts underlying the claim but failed to amend until
after summary judgment had been entered against it  (Fisher v. Larsen (1982) 138
Cal.App.3d 627, 649), or where there is a strong showing that dilatory
amendment is the result of “legal gamesmanship.” Green v. Rancho Santa
Margarita Mortgage Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 686, 693.  
 
No such prejudice or legal gamesmanship
is established here.  The parties and
this court have been aware of the specific equitable defense theories being
pursued for years, and there is no prejudice warranting denial of leave to
amend. Any need for further discovery can be easily accommodated by promptly
seeking such information and pursuing the setting of a trial date to
accommodate a reasonable schedule.   
 
The liberal rule of allowing
amendment accordingly prevails here.  The
motion is granted. 
 
RULING:
[No Opposition]
Cross-Defendant’s UNOPPOSED Motion for Leave to File Amended
Answer to Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
The Court notes that the proposed pleading attached to the
motion as Exhibit B is titled “Erik Goodrich’s Amended Answer to
Cross-Complaint,” when it should be titled Erik Goodrich’s “First” Amended
Answer.  The word “First” must be
inserted into the pleading before it is efiled with the Court.  
 
With that change ONLY, cross-defendant is ordered to efile a
signed copy of the First Amended Answer on eCourt no later than close of
business this date, and to serve that pleading the same date.  
 
 
DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING
TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
 
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative. 
 