 Case Number:  24STCV08102    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  NCA LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 3,
2025

MOTIONS
TO PROCEED UNDER PSUEDONYM 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24STCV08102

 



MP:  


John Doe and Jane Roe (Plaintiffs)
  Jenna Smith and Mother Smith (Defendants) 




RP:  


First Amendment Coalition (Non-Party)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412. 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This
is an action for defamation brought by John Doe and Jane Roe (Plaintiffs) as
against Jenna Smith and Mother Smith (Defendants). Each of these parties is
currently proceeding in this action under pseudonyms. 
 
The
action stems from Defendants’ alleged accusation that John Doe sexually
assaulted Jenna Smith whilst they both attended high school. (Compl. ¶ 2.)
Plaintiffs allege that they and Jenna Smith were members of a “secret club” at
their high school. (Compl. ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs suggest that the impetus
behind Defendants’ allegedly defamatory statements is her jealousy of
Plaintiffs’ leadership status in that club. (Compl. ¶ 33.) Jenna Smith is
alleged to have told five other students of the club that John Doe sexually
assaulted her. (Compl. ¶¶ 35, 40, 62, 63.) Mother Smith is alleged to have
made the same representations to other parents whose children participated in
the club. (Compl. ¶ 39, 43.) Plaintiffs’ action seeks over five million
dollars in damages and an injunction restraining further speech by Defendants.
Plaintiffs also demand a public apology from Defendants. (Compl. ¶ 123.) 
 
Before
the Court are two motions for leave to proceed anonymously in this action,
brought by Plaintiffs and Defendants respectively. Nonparty First Amendment
Coalition has filed an opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion only, the propriety of
which will be addressed in the Court’s ruling below. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P.
§ 367 requires that actions in the State of California be prosecuted in the
name of the real party in interest. Further, C.C.P. § 422.40 provides that the
names of all parties to a civil action must be included in the Complaint. These
statutes have been generally construed to require a party who wishes to proceed
anonymously to seek relief of the Court to do so. Often this relief is explicitly
provided by statute, such as C.C.P. § 372.5’s provision of anonymity in actions
concerning nonconsensual distribution of sexually explicit materials. 
 
Even
where no statute provides for anonymity, California courts have frequently
granted permission to proceed anonymously where it is necessary to preserve an
important privacy interest. (See Doe v. Lincoln Unified School Dist. (2010)
188 Cal.App.4th 758 [teacher could proceed anonymously in action against school
district].) This approach derives from the longstanding practice of allowing
pseudonyms by federal courts. (See Id. at 766 [“The United States
Supreme Court has also implicitly endorsed the use of pseudonyms to protect a
plaintiff's privacy.”].) As such, there is a great variety of case law dealing
with use of pseudonyms in federal courts throughout the country. Until
relatively recently however, no California case set forth guidelines for
determining when a party may proceed anonymously in state court. This lack of
on-point authority changed with the Court of Appeal decision in Department
of Fair Employment and Housing v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County
(2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 105 (hereinafter DFEH). 
 
DFEH
concerned an action under the Fair Employment and Housing
Act (FEHA) against Cisco Systems, Inc. on behalf one of their employees. (Id.
at 108.) The employee alleged he was discriminated against by his superiors
because he was from India’s lowest caste. (Id.) The employee sought to
proceed anonymously out of fear of further mistreatment and fear of violence
against his family that would result if his caste status was publicly revealed.
(Id. at 109.) The Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s order
denying the employee’s request to proceed anonymously. (Id.) The DFEH
court found that while the trial court applied the correct standard in
making its determination, it failed to consider evidence of potential harm to
the employee’s family. (Id. at 112.) 
 
The DFEH
holding does not articulate a new standard which is uniquely applicable to
motions to proceed anonymously. Instead, the DFEH holding clarified that
the standard for determining such a motion is the same as the standard
applicable to a motion to seal the record. DFEH identified this
standard, set forth in NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999)
20 Cal.4th 1178, 1221 (hereinafter KNBC), as follows: 
 
Before a party to a civil action can be permitted to use a
pseudonym, the trial court must conduct a hearing and apply the overriding
interest test: A party's request for anonymity should be granted only if the
court finds that an overriding interest will likely be prejudiced without use
of a pseudonym, and that it is not feasible to protect the interest with less
impact on the constitutional right of access. 
 
In deciding the issue the court must bear in mind the
critical importance of the public's right to access judicial proceedings.
Outside of cases where anonymity is expressly permitted by statute, litigating
by pseudonym should occur only in the rarest of circumstances.
 
(DFHE
supra, at 111 quoting KNBC supra, at 1221.) 
 
The DFEH court concluded that
the constitutional concerns presented by motions to seal and motions to proceed
anonymously are identical, and thus so are the legal standards governing them.
To this end, the DFEH court noted that the trial court’s use of the KNBC
standard was correct. (DFEH supra, at 112.)  
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
First Amendment Coalition’s
Opposition 
 
The Court begins its analysis by
addressing the opposition filed by non-party First Amendment Coalition
(Coalition). The Court is unaware of any authority which would allow a nonparty
to bring or oppose a motion where they are not (1) subject to a deposition
subpoena under C.C.P. §§ 2020.010, et seq., or (2) an
intervenor who has been granted leave of the Court under C.C.P. § 387. Here,
Coalition is clearly not subject to a deposition subpoena. As such, it appears
that Coalition would only have standing to oppose this motion on grounds that
they are an intervenor. As will be explained below, Coalition has not adhered
to the appropriate procedures for doing so. 
 
“Pursuant to section 387 the trial
court has discretion to permit a nonparty to intervene where the following
factors are met: (1) the proper procedures have been followed; (2) the nonparty
has a direct and immediate interest in the action; (3) the intervention will
not enlarge the issues in the litigation; and (4) the reasons for the
intervention outweigh any opposition by the parties presently in the action.” (Reliance
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386 [citations
omitted].) 
 
Here, Coalition has not adhered to
any of the procedures to be declared an intervenor under C.C.P. § 387.
Coalition has filed no petition with this Court demonstrating its interest in
this litigation. While the Court previously heard Coalition’s Motion to Unseal
the Record, standing to bring that motion was premised on CRC Rule 2.551(h)(2)
which permits any member of the public to move, apply, or petition the Court to
unseal its records. There is no analogous authority providing standing for
Coalition’s opposition to the instant motion. 
 
In short, Coalition has not adhered
to the proper procedures for intervention such that they have standing to
opposed Plaintiffs’ motion. As such, Coalitions opposition will not be
considered in the Court’s ruling. Should Coalition wish to file further documents
in this case, it must adhere to the procedure for intervention laid out in
C.C.P. § 387. 
 
Judicial Notice 
 
Defendants’ request that the Court
take judicial notice of three Federal District Court decisions is GRANTED. The Court
finds these records are subject to judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code §
452(a). 
 
Discussion 
 
The Court begins by addressing the
privacy concerns of the parties. DFEH makes clear that a party seeking
to proceed anonymously bears the burden of demonstrating an overriding privacy
interest. (DFEH supra, at 113 citing Singh v. Immigration &
Naturalization Service (9th Cir. 1996) 94 F.3d 1353, 1359 [“A party seeking
anonymity has the burden to show that geographically distant family members are
at risk. The trial court's task is to consider the evidence produced on that
point and assign it the appropriate weight.”].) 
 
Plaintiff’s stated privacy interest
is that public disclosure of Defendant’s allegations would create “a permanent
record in public that connects the information of a highly sensitive and
personal nature to the former students, which cannot be easily undone and which
would cause unnecessary harm to their reputation and may expose them to public
ridicule and shame.” (Mot. p. 14.) Plaintiffs appear to rely on the generally
understood principle that being associated with allegations of sexual
misconduct would subject them to public embarrassment, even if such allegation
prove to be untrue.  The public often
remembers the allegations not the outcome of such assertions of sexual
assault.  
 
DFEH does not provide further guidance on
how showings regarding privacy concerns should be weighed. To this end, the
Court finds the standards articulated by the Ninth Circuit in Does I thru
XXIII v. Advanced Textile Corp. (9th Cir. 2000) 214 F.3d 1058
(hereinafter Advanced Textiles) to be helpful. While the tenants of Advanced
Textiles do not constitute binding authority upon this court, the Court
finds its holding useful in articulating the types of showings which have been
found by the district courts to be sufficient to establish an overriding
privacy intertest.
 
“Applying this balancing test, courts
have permitted plaintiffs to use pseudonyms in three situations: (1) when
identification creates a risk of retaliatory physical or mental harm… (2) when
anonymity is necessary “to preserve privacy in a matter of sensitive and highly
personal nature,” … and (3) when the anonymous party is compelled to admit his
or her intention to engage in illegal conduct, thereby risking criminal
prosecution.” (Advanced Textile supra, 214 F.3d at 1068 [cleaned up].) 
 
“We further hold that in cases where,
as here, pseudonyms are used to shield the anonymous party from retaliation,
the district court should determine the need for anonymity by evaluating the
following factors: (1) the severity of the threatened harm… (2) the
reasonableness of the anonymous party's fears… (3) the anonymous party's
vulnerability to such retaliation.” (Id. at 1068-1069 [cleaned up].)
“The court must also determine the precise prejudice at each stage of the
proceedings to the opposing party, and whether proceedings may be structured so
as to mitigate that prejudice…Finally, the court must decide whether the
public's interest in the case would be best served by requiring that the
litigants reveal their identities.” (Id. [cleaned up].) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ interest in
remaining anonymous relates to matters which are both highly sensitive and
personal. Knowledge of the events which allegedly transpired between Plaintiffs
and Defendants are confined to a relatively small number of people. While
Defendant is alleged to have publicized her allegations on social media, nothing
before the Court indicates that these posts caused awareness of the issues
beyond the parties’ friends/associates and school. There is nothing in the
record to indicate that this dispute has gained notoriety such that Plaintiffs
do not maintain a reasonable expectation of privacy. Plaintiffs’ fear that
future employers, among others, may discover these allegations is well founded.

 
The same can be said of Defendants’
privacy interests. Defendants state that anonymity is required to protect the
general publicizing of Jenna Smith’s alleged sexual assault. (Mot. p. 6.) The Court
finds the potential to be publicly outed as a victim of sexual assault to be a valid
concern, even where Defendants have allegedly played some part in disseminating
that information.  The Court believes
there is a difference between disclosing an assault on a limited social media
platform and being an unwanted participant to a lawsuit which becomes public
record.   The Court disagrees with Defendants’ argument
that the same privacy interest does not extend to Plaintiffs. If Jenna Smith is
allowed to assert a privacy interest in her identity as an alleged sexual
assault victim, it follows that John Doe should be allowed to assert a privacy
interest in his identity as an alleged perpetrator of sexual assault,
especially when such allegations have not been proven to be true. In the
Court’s view, the Defendants’ privacy interest and Plaintiffs’ privacy interest
are two sides of the same coin. 
 
In short, the Court finds that both Plaintiffs
and Defendants have demonstrated a valid interest in proceeding anonymously.
The question thus becomes whether these interests outweigh the public interest
in court proceedings. As will be explained below, the Court finds they do. 
 
In evaluating the public interest at
play here, the Court notes that this is not a motion to seal the record. While
the Court understands that proceeding anonymously can affect First Amendment
right to public access,  nevertheless,
the access is limited in that the motions before the Court ask that both
parties proceed anonymously, not that the proceedings be closed to the public
or court documents shielded from public view. (DFEH supra, at 111).  If the parties proceed anonymously, the
public is not precluded from access to the court, only access to names of the
parties. Viewed in such light, the question narrows to whether there is a
public interest in the identity of the parties. The Court answers this question
in the affirmative, but such interest is likely nominal at best; the Court
finds that the interest is overridden by the privacy interests of the parties. 
 
DFEH relied upon KNBC in holding
that, “the right to access court proceedings necessarily includes the right to
know the identity of the parties.” (DFEH supra, at 111 citing KNBC at
1211.) Regardless, the Court believes the procedural posture between DFEH and
KNBC supports a slight distinction. Motions to seal restrict public
access in far greater ways than motions to proceed anonymously. It follows that
a stated privacy interest could be insufficient to override the public interest
in access to the proceedings, while being sufficient to override public
interest in knowing the litigants’ names. The Court finds that this case
presents such a circumstance. While the parties’ privacy interests may not be
so robust as to warrant the sealing of the record in this case, they are
sufficient to warrant proceeding anonymously.
 
Conclusion 
 
The Court find that both Plaintiffs
and Defendants have demonstrated an overriding privacy interest such that they
should be allowed to proceed anonymously. Plaintiffs and Defendants have
sufficiently demonstrated that their privacy interests outweigh the public
interest in the disclosure of their names. Accordingly, the motions to proceed
anonymously are GRANTED.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
John Doe &Jane
Roe and Jenna Smith & Mother Smith’s Motions to Proceed Under Pseudonym came on regularly for hearing on January 3, 2025, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION TO PROCEED UNDER PSUEDONYM IS GRANTED. 
 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO PROCEED UNDER PSUEDONYM IS GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFFS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 3, 2025                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 