 Case Number:  24BBCV00442    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  NCA LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 3,
2025

MOTION FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00442

 



MP:  


Christine Oak (Defendant) 




RP:  


Erik Vega (Plaintiff) [No Opposition
  Filed]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This is
an action brought by Erik Vega (Plaintiff) as against Christine Oak (Defendant)
relating to an October 18, 2022 automobile collision between the parties. Plaintiff
alleges he was severely injured as a result of Defendant’s negligent operation
of a motor vehicle at West Valencia Road and Victory Boulevard in Burbank,
California. Plaintiff states a single cause of action General Negligence. 
 
Before
the Court is a Motion for Protective Order filed by Defendant. Defendant requests
that a protective order issue in connection Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories
Set One. Defendant states that Plaintiff’s SPROG contain 64 requests, in excess
of 35 interrogatory maximum provided by C.C.P. § 2030.030(a)(1). Plaintiff has
filed no opposition to this motion. The Court notes that pursuant to C.R.C.
Rule 8.54(c), failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being
granted.
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. § 2030.030
limits the number of special interrogatories that can be propounded to 35. A
party is permitted to propound more than 35 special interrogatories where the
demands are accompanied by a “declaration of necessity.” (C.C.P. § 2030.040.)  
 
C.C.P. § 2030.090(b)(2)
permits a party receiving interrogatories in excess of 35 to move for a
protective order limiting the interrogatories to 35. Such a motion can be used
to challenge a “declaration of necessity” (C.C.P. § 2030.090(b)(2).)
 
The
motion for protective order must be accompanied by a declaration showing the
moving party made a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court. (C.C.P. § 2030.090(a).) Where more than 35 specially prepared
interrogatories have been served with a “declaration of necessity,” and the
responding party seeks a protective order, the burden is on the propounding
party to prove the number of questions is justified. (C.C.P. § 2030.040(b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
As a preliminary matter,
the Court finds Defendant has complied with the requisite meet and confer
requirements prior to bringing this motion. (See Marin Decl. Exhs. D-F.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff has served
Defendant with a total of 64 Special Interrogatories. (See Martin Decl. Exh.
B.) As previously stated, this is in excess of the amount permitted by C.C.P. §
2030.030, and thus requires a “declaration of necessity” be attached. C.C.P. §
2030.050 requires this declaration to contains a statement to the effect of “This
number of questions is warranted under Section 2030.040 of the Code of Civil
Procedure because __________.”
 
Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories are accompanied by a declaration from Plaintiff’s counsel speaking
to the non-standard number of interrogatories. (Id. at p.34.) Crucially
absent from this declaration is an explanation as to why a non-standard number
of special interrogatories is required in this case. Plaintiff’s declaration adopts
the form language employed in C.C.P. § 2030.050 but completely omits the
“because” portion. The result is an unqualified statement by Plaintiff’s
counsel that the higher amount of interrogatories is necessary. In short,
Plaintiff’s declaration does not comply with C.C.P.§ 2030.050.
 
Further, C.C.P. § 2030.040(b)
makes clear that Plaintiff bears the burden to substantiate the necessary of
the number of request. By virtue of his failure to respond to this motion, Plaintiff
has necessarily failed to uphold his burden. 
 
Give the foregoing,
Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED. The Court finds good cause
has been shown that a protective order should be issued such that Plaintiff
need not answer Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories Set One. (See C.C.P. §
2030.090(b)(1).) 
 
Sanctions 
 
C.C.P. § 2030.090(d) provides,
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion for a protective order under this section, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (C.R.C.
Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
The Court declines to grant
sanctions in this matter.   Plaintiff did
not oppose the motion and did not appear to act in a manner that was designed
to engage in a misuse of the discovery process.   Plaintiff’s counsel did attempt to attach a
declaration to the special interrogatory request, albeit one which did not meet
the CCP’s requirements for special interrogatories exceeding 35.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Christine Oak’s
Motion for Protective Order came on regularly for
hearing on January 3, 2025, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
  
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER IS GRANTED & DEFENDANT NEED NOT ANSWER
PLAINTIFFS SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES SET ONE. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE DENIED 
 
DEFENDANT
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
DATE: 
January 3, 2025                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN,
Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 