 Case Number:  24NNCV00806    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  NCA LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 3,
2025

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL STATEMENT OF DAMAGES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV00806

 



MP:  


Universal City Studios, LLC (Defendant) 




RP:  


Debra Biane, Gerald Biane, Josh
  Taylorson, and Sami-Joh Goldberg (Plaintiffs) 
[No Oppositions Filed] 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Debra Biane, Gerald
Biane, Josh Taylorson, and Sami-Joh Goldberg (collectively Plaintiffs) bring
this action against Universal City
Studios, LLC
(Defendant). Plaintiffs allege that, on April 7, 2022, they were visitors at an
amusement park owned and operated by Defendant. Plaintiffs further allege that
a malfunction in the “Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey” ride caused the
ride to stall, trapping Plaintiffs for approximately one hour. Plaintiffs
allege they all sustained serious injury as a result of being trapped on the
ride. 
 
Before the Court are
four motions, all brought by Defendant. Defendant moves to compel each
Plaintiff to provide a Statement of Damages pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.11(b). Plaintiffs
have filed no opposition to these motions. The Court notes that pursuant to C.R.C.
Rule 8.54(c), failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being
granted.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
When a complaint is filed in an action
to recover damages for personal injury or wrongful death, the defendant may at
any time request a statement setting forth the nature and amount of damages
being sought. The request shall be served upon the plaintiff, who shall serve a
responsive statement as to the damages within 15 days. In the event that a
response is not served, the defendant, on notice to the plaintiff, may petition
the court in which the action is pending to order the plaintiff to serve a responsive
statement. (C.C.P. § 425.11(b).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs served Defendant with their First Amended
Complaint on July 18, 2024. (Stephenson Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs’ FAC does
not include a Statement of Damages. As such, on September 18, 2024, Defendant’s
counsel served each Plaintiff with a request for Statement of Damages.
(Stephenson Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) The Court notes that Plaintiffs appear to
be collectively represented by Chat Law Group, LLP (Chat) and Laiken Law Group,
APC (Laiken). Defendant’s requests appear to have all been served on both Chat
and Laiken. (Stephenson Decl. Exh. B, p. 25.) 


Under C.C.P. § 425.11(b), Plaintiffs deadline to serve
their statements of damages was October 7, 2024. On October 8, 2024,
Defendant’s counsel, having received no responses, reached out to Plaintiffs’
counsel. (Stephenson Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. C.) Plaintiffs’ counsel informed the
statements would soon be forthcoming and Defendant agreed to refrain from
filing the instant motion. (Stephenson Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. C.) Despite being
further assured on four separate occasions that Plaintiffs’ statements were
forthcoming, Defendant remains without responses. (Stephenson Decl.
¶¶ 9-11, Exh. D.) 
 
Given the foregoing, Defendant's unopposed motions
to compel Plaintiffs’ Statement of Damages are GRANTED. Plaintiffs are ordered
to serve their Statement of Damages on Defendant within 15 days.
 
Sanctions 
 
Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $1,410.00 for
each of the four motions. (Stephenson Decl. ¶ 12.) For reasons explained
below, this request is DENIED. 
 
C.C.P. § 425.11 contains no provision for sanctions, in
contrast to statutes governing motions to compel responses to discovery demands.
Further, Defendant does not cite to any authority which explicitly authorizes
sanctions for motions brought pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.11. Instead, Defendant
frames this request as one for discretionary discovery sanctions for general
abuse of the discovery process under C.C.P. §
2023.030. Upon thorough search, the Court is unable to locate any authority
which states that the provisions of C.C.P. § 2023.030 apply to motions to
compel a Statement of Damages. As C.C.P. § 425.11 is not
located within the ambit of the Civil Discovery Act, the Court does not view
the discretionary provisions in C.C.P. §
2023.030 as applicable here.  
 
The most commonly cited authority in requesting sanctions
in moving to compel a Statement of Damages is Argame v. Werasophon
(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 616. Argame concerned a Plaintiff who failed to
respond to three requests for Statement of Damages. (Argame supra, 57
Cal.App.4th at 618.) The plaintiff sought appeal of the trial court’s order granting
three motions in limine to exclude evidence based on her failure to
respond. (Id.) The Argame court reversed, finding C.C.P. §
425.11 did not authorize such motions. (Id.) In reversing the trial
court ruling, the Argame court briefly addressed the costs of bringing a
motion to compel.  In footnote three of
its opinion, the court stated the following: 
 
Obviously, defendants
should not have been placed in a position where they were obligated to make a
motion to obtain information to which they were lawfully entitled. Considering
counsel's disregard for the requirements of section 425.11 displayed here, the
court would have been justified in requiring Argame (or more appropriately her
counsel) to reimburse defendants for costs incurred in making such a motion.
 
(Id. at 618, fn. 3.) 
 
The Court interprets the above as supporting a trial court’s
discretion to grant sanctions where a motion to compel a Statement of Damages
has been granted and ignored by Plaintiff. In that instance, the Court can
grant sanctions for violating the Court’s order.  Regardless, Argame concerned motions in
limine and not motions to compel under C.C.P. § 425.1. As such, Argame’s
statements regarding motions to compel remain dictum, rather than binding
precedent. (See Estrada v. Superior Court (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 915, 924 [defining dictum as general
observations of law which go beyond the facts and issues of the case.].) 
 
In short, the
Court finds there is no authority mandating sanctions in connection with
Defendant’s motions. While the Court agrees with the reasoning in Argame,
the fact remains that it does not provide this Court with authority to grant
Defendant’s request. As such, Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Universal City
Studios, LLC’s
Motions to Compel Statement of Damages came on regularly for hearing on January 3, 2025, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL PLAINTIFFS’ STATEMENT OF
DAMAGES ARE GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFFS ARE ORDERED TO SERVE THEIR STATEMENTS OF DAMAGES
ON DEFENDANT WITHIN 15 DAYS.
 
DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: January
3, 2025                             _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 