  Case Number:  23BBCV02207    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  NCA LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 3,
2025

MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02207

 



MP:  


The
  People of the State of California acting by and through the Department of
  Transportation (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Apex
  Development, Inc. (Defendant)



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is
requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS:

 
On September 25, 2023, The People of the State of
California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation (Caltrans)
brought this action against Apex Development, Inc. (Apex), Anthony Nowaid, Erik’s
Towing, The Habibi Shack, Challenger Trucking Express, Stone Concrete Mix, and
Valley Green Tree Services. This was an unlawful detainer matter in which Caltrans
sought possession from Apex and Nowaid of the property located at 12398 Sheldon
Street, Sun Valley, CA 91352 (Subject Property). 
 
On May
30, 2024, the parties stipulated to the entry of judgment as against Apex. The
stipulated judgment was for possession of the property and for $189,853.44 in
damages assessed against Apex. 
 
Caltrans
now moves to compel Apex’s further responses to its Judgment Debtor Special
Interrogatories and Judgment Debtor Requests for Production of Documents.
Plaintiff opposes the motion on grounds that the responses were procedurally
defective in various regards. Caltrans has rendered no reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD:
 
C.C.P. §§
708.020 permits a judgment creditor to propound interrogatories on a judgment
debtor to obtain "information to aid in enforcement of the money
judgment." Under C.C.P. § 708.020(c), "Interrogatories served
pursuant to this section may be enforced, to the extent practicable, in the
same manner as interrogatories in a civil action."
 
Under C.C.P.
§ 2030.290, "if a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response," that party "waives any legal right to
exercise the option to produce…as well as any objection to the interrogatories,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product…"
Under subdivision (b), "the party propounding the interrogatories may move
for an order compelling response to the interrogatories."
 
MERITS: 
 
Facts 
 
On August 21, 2024, Caltrans served Apex’s
counsel with their Judgment Debtor Special Interrogatories (Special
Interrogatories) and Judgment Debtor Requests for Production of Documents
(RFPD). (Choi Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, Exhs. 1-2.) On September 20, 2024, counsel for
Apex requested a three-week extension to respond and Caltrans agreed. (Choi
Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 3.) On October 15, 2024, Apex served a series of objection only
responses to the Special Interrogatories and RFPD. (Choi Decl. ¶ 8, Exhs.
4-5.) 
 
Apex’s responses to each Special Interrogatory are
identical and are as follows: 
 
Objection; these
special interrogatories are not complete and self-contained, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.060(d) and contain separate definitions and
instructions that include improper requirements to produce responses within
five days of service based on the fact that this was an unlawful detainer case,
which it no longer is as of May 28, 2024. Moreover, Responding Party objects
that these requests for production in their entirety are improper and not
allowed pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.010 to 2030.050.
Further, there is a stipulated judgment in this case entered as to Apex
Development, Inc. such that pre-trial discovery is unavailable to Plaintiff
pursuant to Sections 2030.010, et seq. The format and code sections of these
discovery requests are inapplicable and cannot be used to procure documents or
information of a judgment debtor. Accordingly, Responding Party will not
provide responses to these interrogatories.
 
Apex’s responses to each RFPD are identical and are as
follows: 
 
Responding Party
objects that these requests for production in their entirety are improper and
not allowed pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.010, et seq.
There is a stipulated judgment in this case entered as to Apex Development,
Inc. such that pre-trial discovery is unavailable to Plaintiff pursuant to
Sections 2031.010, et seq. The format and code section of these discovery
requests are inapplicable and cannot be used to procure documents or
information of a judgment debtor. Accordingly, Responding party will not
provide responses to these requests.
 
Discussion

 
The Court begins by noting that Apex does not dispute the
existence of good cause for further production. A review of Special
Interrogatory and RFPD reveals that each request is specifically directed at
information pertinent to Caltrans’ recovery of its judgment from Apex. For
example, Special Interrogatory No. 8 requests that Apex identify its certified
public accountant. Given the Court’s review of the requests and Apex’s failure
to argue to the contrary, the Court finds Caltrans has demonstrated good cause
for further production. Thus, the burden shifts to Apex to demonstrate the
merits of their objections. 
 
Apex’s arguments in support of their objections are that
(1) Caltrans cited the incorrect code section in their introductory statement
and (2) Caltrans impermissibly served Apex’s attorney rather than Apex. The
Court addresses each argument in turn. 
 
Apex argues that the introductory statement for the Special
Interrogatory and RFPD cite to statutes pertaining to pre-judgment discovery
requests in an unlawful detainer matter. (See C.C.P. §§ 2030.010-2030.050.)
Apex reasons that this statement improperly applied a five day time to respond
to the demands, rather than the 30 days to respond provided by C.C.P. §
708.020. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive for reasons stated below. 
 
First, Apex cites to no authority that Caltrans’ citation
to C.C.P. §§ 2030.010-2030.050 justifies Apex not responding to the demands.
The Court is aware of no authority, nor does Apex provide any, which requires a
propounding Judgment Creditor to reference C.C.P. § 708.020 in its introductory
statement. Second, C.C.P. § 708.020 inherently incorporates the time for
responding imposed by C.C.P. §§ 2030.010-2030.050. (See C.C.P. § 708.020(a)
[“The judgment debtor shall answer the interrogatories in the manner and within
the time provided by Chapter 13 (commencing with Section 2030.010).”].) 
 
To the extent that Apex’s objection is to Caltrans’
reference to a five day time to respond, such objection makes little sense in
light of the communication between the parties. If Apex believed Caltrans truly
required response within five days, it makes little sense that Apex’s counsel
would request an extension and that Caltrans would grant it. Further, in
requesting the extension Apex’s counsel wrote “Responses to the below discovery
are due on Tuesday, September 24, 2024 (30 days plus two court days from date
of electronic service -- August 21, 2024).” (Choi Decl. Exh. 3, p. 52.) This
statement clearly indicates that Apex’s counsel understood the correct
statutory timeline for responding to the discovery. 
 
Apex next argues that the demands are defective for failure
to properly serve them on Apex, rather than their counsel. Apex relies on CCP §
648.020, which provides:
 
(a)  
Except as provided in subdivision (b), when a
writ, notice, order, or other paper is required to be served under this title
on the judgment debtor, it shall be served on the judgment debtor instead of
the attorney for the judgment debtor.
 
(b)  
The writ, notice, order, or other paper shall
be served on the attorney specified by the judgment debtor rather than on the
judgment debtor if all of the following requirements are satisfied:
 
(1)  
The judgment debtor has filed with the court
and served on the judgment creditor a request that service on the judgment
debtor under this title be made by serving the attorney specified in the
request. Service on the judgment creditor of the request shall be made
personally or by mail. The request shall include a consent, signed by the
attorney, to receive service under this title on behalf of the judgment debtor.
 
(2)  
The request has not been revoked by the
judgment debtor.
 
(3)  
The consent to receive service has not been
revoked by the attorney.
 
(c)  
A request or consent under subdivision (b)
may be revoked by filing with the court a notice revoking the request or
consent. A copy of the notice revoking the request or consent shall be served
on the judgment creditor. Service shall be made personally or by mail. The
judgment creditor is not bound by the revocation until the judgment creditor
has received a copy of the notice revoking the request or consent.
 
Apex argues that none of the requirements of C.C.P. §
648.020(b) were met here, thus service of the demands on their attorney was not
valid under the statute. 
 
Little appellate authority exists from California State
Courts to guide the Court in this matter. Apex cites to Dalessandro v.
Mitchell (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1088. In Dalessandro, the Second
District Court of Appeal found service under a separate statute, C.C.P. §
684.120, to be invalid for failure to affix postage when serving post-judgment
discovery. (Dalessandro supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at 1091.) Though Dalessandro
did not concern service on an attorney, its holding indicates that “strict
compliance” with statute is required when serving post-judgment discovery. 
 
The Court notes that some related federal authority has
applied an “actual notice” standard in analyzing C.C.P. § 648.020. Alcalde
v. NAC Real Estate Investments & Assignments, Inc. (C.D. Cal.
2008) 580 F.Supp.2d 969, concerned a case where a judgment debtors’ attorney
agreed to receive service, but the agreement did not satisfy the literal
requirements of C.C.P. § 684.020. (Alcalde supra, 580 F.Supp.2d at 972.)
The district court nevertheless found service on the attorney was sufficient to
certify the matter for a contempt proceeding. (Id.) The court noted: 
 
Nevertheless, since
the purpose behind C.C.P. § 684.020 is to ensure the judgment debtor has actual
knowledge of the enforcement proceedings... and since the judgment debtors here
clearly had such actual knowledge, the Court will certify this matter for a
contempt proceeding.
 
(Id. at 972, fn. 5. [internal citations omitted].) 
 
In making the above observation, the Alcalde court
noted that C.C.P. § 648.020 was intended as a safeguard to situations where
judgment debtors were no longer represented by counsel who represented them in
the underlying matter. (Id.) From this, the Alcalde court
concluded that the “actual notice” standard was applicable to the instant
situation. (Id.) Where the judgment debtor had received actual notice of
the requests, the purpose of C.C.P. § 648.020 was fulfilled. 
 
The Court finds a determination as to whether the “strict
compliance” or “actual notice” standard applies here is unnecessary at this
juncture. Caltrans has provided no evidence that Apex themselves, rather than
their attorney, have received actual notice of the post-judgment discovery
demands. Although Apex responded to these demands, their responses are not
verified. Nor are the responses accompanied by any other information that would
allow the Court to determine that Apex themselves are aware of these discovery
demands. As such, Caltrans has not demonstrated proper service under either
standard. Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses is DENIED without
prejudice. 
 
The Court notes that denial on these grounds only appears
to prolong the inevitable, as Apex presents no objection to the substance of
Caltrans’ demands. While nothing has indicated to the Court that Apex is no
longer represented by its counsel in this matter, failure to ensure compliance
with C.C.P. § 648.020 bears potentially disastrous consequences. Out of an
abundance of caution, the Court orders Caltrans to serve their post-judgment
discovery demands on Apex within 30 days. 
---
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The People of the State of California acting by and through
the Department of Transportation’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses came on regularly
for hearing on January 3, 2025, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises,
did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE. 
 
CALTRANS
IS ORDERED TO SERVE THEIR POST-JUDGMENT DISCOVERY DEMANDS ON APEX WITHIN 30
DAYS.
 
APEX TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: January
3, 2025                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 