  Case Number:  20STCV15786    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 14, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: May 21, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         James Weldon Schott v. Miguel A. Melgoza
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV15786            
 
(1)
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
(2)
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Plaintiff James Weldon Schott
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 3/11/24.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/24/20: Complaint filed.
·        
09/27/22: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for partition of a parcel of real property and for
fraud, conversion, and breach of fiduciary duty. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant induced him to loan money for the purchase of the property to operate
it as a dispensary. 
 
Plaintiff moves for terminating
sanctions. Plaintiff also moves for summary judgment. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
Miguel Melgoza’s Answer to the First Amended Complaint is hereby stricken in
its entirety and default entered this date against Defendant. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is MOOT. 
 
            All
future hearings are advanced to this date and vacated. 
 
            The
Court sets an Order to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default Judgment for May 21,
2024 at 8:30 AM. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for
Terminating Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff moves for terminating
sanctions for Defendant’s failure to respond to discovery despite Court orders.
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff requests that the Court
take judicial notice of its October 31, 2023 Minute Order in this action
granting Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories and
Requests for Production and his Motion to Deem the Truth of Matters Specified in
Requests for Admissions, and imposing monetary sanctions on Defendant.
Plaintiff’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court
records). 
 
Legal Standard
for Terminating Sanctions
 
The Court has the
authority to impose sanctions against a party that engages in any misuse of the
discovery process (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030), including “[f]ailing to respond
or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(d).)
A party engaging in this conduct may be subject to sanctions including monetary
sanctions (Code Civ Proc. § 2023.030(a)), evidence sanctions (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(c)) or terminating sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(d).)  “[T]rial courts should select sanctions
tailored to the harm caused by the misuse of the discovery process and should
not exceed what is required to protect the party harmed by the misuse of the
discovery process.” (Dept. of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191, disapproved of on other grounds in Presbyterian
Camp & Conference Centers, Inc. v. Superior Court (2021) 12 Cal.5th
493.) Sanctions are generally imposed in an incremental approach. (Id.)
Generally, the appropriate sanctions when a party repeatedly and willfully
fails to provide evidence to the opposing party as required by the discovery
rules is preclusion of that evidence from the trial. (Juarez v. Boy Scouts
of America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 390, disapproved of on other
grounds by Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204.)
 
In considering a motion for terminating
sanctions, the Court is to attempt to “tailor the sanction to the harm caused
by the withheld discovery.” (Collisson
& Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1618-1619.)  In that case, the appellate court explained:
 
[T]he question before this court is not
whether the trial court should have imposed a lesser sanction; rather, the
question is whether the trial court abused its discretion by imposing the
sanction it chose. [Citation.] Moreover, imposition of a lesser sanction would have
permitted [defendants] to benefit from their stalling tactics. [Citation.] The
trial court did not abuse its discretion by tailoring the sanction to the
particular abuse.
 
(Id. at 1620.)  In deciding whether to impose a terminating
sanction, the trial court is to consider the totality of the circumstances,
including the “conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful;
the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal
attempts to obtain the discovery.” (Lang
v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)
 
Defendant’s
Failure to Respond to Discovery
 
            Plaintiff argues that terminating
sanctions should be granted because Defendant has failed to respond to basic
discovery, to comply with Court orders to produce responses to that discovery,
and to pay sanctions for misuse of the discovery process. 
 
            On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff served
Defendant with form interrogatories and requests for production via overnight
service. (Plaintiff’s Exh. 1.A [Form interrogatories]; 2.A [Requests for
Production].) After Defendant failed to provide responses within the deadlines
provided, Plaintiff moved to compel responses on July 31, 2023. (Plaintiff’s
Exh. 1-2.) The Court granted the motions on October 31, 2023, ordering
Defendant to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections
within 30 days, and ordering sanctions against Defendant only in the amount of
$2,180, to be paid in the same timeframe. (RJN Exh. A.) On December 7, 2023,
the Court granted a motion by Defendant’s former counsel of record to withdraw
from representation in this action on the basis that Defendant had ceased
responding to his counsel. (See December 6, 2023 Minute Order.) Plaintiff’s
counsel states that he attempted to contact Defendant Melgoza via letter on
December 29, 2023 outlining the procedural status of the case, informing
Defendant of his noncompliance, and advising Defendant of Plaintiff’s intent to
file this motion. (Declaration of Matthew T. Ward ISO Mot. Exhs. 4-5.) To date,
Defendant has not responded, nor has he paid the sanctions owed. (Ward Decl. ¶¶
8-9.) 
 
            Plaintiff contends that terminating
sanctions are warranted because Defendant has failed to comply with Court
orders, ignored monetary sanctions, and appears to have abandoned the case
altogether. The Court concurs. Defendant has failed to comply with basic
discovery requests for almost a full year and is four months overdue on paying
the monetary sanctions imposed by this Court. As has been the pattern for the
past several months, Defendant has not responded to this motion to offer any
defense or explanation for his failure to engage with this action. The Court is
therefore forced to conclude that Defendant’s failure to comply with his
discovery obligations and with this Court’s orders is willful, and that no
lighter measure will serve to remedy the prejudice to Plaintiff or deter future
violations by Defendant. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order granting
terminating sanctions.
 
//
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED.
 
Motion for Summary
Judgment
 
            Plaintiff also moves for summary
judgment against Defendant. As the Court has granted terminating sanctions
against Defendant, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
Miguel Melgoza’s Answer to the First Amended Complaint is hereby stricken in
its entirety and default entered on this date against Defendant. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is MOOT. 
 
            All
future hearings are advanced to this date and vacated. 
 
            The
Court sets an Order to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default Judgment for May 21,
2024 at 8:30 AM. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 14, 2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 