  Case Number:  18STPB11082    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE NOS. 2-7 OF MING-CHAO HUANG AND MEI JUNG LIN IN RE: WILL
CONTEST TRIAL AND ON OSC RE: FILING A RESPONSE TO THE WILL CONTEST
 
Ming-Chao Huang, et
al. v. Michael Velcherean, Case No. 18STPB11082 (related to Case No.
19STCV01901)
Hearing Date:
December 13, 2023, 8:30 a.m. 
 
CONTENTIONS 
MIL No. 2: 
          By this motion, Ming-Chao Huang and
Mei Jung Lin (“Contestants”) seek to exclude any evidence that controverts matters
Michael Velcherean aka Remus Velcherean (“MV”) admitted in response to Contestants’
First Set of Requests for Admission; specifically, RFA Nos. 23, 24, 29, 31, 32
,41, 42, 59 and 83 in, as well as “deemed” admitted in response to RFA Nos. 95
through 114 in Contestants’ Fourth Set of RFAs, pursuant to an order filed
December 3, 2021 (“Admitted Matters Order”).[1]
          In opposition, MV states he does not
intend to offer evidence contrary to the admissions in response to the first
set above, i.e., RFA’s 23, 24, 29, 31, 32 (as to the part he admitted), 41, 42,
59 and 83 and that therefore no order is required. As to the second set, the
“deemed admissions,” MV initially asks the Court again to reconsider the Admitted
Matters Order. In turn, he contends that these admitted matters are misleading
and irrelevant to the issues here. Finally, he asserts that in denying Contestants’
petition for relief from an order denying their motion for summary adjudication
related to a different petition in this case, the Court of Appeal implied that MV
was entitled to offer contrary evidence to the matters deemed admitted in view
of the time Contestants had before trial to pursue other discovery. 
          In Reply, Contestants argue as to the
first set of admissions, they are not required to establish “specific
prejudice,” under Local Rule 3.57 where this is not a jury trial of a Civil
case and therefore the Court should issue an order. In turn, they argue that the
time has come and gone for any request for reconsideration. Next, they assert
that the requests are neither ambiguous nor irrelevant. Finally, they dispute
that the Court of Appeal made any such implication and reiterate their
entitlement to an order precluding testimony inconsistent with the deemed
admissions. 
           
MIL No. 3: 
          By this motion, Contestants seek to
bar the testimony of Bianca Marinescu. This motion is made upon the grounds
that MV stated in response to interrogatories that he would not provide
Marinescu’s address and that if Contestants sought her deposition they should
contact her through them. Thereafter, they would not accept service of a
deposition subpoena for her. In turn, they assert Marinescu – aware of the
intent to depose her – has sought to evade service of a deposition subpoena.
Contestants were not able to take her deposition. 
          In opposition, MV argues that prior
counsel made the representation that they would arrange to make Marinescu
available, however, current counsel does not have any ability to require Marinescu
to appear for her deposition. Counsel is willing to explain further in
camera and thereby avoid potential disclosure of privileged information. She
asserts that neither she nor MV have done anything to interfere with
Contestants serving her with a deposition subpoena. They have provided
Contestants with her phone number and address. Contested waited too long to
take her deposition and therefore should not now be able to exclude her
testifying at trial. 
          In Reply, Contestants state the
lengths they have gone to try to serve Marinescu without success, including a
stake-out. They also argue that MV cannot properly assert that Contestants
waited too long to take her deposition when they believed MV would assist in
that process – which proved to be erroneous. 
 
MIL No. 4:
          By this motion, Contestants seek to
exclude evidence as irrelevant under Evid. Code sec. 352 the validity of an
August 9, 2018 document which MV contends is a prior will of Amy Huang
(“Decedent’). An alleged statutory will dated August 10, 2018 is what MV is
seeking to be admitted to probate.  
          In opposition, MV asserts that
testimony of a witness relating to the competence of Decedent on Augus 9 will
likely be circumstantial evidence of her capacity on the next day and therefore
is admissible. 
          In reply, Contestants assert that any
declaration attesting to the validity of the August 9 will would be hearsay. 
 
MIL No. 5:
          By this motion, Contestants seek
to exclude the testimony of Yifan Liao, a purported witness to an asserted
prior will of August 9, 2018. The motion is made on the grounds that at his
deposition Liao had no recollection of Decedent, what she looked like, whether
he spoke to her or anything about her on the day he allegedly witnessed her
sign the prior will. In turn, any testimony in support of the “due execution”
of the August 9 will is irrelevant as that is not the will MV is seeking to
probate. 
          In opposition, MV argues that at Liao’s
deposition five years later the witness did recognize his signature on the
attestation of the will, even if not most all else about the incident. That
said, the recognition of his signature, as well as his usual practices in
attesting to documents, would be sufficient foundation to allow his statements
as to Decedent’s capacity in the attestation to still be admissible as a past
recollection recorded under Evid. Code sec. 1237.  
          In reply, Contestants assert that
Liao’s deposition testimony still does not meet the requirements of sec. 1237
because Liao merely signed a pre-printed form attestation clause which was (a) not
a statement made at the time it was fresh in the witness’ mind nor (b) one by
the witness himself. 
 
MIL No. 6: 
          By this motion, Contestants seek to exclude
witnesses and documents not disclosed in discovery responses: First, they seek
to bar the testimony of Ali Elarabi, whom they characterize as a surprise
witness. Elarabi was allegedly a friend of both MV and Decedent and can testify
to their relationship. They contend that MV did not identify Elarabi as a
witness, notwithstanding three sets of interrogatories seeking the identity of
witnesses. Second, they seek to exclude certain photos and video recordings (Trial
Exhibits 1045-1049) that they previously sought through discovery. MV
previously stated he had no such photos or videos. 
          In opposition, MV acknowledges
inadvertence in not identifying Elarbi as a witness and withdraws her as a
witness. As concerns the photos and videos, these for the most part do not
depict Decedent and hence he did not believe they had been requested. Eight
videos “fleetingly” show Decedent and were primarily concerned with searching
for a new home (that may be an issue) and hence should have been produced but
were not only inadvertently. Documents concerning MV staying at AXA Beverly
Hills, AXA West Hollywood and Sonder - extended stay hotels where MV was
apparently staying - should have been sent to Contestants by the deposition
officer but not because of any fault on MV’s part. Finally, other unspecified
documents should not be excluded where MV is not clear what those may be. 
          
In reply, Contestants assert in summary that the videos depicting
Decedent – even fleetingly - and the extended stay records should have been
produced some time ago. In turn, the videos cannot be authenticated. Finally, a
broad exclusion order is standard and avoids surprise. 
 
MIL No. 7: 
          By this motion, Contestants seek to exclude
any reference to what they refer to as anonymous statements about Contestants purportedly
“faking it” and acting “normal” in an unsigned and undated document printed on
a printer purchased after the death of decedent and discarded by MV two months
later (Exhibit 62; labeled MV-001324). Contestants contend MV has given
conflicting stories as to how he discovered the document – telling his brother-in-law
he found it at the property where he and Decedent were residing and testifying
at his deposition he found it at a hotel he was staying at on October 19, 2018.
 Contestants assert MV will not be able
to authenticate this document and it is in any event hearsay.
          In opposition, MV contends he found
the document in a suitcase Decedent had packed in anticipation of their move
when he was staying a hotel after she died. He contends that regardless of any
conflicting testimony about his discovery of the document that he can lay
sufficient foundation that it was Decedent who wrote it because her i-phone
shows it was created on her phone before she died. Hence, he asserts this is a
matter of what weight to give the document, not its admissibility. (Kinda v.
Carpenter (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1268, 1283) He also argues
Contestants cannot prohibit his using this document from her i-phone when they
seek to use others they found on her phone. Finally, he asserts that the
document is relevant to Decedent’s state of mind under Evid. Code sec. 1250. 
          In reply, Contestants show that MV
admitted at his deposition that he had the ability to and did change notes on
Decedent’s i-hone. Hence, they argue that MV will not be able to establish a
foundation. Further, that the documents they wish to use on her computer have
indicia or reliability where they are written in Chinese. 
 
OSC 
          On November 6, 2023, the Court
entered an order scheduling an OSC why an objection had not been filed to the
pending first amended will contest about which the above motions are concerned.
A minute order of December 16, 2021 had directed MV to do so.
          On November 7, 2023, MV filed an
objection to the first amended will contest.  
          On November 29, 2023, MV filed a
response to the OSC. MV contends Judge Small had stated that all the relevant
pleadings were filed concerning the will contest, that the minute order was in
error and that counsel did not understand that further pleadings were required.
MV outlines the numerous other petitions then pending about which Judge Small
was then having to address. 
          On December 1, 2023, Contestants
filed a Reply to the Response. They argue that Probate Code sec. 8251(b)
required MV to have filed an “answer” to the contest no later than fifteen days
after his demurrer was overruled and that the failure to do so was a waiver of
his defense of that contest. They argue also that the pleading to which MV’s
counsel believed she needed to respond now needs to be set for hearing. 
DISCUSSION 
MIL No. 2: 
         The requirement of Local Rule 3.57 to
show “specific prejudice” is technically not applicable here. Even without such
showing, Contestants are still entitled to know that MV will keep his agreement
and not testify contrary to the first set of admissions. The Court denies this
further request to reconsider the Admitted Matters Order. The Court denied that
request previously in conjunction with MV’s opposition to Contestants’ motion
for summary judgment herein. The Court does not find the requests ambiguous or
to be irrelevant to all issues at trial. Some requests may be relevant to some
issues, others to different issues. The Court of Appeal merely cited certain
cases in denying the writ petition concerning a summary judgment motion. As
stated previously in denying that motion, the Court will not allow MV to
testify contrary to what he was deemed admitted. However, he can testify concerning
matters he did not admit. This order also does not preclude his offering other
witnesses from testifying or receiving other relevant evidence as to the issues
at hand. While MV asserts the foregoing makes the upcoming trial vulnerable to
reversal, the Court notes that the due execution issues appear to be wholly
separate from the subject of the deemed admissions. Further, as to the other
issues at trial, the Court will seek to determine the merits of the issues as
best it can while respecting the Admitted Matters Order that resulted from
conduct of MV and his prior counsel. If ambiguities develop, the Court will
address such arguments at that time. 
GRANTED IN PART. 
 
 
 
MIL No. 3: 
          The offer of prior counsel to arrange
for the deposition was not a tantamount agreement to make her available for
deposition. Even if reasonably perceived as such, it is without foundation
where there is no showing prior counsel representing the witness or that she
was employed by or an agent of MV. It was a meaningless agreement. There is no
evidence MV or counsel interfered with service of the subpoena, even if they
advised her a subpoena was forthcoming. The Court finds, however, that there is
good cause under these circumstances to deviate from any discovery cut-off to allow
Contestants to still depose her if they can serve her with a subpoena. The
Court has not yet set a trial date. If they still cannot do so, and Marinescu
ultimately appears at trial to testify, the Court will reconsider this request and
determine whether to strike her testimony if it finds she sought to evade being
deposed. 
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE 
 
MIL No. 4:
          The Court does not know what form of
testimony MV will offer related to Decedent’s capacity on August 9, whether by
way of a declaration or in court testimony. The Court cannot evaluate now in a
vacuum how such evidence about the August 9 will may be offered, including
whether if by testimony it is offered for its truth and in turn if so whether a
hearsay exception might not be applicable. If admissible, such testimony may
well be circumstantial evidence of Decedent’s capacity the next day. 
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE  
 
 
MIL NO. 5: 
       The Court does not find that merely
because Liao used a pre-printed form that this necessarily means he would not
have contemporaneously asked himself the questions posed in that attestation
form, if he had the practice of witnessing execution of such documents, nor
that the statement is not his own even if he used a form as a convenience
rather than preparing a new statement on each occasion. There is no basis now
for exclusion altogether. That said, Contestants’ concerns go the weight the
Court should give his testimony. 
DENIED. 
 
MIL NO. 6: 
          There is no need for an order
prohibiting Elarbi since MV is withdrawing him as a witness. No order is
justified concerning the photos and videos which were not per se concerning
Decedent but places or houses Decedent visited for purposes of buying a home. Given
the time before trial, any prejudice can be addressed by consideration of this
evidence and or if follow up discovery is required. Whether MV can authenticate
the photos or videos can be addressed at trial. Issues with authentication do
not by themselves require a motion in limine. The Court finds no intentional
withholding of the records of the extended stay hotels and that their delayed
production does not require exclusion without any showing of prejudice.
Finally, no order broadly excluding all unspecified documents not produced is
not needed where the parties have filed a joint exhibit list. By filing that
document, the parties are already prohibited from offering any other documents
unless for purposes of impeachment. 
DENIED. 
 
MIL No. 7: 
          Whether MV will be able to lay
foundation for introduction of Ex. 62 will likely be a credibility
determination given his deposition testimony. It will likely also be impacted
by the outcome of the upcoming evidentiary hearing related to spoliation of
Decedent’s electronic records. In either event, MV is entitled to try to lay
that foundation. There is no basis to now prohibit him from having his ‘day in
court’ in this respect. 
DENIED. 
 
OSC 
            The Court does not find the
minute order to be in error, notwithstanding Judge Small’s statement. However,
the Court finds Judge Small’s statement might have led counsel to believe no
further pleading was required. As a result, the Court does not find that the
failure to file the objection to the will contest within the deadline set by
Probate Code sec. 8251 was a waiver of MV’s right to do so. The Reply also
identifies no reason to question MV’s counsel in this regard or prejudice from
her not having filed a response earlier. The Court treats the objection filed
November 7, 2023 as an “answer,” consistent with sec. 8251. Finally, the Court
will address separately at the FSC scheduling of the other petition of the
Special Administrator - to which MV’s counsel believed she needed to file an
objection. The OSC is discharged. 
 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
          For these reasons, the Court grants in
part and denies in part MIL No. 2, and denies MIL Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. In
addition, it discharges the OSC filed November 6, 2023.          
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


