 Case Number:  24STCP01636    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  82 Ida P. Fung v. Steve Gordon, Director of the Department of Motor
Vehicles
Case
No. 24STCP01636
Ex
Parte Application for Stay of Driving Revocation
 
            Petitioner Ida P. Fung (“Petitioner”) filed this petition
for writ of mandate against Steve Gordon, Director of the Department of Motor
Vehicles (the “DMV”), in his official capacity (“Respondent”).  On or about October 11, 2021, Petitioner’s
neighbor reported to police that “she is in fear of her safety” because
Petitioner “attempted to back into someone.” 
(See AT 174.)  Petitioner’s
neighbor reported that she “has complained about [Petitioner] almost hitting
people [with] her vehicle.”  (See
ibid.)  Accordingly, the DMV suspended
Petitioner’s driver’s license, effective October 18, 2021.
 
            Petitioner was charged
with a misdemeanor under Vehicle Code section 20002, but the case was dismissed
in the interests of justice under California Penal Code section 1385.  Nevertheless, the DMV refused to reinstate
Petitioner’s driver’s license because “[she] was unsuccessful on the drive
knowledge exam and did not meet the department’s vision standards.”  (AT 005.) 
Specifically: 
 
“[Petitioner] failed to demonstrate her
ability to drive safely and skillfully on 3/9/2023 due to multiple critical
driving errors observed by the examiner. 
[Petitioner’s] critical driving error included dangerous maneuvers, lane
violation, and striking the curb. 
[Petitioner] merged without looking over shoulder to clear blind spot or
check mirrors for traffic.  [Petitioner]
merged into a two-way left turn lane without looking over shoulder or
mirrors.  [Petitioner] allowed car to
drift into a two-way left turn lane without looking over shoulder or mirrors
entering the freeway.  [Petitioner] hit
the curb making a right turn too short. 
[Petitioner] blocked the intersection for a longer time necessary to
complete left turn.  [Petitioner] drove
too fast through the evaluation, made wide or short turns slow.” 
 
(Ibid.)   The driver
safety officer concluded: “[Petitioner’s] ability to operate a motor vehicle
safely is affected because of a lack of skill . . . .”  (Ibid.)  The driving safety officer found: “Should
[Petitioner] be allowed to continue to operate a motor vehicle with a lack of
skill, she may cause or contribute to a traffic collision.”  (Ibid.)  The driving safety officer also found:
“[Petitioner] would be putting herself and the motoring public at risk,”
concluding “the suspension on record is warranted at this time.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            Petitioner filed the
instant petition on May 21, 2024, and now seeks to stay the revocation of her
driver’s license.  Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1094.5, the court “may stay the operation of the
administrative order or decision pending the judgment of the court….”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(g).)  “However, no such stay shall be imposed or
continued if the court is satisfied that it is against the public
interest.”  (Ibid.)  The administrative stay provision of Section
1094.5(g) “requires the superior court to weigh the public interest in each
individual case.” (Sterling v. Santa
Monica Rent Control Bd. (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 176, 187.)  
                   
            In this case,
Petitioner’s driver’s license has been suspended for almost three years.  Accordingly, Petitioner is not seeking a
“stay” of any DMV decision; the decision was made long ago.  Rather, Petitioner effectively seeks
reinstatement of her license in advance of trial, which the court has no authority
to order under Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(g).  Even if the court construed this ex parte
application as a motion for a preliminary mandatory injunction, Petitioner does
not qualify for relief.  “A
preliminary mandatory injunction is rarely granted . . . [and] is not permitted
except in extreme cases where the right thereto is clearly established.”  (Shoemaker v. County of Los Angeles
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 618, 625, citations and quotations omitted.)  Petitioner has not demonstrated the requisite
likelihood of success on the merits.
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, Petitioner’s ex parte application is denied.  The court’s clerk shall provide notice.        
 