  Case Number:  20STCV48029    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  82 Industrial
Service Oil Company, Inc. v. California Department of 
Toxic
Substances Control
 
Case
No. 20STCV48029
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Motion to Vacate
Entry of Dismissal
 
 
INTRODUCTION

 
            Petitioner
Industrial Service Oil Company, Inc. (“Petitioner”) filed a petition for writ
of mandamus and complaint for declaratory relief on December 16, 2020.  Then, on April 2, 2024, Petitioner filed a
request for dismissal without prejudice, which the Clerk’s Office processed as
a ministerial function.  Now, Respondent
California Department of Toxic Substances Control (“DTSC” or “Respondent”)
moves for an order vacating the dismissal, arguing that Petitioner’s right to
voluntary dismissal had lapsed because the trial had commenced.  Respondent asks this court to enter a
judgment in its favor or dismiss the case with prejudice.  The court finds that the dismissal with
properly entered because trial had not “commenced” as of April 2, 2024.  Therefore, the motion is denied.  
 
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
 
On
December 16, 2020, Petitioner filed its verified petition for writ of mandamus
and complaint for declaratory relief. 
The petition challenged certain “Final Inspection Violation Scores”
issued to Petitioner’s permitted hazardous waste facility on October 28, 2020,
pursuant to Respondent’s Violation Scoring Procedure regulations (Cal. Code
Regs. Title 22, §§ 66271.50 et seq.) (the “VSP Regulations”).  
 
The
court (Beckloff, J.) held a trial setting conference on April 7, 2023.  The court set the hearing on the petition on April
10, 2024, and ordered Petitioner’s opening brief to be filed at least 60 days
before the hearing date.  (See Court’s
Minute Order, dated April 7, 2023.) 
However, the court’s minute order noted that Petitioner would be filing
an amended petition.  (Ibid.)    
 
            Beginning
in September 2023, Petitioner’s counsel wrote to Respondent’s counsel regarding
possible amendment of the petition “to respond to the recent actions by DTSC
affecting ISOC’s facility.”  (Elliott
Decl. ¶ 4.)  On January 8, 2024, about one
month before the opening brief was due, Petitioner’s counsel provided
Respondent’s counsel with a proposed amended petition and requested that
Respondent stipulate to its filing.  (Ibid.)  On January 19, Respondent’s counsel informed
Petitioner’s counsel that Respondent would not stipulate to the filing of an
amended petition.  (Ibid.) 
 
            On
January 30, 2024, more than a week before the opening brief was due, Petitioner
filed an ex parte application to set a hearing date on Petitioner’s
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint and to continue trial.  The court (Beckloff, J.) denied the ex
parte application and indicated that the parties could submit a stipulation
to continue the trial date to a date in July 2024.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated January 31,
2024.)  
 
Petitioner
did not file an opening brief. 
Respondent filed a one-page opposition asking the court to deny the writ
because Petitioner did not file an opening brief or, in the alternative,
dismiss the case with prejudice for lack of prosecution.  On April 2, 2024, about one week before the
hearing on the petition, Petitioner filed a request for dismissal without
prejudice.  The Clerk’s Office processed
the request as a ministerial function.
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Notwithstanding
the dismissal, the court has jurisdiction to rule on the instant motion because
Respondent contends that the dismissal was not properly entered.  (See e.g. Goldtree v. Spreckels (1902)
135 Cal. 666, 673 [affirming trial court’s order cancelling the entry of
dismissal by the clerk]; Tire Distributors, Inc. v. Cobrae (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 538, 542 [“When a dismissal has properly been filed, the trial
court loses jurisdiction to act in the case.”]; see also Wells v. Marina
City Properties, Inc. (1981) 29 Cal.3d 781, 784 [same].)  
 
            Reaching
the merits of Respondent’s motion, the court finds that the request for
dismissal was proper.  “A plaintiff has
the right to dismiss a defendant or an entire action without prejudice before
the commencement of trial.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 581, subds. (b), (c).)…. The right to dismiss is not unlimited, however. In
addition to certain statutory limitations on that right, others have evolved
judicially.”  (Tire Distributors,
Inc., supra, 132 Cal.App.4th at 542.) 
“The
general rule is that a party may obtain a voluntary dismissal at any time prior
to a ruling, or something tantamount thereto (i.e., a formal and public
indication of the merits), on [a] dispositive motion.”  (Lewis C. Nelson & Sons, Inc. v. Lynx
Iron Corp. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 67, 79.)
 
The
courts have developed certain limitations on a plaintiff’s right to voluntary
dismiss an action based on the courts’ construction of the term “commencement
of trial.”  (Harris v. Billings (1993)
16 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.)  The term “trial”
is not restricted to jury or court trials on the merits, but includes other
procedures that effectively dispose of the case. (Wells v. Marina City
Properties, Inc. (1981) 29 Cal.3d 781, 785.)  Commencement of trial is considered to have
occurred if there has been either (1) “public and formal judicial expressions
of the merits of a case in the context of a substantively dispositive
proceeding” or (2) “some procedural dereliction by the dismissing plaintiff
that made dismissal otherwise inevitable.” (Franklin Capital Corp. v. Wilson
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 187, 200, 202.)
 
In the instant case, there has been no
“judicial expression of the merits.”  Nor
was there any “procedural dereliction” that made dismissal “otherwise
inevitable.”  The failure to file an
opening brief does not mandate dismissal; it is discretionary.  “The court may construe the absence of a
memorandum as an admission that the motion or special demurrer is not
meritorious and cause for its denial . . . .” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(a).) 
Therefore, Respondent’s motion fails on the merits.  Respondent cites an appellate decision from
over 100 years ago, which states: “In a proceeding for the writ of mandate
affirmative allegations of the answer, if not demurrable, are to be taken as
true unless they are countervailed by proof presented by the petitioner.”  (Vanderbush v. Board of Public Works of
City of L.A. (1923) 62 Cal.App. 771, 775.) 
This case does not divest the court of discretion.  Indeed, unlike Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, which governs motions for summary judgment, there is no statute or
rule of court that makes it “inevitable” that a court would deny a petition or
dismiss the case with prejudice based upon the failure to file an opening
brief.  
 
It is worth noting that the court would
not have denied the writ or dismissed the instant case with prejudice because
the record reflects an intention to file an amended petition and good cause to
do so.  At the trial setting conference
on April 7, 2023, the court noted that an amended petition would be filed.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated April 7,
2023.)  Beginning in September 2023, Petitioner’s counsel wrote to Respondent’s
counsel regarding possible amendment of the petition “to respond to the recent
actions by DTSC affecting ISOC’s facility.” 
(Elliott Decl. ¶ 4.)  On January
8, 2024, about a month before the opening brief was due, Petitioner’s counsel
provided Respondent’s counsel with a proposed amended petition and requested
that Respondent stipulate to its filing. 
(Ibid.)  In a declaration,
Petitioner’s counsel explains the reasons Petitioner sought to amend the
petition:
 
Following the filing of the ISOC I Complaint, DTSC
undertook a number of administrative actions affecting ISOC’s facility,
including: (1) the issuance of new Inspection Violation Scores for the facility
based on alleged 2021-2023 violations post-dating the filing of the ISOC I
Complaint; (2) communications between DTSC and ISOC stating the agency’s intent
to pursue administrative enforcement against Plaintiff for alleged violations
that pre-date Plaintiff’s acquisition of the facility and are outside the applicable
five-year statute of limitations; and (3) DTSC’s imposition of third-party
audit requirements on the facility and threatened enforcement thereof, among
other actions. These developments occurred after the filing of the original
Complaint, in some cases as late as fall of 2023, many months after the Court
set the current hearing and briefing schedule in this matter.  
 
(Id. ¶ 3.)  Respondent’s counsel refused and indicated
that he would oppose any motion to amend. 
(Id. ¶ 4.)  On January 30, 2024,
shortly before the opening brief was due, Petitioner’s counsel filed an ex
parte application to set a hearing date on a motion for leave to file a
first amended complaint and continue the trial, but the court denied the ex
parte application.  (See Court’s Minute
Order, dated January 31, 2024.)  The
court suggested that the parties submit a stipulation to continue the trial
date to afford sufficient time to hear the motion before the opening brief was
due, but as discussed, Respondent’s counsel refused to do so.  Therefore, Petitioner filed a separate action
on March 19, 2024, to address these subsequent administrative actions.  (See id. ¶ 6; see LASC Case No. 24STCV06917 [the
“ISOC II” action].)  This record
would not support denying the writ or dismissing the case with prejudice under
these circumstances.  
 
            Nor
is there any prejudice to Respondent.  Petitioner
represents that “the ISOC II action does not re-allege Plaintiff’s
challenges to the specific VSP scores at issue in ISOC I (though it
references the earlier alleged violations and scoring actions for necessary
background and context for the new claims.” 
(Oppo. 3:6-8.)  Footnote 5 of ISOC
II supports that statement: 
 
“On December 16, 2020, Petitioner filed a Petition for Writ
of Mandamus and Complaint for Declaratory Relief challenging the Final
Inspection Violation Scores issued by the DRO in October 2020 for the ten-year
period between January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2018. See Industrial Service
Oil Co. v. Department of Toxic Substances Control, et al., Los Angeles
County Superior Court Case No. 20STCV48029. Those scores are not challenged in
this action.”  
 
(ISOC II at 11, fn. 5; see
case file for LASC Case No. 24STCV06917.) 
Respondent does not refute these arguments, only speculating that “ISOC may try to
amend ISOC II to add the same claims set forth in ISOC I.”  (Reply, p. 7:12-13.)   
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Respondent’s
motion is denied.  Respondent’s counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.   
 