  Case Number:  22CHCV00251    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 6-5-24
Case #22CHCV00251 , Superior Construction Group, Inc. vs. Charles
Naaman., et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO SERVE BY PUBLICATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Maroun Sadaka dba Superior Construction
RESPONDING
PARTY: None
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Moving party
requests an order allowing it to serve Cross-Defendant Sal’s Roofing through
publication
 
RULING: The
motion is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This is a breach
of contract, fraud action brought by Plaintiff Superior Construction Group,
Inc. dba Superior Construction (“Plaintiff”) against several defendants. The
operative First Amended Complaint filed on December 8, 2023, alleges that
Plaintiff entered into an agreement with some defendants to provide
construction services, material, and equipment, but the defendants refused to
pay Plaintiff after Plaintiff provided those services. 
 
On January 13,
2023, Maroun Khalil Sadaka dba Superior Construction (“Cross-Complainant”)
filed his Cross-Complaint. 
 
On November 28,
2023, Cross-Complainant amended his Cross-Complaint to substitute Sal’s
Roofing, an entity of unknown form, for the cross-defendant sued fictitiously
as Zoe 1. 
 
On March 29,
2024, Cross-Complainant filed his operative Amended Cross-Complaint (“AXC”)
against Super Air, Inc., Diamond West Builders, Inc., JK Glass, Extreme Plastering
Inc., TS Construction, West Coast Construction, GM Parking Lot Restoration
Corp., and Zoes 1 through 50, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1)
implied equitable indemnity, (2) comparative contribution, (3) declaratory
relief, (4) breach of written contract, (5) negligence, (6) breach of oral
contract, and (7) implied contractual indemnity. 
 
On January 31,
2024, Cross-Complainant filed the instant motion for an order to serve Sal’s
Roofing through publication. No opposition or reply 
 
ANALYSIS
Requests for
Judicial Notice: No requests for judicial notice have been filed. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections: No evidentiary objections have been filed. 
 
Summary of
Arguments
 
In its moving
papers, Cross-Complainant argues that as of the filing of the motion on January
31, 2024, it has been unable to serve Sal’s Roofing despite reasonable
diligence. Therefore, Cross-Complainant seeks an order permitting service of
the Summons and Cross-Complaint by publication on Sal’s Roofing in accordance
with Code of Civil Procedure § 415.50. 
 
Case Law
 
“[T]he governing statutes
afford the plaintiff a variety of means by which to effect service upon the
defendant.” (Watts v. Crawford (1995) 10 Cal.4th 743, 748 (“Watts”).)
 
“Service may be accomplished
by means of personal delivery of the summons and complaint to a party ([Code
Civ. Proc.] § 415.10), by delivery to the business office or dwelling of
certain classes of parties (§§ 415.20; 416.10–416.90), by mailing (with an
acknowledgment of receipt) to a party (§ 415.30), or, if a party is out of
state, by any of the preceding means or by first class mailing, requiring a
return receipt (§ 415.40).” (Watts, supra, 10 Cal.4th at p. 748.)
 
“Finally, if service upon a
party by these enumerated means proves impossible, service may be effected
through publication, which must be authorized by court order. ([Code Civ.
Proc.] § 415.50.)” (Watts, supra, 10 Cal.4th at p. 748.)
 
 “To obtain an order directing service by
publication, section 415.50, subdivision (a) [“Section 415.50(a)”], requires a
party to establish to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is
pending ‘that the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served
in another manner specified in this article....’ [Citation.]” (Watts, supra,
10 Cal.4th at p. 748 [italics and footnote removed].)
 
In addition to showing that
the party to be served cannot, with reasonable diligence, be served in another
manner specified in the relevant Code of Civil Procedure article, the moving
party must also show “either:
 
(1)   A cause of action exists
against the party upon whom service is to be made or he or she is a necessary
or proper party to the action.
 
(2)   The party to be served has or
claims an interest in real or personal property in this state that is subject
to the jurisdiction of the court or the relief demanded in the action consists
wholly or in part in excluding the party from any interest in the property.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50,
subd. (a).)
 
“The court shall order the
summons to be published in a named newspaper, published in this state, that is
most likely to give actual notice to the party to be served. …. The order shall
direct that a copy of the summons, the complaint, and the order for publication
be forthwith mailed to the party if his or her address is ascertained before
expiration of the time prescribed for publication of the summons.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 415.50, subd. (b).) 
 
“Except as otherwise provided
by statute, the publication shall be made as provided by Section 6064 of the
Government Code unless the court, in its discretion, orders publication for a
longer period.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (b); Gov. Code, § 6064 [“Publication
of notice pursuant to this section shall be once a week for four successive
weeks. Four publications in a newspaper regularly published once a week or
oftener, with at least five days intervening between the respective publication
dates not counting such publication dates, are sufficient”].) 
 
“Service of a summons [by
publication] is deemed complete as provided in Section 6064 of the Government
Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (c); Gov. Code, § 6064 [“The period of
notice commences with the first day of publication and terminates at the end of
the twenty-eighth day, including therein the first day”].
 
“When substituted or
constructive service is attempted, strict compliance with the letter and spirit
of the statutes is required.” (Olvera v.
Olvera (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 32, 41.)
 
Application to
Case 
 
As stated
above, Section 415.50(a) requires Cross-Complainant to show that Sal’s Roofing could
not, with reasonable diligence, be served through any other manner like personal
service, substituted service, or mail. (See Watts, supra, 10
Cal.4th at p. 749, fn. 5 [“If a defendant’s address is ascertainable, a method
of service superior to publication must be employed, because constitutional
principles of due process of law, as well as the authorizing statute, require
that service by publication be utilized only as a last resort. [Citations.] The
means of service described in sections 415.10 through 415.40 ‘make service by
publication unnecessary except where a defendant’s whereabouts and his dwelling
house or usual place of abode, etc. cannot be ascertained with reasonable
diligence.... [¶] The term “reasonable diligence”... denotes a thorough,
systematic investigation and inquiry conducted in good faith by the party or
his agent or attorney. [Citations.] A number of honest attempts to learn defendant’s
whereabouts or his address by inquiry of relatives, ... and by investigation of
appropriate city and telephone directories, [voter registries, and assessor’s
office property indices situated near the defendant’s last known location],
generally are sufficient. These are the likely sources of information, and
consequently must be searched before resorting to service by publication.’
[Citations.] ‘Before allowing a plaintiff to resort to service by publication,
the courts necessarily require him to show exhaustive attempts to locate the
defendant, for it is generally recognized that service by publication rarely
results in actual notice. [Citations.]’ [Citation]”].) 
 
Here, to show
reasonable diligence, Cross-Complainant submits its counsel’s declaration,
which attests to the following facts: “[Cross-Complainant] attempted to serve Sal’s
Roofing via personal service at its last known address, at 305 South Pacific
Avenue, Santa Ana, CA 92703. [Cross-Complainant] made four (4) attempts to
serve Sal’s Roofing at this location via personal service on December 9, 2023,
December 12, 2023, December 15, 2023, and December 17, 2023. However, each
attempt was unsuccessful because there was no activity seen at the home and no
answer to repeated knocking on the door.” (Motion, Declaration of Shirel Cohen
(“Cohen Decl.”), ¶ 6.) “As of the date of this motion, [Cross-Complainant] has
been unable to serve Sal’s Roofing with the Summons and Cross-Complaint,
despite reasonable diligence.” (Cohen Decl., ¶ 7.) “Given that there have been
four unsuccessful attempts of serving Sal’s Roofing, this
motion is
necessary to serve Sal’s Roofing.” (Cohen Decl., ¶ 8.)
 
The Court finds
that defense counsel’s declaration fails to show that Cross-Complainant
exhausted all service methods other than publication (e.g., mail). In its motion,
Cross-Complainant states that he “exhausted all reasonable means to mail serve
Sal’s Roofing pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 415.10.” (Motion, p.
6:27-28.) However, that fact is not included in his counsel’s declaration or supported
by any affidavit. In addition, even though the server noted in the Affidavit of
Due Diligence that there was “[n]o visible mail,” it is unclear whether the
server meant that there was no “mailbox” on the property. (Motion, Exhibit C –
a copy of the Affidavit of Due Diligence, Attempt Detail No. 1.)  In any event, Cross-Complainant has not
stated that he at least attempted to mail the papers to that last known address,
and the mail was returned undeliverable. Indeed, “[a] summons may be served on
a business organization, form unknown, by leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint during usual office hours with the person who is apparently in charge
of the office of that business organization, and by thereafter mailing a copy
of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the
person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint was
left.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 415.95, subd. (a).) Here, Cross-Complainant alleges that Sal’s
Roofing is an entity of unknown form but has not shown that he attempted
service through that method. Accordingly, Cross-Complainant has failed to show
reasonable diligence in attempting service within the meaning of Section
415.50(a). 
 
Most
importantly, “‘[i]t is well established that an amendatory pleading supersedes
the original one, which ceases to perform any function as a pleading.
[Citations.]’ [Citation.] ‘Such amended pleading supplants all prior
complaints.’” (Foreman & Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875,
884.)
 
Here,
Cross-Complainant filed the instant motion on January 31, 2024, but then filed an
Amended Cross-Complaint on March 29, 2024. Therefore, the Amended
Cross-Complaint superseded the original Cross-Complaint with which the Cross-Complainant
attempted to serve Sal’s Roofing. 
 
Despite the
Amended Cross-Complaint becoming the operative pleading, Cross-Complainant has
not filed any papers showing that he attempted to serve his amended pleading on
Sal’s Roofing through any method of service (personal or otherwise). 
 
For those reasons, the Court finds that Cross-Complainant
has failed to satisfy Section 415.50(a)’s requirements for obtaining an order directing service by
publication on Sal’s Roofing. 
Therefore, the motion is denied. 
Conclusion 
The motion is denied without prejudice. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.