 Case Number:  23CHCV02813    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 6-5-24
Case # 23CHCV02813, Elliott Wolfe vs. Judith Wolfe, et
al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Jodi Rosen, David Rosen,
Michelle Fluke, and Michael Fluke
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Elliott Wolfe
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for Assault
·        
2nd Cause of Action for Battery
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Trespass to
Chattels
·        
4th Cause of Action for Conversion
·        
5th Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
6th Cause of Action for Elder Abuse
 
RULING: Demurrer sustained with leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff Elliott Wolfe (Plaintiff)
filed a complaint with six causes of action for Assault, Battery, Trespass to
Chattels, Conversion, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Elder
Abuse. It is unclear from the complaint who Defendants Jodi Rosen, David Rosen,
Michelle Fluke, and Michael Fluke (Defendants) are or what their relationship
is to Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (FAC), filed on March
5, 2024, gives dates under the first two causes of action for assault and
battery for when Michael Fluke and Jodi Rosen allegedly attacked or pushed
Plaintiff. No allegations concerning the named Defendants are under the Third,
Fourth, and Sixth Causes of Action. The Fifth Cause of Action names Jodi and
David and states that they caused incidents of intentional infliction of
emotional distress, but it does not say what these incidents were.
 
Defendants filed their demurer on May 1, 2024. Plaintiff
filed his opposition on May 14, 2024. No reply has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendants bring a demurrer to the First through Sixth
Causes of Action on the basis that they fail to state a cause of action and are
uncertain.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            Third,
Fourth, and Sixth Causes of Action
Plaintiff’s Third, Fourth, and Sixth Causes of Action are
devoid of any specific facts against Defendants. It is impossible to tell from
Plaintiff’s complaint what Plaintiff is alleging happened. Rather than state
facts, Plaintiff has made conclusory statements under these causes of action. These
conclusory statements seem designed to simply check the boxes for the
requirements of the causes of action, and do not state any facts specific to
Plaintiff’s case. Plaintiff has not pled sufficient facts to maintain these
causes of action. Defendants’ demurrer to these causes of action is sustained
with leave to amend.
 
            First
Cause of Action
For the First Cause of Action for Assault, the essential
elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent
to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a
harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to
be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to
plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did
not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (CACI No. 1301.)
 
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action only mentions that the
date of the assaults were March 5, 2022, by Michael Fluke and October 3, 2022,
by Jodi Rosen. (FAC, ¶ 7.) There are no facts concerning what the assault
entailed or what the harmful or offensive contact was. Plaintiff has not pled
fact sufficient to maintain a cause of action for assault against Defendant
Michael and Jodi. Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            Second
Cause of Action
The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are:
(1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the
intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the
touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4)
a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the
touching. (CACI No. 1300.)
 
Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for battery only mentions
that Michael Fluke physically attacked Plaintiff and that Josen Rosen pushed
Elliot. (FAC, ¶ 9.) There is no context given for either of these allegations,
nor does the FAC indicate what constituted the physical attack by Michael. Plaintiff
has not stated facts sufficient to maintain a cause of action for battery.
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action is sustained with
leave to amend.
 
            Fifth
Cause of Action
A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress must allege that (1) the defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous
conduct with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing, severe emotional distress to the plaintiff; (2) the plaintiff
actually suffered severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the outrageous
conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the emotional distress. (Cervantez
v. J.C. Penney Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 579, 593.)
 
Plaintiff’s cause of action for IIED is against all
Defendants, but of the demurring Defendants, only Jodi and David are mentioned
under this cause of action in Plaintiff’s FAC. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Furthermore, the
FAC only states that Jodi and David caused incidents of IIED, but the FAC
contains no information about what the incidents entailed or what the alleged
extreme and outrageous conduct was. Plaintiff has not stated facts sufficient
to maintain this cause of action against any of the Defendants. Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained with leave to amend for
Plaintiff’s First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action.
 
Plaintiff has 20 days to file an Amended Complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice.