 Case Number:  23STCV22413    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  39 The BSA Formula,
LLC v. Earl Robinson
Case No.
23STCV22413
Demurrer and
Motion to Strike
Case Management
Conference
 
            The BSA
Formula, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Earl Robinson
(“Defendant”) asserting causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, intentional interference with
contractual relations, tortious interference with prospective economic
advantage, and unfair competition under Business and Professions Code section
17200.  Plaintiff alleges as follows:
 
            Plaintiff
is a “talent alignment and product development company with a focus on the
beauty and cosmetics space.”  (Complaint,
¶ 1.)  Plaintiff retained Defendant as “a
consultant to negotiate and secure talent partnerships on behalf of
Plaintiff.”  (Ibid.)  However, Defendant “engaged in a series of
covert and unauthorized actions that directly contravened Plaintiff’s business
interests.”  (Id., ¶ 3.)  Specifically, Defendant “engaged in side
deals with potential business partners, diverting valuable opportunities and
benefits away from Plaintiff.” 
(Ibid.)  Defendant also
“interfered with Plaintiff’s operations, causing disruptions to existing
partnerships and hindering the advancement of prospective ones.”  (Id., ¶ 4.) 

 
            Defendant
demurs to each cause of action and moves to strike the prayer for punitive
damages.  Defendant argues that the
parties’ contract states that neither party shall be liable for “indirect,
consequential, special, punitive, exemplary, aggravated, economical or other
similar damages.”  Defendant argues, therefore,
that Plaintiff cannot allege any damages, which is fatal to the claims.  This provision does not include “compensatory
damages.”  Plaintiff seeks “compensatory”
damages in the prayer for relief. 
(Complaint, p. 11.)  Regardless,
to the extent there is ambiguity in this provision, the Court cannot resolve
that issue on demurrer.  The Court must
consider extrinsic evidence, which may only be done on summary judgment or at
trial.  
 
            Defendant
moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages associated with the first,
second, and fifth causes of action. 
Plaintiff does not oppose the motion in this respect.  Therefore, the motion is granted.  Plaintiff may not seek punitive damages with
respect to the first, second, and fifth causes of action.
 
            Defendant
also moves to strike Paragraph #63 in connection with the unfair competition
claim.  Plaintiff may not seek “damages”
with an unfair competition claim.  (See
In re Tobacco Cases II (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 779, 790.)  Because an unfair competition claim is
equitable in nature, a plaintiff may seek an injunction or restitution, not
“damages.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, Paragraph #63 seeks compensation
for Plaintiff’s “economic harm.”  Rather,
Plaintiff is only entitled to seek restitutionary disgorgement.  “[N]onrestitutionary disgorgement of profits
is not an available remedy in an individual action under the UCL.”  (Korea Supply v. Lockheed Martin Corporation
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1144.)  Rather, a
plaintiff may seek only restitutionary disgorgement.  (Ibid.) 

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The demurrer is overruled.
 
            2.         The motion to strike is granted.  The Court strikes the prayer for punitive
damages associated with the first, second, and fifth causes of action, as well
as the related allegations.  The Court
strikes Paragraph #63.
 
            3.         Plaintiff may file an amended complaint
within twenty (20) days.
 
            4.         The Court sets the following dates:
 
                        Final
Status Conference:        September 12,
2025, at 9:30 a.m. 
 
                        Trial:                                       September
23, 2025, at 9:00 a.m.   
 
The parties shall comply with all pretrial procedures for
Department #39.  Jury fees shall be
posted within ten (10) days or the parties shall waive jury.
 
            5.         Defendant shall provide notice and file
proof of such with the Court.  