  Case Number:  22STCV24782    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ DANIEL CHU, Plaintiff(s), vs. GRCA2 DEVELOPMENT, LLC, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 22STCV24782 Hearing Date: September 25, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED ANSWER  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff Daniel Chu (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants GRCA2 Development, LLC, Gerry Wiener, and CAA General Contractor, Inc. (“CAA”), and Cesar Andrino (Doe 1) for breach of contract action arising from renovation defects. On October 12, 2022, CAA filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. On July 18, 2024, CAA filed the instant motion seeking leave to file a First Amended Answer (“FAA”) to Plaintiff’s complaint. Any opposition was due on or before September 12, 2024. None has been filed to date.  II.  LEGAL STANDARD CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” “This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  III.  DISCUSSION CAA argues that at the time it filed its Answer, it was not aware of the Settlement Agreement, which CAA believes provides it an affirmative defense. CAA seeks leave to assert two additional affirmative defenses based on the doctrines of release and accord and satisfaction. There being no opposition to the motion, and pursuant to the liberality exercised in favor of amendments, the Court will allow the proposed amendment.  IV. CONCLUSION CAA’s motion for leave to file a FAA is GRANTED. CAA is ordered to file its proposed FAA within five (5) days of the date of this Order.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: September 24, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 