 Case Number:  23STCV26600    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ BENJAMIN MUESSIG, Plaintiff(s), vs. GENERAL MOTORS, LLC, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV26600 Hearing Date: September 25, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DIscovery responses  Plaintiff Benjamin Muessig (“Plaintiff”) filed this lemon law action against defendants General Motors, LLC (“GM”), et al. arising from his purchase of a 2020 Chevrolet Bolt EV on January 21, 2020. On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel GM to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories, set one, as to Nos. 20, 23, 25, 26, 39, 41, and 43. GM opposes the motion. Here, the parties rescheduled the Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) initially set for August 28, 2024 to November 1, 2024 in order to facilitate further meet and confer efforts to resolve the issues without judicial intervention. The Court will discuss the issues with the parties at the IDC on November 1, 2024 at 11:00 a.m. in the event that the parties are unable to resolve all remaining issues prior to the IDC. However, the Court believes it may be helpful to the parties to consult the Department 78 procedures for a list of discovery the Court typically allows in Song-Beverly cases. The parties are ordered to appear in person in Dept. 78 should the IDC move forward as scheduled. If the Court is engaged in trial on that date, the Court will conduct the IDC at 3:00 p.m. The parties should check in with the Court earlier in the week to ascertain the Court’s status. Plaintiff is further ordered to continue the Hearing on Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses using the online reservation management system, to a date at least 3 weeks after the IDC.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: September 24, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim¿ Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 