 Case Number:  22STCV94376    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


November 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:
  


22STCV04376




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Appearance and Production of Documents at
  Trial 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Spina
  Organics, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff Ellen Pittleman



 
MOTION
            Defendant
Spina Organics, LLC (“Defendant”) moves to enforce a notice to appear at trial
and to produce documents and things that Defendant served on Plaintiff Ellen
Pittleman (“Plaintiff”).  Plaintiff
opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
A party may use a
notice to attend to compel another party to attend trial and produce documents
and things at trial.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987, subd. (b).)  A party may challenge
a notice to attend trial by moving for an order “to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  A party may
also challenge a request to produce documents and things at trial by serving
written objections to the request with a statement of grounds.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987, subd. (c).)  The service of written objections shifts the
burden to the requesting party to file a noticed motion for production of the
items sought, “accompanied by a showing of good cause and of materiality of the
items to the issues” in the case.  (Ibid.)
Defendant served a
notice to appear and produce documents at trial on Plaintiff on October 28,
2024.  Plaintiff objected to the notice
on November 2, 2024 on the basis Defendant does not have a valid claim for
punitive damages, which would support discovery of Plaintiff’s financial
condition.  (Declaration of Steven P.
Krakowsky, Exhibit 2.)  Plaintiff argues Defendant’s
“discovery abuse should preclude any attempt to introduce evidence about
[Plaintiff’s] financial condition.”  (Opposition
to Motion to Compel Production of Documents at Trial, p. 3.)  That is not a valid objection.  Defendant’s right to compel Plaintiff’s
attendance and production of documents at trial is independent of Defendant’s
discovery obligations.  
A notice to
produce documents and things at trial “requires a listing of the exact
materials or things to be produced.”  (I-CA
Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257,
280.)  Accordingly, Defendant’s notice to
Plaintiff to have the categories of documents available at trial for the purpose
of establishing Plaintiff’s financial condition pursuant to Civil Code section
3295, subdivision (c) is proper.  (Soto
v. BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 165, 193.)  Such information, however, will only become
relevant if and when Defendant has established an entitlement to punitive
damages.  The Court, therefore, grants
the motion to the extent it seeks to compel Plaintiff’s appearance and
testimony at trial and for Plaintiff to have documents concerning her financial
condition available.  As Plaintiff has
not failed to do so at this point, the Court exercises its discretion and
denies Defendant’s request for sanctions.
Defendant is to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 