 Case Number:  23STCV21002    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV21002




MOTION 


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Rolling
  Hills Covenant Church, Clyde LaGue, Sam Tabari, Craig Knickerbocker, Sam
  Evans, and John Thrill




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Daniel A. Burgoyne



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Daniel A. Burgoyne (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Rolling Hills Covenant Church
(“Rolling Hills”), Clyde LaGue, Sam Tabari, Craig Knickerbocker, Sam Evans, and
John Thrill (collectively, “Defendants”) for wrongfully terminating Plaintiff’s
employment as pastor at Rolling Hills. 
Defendants move to compel arbitration with Plaintiff.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.  The Court previously considered this matter,
and, in its order of March 15, 2024, continued the matter because the parties
requested an evidentiary hearing.  (See
March 15, 2024 Minute Order.)  The
parties have since abandoned the request for an evidentiary hearing.  (See September 19, 2024 Minute Order.)  As such, the Court now rules on the motion.
ANALYSIS
The moving party
on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as
the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
842 (Ruiz), internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Defendants have presented
in their papers an arbitration agreement purportedly between Plaintiff and
Rolling Hills.  The document states, “the
parties agree that any controversy or claim arising out of this agreement shall
be resolved with the assistance of the Center for Conflict Resolution, a
Christian Conciliation Service, through mediation, and if necessary, legally
binding arbitration . . . .” 
(Declaration of Sam Tabari, Exhibit B.) 
Defendants attach the agreement to the declaration of Sam Tabari
(“Tabari”), Rolling Hills’ executive director and an elder at the Church.  Tabari declares the arbitration agreement
“was received by [Rolling Hills] from Plaintiff.”  (Tabari Decl., ¶ 10.)  Although Tabari adds he is aware Plaintiff
signed the agreement, he does not provide the basis for such awareness, and Tabari
does not state he has personal knowledge regarding the authenticity of the agreement.  As such, Defendants have not met their burden
to prove the existence of a valid arbitration agreement.  (See Ruiz, supra, 232
Cal.App.4th at pp. 845-846.)  
Through its reply
in support of the motion, Defendants advance the declaration of Robert H.
Cubillos (“Cubillos”), who worked for Rolling Hills as its vice president and business
administrator at the time Plaintiff was employed by Rolling Hills.  Cubillos declares he was at Rolling Hills
when Plaintiff executed his onboarding paperwork, and Plaintiff must have had a
complete set of paperwork when Plaintiff left, or he would have asked Plaintiff
to complete any outstanding documents. 
(Declaration of Robert H. Cubillos, ¶¶ 11-12.)  Again, however, in the face of Plaintiff’s
insistence he never saw, let alone signed, the arbitration agreement, Cubillos
does not state he witnessed Plaintiff signing the agreement.  Thus, Cubillos lacks personal knowledge concerning
the existence of any arbitration agreement into which Plaintiff purportedly entered.
Defendants also advance a second declaration
from Tabari while replying to Plaintiff’s opposition.  In that declaration, Tabari advances
identical arbitration agreements between Rolling Hills and 196 of its employees.  (Declaration of Sam Tabari in Support of
Defendants’ Reply, Exhibit A.)  However,
none of these employees worked in the same position as Plaintiff.  Plaintiff counters with evidence multiple
pastors for Rolling Hills did not sign the arbitration agreements.  (Declaration of Joy Burgoyne in Support
of Sur-Reply, ¶¶ 13, 33.)  Further, many
employees of Rolling Hills are not among the 196 employees who signed an arbitration
agreement.  (Burgoyne Decl., ¶¶ 7, 12.) 
Therefore, Defendants fail to show Plaintiff necessarily signed the
arbitration agreement when he began working for Rolling Hills.
Defendants also
filed a sur-reply brief in which they offer new arguments and advance new
evidence.  The Court did not authorize
Defendants to do so.  (See February 21,
2024 Minute Order.)  Defendants cannot present
such evidence and arguments in an unauthorized sur-reply, as they are not
entitled to unlimited opportunities to do so. 
For that reason, the Court disregards Defendants’ sur-reply.
In his opposition,
Plaintiff consistently argues the signature on the arbitration agreement is not
Plaintiff’s authentic signature because Plaintiff did not see nor did he sign
the arbitration agreement.  Defendants have
not satisfied their burden of establishing otherwise.  Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration.[1]  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The motion to compel arbitration is
denied.  
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 


