  Case Number:  22STCV13023    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


November 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV13023




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Van Nuys-L, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff Kenneth Oleesky



 
MOTION
            Defendant
Van Nuys-L, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Kenneth Oleesky
(“Plaintiff”) to further respond to Requests for Production of Documents, set three
(“RPD”).  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
If the propounding
party deems responses to requests for production of documents unsatisfactory,
the propounding party may move to compel further responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)  
In Plaintiff’s
supplemental responses to the RPD, Plaintiff states, after asserting
objections, “After making a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, Plaintiff
has no responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control.  Discovery is continuing and Plaintiff
reserves the right to supplement this response upon completion of further
discovery.”  (See Separate Statement in
Support of Motion to Compel Further Responses, p. 3.)  Plaintiff’s response is improper.  If a party cannot respond to an RPD, the
responding party must state “a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has
been made in an effort to comply with that demand . . . ,” and the party must “specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed
by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category
of item”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)  Plaintiff fails to state why he cannot locate
responsive documents and, to the extent such documents do exist, Plaintiff has
not identified any party who may have them. 
In addition, Plaintiff cannot unilaterally extend the time in which
Plaintiff responds to discovery by stating discovery is ongoing.    
Defendant contends
responsive documents do exist, and Plaintiff can access them. Ordinarily, Defendant
cannot move to compel Plaintiff to further respond on the basis Defendant believes
Plaintiff’s responses are not true. (Holguin v. Superior Court (1972) 22
Cal.App.3d 812, 820.)  Defendant’s remedy
then is to offer Plaintiff’s allegedly incomplete responses as admissions or as
prior inconsistent statements to impeach Plaintiff at trial, if Plaintiff seeks
to introduce evidence it did not disclose in discovery.  (See Evid. Code, §§ 1220; 1235.)   
In any event, this
issue may be premature.  As discussed
above, Plaintiff must further respond to the RPD by stating why he cannot
locate responsive documents before the Court can reach Defendant’s argument Plaintiff
can, in fact, obtain responsive documents. 
However, the Court notes in this instance in which Defendant seeks documents
related to Plaintiff’s disability claim in this action, which themselves may be
admissible or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence at trial, the Court agrees with Defendant such documents are relevant.  To the extent they contain privileged
information, they should be listed on a privilege log, and such information can
be redacted if the documents are to be used at trial.
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues he testified at deposition the majority of the documents sought
do not exist.  That is irrelevant.  Plaintiff’s duty to properly respond to the
RPD is independent of Plaintiff’s deposition testimony.  Likewise, as alluded to above, Plaintiff’s
argument responsive documents are privileged is irrelevant.  If Plaintiff has privileged documents in his
possession, custody, or control, Plaintiff must so state and provide Defendant
with a privilege log.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.240, subd. (c)(1).)  Plaintiff has not done so.
Under the circumstances
of this matter in which Plaintiff’s supplemental response is incomplete, the
Court exercises its discretion and concludes a sanctions award is not warranted.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion
to compel further responses to the RPD is granted.  Plaintiff is to serve further responses within
20 days of its receipt of notice of this order. 

Defendant is
ordered to give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 