 Case Number:  23CHCV01430    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 10-31-24
Case #23CHCV01430 , Najee Lamar Brown vs. Cristian Cruz, et
al.
Trial Date: 8-24-25
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Najee Lamar Brown
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants Alida Zarate and Cristian Cruz
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff requests
leave to file a First Amended Complaint
 
RULING:
Motion for leave to amend is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On May 16, 2023,
Plaintiff Najee Lamar Brown (Plaintiff) filed this motor vehicle personal injury
action against Defendants Cristian Cruz and Alida Zarate (Defendants). Cruz was
driving a vehicle owned by Zarate when he rear-ended Plaintiff on January 29,
2023. 
 
After receiving
the police report from the accident on February 16, 2024 (Neubauer Decl., ¶ 8),
Plaintiff learned that the report indicated that Cruz was driving under the
influence of alcohol when the crash happened. Plaintiff seeks to add a prayer
for punitive damages to her complaint pursuant to CCP § 425.13, as well as a
paragraph regarding Cruz driving under the influence of alcohol, as stated in
the police report.
 
Plaintiff filed
this motion for leave to file First Amended Complaint on September 19, 2024. Plaintiff
argues that she has complied with the applicable rules of the Court providing
the effect of the amendment, why it is necessary and property, when the facts
giving rise to the amendment were discovered, and the reasons why the request
was not made earlier. Plaintiff also argues that punitive damages are warranted
because the act of driving a car while intoxicated constitutes malice.
 
Defendant
Zarate filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion on October 16. Zarate argues
that Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that she acted with diligence in
amending her complaint. Zarate also argues that Plaintiff’s allegations as to
Zarate in the proposed First Amended Complaint would be subject to a demurrer
and motion to strike.
 
Defendant Cruz
filed his opposition to Plaintiff’s motion on October 17. Cruz argues that Plaintiff
has failed to provide an adequate basis for her proposed amendments, including
her request for punitive damages. He also argues that the information that
Plaintiff seeks to add does not constitute a new discovery, as it has been in
Plaintiff’s possession for a year and a half.[1] Cruz also argues that the
declaration does not say why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
Plaintiff filed
her reply on October 25. Plaintiff first argues that Defendants have made no
showing of prejudice. Plaintiff next argues that Defendants’ attack on the
validity and merit of Plaintiff’s proposed amendment is misplaced because as a
general rule, courts do not consider the validity and merit of the proposed
amended pleading in deciding whether to grant leave to amend. 
 
ANALYSIS
Courts are
authorized, in their discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .” (CCP §
473(a)(1).) CCP § 576, likewise, provides that “any judge, at any time before
or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such
terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment to any pleading . . .” (CCP §
576.) The determination of whether to grant leave to file an amended pleading
rests in the court’s sound discretion.
 
Leave to amend
is to be liberally granted at any stage in the proceedings, up to and including
trial. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1986) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487; see
also County of Sanitation Dist. No. 2 of Los Angeles County v. Kern
County (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1618 (noting that a plaintiff may be
granted amendment even at the time of trial).) To overcome the policy of
liberally granting amendments at any stage of litigation, a defendant must show
both actual prejudice and inexcusable delay. (Magpali, 48 Cal.App.4th at
487.) Prejudice exists where an amendment to a complaint would result in a
delay of trial; loss of critical evidence; added costs of preparation; and
increased burden of discovery. (Id. at 486-488.)
 
Trial in this
case is over nine months away. Defendants would not be prejudiced in that
regard if leave to amend were granted. Defendants argue that there was an inexcusable
delay in filing this motion because Plaintiff has had the police report in her
possession for a year and a half (though it may have only been since February
2024). Plaintiff claims that the reason for her delay is that Defendant Cruz
did not file his answer until May 15, 2024. Defendants argue that this is not a
sufficient reason for Plaintiff to have not filed a motion for leave to amend
sooner. However, complaints can be amended up to and including trial.
Regardless of the exact reason for the delay, leave to amend is to be liberally
granted. The Court will not deny the motion based on Plaintiff’s alleged delay
in filing this motion.
 
Defendants also
attempt to argue the merits of the amendments, particularly the inclusion of
the request for punitive damages. However, as Plaintiff argues in her reply, it
is premature to argue the merits of the amendment. That type of challenge is
better left for a demurrer. (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048; Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th
739, 760 [“the better course of action would have been to allow [plaintiff] to
amend the complaint and then let the parties test its legal sufficiency in
other appropriate proceedings.”].) The Court will leave the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages for future proceedings.
 
There is a
policy of liberally granting leave to amend. Because Defendants have not shown
prejudice and inexcusable delay, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave
to file a first amended complaint.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint is granted. The proposed
First Amended Complaint filed with Plaintiff’s motion is deemed filed.
 
Moving party to
give notice.


