 Case Number:  23CHCV03720    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 10-31-24
Case #23CHCV03720, Paola Boteo Alfaro, et al. vs.
Annie Beaudoin, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Paola Boteo Alfaro and Eddio
Botero Perez
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Negligence
 
RULING: Demurrer is overruled.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
This action arises out of an automobile versus pedestrian
accident that happened on January 18, 2023. Plaintiff Paola Boteo Alfaro (Plaintiff)
was crossing the street en route to school when Defendant Annie Beaudoin
(Beaudoin), who was operating a motor vehicle, crashed into Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff has alleged one cause of action against
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) for negligence. Plaintiff
alleges that the road she was crossing, which is next to the school, is
unreasonably dangerous. She alleges that Defendants had a duty to make the road
and crossing safer.
 
After this Court sustained Defendant LAUSD’s demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs filed their Second Amended
Complaint (SAC) on September 6, 2024. Defendant LAUSD filed its demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint on October 3, 2024. Plaintiffs Paola Boteo
Alfaro and Eddio Botero Perez oppose LAUSD’s demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Third Cause of Action for Negligence
Defendant LAUSD demurs to Plaintiffs’ cause of action for
negligence on the basis that it does not states facts sufficient to allege a
cause of action against LAUSD and on the basis that a school district does not
have any duty to provide crossing guards. LAUSD also demurs on the basis that
Plaintiffs inaccurately alleged that LAUSD owns the subject road.
 
The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty,
breach, proximate cause, and damages. (See Peredia v. HR Mobile Services,
Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680.)
 
LAUSD argues in its demurrer that Plaintiffs have failed to
cite a statutory basis for their cause of action for negligence. To bring a
cause of action against a public entity, a plaintiff must have statutory
authority to do so. (Gov. Code § 815(a).)
 
Plaintiffs do cite Government Code §§ 815.2, 815.4, and 820,
et seq., in their SAC. These sections all deal with whether a public entity is
liable for injury causes by an act or omission of an employee or independent
contractor of a public entity. There is nothing in Plaintiffs SAC that suggests
that Defendant Beaudoin was an employee of LAUSD or that any employee of LAUSD
was involved in the accident. However, Plaintiffs argue in their opposition
that there may be specific employees who were responsible for the unsafe
conditions (i.e., the Does), but Plaintiffs do not yet know their identities or
roles in the district. Plaintiffs may discover their identities through
discovery. The Court agrees with this reasoning.
 
Plaintiffs also cite Education Code §§ 44808 and 32280 et
seq. in their SAC. Education Code § 44808 provides that school districts may be
liable for an injury or accident that occurs off campus where the district has
assumed responsibility or liability. Plaintiffs allege that this section
applies to this case because implementing safe school drop-off protocols is
part of the district’s responsibility. (SAC, ¶ 52.) Education Code § 32280 requires
school districts to maintain a comprehensive school safety plan. Education Code
§ 32282(a)(1)(G), which is also cited by Plaintiffs, requires that the school
safety plan include “procedures for safe ingress and egress of pupils, parents,
and school employees to and from school.” Plaintiffs allege that this would
include safe areas for dropping off students. (SAC, ¶ 53.) Plaintiffs allege
that by failing to have a drop-off plan in place, LAUSD violated Education Code
§§ 44808 and 32280 and would be liable for negligence. (SAC, ¶ 54.)
 
Defendant LAUSD does not address the drop-off plan
allegations in its demurrer. Instead, it just talks about crossing guards,
something that is only mentioned in passing under Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of
Action. (SAC, ¶ 56(o).) 
 
LAUSD does address the drop-off plan allegations in its reply.
However, it appears that the arguments that LAUSD is making are more tailored
to a potential future motion for summary judgment than to a demurrer. The
standard on demurrer is whether a plaintiff has adequately pled the elements of
a cause of action. Instead, LAUSD attempts to argue, as a matter of law, that
school districts do not have a duty to protect students traveling to school. 
 
LAUSD cites a case in both its demurrer and reply in which
the Court of Appeal found that, pursuant to Education Code § 44808, school
districts are not responsible for the safety of students outside of school
property absent a specific undertaking by the school district and direct
supervision by a district employee. (Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1340, 1357.) In that case, a woman and her children were crossing
the street to a school when a motorist struck them, killing one of them and injuring
the others. (Id. at 1344.) The Court found that the school district did
not specifically assume responsibility for the plaintiffs’ safety. (Id.
at 1358.) 
 
However, what distinguishes Cerna from this case is
that Plaintiffs in this case have alleged that the school assumed
responsibility. Plaintiffs have alleged that LAUSD breached the requirements of
Education Code §§ 32280 and 32282(a)(1)(G) by not having a safe drop-off zone
for students. (SAC, ¶ 53.)
 
Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendant LAUSD owed a duty to
Plaintiff through Education Code §§ 44808, 32280, and 32282 to provide a safe
drop-off zone for its students. Plaintiffs have alleged that LAUSD failed to
provide a safe drop-off zone, thereby breaching its duty to Plaintiff, which
led to Plaintiff getting struck by a car. Plaintiffs suffered injuries as a
result of this car accident. These allegations are sufficient on demurrer for
Plaintiffs to maintain their cause of action for negligence against LAUSD. 
 
Another way in which Plaintiffs have alleged that LAUSD
assumed responsibility is that Plaintiffs have alleged that LAUSD would be
liable for the condition of the subject road because it owned and maintained
the road and school property. (SAC, ¶ 56.) LAUSD argues in its demurrer that it
does not own the road, so it cannot be liable for its condition. Plaintiffs argue
in their opposition that the exact allegation in their demurrer states that LAUSD
“negligently, carelessly, and/or recklessly owned, designed, maintained,
allowed, permitted, regulated, controlled, serviced, inspected, repaired,
modified, altered, monitored, improved, constructed, warned or failed to warn,
and/or supervised in regards to the SUBJECT ROAD and school property.” (SAC, ¶
56.) Plaintiffs argue that this was just them covering their bases, as the
ownership could refer to the school property part of this sentence, and the monitoring,
failure to warn, supervise, etc., could refer to the road part.
 
The Court accepts Plaintiffs’ argument for purposes of
demurrer. LAUSD’s exact relationship to the subject road will likely become
clearer through discovery. 
 
This time, Plaintiffs have indicated a statutory basis for
the duty that LAUSD allegedly breached. Plaintiffs may maintain a cause of
action for negligence. LAUSD’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action is
overruled.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant LAUSD’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of
Action is overruled.
 
Defendant LAUSD is given 30 days to file an answer.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.