

 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiff Alejandro Diaz
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Poke Pub Corp (“PPC”), June
Choe aka June Sin Choe (“Choe”), and Does 1 through 10, alleging a single cause
of action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. 
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to
Complaint, which identified Defendant Hillcrest Development Partners, LLC as
Doe 6. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following. On information and
belief, at all relevant times, PPC, Choe, and Does 1 to 5 leased or operated a
restaurant at 160 The Promenade North, Long Beach, CA 90802 (the “Restaurant”).
(Compl., ¶ 3.) On or about January 23, 2023,
Plaintiff experienced difficulty dining at the Restaurant because the outdoor
dining tables were not wheelchair-accessible in violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act. (Compl., ¶¶ 5, 7.)
 
On
February 15, 2024, default was entered against Defendants PPC and Choe. 
 
On June
27, 2024, PPC and Choe each filed a motion to set aside the defaults. 
 
As of
August 7, 2024, no opposition or reply has been filed. 
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTIES
POSITIONS
 
            PPC
argues the following in its motion to set aside the default. Plaintiff
purportedly served PPC by substituted service on a person claimed to be “MOD.” However,
effecting service on a corporation requires delivery of summons and complaint
to a person authorized by the corporation to receive service of process. Here, the
MOD was not authorized to accept service on behalf of PPC, a corporation. In
addition, there is no declaration of due diligence attached to the proof of
service on PPC. Therefore, Plaintiff has not shown reasonable attempts were
made to serve PPC personally before resorting to substitute service. Since
service on PPC was improper, the default should be set aside.
 
            Choe
testifies as follows in support of the motions. PPC is her corporation. Choe
Motion, Declaration of June Choe (“Choe Decl.”), ¶ 1. She owns and operates the
Restaurant but does not reside at that address. Choe Decl., ¶ 3. At no time did
anyone attempt to serve her at her residence and at no time has anyone
attempted to personally serve her individually or in her corporate capacity at
her place of business. Choe Decl., ¶ 3. She did not know about the lawsuit
until her landlord told her about it. Choe Decl., ¶ 4. The person named on the
Proof of Service of Summons was not authorized to accept service for her or PPC
and she was never given papers by that person. Choe Decl., ¶ 5. 
 
OPPOSITIONS

 
None.
 
REPLY
 
            None.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          MOTIONS
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT      
A.    Legal Standard
“It is … well
established that it is the policy of the law to bring about a trial on the
merits whenever possible, so that any doubts which may exist should be resolved
in favor of the application, to the end of securing to a litigant his day in
court and a trial upon the merits.” Frank E. Beckett Co. v. Bobbitt (1960)
180 Cal.App.2d Supp. 921, 928.
 
A party may move
to set aside default pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b)
(“Section 473(b)”), which states: “The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 
B.    
Timeliness and Proposed Answers
 
            PPC
and Choe move to set aside the defaults pursuant to Section 473(b). As stated
above, application for relief under that statute must be brought within six
months of the default, and accompanied by a proposed answer. 
 
            Here,
both motions are timely, as they were filed on June 27, 2024, within six months
of entry of default on February 15, 2024. The defendants have also attached
proposed answers as required. PPC Motion, Exhibit C – a copy of PPC’s Proposed
Answer; Choe Motion, Exhibit C – Choe’s Proposed Answer. 
             
C.   
Default Entered Against PPC
 
“A summons may be served on a
corporation by delivering a copy of the summons and the complaint by any of the
following methods:
 
(a)  
To the person designated as agent for service of
process as provided by any provision in Section 202, 1502, 2105, or 2107 of the
Corporations Code (or Sections 3301 to 3303, inclusive, or Sections 6500 to
6504, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976,
with respect to corporations to which they remain applicable).
(b)  
To the president, chief executive officer, or other
head of the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary,
a treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, a
general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to receive service
of process.
(c)  
If the corporation is a bank, to a cashier or assistant
cashier or to a person specified in subdivision (a) or (b).
(d)  
If authorized by any provision in Section 1701, 1702,
2110, or 2111 of the Corporations Code (or Sections 3301 to 3303, inclusive, or
Sections 6500 to 6504, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as in effect on
December 31, 1976, with respect to corporations to which they remain
applicable), as provided by that provision.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10
(“Section 416.10”); Corp. Code, §§ 1701
(delivery to agent or corporate agent), 1702 (service upon secretary of state
pursuant to a court order], 2110 (concerning foreign defendants), or 2111
(service upon secretary of state pursuant to a court order if the agent cannot
be found).
 
“In lieu of
personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to
be served as specified in Section 416.10, … a summons may be served by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or
her office … with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail,
postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the
summons and complaint were left. Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a) (“Section
415.20(a)”) (emphasis added).  
 
Therefore, to
effectuate substituted service on PPC pursuant to Section 415.20(a), Plaintiff
had to deliver the copy of the summons in the actual office (not just in any
location or address) of “the person to be served as specified in Section
415.20.” Ramos v. Homeward Residential, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
1434, 1441–1442 (“While section 415.20, subdivision (a) permits substituted
service on ‘the person to be served as specified in Section 416.10,’ where the
proof of service fails to identify any such person, the proof of service is
defective”).
 
“It is axiomatic
that strict compliance with the code’s provisions for service of process is not
required.” Ramos v. Homeward Residential, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
1434, 1442 (“Ramos”).
 
“‘[S]ubstantial
compliance is sufficient.’ [Citation.]” Ramos, supra, 223
Cal.App.4th at p. 1443.
 
“In general,
substantial compliance with the code occurs when, although not properly identified in a proof of service, the
person to be served in fact actually received the summons.” Ramos,
supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1443 (italics in original). 
 
“‘[W]hen the defendant is a
corporation, the “person to be served” is one of the individuals specified in
section 416.10 [above]. Therefore, [a plaintiff] could be held to have
substantially complied with the statute if, despite his failure to
address the mail to one of the persons to be served on behalf of the
defendants, the summons was actually received by one of the persons to be
served.’ [Citation.]” Ibid. (emphasis added).
 
“[M]ere
receipt of the summons by an unknown employee of the corporation who is not a
person specified in section 416.10 does not necessarily establish substantial
compliance. [Citation.] Evidence that shows the name of the person who
received the summons and complaint as well as the person’s title or capacity is
required by statute (§ 417.10) and, without it, a trial court need not infer
that a person specified in section 416.10 actually received the summons and
complaint.” Ramos, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1443 (emphasis
added). 
 
Here, Choe has
testified that the person claimed to have been served by Plaintiff, “Myong Kim
– MOD,” was not authorized to accept service on PPC’s behalf. Plaintiff has not
served any opposition disputing that fact. 
 
Accordingly, the
motion to set aside the default entered against PPC is granted.
 
B.        Default
Entered Against Choe
“A summons may be served by personal delivery of a copy of
the summons and of the complaint to the person to be served. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete at the time of such delivery. ¶ The date upon which
personal delivery is made shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the
copy of the summons at the time of its delivery. However, service of a summons
without such date shall be valid and effective.” Code Civ. Proc. § 415.10.
 
Service may also be effectuated on an
individual through substituted service. Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20, subd. (b) (“If
a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be
personally delivered to the person to be served, as specified in Section
416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of
the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode,
usual place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United States
Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a competent member of the
household or a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of
business, or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the
contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the
complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at
the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing”). 
 
            Here,
Choe has attested that she does not reside at the Restaurant’s address, at no
time did anyone attempt to serve her at her residence with this lawsuit, and at
no time has anyone attempted to personally serve her individually or in her
corporate capacity at her place of business. Indeed, there is no proof that Plaintiff attempted
personal service before allegedly using substituted service. Choe also
testified that the person named on the Proof of Service of Summons (Myong Kim,
MOD) was not authorized to accept service and she was never given papers by
that person. 
 
            Plaintiff
has not disputed those facts. 
 
            Accordingly, the motion to set aside
the default against Choe is also granted. 
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            The Motions to Set
Aside the Defaults are GRANTED. 
 
The Court hereby sets aside the
defaults entered on February 15, 2024, against Defendants Poke Pub Corp and
June Choe aka June Sin Choe.
 
            The
defendants are ordered to serve and file their Answers within 10 days of this Court’s
Ruling. 

 
            Moving parties are ordered to give
notice. 