  Case Number:  22STCV06085    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Cartwright Termite & Pest
  Control, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV06085




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Nisan Tepper, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 12, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint 
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Cartwright
Termite & Pest Control, Inc.
Responding Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shmuel
Erde
 
T/R:     CROSS-DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANT TO FILE AND SERVE A
FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. CROSS-DEFENDANT
TO FILE AND SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers
and opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 16, 2024, Defendant Shmuel
Erde filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Cartwright Termite & Pest
Control, Inc., Defendant Balboa, LLC and Dolores Golden, asserting causes of action
for (1) breach of agreement to postpone foreclosure sale; (2) failure to comply
with foreclosure statutes; (3) conspiracy to divest cross-complainant of a
broker’s commission; (4) divesting cross-complainant of a broker’s commission;
(5) conspiracy to divest cross-complainant of equity in real property; (6)
divesting cross-complainant of equity in real property; and (7) refusal to
comply with discovery efforts. 
 
Erde is the former owner of real
property on Crenshaw Blvd. Cross-Defendant Balboa had a lien on the property
that had gone into default due to the property’s former owner’s failure to make
payments. Balboa noticed a trustee’s sale of the property. Erde alleges the
parties agreed that, instead of the trustee’s sale, Erde would sell the
property to Liberty for $1,800,000, with $175,000 going to Carwright to
expunge its Lis Pendens and $1,198,000 going to Balboa to repay the lien. Erde
alleges Balboa changed the date of the trustee’s sale and sold the property to
Liberty directly for less money in violation of the parties’ agreement. Erde
alleges Cross-Defendants went through with the sale to deprive him of his
broker’s commission.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Cartwright
demurs to the third through seventh causes of action on the grounds that they
are uncertain and fail to state sufficient facts. The Court agrees. As stated,
the third through seventh causes of action are: (3) conspiracy to divest
cross-complainant of a broker’s commission; (4) divesting cross-complainant of
a broker’s commission; (5) conspiracy to divest cross-complainant of equity in
real property; (6) divesting cross-complainant of equity in real property; and
(7) refusal to comply with discovery efforts. These are not causes of action. Cross-Complainant
fails to allege how “divesting” his commission is a breach of contract, fraud,
or some other cognizable claim. Similarly, “refusal to comply with discovery efforts”
is not a cause of action. 
 
Cross-Defendant's demurrer is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
 
 