  Case Number:  22CHCV01109    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    6/11/24     Case    Name: Michael M. Abassia, v. Uber Technologies, Inc., Andre Anderson, and    Samantha Rutledge, and Does 1 to 25     Case No.:    22CHCV01109      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    JUNE 11, 2024    APPLICATION FOR DETERMINATION OF  GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT (C.C.P. Section 877.6(a)(2)); MOTION TO CONTEST  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case No. 22CHCV01109    Motion  filed: 3/20/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Defendant Samantha  Rutledge (“Rutledge” or “Petitioner”) for the application;  Defendant/Cross-Complainant Andre Anderson (“Anderson”) for the motion to  contest RESPONDING PARTY: Rutledge responding to the motion  to contest NOTICE: OK   RELIEF  REQUESTED: Rutledge’s  application seeks an order determining that the settlement entered into between  her and Plaintiff, Michael M. Abassian (“Abassian” or “Plaintiff”), was made in  good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2). Anderson’s  motion seeks to contest the good faith settlement.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The application  is GRANTED. The motion to contest is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from the alleged injuries and damages  Plaintiff sustained from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on September 20,  2022 (the “Accident”), at the intersection of Balboa Avenue and Jolette Avenue,  in Granada Hills, California. (Compl., MV-1).   On November 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed the Complaint against  Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), Anderson, Rutledge, and Does 1 to 25,  alleging Motor Vehicle liability. Subsequently, Uber and Anderson filed their  respective Answers to the Complaint on December 27, 2022, and January 4, 2023,  respectively. Rutledge filed her Answer to the Complaint on February 3, 2023.     On January 4, 2023, Anderson filed his Cross-Complaint  against Rutledge and Roes 1 through 10, alleging (1) comparative equitable  indemnity; (2) contribution; (3) apportionment; and (4) declaratory relief.  Subsequently, Rutledge filed her Answer to the Cross-Complaint on February 9,  2023.   On March 20, 2024, Rutledge filed the instant Application  for Determination of Good Faith Settlement (the “Application”).   On April 15, 2024, Anderson filed a notice of motion and  Motion to Contest the Good Faith Settlement (the “Motion”). Subsequently,  Rutledge filed her Opposition to the Motion on May 28, 2024.   ANALYSIS   Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2)  provides, in pertinent part, that “a settling party may give notice of  settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an application for  determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application  shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the  settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be given by  certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. Proof of  service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the  notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service,  a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of  the settlement.”   The determination as to whether a settlement is in good faith is a  matter left to the discretion of the trial court.” (Mattco Forge,  Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349  (Mattco).)   A.     Motion to  Contest is Timely   The Court determines that Anderson’s  Motion to Contest the Good Faith Settlement, filed on April 15, 2024, is  timely, as it was filed within 25 days of the mailing of Rutledge’s  Application, meeting the requirement of statutory period under Code of Civil  Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2).    B.      Determination  of Good Faith Settlement   The California Supreme Court  held in Tech-Bilt that the  trial court’s determination of good faith is based on “a number of factors,”  including “[1] a rough approximation of  plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, [2] the  amount paid in settlement, [3] the allocation of settlement proceeds among  plaintiffs, . . . [4] a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement  than he would if he were found liable after a trial. . . [5] the financial  conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as [6]  the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the  interests of nonsettling defendants.” ¿(Tech-Bilt, supra,  at p. 499; see also Far West  Financial Corp. v. D&S Co.¿(1988) 46 Cal.3d 796, 816, fn. 16 [expanding  on Tech-Bilt factors].) “[W]hen the good faith nature of a settlement is  disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt  factors.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d  1251, 1261 (City of Grand Terrace).   i.                     Rough  Proximation and Settling Defendant’s Proportionate Liability    The  first Tech–Bilt factor consists of two parts: a rough  approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery and the settling defendant’s  proportionate liability. (Cahill v. San  Diego Gas & Electric Co. (App. 4 Dist. 2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939,  962 (Cahill).)   When approximating a plaintiff’s total recovery or the  settling defendant’s proportionate liability, “judges should . . . not yearn  for the unreal goal of mathematical certainty.¿ Because the application of  section 877.6 requires an educated guess as to what may occur should the case  go to trial, all that can be expected is an estimate, not a definitive  conclusion.”¿ (North County Contractor’s Assn. v. Touchstone Ins. Services (1994)  27 Cal.App.4th 1085, 1090.)   Furthermore, the defendant's settlement figure must not be  grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the  settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's liability to be. (Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 894, 909.)  After the court first makes a rough  approximation of the total amount the plaintiff is likely to recover, the court  then determines what, if any, the settling defendant’s proportionate share of  that total recovery would be, and then determines whether the settlement amount  was “within the ballpark” of reasonable settlement amounts based on the first  two factors.” (Ibid.)   Here,  Rutledge asserts that Plaintiff’s medical damages identified in discovery are  no more than $8,958.20, which is the amount paid by insurance, in addition to  Plaintiff’s other damages include $1,519 for treatment from CEP America and $8,  277.12 for claimed loss of earnings, totaling $18,754.32. (Appl., at p. 6,  Hawkins Decl., ¶ 10.) Furthermore, Rutledge acknowledges that Plaintiff has  made a claim for general damages for pain and suffering and emotional distress,  however, which is difficult to quantitate at the time of the settlement.  (Appl., at p. 6.)   Rutledge  states that the settlement terms stipulate the total amount is $15,000.00 which  represents the full amount of the insurance policy limit held by Rutledge which  would provide coverage for the claims of Plaintiff. (Hawkins Decl., Ex. “10.”)  Furthermore, Rutledge’s counsel attests that the Settlement and Release was  made with the knowledge of the nature of injuries claimed to have been  sustained by Plaintiff, Mr. Abassian. (Chang Decl., ¶ 7.)   Moreover,  Rutledge did not admit any liability. (Appl., at p. 5, Hawkins Decl., Ex.  “10.”) She argues that the video evidence establishes that the  Defendant/Cross-Complainant Anderson is seen running the red light on the video  and colliding with the side of her vehicle when she was making a left turn at  the intersection. (Appl., at p. 7) Rutledge contends that Anderson violated  Vehicle Code section 21453, subdivision (a) by failing to stop for a steady  circular red signal and thus should be found liable for the occurrence of the  Accident. (Ibid.)   In  response, Anderson does not contest Rutledge’s allegation that he ran a red  light; however, he argues that Rutledge was attempting to turn left on a red  light before the collision. (Mot., at p. 3) Anderson posits that Rutledge is at  least 50% liable for Plaintiff’s damages, as she violated Vehicle Code section  21801. (Mot., at pp. 7, 12.)   Upon  reviewing the uncontested video evidence proffered by Rutledge, the Court finds  that Rutledge’s vehicle had entered the intersection, and waited to make a left  turn, during the yellow light. (Hawkins Decl., Ex. “8), whereas Anderson’s  vehicle entered the intersection after Rutledge’s vehicle started to turn left  and the signal light changed to red. (Ibid.)   In his Motion, Anderson quotes only an incomplete portion of  Vehicle Code section 21801, which provides in its entirety:    “(a) The  driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left or to complete a U-turn upon  a highway, or to turn left into public or private property, or an alley, shall  yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching from the opposite direction  which are close enough to constitute a hazard at any time during the turning  movement, and shall continue to yield the right-of-way to the approaching  vehicles until the left turn or U-turn can be made with reasonable safety.   (b) A driver having yielded as prescribed in subdivision (a), and  having given a signal when and as required by this code, may turn left or  complete a U-turn, and the drivers of vehicles approaching the intersection or  the entrance to the property or alley from the opposite direction shall yield  the right-of-way to the turning vehicle.”               Anderson  does not explain why he had the right-of-way under the Vehicle Code section  21801, subdivision (a) by admittedly running the red light. Nor does he explain  why he should not adhere to subdivision (b) of the same code, which mandates that  “drivers of the vehicles approaching the intersection ... from the opposite  direction shall yield the right-of-way to the turning vehicle.”                Based on the only factual information available before the Court  and its own judicial experience, the Court rationally concludes that a  reasonable person could find that, as compared to Rutledge’s liability, Anderson’s  negligence was likely the primary, if not sole, cause of Plaintiff’s injuries,  thereby reducing, if not eliminating, the potential judgment against Rutledge.                Moreover,  Anderson argues that the settlement amount of $15,000.00 is grossly  disproportionate to the total damage that Plaintiff may recover – more than  $265,000 based on Anderson’s calculation. (Mot., at p. 11.)               As compared to Rutledge’s approximation of damage, the  Court notes Anderson’s claim of Plaintiff’s total damages lacks support of  competent evidence. Even if the Court accepts this estimate, as the Court has  previously analyzed Rutledge’s liability to be minimal, if not zero, it does  not affect the finding that the settlement amount is within the ballpark of her  proportionate liability.                  Therefore, the first  Tech-Bilt factor supports the determination of good faith settlement.              ii.                   Settling Defendant’s  Financial Condition   Here, Rutledge’s  counsel attests that the settlement amount is the policy limit for third-party bodily  injury of Rutledge’s GEICO Policy No. 4631-29-28-31, and she has no excess  insurance policies or any additional funds to contribute to the Settlement and  Release. (Chang Decl., ¶ 4.)   Based on this  record and given the Court’s previous determination that the settlement amount  is already in the ballpark of Rutledge’s proportionate liability, it concludes  that the analysis of this factor is also in favor of the determination of the  good faith settlement.   iii.                 The  Existence of Collusion, Fraud, or Tortious Conduct Aimed to Injure the  Interests of Nonsettling Defendants   The “existence  of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of  nonsettling defendants” is another relevant consideration. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499.)               Here, there is no  evidence of “the existence of collusion,  fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure  the interests of” Anderson. There is also no argument made by Anderson in  relation to this factor. Thus, the Court finds this Tech-Bilt factor  supports the determination of good faith settlement.               Based on the foregoing, the Court concludes that its  analysis of Tech-Bilt factors supports the determination of good faith  settlement, which provides Defendant/Cross-Defendant Rutledge immunity from  liability to nonsettling Defendant/Cross-Complainant Anderson.               Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Application for  Determination of Good Faith Settlement.   CONCLUSION   Defendant/Cross-Defendant  Samantha Rutledge’s Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.   Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Andre Anderson’s Motion to Contest is DENIED.   Applicant  to give notice.