 Case Number:  BC595770    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



KENNETH D. RICKEL, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MARTIN W. ENRIGHT, ESQ., an individual; LITTMAN KROOKS, LLP, a
  New York limited liability partnership; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          BC595770
 Hearing Date:   2/28/24
 Trial Date:        3/5/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Non-Party
  Alexander J. Davis’s Motion to Seal Exhibits A, B, E and J Filed ISO
  Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 4 and Exhibits A, B, E, and F Filed ISO
  Defendants’ Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine Nos. 10-11.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Kenneth D. Rickel sues Defendants Martin W. Enright, Esq.
(Enright), Littman Krooks, LLP (Littman Krooks), and Does 1 through 20 pursuant
to a March 13, 2017 Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleging claims of (1)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (2) Fraud, (3) Legal Malpractice, (4) Breach of
Contract, (5) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, and
(6) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage.
The claims arise from allegations that, among other things, Plaintiff
retained Defendants as legal counsel for the creation of various entities: a
hedge fund, an investment adviser entity for the hedge fund, and a managing
member entity for the hedge fund. The SAC alleges that Plaintiff hired
Defendants to perform these services on behalf of Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s
business partner (named elsewhere as Alexander J. Davis, Plaintiff’s stepson),
and their company (KA Consolidated, LLC). The SAC further alleges that
Defendants assisted Plaintiff’s unnamed business partner (Davis) in creating
and operating other business entities that competed with and divested business
opportunities from KA Consolidated, resulting in breaches of fiduciary duties
by Plaintiff’s partner and Defendants, as well as diverted earnings of more
than $10 million.
The action was originally assigned to Department 57 at the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse before it was transferred to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse (the Court) on March 1, 2023.
Motion Before the Court
On February 13, 2024, non-party Alexander J. Davis’s filed a motion to
seal Exhibits A, B, E, and J attached to Defendants’ motion in limine No. 4 and
Exhibits A, B, E, and F attached to Defendants’ opposition to Plaintiff’s
motion in limine Nos. 10-11.
The motion was served on counsel
for Plaintiff and counsel for Defendants, is unopposed, and is now before the
Court.
 
Motion to Seal
I.
Motion
to Seal – Moving Papers
A
party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to
justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.551, subd. (b)(1).)
Here,
a motion to seal the exhibits at issue was filed by non-party Alexander J. Davis on February 13, 2024. (Mot., p. 1.)
II.
Motion
to Seal – Service
A
copy of the motion or application must be served on all parties that have
appeared in the case. Unless the court orders otherwise, any party that already
possesses copies of the records to be placed under seal must be served with a
complete, unredacted version of all papers as well as a redacted version.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(2).)
Here,
a proof of service is attached to the motion to seal showing service on counsel
for Plaintiff and counsel for Defendants. (Mot., Proof of Service, Service
List.)
III.
Motion
to Seal – Lodging
Unless
good cause exists, a record to be filed under seal must be put in an envelope
or other appropriate container labeled ‘CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL,’ have a cover
sheet affixed thereto with an appropriate caption page stating the envelope
contains a motion to file a record under seal and be lodged in the sealed
envelope with the Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subds. (b)(4),
(d)(2), (d)(4).)
Here,
this requirement need not be satisfied because the exhibits at issue have been
previously filed in the public record by parties in this action, i.e., Exhibits A, B, E, and J attached to
Defendants’ motion in limine No. 4 and Exhibits A, B, E, and F attached to
Defendants’ opposition to Plaintiff’s motion in limine Nos. 10-11.
IV.
Motion
to Seal – Redacted and Unredacted Versions
If
necessary to prevent disclosure, any motion to seal and any supporting
documents must be filed in a public redacted version and lodged in a complete,
unredacted version conditionally under seal.¿ The cover of the redacted version
must identify it as “Public-Redacts materials from conditionally sealed record”
while the cover of the unredacted version must identify it as “May Not Be
Examined Without Court Order-Contains material from conditionally sealed
record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(5).)
Here,
because nondisclosure cannot be effected by filing unredacted copies of
documents already in the public record, this requirement need not be satisfied.
V.
Motion
to Seal – Findings
“The
public has a First Amendment right of access to civil litigation documents
filed in court and used at trial or submitted as a basis for adjudication.” (Savaglio
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 596 (Savaglio),
citing NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178, 1208-1209, fn. 25].) Therefore, before a trial court orders a
record sealed, it must hold a hearing and make express findings set forth in
California Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subdivision (d): (1) there exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Savaglio,
supra, at p. 596; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) A court’s
order allowing documents to be filed under seal must contain express factual
findings establishing these five factors. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550,
subd. (d).) 
Here,
the Court finds sufficient grounds exist to grant this motion.
The
Court finds an overriding interest in the documents to be sealed. As argued by
non-party Alexander J. Davis: “The Exhibits are documents or contain
information that has justifiably been designated as ‘Confidential’ and ‘Highly
Confidential’ by the parties pursuant to the Protective Order entered in the
matter Davis v. Rickel, 20SMCV01367 (the ‘Davis Litigation’) on June 3, 2021
(the ‘Davis Protective Order’) because they contain private and sensitive
information concerning the finances and business practices of Davis and his
investors and business partners (collectively the ‘Protected Parties’), in
which the general public has no interest. (See Mot., pp. 5-8.)
The
Court further determines that this interest supports sealing of the record
already made public through the parties’ filings, that non-party Alexander J.
Davis will suffer ongoing prejudice by non-sealing of the record, the proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored to protecting the already-disclosed information at
issue, and no less restrictive means exist to achieve this overriding interest.
(See Mot., pp. 5-8.)
Non-party
Alexander J. Davis’s motion to seal is thus GRANTED. 

Conclusion
Non-Party Alexander J. Davis’s
Motion to Seal Exhibits A, B, E and J Filed ISO Defendants’ Motion in Limine
No. 4 and Exhibits A, B, E, and F Filed ISO Defendants’ Opposition to
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine Nos. 10-11 is GRANTED.