  Case Number:  23STCV12682    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



PAUL AUCHTERLONIE, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ALTIOR HEALTHCARE, LLC, a limited liability company; INNERCEPT
  HOLDINGS, LLC, a limited liability company; PINE TREE EQUITY IV, LP, a
  limited partnership; PINE TREE EQUITY III, LP, a limited partnership;
  PARADIGM CO-INVESTMENT FUND, LP, a limited partnership; PTE PRINCIPALS IV –
  SHORTRIDGE, an entity; SHORTRIDGE INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS, LLC, a limited
  liability company; PARADIGM INTERMEDIATE, LLC, a limited liability company;
  PT INNERCEPT INC., a corporation; INNERCEPT, LLC, a limited liability
  company; PARADIGM SERVICES HOLDINGS, LLC, a limited liability company;
  PARADIGM TREATMENT CENTERS, LLC, a limited liability company; PSYCH ME, LLC,
  a limited liability company; JEFF SETTEMBRINO, an individual; ROBERTO CANTO,
  an individual; THOMAS WILCOP, an individual; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV12682
 Hearing Date:   2/28/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Specially
  Appearing Defendant PT Innercept, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service for Lack of
  Personal Jurisdiction [CRS# 6273];
Specially
  Appearing Defendants Jeff Settembrino and Roberto Canto’s Motion to Quash
  Service of Process for Ineffective Service and Lack of Personal Jurisdiction
  [CRS# 1299]; and
Specially
  Appearing Defendant Doe 2 Pine Tree Equity Management LP’s Motion to Quash
  Service of Process for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction [CRS# 9961].



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Paul Auchterlonie sues Defendants Altior Healthcare, LLC
(Altior), PT Innercept Inc. (PT Innercept), Innercept, LLC (Innercept),
Paradigm Services Holdings, LLC (Paradigm Services), Paradigm Treatment
Centers, LLC (Paradigm Treatment), Psych Me, LLC (Psych Me), Jeff Settembrino
(Settembrino), Roberto Canto (Canto), Thomas Wilcop (Wilcop), and Does 1
through 50 pursuant to an August 25, 2023 First Amended Complaint (FAC). Defendants
Paradigm Treatment Centers, Inc. and Pine Tree Equity Partners, LLC were
amended in as Doe Defendants 1 and 2 on August 25, 2023.
(Defendant Innercept Holdings, LLC—the former legal name of Defendant
Altior— was dismissed without prejudice on October 20, 2023. Defendants Pine
Tree Equity IV, LP, Pine Tree Equity III, LP, Paradigm Co-lnvestfund, LP, PTE
Principle IV – Shortridge, Shortridge Intermediate Holdings, LLC, and Paradigm
Intermediate, LLC were dismissed without prejudice on January 16, 2024.)
The FAC alleges claims of (1) Violation of Health and Safety Code § 1278.5,
(2) Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5, (3) Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy, (4) Tortious Interference with Economic Advantage, and (5)
Tortious Interference with Contractual Relations.
The claims arise from the following allegations, as modified by the
dismissals and amendments discussed above. Defendants Altior, PT Innercept,
Innercept, Paradigm Services, Paradigm Treatment, and Psych Me (the Entity
Defendants) are owned, operated, controlled, supervised and/or managed by
Defendants Settembrino, Canto, and Wilcop (the Individual Defendants). All
Defendants are alleged as alter egos of one another. Plaintiff Auchterlonie was
employed by Defendants Altior, Innercept Holdings, Paradigm Treatment, one or
more subsidiary companies, and/or Does 1-50. Between January 2020 and January
2023, Plaintiff reported and disclosed certain suspected illegal, unsafe,
fraudulent, and substandard conditions and services at the health facilities
owned, managed, and/or operated by all Defendants. 
According to the Complaint, these “Subject Conditions” included accepting
substance abuse patients who Defendants were unqualified to treat, hiring
therapists or clinical staff with little or no experience to safely treat
patients, and maintaining overnight staffing ratios that were below California
state standards and licensing requirements. These conditions also posed a
significant health risk for current and future patients utilizing the services
of Defendants. The reports, complaints, and disclosures were made to “the
appropriate health facilities, the owners and operators of the health
facilities and/or to the entities and agencies responsible for accrediting or
evaluating the facilities, and/or the medical staff of the facilities as set
forth in California Health and Safety Code § 1278.5.” Plaintiff had reasonable
cause to believe reporting the Subject Conditions disclosed a violation of
state or federal statutes, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local,
state, or federal rules or regulations as set forth in California Labor Code §
1102.5, and he refused to participate in such activities. As a result of his
reporting, Plaintiff was subjected to continuous harassment, exclusion,
humiliation, intimidation, and retaliation from Defendants and their employees,
agents, and/or independent contractors, including Defendants terminating
Plaintiff’s employment.
Motions Before the Court
On October 13, 2023, Defendant PT
Innercept filed a motion to quash service of the summons on PT Innercept based
on lack of personal jurisdiction.
On November 13, 2023, Defendants
Settembrino and Canto filed a motion to quash service of the summons on them
based on improper service and lack of personal jurisdiction.
That same day, Defendant Pine Tree
Equity Management LP (hereafter Pine Tree Equity; presumably the same entity as
Pine Tree Equity Partners, LLC which was
amended in as Doe 2) filed a motion to quash service of the summons on it
based on lack of personal jurisdiction.
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff
Auchterlonie filed oppositions to each of the three motions to quash.
On February 21, 2024, Defendants PT
Innercept, Settembrino and Canto, and Pine Tree Equity filed replies to the
opposition directed at their respective motions.
Defendants PT Innercept’s,
Settembrino and Canto’s, and Pine Tree Equity’s motions are now before the
Court.
 
Motion
to Quash, Legal Standard, Improper Service
A motion to quash can be brought on
the ground that the court lacks personal jurisdiction over the defendant, e.g.,
because service was improper. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1);
see, e.g., Tresway Aero, Inc. v. Superior Court (1971) 5 Cal.3d 431, 433
[defendant filed motion to quash on ground that service on corporation was
defective because it did not comply with Code Civ. Proc., § 410, now § 412.30];
County of Riverside v. Superior Court (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 443, 446
[defendant filed motion to quash on ground that service was defective because
summons did not specify date for answering and appearing].)
The defendant should attach
evidence to support its motion. (See School Dist. of Okaloosa Cty. v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1131 [defendant must present
some admissible evidence in form of affidavits or declarations to place the issue
of lack of jurisdiction before court]; see, e.g., Aquila, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 563 [defendant supported motion to quash
with declarations]; cf. Floveyor Int’l v. Superior Court (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 789, 793-794 [“‘A defendant who takes the position that the service
of summons as made upon him did not bring him within the jurisdiction of the
court’[] may serve and file a notice of motion to quash the service,’” where
“‘the effect of such a notice is to place upon the plaintiff the burden of
proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction … [or] the facts
requisite to a[] [showing of] effective service,’” citations omitted].)
A motion to quash service of
summons must be filed and served “on or before the last day of his or her time
to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).)
 
Motion
to Quash, Legal Standard, Personal Jurisdiction
Legal Standard
A defendant, on or before the last
day of her time to plead or within any further time that the court for good
cause may allow, may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction over her. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a); see Greener v.
Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 1028, 1036.) For a court to
have personal jurisdiction over a defendant, two elements are required: (1)
there must be some basis for exercising personal jurisdiction over the
defendant, i.e., defendant’s consent, physical presence, domicile, or minimum
contacts; and (2) service of summons must be proper. (Ziller Elecs. Lab.
GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1229.) 
A motion to quash service of
summons can be used to challenge one or both elements of personal jurisdiction.
(See ibid.) When the defendant makes a motion to quash, the burden is on
the plaintiff to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence facts justifying the
exercise of jurisdiction over the defendant. (See id. at pp. 1232-1233
[If a defendant files a motion to quash service of summons, the plaintiff has
the burden to establish both elements of personal jurisdiction]; see also ViaView,
Inc. v. Ratzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 209-210.) Thus, a plaintiff must
file an opposition to defeat a motion to quash. (See Floveyor Internat.,
Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 794 [defendant does not
have to act on motion to quash until plaintiff makes prima facie showing of
jurisdiction].) Further, such a motion must establish personal jurisdiction on
any grounds challenged by the defendants; if the defendant alleges that there
is no basis for personal jurisdiction and that service was improper, the plaintiff
must establish both a basis for personal jurisdiction and proper service. (See Ziller,
supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at p. 1229; Summers v. McClanahan (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413 [plaintiff required to prove jurisdictional facts
supporting personal jurisdiction over each defendant when defendant challenged
jurisdiction on improper service].) The mere allegations of facts or
allegations in an unverified complaint are insufficient to establish
jurisdiction for these purposes. (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I &
II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110 (In re Auto).) 
If a motion to quash is granted
because there was no basis for personal jurisdiction, the Court can dismiss the
complaint without prejudice, either as a whole or as to the moving defendant if
there are any remaining defendants in the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 581,
subd. (h).) Although the dismissal without prejudice is not res judicata on the
merits of the action, it is res judicata on the court’s jurisdictional ruling.
(See MIB, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 228, 234-235.)
I.
A California court can exercise
personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant who has “minimum contacts”
with the state. (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268;
Virtualmagic Asia, Inc. v. Fil-Cartoons, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 228,
238.) A defendant has minimum contacts if the quality and nature of its
activity in the forum state (referred to as “contacts”) is such that it is
reasonable and fair to require the defendant to conduct a defense in that state.
(Pavlovich, supra, at p. 268; Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless
Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 221.) The focus of the
minimum contacts analysis is the defendant’s contacts with the forum. (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court (2017) 137 S. Ct. 1773, 1779.) Depending on
the extent of a defendant’s contacts with California, it may be subject to
either general or specific jurisdiction. (Elkman v. National States Ins.
(2009) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445-446; see Pavlovich, supra, at p. 268-269;
see also Bristol-Myers, supra, at pp. 1779-1780 [noting that
general and specific jurisdiction are the two types of personal jurisdiction
the United States Supreme Court has recognized since its decision in International
Shoe Co. v. State of Wash., Office of Unemployment Compensation & Placement
(1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316].)
A.
General Jurisdiction
A court can exercise general
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant when the defendant’s in-state
contacts are so continuous and systematic that the defendant is essentially
“at-home” in the forum. (BNSF Ry. V. Tyrell (2017) 137 S. Ct. 1549,
1558; Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 138-139; Williams v.
Yamaha Motor Co. (9th Cir. 2017) 851 F.3d 1015, 1020.) The contacts
considered for the purposes of general jurisdiction are those that existed from
the time the alleged conduct occurred to the time of the summons. (Strasner,
supra, 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 222.) When the nonresident’s contacts render
it essentially at home in the forum state, the court can exercise jurisdiction
over the defendant even if the cause of action is unrelated to the defendant’s
in-state activities. (See Bristol-Myers, supra, 137 S. Ct. at p.
1780; Vons Cos. V. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) 
Generally, a natural person is “at
home” where she is domiciled, while a corporation is “at home” where it is
incorporated and where it has its principal place of business. (Bauman, supra,
571 U.S. at p. 137; see BNSF Ry., supra, 137 S. Ct. at p. 1558.)
In exceptional cases, a corporate defendant’s contacts with a forum may be so
substantial as to render it “at home” even when the forum is not where it is
incorporated or where it has its principal place of business. (BNSF Ry.,
supra, at p. 1558; Bauman, supra, at p. 139, fn. 19.) To
determine whether a foreign corporation is essentially “at home” in California
despite being incorporated and having its principal place of business outside
of the State, California courts look to a variety of factors, including the
“maintenance of offices, the presence of employees, use of bank accounts and
marketing or selling products in the forum state, to analyze whether a
corporation’s contacts render it effectively at home in that state.” (Brue
v. Shabaab (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 578, 590-591.) However, the U.S. Supreme
Court has clarified that the focus of this inquiry is the comparison between
the defendant’s contacts with the forum state and the defendant’s activities
worldwide and whether such contacts render it essentially “at home” in the
forum state. (See Bauman, supra, at pp. 138-139, 139, fn. 20; Williams,
supra, 851 F.3d at pp. 1021-1022; see e.g., Bristol-Myers, supra,
at pp. 796-797 [California Supreme Court finding that although the defendant
had employees, sizable sales, and a registered agent in California, the
defendant was not “at home” in California given the imbalance between its
in-state business activities and its nationwide operations in their entirety].)
B.
Specific Jurisdiction
A court can exercise specific
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant if (1) the defendant has purposefully
availed itself of the forum’s benefits and protections and (2) the cause of
action relates to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum, and
(3) the exercise of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and
substantial justice. (Williams, supra, 851 F.3d at p. 1023; Pavlovich,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 269.)
The contacts for specific
jurisdiction are those that existed when the plaintiff’s cause of action arose.
(Strasner, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 226.)
1.
Purposeful Availment
To establish minimum contacts for
specific jurisdiction, the plaintiff must show that the defendant has
purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting activities in
California to involve its benefits and protections. (See Axiom Foods, Inc.
v. Acerchem Int’l (9th Cir. 2017) 874 F.3d 1064, 1068; Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 783, 799-800, rev’d on other
grounds, Bristol-Myers, supra, 137 S. Ct. 1773 [reversing and
remanding the specific—not general—jurisdiction analysis by the California
Supreme Court].) In this analysis, (1) only the defendant’s contacts with
California are considered, not the defendant’s contacts with persons who reside
there, (2) the defendant’s contacts must have been purposeful rather than random,
fortuitous, or attenuated, and (3) the defendant must have sought some benefit
by availing itself of the jurisdiction. (See Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571
U.S. 277, 285-286; Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462,
474-475; Vons Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th at pp. 446, 458.)
2.
Relatedness
To establish minimum contacts for
specific jurisdiction, the plaintiff must show that its claim relates to or
arises from the defendant’s contacts with the forum. (Bristol-Myers, supra,
137 S. Ct. at p. 1780.) This is referred to as the “relatedness” requirement. (Snowney
v. Harrah’s Entm’t, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1067.) This requirement is
satisfied if there is a substantial nexus or connection between the defendant’s
California contacts and the plaintiff’s claim. (Id. at p. 1068.)
3.
Fair Play and Substantial
Justice
If the plaintiff establishes that
the defendant’s contacts are sufficient to invoke specific jurisdiction, the
burden shifts to the defendant to establish that exercising jurisdiction would
be unreasonable, i.e., that it would offend traditional notions of fair play
and substantial justice. (See Vons Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p.
449.) Generally, exercising personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant
is presumptive reasonable if the defendant has purposefully availed itself of
the forum state. (Fighter’s Mkt., Inc. v. Champion Courage, LLC (S.D.
Cal. 2016) 207 F.Supp.3d 1145, 1156.) The presumption of reasonableness can be
overcome, however, by a compelling argument that the presence of some other
consideration would render jurisdiction unreasonable. (Burger King, supra,
471 U.S. at p. 477.) To determine whether the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable, the court must balance seven factors, none of which is
dispositive by itself. (Core-Vent Corp. v. Nobel Indus. AB (9th Cir.
1993) 11 F.3d 1482, 1487-1488.) The factors the court must balance are: 
(1) The burden to the defendant in
defending the action in the forum, (Vons Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th
at p. 448; Bristol-Myers, supra, 137 S. Ct. at p. 1780
[discussing this factor as the primary concern of the fair play and substantial
justice analysis]); 
(2) The extent of the defendant’s
interjection into the forum state’s affairs, (Core-Vent, supra,
11 F.3d at p. 1487; see Cornelison v. Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d 143, 151
[focus on defendant’s local activities]); 
(3) The forum state’s interest in
adjudicating the dispute, (Bristol-Myers, supra, 137 S. Ct. at p.
1780; Vons Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 448); 
(4) The most efficient judicial
resolution of the controversy, (Core-Vent, supra, 11 F.3d at p.
1487; Bristol-Myers, supra, 1 Cal.5th at pp. 812-813; see Vons
Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 448 [judicial economy]); 
(5) The extent of conflict with the
sovereignty of the defendant’s state or nation, (Core-Vent, supra,
11 F.3d at p. 1487; Bristol-Myers, supra, 1 Cal.5th at pp. 812-813
[states’ shared interest in furthering substantive social policies]; Vons
Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 448 [same]); 
(6) The importance of the forum to
the plaintiff’s interest in convenient and effective relief, (Vons Cos.,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 448; Core-Vent, supra, 11 F.3d at p. 1487-1488
[noting factor is of little weight due to plaintiff’s preference for bringing
action where they live]); and 
(7) The existence of an alternative
forum, (Core-Vent, supra, 11 F.3d at p. 1488; see Cornelison,
supra, 16 Cal.3d at p. 151 [ease of access of alternative forum]).
 
Evidentiary
Objections [Identical, All Defendants]
I.
Jeff Settembrino and Roberto
Canto’s Motion, Reply Objections
Objection Nos. 1-19, 21-22:
OVERRULED [relevance; personal knowledge].
Objection No. 20: SUSTAINED [legal
conclusion].
II.
Pine Tree Equity Management LP’s
Motion, Reply Objections
Objection Nos. 1-19, 21-22:
OVERRULED [relevance; personal knowledge].
Objection No. 20: SUSTAINED [legal
conclusion].
II.
PT Innercept, Inc.’s Motion,
Reply Objections
Objection Nos. 1-19, 21-22:
OVERRULED [relevance; personal knowledge].
Objection No. 20: SUSTAINED [legal
conclusion].
 
Motion to Quash Summons [PT Innercept]

Order Quashing Summons [PT
Innercept]: DENIED.
I. Pleadings
Defendant PT Innercept is sued as a
corporation authorized to do business and doing business in California, which,
along with the other Entity Defendants, is owned, operated, controlled,
supervised, and/or managed by Defendants Settembrino, Canto, and Wilcop. (FAC, ¶¶
12, 21.)
The Defendants are all alleged as
agents of one another (FAC, ¶ 2), and the Individual Defendants are alleged to
have acted together to use the Entity Defendants to accomplish the improper
purpose of protecting themselves from the liability alleged in the FAC and
allegedly evidenced by Plaintiff’s attachments to the opposition. (See, e.g., Opp’n,
Auchterlonie Decl., ¶¶ 1-12, 14-15.)
The FAC alleges only three causes
of action against PT Innercept: (1)
Violation of Health and Safety Code § 1278.5; (4) Tortious Interference with
Economic Advantage; and (5) Tortious Interference with Contractual Relations. (FAC,
¶¶ 28-38 [first cause of action (COA)], 39-48 [second COA; no PT Innercept],
49-56 [third COA; no PT Innercept], 54-62 [fourth COA; reuses ¶¶ 54-55], 63-71
[fifth COA].)
PT Innercept was served with the
summons, FAC, and other documents on July 26, 2023 via service on its
registered agent in Wilmington, Delaware. (8/2/23 Proof of Service.)
II. Moving Papers
On October 13, 2023, PT Innercept
filed its motion to quash service, asserting that it is a Delaware corporation
that owns approximately 98% of Defendant Altior, the holding company for five
operating businesses that provide mental health and therapeutic treatment for
patients in Maine (Ironwood), New Hampshire (Shortridge and Ridge RTC), Idaho
(Innercept), California, and Texas (Paradigm Treatment Centers). PT Innercept
then argues that PT Innercept (i) is a “blocker” entity formed solely for tax
purposes, (ii) does not have any operations in California, (iii) does not
manage, control, or approve the day-today operations of Altior, and (iv) does
not share offices with Altior. (Mot., pp. 2-4.)
PT Innercept argues that no general
jurisdiction exists where (i) PT Innercept is incorporated in Delaware and does
not have its principal place of business in California, (ii) conclusory
allegations of jurisdiction do not establish generally jurisdiction, and (iii)
PT Innercept is not registered or licensed to do business in California, does
not own or lease property in California, maintains no office in California, has
no employees in California, and has no facilities, physical operations or
physical books or records in California. (Mot., pp. 5-6.)
PT Innercept also argues that no
specific jurisdiction exists where (i) Plaintiff has not established by a
preponderance of the evidence that PT Innercept has purposefully availed itself
of this forum, (ii) PT Innercept has neither purposefully availed itself of the
benefits and protections of California, nor purposefully directed any
activities expressly aimed at the, and (iii) PT Innercept has no other
connection to California related to Plaintiff’s claims in this litigation.
(Mot., pp. 6-7.)
PT Innercept adds that its
ownership interest in Altior does not create grounds for jurisdiction where (i)
the purposes and acts of one party cannot be imputed to a third party to
establish jurisdiction over that third party, (ii) mere ownership in a
subsidiary, without more, does not create ground for jurisdiction, (iii) the
agency and alter ego theories cannot establish jurisdiction, and (iv) there are
no evidentiary grounds to show that PT Innercept exerts a degree of control
exerted over Altior as to reasonably deem Altior an agent of PT Innercept under
traditional agency principles or that the purpose of the alter ego doctrine is
satisfied through its application to PT Innercept. (Mot., pp. 7-10.)
PT Innercept last argues that
jurisdiction does not comport with traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice because it is not at home in California and is not using
Altior as its alter ego. PT Innercept adds that given that PT Innercept has no
presence in California, the burden on PT Innercept to litigate in California
would be oppressive and unreasonable, forcing PT Innercept to incur substantial
time and expense in sending its representatives to California for depositions,
hearings, mandatory settlement conferences or trial. (Mot., p. 10.)
III. Opposition
In opposition, Plaintiff
Auchterlonie argues that the Individual Defendants had complete control over
the the Entity Defendants and used the entities to shield the Individual
Defendants from wrongdoing, with PT Innercept receiving the profits from Altior
and Paradigm Treatment. (Opp’n, pp. 1-5.)
Plaintiff argues that general
jurisdiction exists here based on agency principles and the imputation of
Defendants Settembrino and Canto’s contacts with California to PT Innercept and
based on application of the alter ego doctrine to the facts of this case, with
there being a unity of interest between Altior, Paradigm Treatment, and PT
Innercept: use of the entities as mere shells with inadequate capitalization,
comingling of funds, and a large overlap in persons directing the leadership
roles in the Entity Defendants. (Opp’n, pp. 6-7, citing Opp’n, Auchterlonie
Decl., ¶¶ 3-13 & Mot., Water Decl., ¶ 4 & Opp’n, Nickerson Decl., ¶ 3,
Ex. 3.)
Plaintiff argues that specific
jurisdiction also exists over PT Innercept here based on (i) PT Innercept owning
and operating businesses and treatment centers in California for California
residents and patients, (ii) PT Innercept deriving profit from Altior and
Paradigm Treatment, (iii) the effects of PT Innercept withholding patient
deposits and not reimbursing patients, thus subsidizing its need for loans and
undercutting the need for investment sourcing, and (iv) the negative impact of
PT Innercept’s agents’ conduct on California residents. (Opp’n, pp. 7-9, citing
Opp’n, Auchterlonie Decl., ¶¶ 3-7, 9-13 & Mot., Water Decl., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff argues that PT Innercept’s
contacts relate to this action insofar as this Defendant and its agents in
California “hired Plaintiff as CEO for California based companies to run
treatment centers for California residents, made decisions negatively affecting
those patients which Plaintiff reported, refused to participate in and
attempted to correct, and subsequently engaged in retaliatory acts to terminate
Plaintiff and interfere with his employment, contractual and economic
relationships that he had in California.” (Opp’n, pp. 9-10, citing Opp’n,
Auchterlonie Decl., ¶¶ 3-7, 9-13.)
Plaintiff concludes that “[i]t is
entirely reasonable for Defendant to be subject to this suit in California
given its substantial forum-related activities and benefits it has received.”
(Opp’n, p. 10.)
In the alternative, Plaintiff
requests a continuance to conduct additional discovery as to grounds for
jurisdiction over PT Innercept. (Opp’n, pp. 10-11.)
IV. Reply
In reply, PT Innercept highlights
the burden Plaintiff carries as to jurisdiction and reiterates arguments
relating the lack of contacts between PT Innercept and California and the lack
of merit to alter ego liability based on ownership in a subsidiary alone as to
support general jurisdiction. PT Innercept also argues that Plaintiff does not
explain how PT Innercept’s agent’s conduct can be imputed to PT Innercept when
that conduct was pursued by the same agents in favor of Altior, not PT
Innercept. PT Innercept adds that its blocker status is not nefarious and that
Plaintiff fails to present evidence showing that PT Innercept “takes the assets
of Altior and Paradigm.” PT Innercept then argues that no specific jurisdiction
applies because the ‘taking of assets’ and other conduct alleged against the
Individual Defendants were actions performed by the Individual Defendants in
favor of Altior or Paradigm Treatment, not PT Innercept, undercutting the
grounds to impute contacts to PT Innercept. Last, PT Innercept argues that
jurisdiction here would be unreasonable for failing to comport with fair play
and substantial justice and that discovery should not be permitted as to
jurisdiction grounds where Plaintiff should have, prior to PT Innercept’s
motion, or even prior to his hearing, attempted to obtain the discovery
referenced in the opposition, which is not sufficiently described as to
demonstrate that the sought-after discovery is likely to lead to the production
of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction. (Reply, pp. 1-8.)
V. Outcome
The Court determines that insufficient
grounds exist for jurisdiction on this record.
California courts have held that an
entity’s contacts with California can be attributed to its parent-company when
evidence establishes that the parent and subsidiary are alter egos or have an
agency relationship with representative services performed by the subsidiary,
or pervasive control exercised by the parent. (DVI, Inc. Superior Court
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1093-94; F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v. Superior
Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796; Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior
Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538-541.) 
To invoke the alter-ego doctrine,
the plaintiff must establish (1) there is such a unity of interest and
ownership between the parent and subsidiary that they do not have separate
personalities and (2) it would be inequitable to treat the conduct as attributable
to only one of the entities. (Strasner, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at
p. 223.) The factors considered in such a determination are: 
(1) Comingling of funds and assets
(Sonora Diamond, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 538); 
(2) The representation of one
entity that it is liable for the debts of the other (ibid.); 
(3) Identical equitable ownership
of the two entities (ibid.); 
(4) The use of the same offices and
employees (ibid.); 
(5) Use of one entity as a mere
shell or conduit for the affairs of the other (ibid.); and 
(6) Inadequate capitalization (ibid.).

To impute contacts under a theory
of agency, a plaintiff must demonstrate that the parent exercised pervasive and
continuous control over the subsidiary’s day-to-day operations that went beyond
the normal parent-subsidiary relationship. (Strasner, supra, 5
Cal.App.5th at p. 223; see also Aquila, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 578 [nature of control must reflect parent’s purposeful
disregard of subsidiary’s independent corporate existence].) Normal
characteristics of ownership (e.g., some degree of direction or oversight,
interlocking directors and officers, a close financial connection, consolidated
reporting, and shared professional services), evidence of co-branding, or the
broad use of terms linking the parent and subsidiary in SEC filings or other
materials are insufficient to establish an agency relationship. (Strasner,
supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 225.) But when the parent exercises such a
degree of control over its subsidiary that the subsidiary is only a means
through which the parent acts, or is merely an incorporated department of the
parent, the subsidiary will be regarded as the parent’s agent. (Sonora
Diamond, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 541; see, e.g., Harley-Davidson,
Inc. v. Franchise Tax Bd. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 193, 215 (Harley-Davidson)
[court found agency relationship where subsidiaries were formed and acted sole
for a parent’s direct benefit, had no employees of their own but instead acted
entirely through parent’s employees, and were governed by parent’s officers and
directors].)
To support alter ego, Plaintiff
argues (1) comingling of funds and assets between PT Innercept and
Altior/Paradigm Treatment, (2) identical equitable ownership by the Individual
Defendants, (3) the use of PT Innercept, Altior, and Paradigm Treatment as mere
shells to shield the Individual Defendants from liability, and (4) inadequate
capitalization of PT Innercept. (Cf. FAC, ¶ 21 [alleging inadequate
capitalization, treatment of corporate assets as one’s own, comingling of funds
and other assets, failure to maintain minutes or records, disregard of legal
formalities, and use of the Entity Defendants as mere shells].)
To support alter ego liability,
Plaintiff provides his own declaration alleging that the Individual Defendants
have used the Entity Defendants to engage in conduct that is detrimental to
California residents/patients, excerpts of the deposition of Paradigm
Treatment’s CEO/Altior’s Chief Clinical Officer (CCO) showing that PT Innercept
owns Altior and Paradigm Treatment, and copies of interrogatory responses by
Altior giving member, owner, and other information regarding some of the Entity
Defendants but evasively refusing to give the same information as to others,
e.g., as to PT Innercept’s membership. (Opp’n, Auchterlonie Decl., ¶¶ 1-12,
14-15; Opp’n, Nickerson Decl., Ex. 3, pp. 17-18; Opp’n, Nickerson Decl., Ex. 4,
pp. 1-14 [response to SROGs, Set One, showing overlap or evasive responses
obfuscating alter ego determination].)
The Court finds this evidence is insufficient
to show a claim of alter ego by a preponderance of the evidence on this record.
Mere ownership by a parent of a subsidiary is insufficient. (Sonora Diamond,
83 Cal.App.4th at pp. 540-541.) The fact that several employees may be
officers of different companies does not prove in what capacity they were
acting. And there is a lack of evidence relating to whether PT Innercept is
properly capitalized or maintains corporate formalities, or whether PT
Innercept is in fact receiving the lion’s share of profits derived by Altior
and Paradigm Treatment. 
Moreover, the Court finds that the
agency argument is unavailing based on this record.
To support agency, Plaintiff argues
(1) imputation of agent’s conduct to PT Innercept and (2) continuous and
systematic contacts by the agents in California through Altior and Paradigm
Treatment. (Cf. FAC, ¶ 2; see Skopp v. Weaver (1976) 16 Cal.3d 432, 439
[An allegation of agency is itself an ultimate fact that need not be further
explained or supported by other factual allegations]; accord Kiseskey v.
Carpenters’ Trust for So. California (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222, 230.)
An agent may be solely liable to a
third party for tortious conduct. (James v. Marinship Corp. (1944) 25
Cal.2d 721, 742-43 [“The true rule is, of course, that the agent is liable for
his own act, regardless of whether the principal is liable or amenable to
judicial action”].)
While Plaintiff was hired as CEO
for Altior (formerly Innercept Holdings) and Paradigm Treatment (Opp’n,
Auchterlonie Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. 1-2), and the FAC alleges a conspiracy between
the Individual Defendants to use the Entity Defendants to shield the Individual
Defendants from wrongdoing in relation to their inequitable conduct committed
through the Entity Defendants. (See Opp’n, pp. 3-5.)
Paul Auchterlonie’s declaration asserts
that the Entity Defendants are tied together because the Individual Defendants purportedly
use Altior and Paradigm Treatment to escape liability. Altior’s evasive
responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, show an overlap
between some of the Entity Defendants and control by the Individual Defendants
(Responses to Nos. 2, 10, 11 [Altior, Innercept, Paradigm Services, and
Paradigm Treatment share Settembrino and/or Canto]), and evince a reluctance by
Altior to divulge the ownership, membership, or other interests or positions
that the Individual Defendants hold in the Entity Defendants, e.g., in PT
Innercept (Response to No. 8). 
However, as noted above, mere ownership
of a subsidiary, and the fact that officers and employees may work for
different affiliated companies, is not sufficient to show the level of control
by PT Innercept over the California entities or other activity that would be
required to find either personal or general jurisdiction here.
However, Plaintiff has requested to
conduct discovery into jurisdiction. (Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985)
169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710.) While Defendant opposes this request, because of the
complexity of the interrelated corporate structures at issue, the Court finds
this request reasonable.
The Court also notes that based on
the evidence before the Court, Plaintiff appears to be arguing that a number of
Defendants and former Defendants—all alleged as one another’s agents (FAC, ¶
2)—interfered with one another’s contract with Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 54-71, Fourth
and Fifth Causes of Action.) Such a claim does not appear viable under
established authority. (Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. v. Actalion Ltd. (2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 945, 961 (Asahi) [“‘California recognizes a cause of
action against noncontracting parties who interfere with the performance of a
contract. “It has long been held that a stranger to a contract may be liable in
tort for intentionally interfering with the performance of the contract.”
[Citation.] [¶] … [¶] … The tort duty not to interfere with the contract falls
only on strangers—interlopers who have no legitimate interest in the scope or
course of the contract’s performance.’ (Applied Equipment [Corp. v. Litton
Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503,] 513-514, …, final italics added
& fn. omitted” (Applied Equipment)].) 
However, because the first cause of
action states a claim upon which relief may be granted, this last argument alone
would not be dispositive, as jurisdiction would be proper if even a single
claim could be stated against that defendant.
PT Innercept’s motion is thus CONTINUED.
 
Motion
to Quash Summons [Settembrino; Canto]
Order Quashing Summons
[Settembrino, Canto]: GRANTED.
The Defendants are all alleged as
agents of one another (FAC, ¶ 2), and the Individual Defendants are alleged to
have, in essence, acted in a conspiracy to use the Entity Defendants to
accomplish the improper purpose of protecting themselves from the liability
alleged in the FAC and allegedly evidenced by Plaintiff’s attachments to the
opposition. (See, e.g., Opp’n, Auchterlonie Decl., ¶¶ 1-12, 14-15.)
The FAC only alleges two causes of
action against Defendants Settembrino and Canto: (4) Tortious Interference with Economic Advantage; and (5) Tortious
Interference with Contractual Relations. (FAC, ¶¶ 39-48 [second COA; no Settembrino,
Canto], 49-56 [third COA; no Settembrino, Canto], 54-62 [fourth COA; reuses ¶¶
54-55], 63-71 [fifth COA].)
Defendants Settembrino and Canto
were served with the summons, FAC, and other documents on September 29, 2023
via substituted service on Jane Doe, “Office Administrator/Person in Charge,” in
Miami, Florida. (See 10/3/23 Proof of Service.)
The arguments relating to general
and specific jurisdiction in relation to these Individual Defendants are highly
similar to those raised in relation to PT Innercept.
The primary difference is that this
motion argues that these Individual Defendants were not properly served because
they reside in Florida and that Florida or California law was not followed when
these Defendants were served by substituted service at a business location.
(Mot., pp. 4-5.)
After review, the Court finds in
favor of Defendants Settembrino and Canto.
As discussed above in relation to PT
Innercept, the interference claims are fatally defective where the FAC is
alleging that Settembrino and Cantu interfered with an employment relationship
to which, by way of the above discussion, Settembrino and Cantu are not
interlopers, and thus cannot have interfered with the employment relationship
under that specific theory of liability—as opposed to say, breach of some
implied covenant in an employment contract. (See Asahi, supra,
222 Cal.App.4th at p. 961, quoting Applied Equipment, supra, 7
Cal.4th at pp. 513-514 [interference standard re: interlopers, discussed supra].)
If only defective claims are stated
against these Defendants, there can be no jurisdiction over these Defendants
pursuant to such claims.
Defendants Settembrino and Canto’s
motion is thus GRANTED.
 
Motion
to Quash Summons [Doe 2 Pine Tree]
Order Quashing Summons [Pine
Tree]: CONTINUED.
Defendant Pine Tree is sued as Doe
2.
The Defendants are all alleged as
agents of one another (FAC, ¶ 2), and the Individual Defendants are alleged to
have, in essence, acted in a conspiracy to use the Entity Defendants to
accomplish the improper purpose of protecting themselves from the liability
alleged in the FAC and allegedly evidenced by Plaintiff’s attachments to the
opposition. (See, e.g., Opp’n, Auchterlonie Decl., ¶¶ 1-12, 14-15.)
The FAC alleges all five causes of
action against Pine Tree by virtue of Pine Tree being Doe 2. (FAC, ¶¶ 28-71.)
Defendant Pine Tree Equity was
served with the summons, FAC, and other documents on September 21, 2023 via substituted
service on Jane Doe, Front Desk, in Miami, Florida. (9/25/23 Proof of Service.)
After review, the Court finds in
favor of Pine Tree.
At this moment, the Court is not
satisfied that Plaintiff has shown that other Defendants’ contacts with
California should be imputed to Pine Tree through alter ego liability or agency
principles.
For alter ego or agency purposes, Plaintiff’s
evidence is not clear as to the Individual Defendants’ relationship with Pine
Tree or Pine Tree’s responsibility through its relationship with the Individual
Defendants’ efforts to escape liability for alleged inequitable conduct in
relation to medical treatment being given to California residents and patients
through various of the Entity Defendants.
Plaintiff has requested to conduct
discovery into jurisdiction. (Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985) 169
Cal.App.3d 703, 710.) While Defendant opposes this request, because of the
complexity of the interrelated corporate structures at issue, the Court finds
this request reasonable.
Pine Tree’s motion is thus CONTINUED
to allow for jurisdictional discovery. 
Conclusion
I.
Specially Appearing Defendant PT
Innercept, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction
[CRS# 6273] is CONTINUED.
II.
Specially Appearing Defendants Jeff
Settembrino and Roberto Canto’s Motion to Quash Service of Process for
Ineffective Service and Lack of Personal Jurisdiction [CRS# 1299] is GRANTED.
Service of the summons on these
Defendants is QUASHED.
III.
Specially Appearing Defendant Doe 2
Pine Tree Equity Management LP’s Motion to Quash Service of Process for Lack of
Personal Jurisdiction [CRS# 9961] is CONTINUED. 
The Court invites a discussion as
to the length of time and a mutually agreeable further hearing date as to the
two continued motions at oral argument.
 