 Case Number:  23STCV30066    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



CAREISMATIC BRANDS, LLC F/K/A STRATEGIC PARTNERS, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MICHELMAN & ROBINSON, LLP; SANFORD L. MICHELMAN; and DOES 1-
  100,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV30066
 Hearing Date:   2/28/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants
  Michelman & Robinson, LLP, and Sanford Michelman’s Motion to Compel
  Arbitration.



 
Background
Plaintiff Careismatic Brands, LLC, formerly known as Strategic Partners,
Inc. (Careismastic Brands) sues Defendants Michelman & Robinson (M&R),
Sanford L. Michelman (Michelman), and Does 1-100 pursuant to a December 8, 2023
Complaint alleging claims of (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty against All
Defendants, (2) Breach of Written Contract [Engagement Agreement] against
M&R, and (3) Declaratory Relief against All Defendants.
The claims arise from allegations
that Plaintiff engaged Defendants to represent Plaintiff in Strategic Partners,
Inc. v. FIGS, Inc., et al., United States District Court, Central District of
California, case no. 2:19-cv-02286-JWH-KSx (the ‘FIGS case’) and that in the
course of the representation, Defendants breached fiduciary and contractual
obligations owed to Careismatic Brands by: (1) misrepresenting the amount of
fees Defendants would incur on an hourly basis in order to induce Plaintiff to
enter the two flat fee arrangements; (2) concealing the actual daily “burn
rate” of its fees until after the client agreed to the flat fee arrangements;
(3) negotiating the flat fee agreements with their existing client knowing that
Defendants would be receiving a substantial financial benefit, to the detriment
of their client, who was operating under false assumptions regarding material
facts; (4) charging Plaintiff fees pursuant to the flat fee agreements that
Defendants knew to greatly exceed the fees it would have charged under the
initial hourly arrangement; (5) knowingly providing Plaintiff unreliable and
inaccurate litigation budgets to induce Plaintiff to continue the FIGS case
litigation; (6) overbilling Plaintiff by overstaffing the FIGS case, having
multiple billers perform the same tasks, and performing unnecessary and/or
redundant work; and (7) charging Plaintiff an unconscionable fee.
On December 28, 2023, M&R and
Michelman filed a motion to compel arbitration of the claims alleged in the
Complaint.
On January 8, 2024, Careismatic
Brands filed a limited opposition, assenting to arbitration as against M&R
but arguing that Defendant Michelman has no standing to invoke any arbitration
agreement in the Engagement Agreements between Careismatic Brands and M&R.
No reply appears in the record as
of the date of this ruling.
Defendants M&R and Michelman’s
motion is now before the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Legal
Standard 
A
party to an arbitration agreement may seek a court order compelling the parties
to arbitrate a dispute covered by the agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
Absent a viable defense to enforcement, the court must grant the motion if it
determines there is an agreement to arbitrate that has not been rescinded. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also Cinel v. Barna (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 1383, 1389 [“Under section 1281.2, the court shall order a matter
to arbitration if it determines that there is an agreement to arbitrate and (1)
the agreement has not been waived or (2) the agreement has not been revoked”].)
Even where the FAA governs the interpretation of arbitration clauses,
California law governs whether an arbitration agreement has been formed in the
first instance. (Baker v. Osborne Development Corp. (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 884, 893.) 
The
party seeking arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence[.]” (Ruiz v. Moss
Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) “Once that burden
is satisfied, the party opposing arbitration must prove by a preponderance of
the evidence any defense to the petition.” (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant
Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257.) “The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra,
at p. 842.) “A party required to prove something by a preponderance of the
evidence ‘need prove only that it is more likely to be true than not true.’
[Citation.] Preponderance of the evidence means ‘“that the evidence on one side
outweighs, preponderates over, is more than, the evidence on the other side,
not necessarily in number of witnesses or quantity, but in its effect on those
to whom it is addressed.”’ [Citations.] In other words, the term refers to
‘evidence that has more convincing force than that opposed to it.’
[Citations.]” (People ex rel. Brown v. Tri-Union Seafoods, LLC (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1549, 1567.)
“California
has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that
arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an
arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Id. [internal quotations omitted].) Generally, then,
on a petition to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless
it finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to
compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the
agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration
unnecessary or create conflicting rulings on common issues. (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2; see Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) Nonetheless, California’s policy in favor of
arbitration does not override ordinary principles of contract interpretation
holding that the contractual terms themselves must be carefully examined before
the parties to the contract can be ordered to arbitration. (Rice v. Downs
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 185.) The strong public policy in favor of arbitration
does not extend to those who are not parties to an arbitration agreement. (Benasra
v. Marciano (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 987, 990.)
I.
Order
Compelling Arbitration of Claims Against M&R: GRANTED; ACTION STAYED.
Based
on Plaintiff’s assent to submitting its claims against M&R to arbitration
(Opp, p. 1), Defendants’ motion is GRANTED as to Defendant M&R.
II.
Order
Compelling Arbitration of Claims Against Michelman: GRANTED; ACTION
STAYED.
The
Court’s remaining discussion focuses on whether arbitration of Careismatic
Brands’ claims against Defendant Michelman is proper under the two Engagement
Agreements between Careismatic Brands and M&R. (Mot.,
Camhi Decl., § 12 at Exs. 6-7 [arbitration clause in Engagement Agreements].)
A.
Procedural
Requirements
“A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)
Here,
the motion attaches the two Engagement Agreements upon which relief is sought. (Mot., Camhi Decl., Exs. 6-7.)
B.
Whether
Arbitration Agreement Exists
“Parties
are not required to arbitrate their disagreements unless they have agreed to do
so. [Citation.] A contract to arbitrate will not be inferred absent a ‘clear
agreement.’ [Citation.] When determining whether a valid contract to arbitrate
exists, we apply ordinary state law principles that govern contract formation.
[Citation] In California, a ‘clear agreement’ to arbitrate may be either
express or implied in fact. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Nordstrom, Inc. (9th
Cir. 2014) 755 F.3d 1089, 1092-93 [applying California law].) The court is only
required to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., supra,
88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.)
The two
arbitration clauses at issue appear in two Engagement Agreements between Careismatic
Brands and M&R. As detailed by M&R and Michelman, (1) “[o]n October 7,
2022, M&R and Plaintiff executed the October 1, 2022 Engagement Agreement
pertaining to M&R’s trial preparation services in the FIGS litigation for
the period from October 1, 2022 through October 16, 2022,” and (2) “[o]n October
17, 2023, CBI executed the October 13, 2023 engagement agreement (‘October 13
Engagement Agreement’) related to M&R actually trying the FIGS matter on
CBI’s behalf whereby CBI agreed to pay to M&R the amount of $200,000.00 per
day of trial.” Those agreements are attached as Exhibits 6 and 7 to the Camhi
declaration attached to the moving papers. (Mot., p. 4, citing Mot., Camhi
Decl., § 12 at Exs. 6-7 [arbitration clause in Engagement Agreements].)
After review, the
Court determines that Defendant Michelman may invoke the arbitration clause in
the Engagement Agreements based on two theories: equitable estoppel and agency
liability.
Under
the doctrine of equitable estoppel, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an
arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when
the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and
intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v.
Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237.) The doctrine applies in
either of two circumstances: (1) when the signatory must rely on the terms of
the written agreement containing the arbitration clause in asserting its claims
against the nonsignatory; or (2) when the signatory alleges “substantially
interdependent and concerted misconduct” by the nonsignatory against a
signatory and the alleged misconduct is “founded in or intimately connected
with the obligations of the underlying agreement.” (Goldman v. KPMG, LLP
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 218-219.) At bottom, “the linchpin for equitable
estoppel is equity—fairness.” (Id. at p. 220.) A nonsignatory seeking to
enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden to establish at least one of
these circumstances applies. (Jones v. Jacobson (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th
1, 16.) 
Here, a review of
the first cause of action shows that the claim alleges a breach of fiduciary
claim against all Defendants based on allegations that “Plaintiff’s attorneys
in the FIGS case, Defendants[,] owed Plaintiff fiduciary duties, including, but
not limited to, an undivided duty of loyalty, a duty of honesty, and a duty to
charge reasonable fees.” (Complaint, ¶ 18.) The Complaint attaches the October
1, 2022 Engagement Agreement—the first of the two Engagement Agreements—to the
Complaint itself and alleges it as an operative agreement that should be found
void between the parties in the declaratory relief claim. (Complaint, Ex. 2;
Complaint, ¶¶ 12-13, 29-39.) Because the breaches of the fiduciary duties
alleged against “All Defendants” involve at least one of the two Engagement
Agreements, it follows that the first—and even the third cause of action—are
stated against Defendant Michelman in such a way as to intertwine liability
with duties arising from that Engagement Agreement between Careismatic Brands
and M&R.
Defendant Michelman also has standing to invoke the
arbitration clause in the Engagement Agreements because “[w]hen a plaintiff
alleges a defendant acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration agreement,
the defendant may enforce the agreement even though the defendant is not a
party thereto. [Citations.]” (Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th
605, 614.) Here, the Complaint alleges all Defendants as agents of one another.
(Complaint, ¶ 5; Mot., pp. 9-10 [making this argument].)
The
case of Benasra v. Marciano (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 987, cited by
Plaintiff, does not require a contrary result. There, a plaintiff sued an
individual and a company for libel. The company moved to compel arbitration on
the ground that the dispute was related to ongoing business disputes between
Guess and the plaintiff’s company, PLB. However, in that case, the plaintiff
had signed an arbitration agreement on behalf of the company only, not in his
individual capacity. In that context, the Court held that Benasra, who had not
signed the agreement on his own behalf, and was not seeking the benefits of the
agreement, could not be compelled into arbitration. (92 Cal.App.4th at pp.
989-990.)
By
contrast, here, and as in Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams (1985) 40 Cal.3d 406,
418, plaintiff has instead sued several parties, alleging that they were
parties to and breached an agreement.  While
Plaintiff here claims not to have made such an allegation in its complaint (see
Opp’n, p. 3:26-27), the plain language of the Complaint shows that it has where
it repeatedly refers to both Defendants, not just the lawfirm: see, e.g., “Plaintiff
engaged Defendants” (Complaint, ¶ 9); “The parties’ initial engagement
agreement . . . provided that Defendants would represent Plaintiff” (Complaint,
¶ 10); “Each defendant was the agent, alter-ego, employee. . . or in some other
capacity derivatively responsible for each of the acts of the other defendants”)
(Complaint, ¶ 5), and “Defendants owed Plaintiff fiduciary duties . . . and
Defendants breached these duties.” (Complaint, ¶¶18-19.)  Thus as in Dryer, and unlike in Benasra,
the plaintiff is asking for the benefit of the agreement, and defendants are
affirmatively accepting the plaintiff’s characterization of their status. (Cf. Benasra,
92 Cal.App.4th at p. 990.)
C.
Scope
of the Arbitration Agreement
“[T]he
decision as to whether a contractual arbitration clause covers a particular
dispute rests substantially on whether the clause in question is ‘broad’ or
‘narrow.’” (Bono v. David (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1067.) “‘A
“broad” clause includes those using language such as “any claim arising from or
related to this agreement”‘ [Citation] or ‘arising in connection with the
[a]greement’ [Citation.]” (Rice v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186
[italics omitted].) “But clauses requiring arbitration of a claim, dispute, or
controversy ‘arising from’ or ‘arising out of’ an agreement, i.e., excluding
language such as ‘relating to this agreement’ or ‘in connection with this
agreement,’ are ‘generally considered to be more limited in scope than would
be, for example, a clause agreeing to arbitrate “‘any controversy … arising out
of or relating to this agreement[.]’” [Citations.]” (Id. at p. 186-87
[italics omitted].) “Several Ninth Circuit cases have held that agreements
requiring arbitration of ‘any dispute,’ ‘controversy,’ or ‘claim’ ‘arising
under’ or ‘arising out of’ the agreement are intended to encompass only
disputes relating to the interpretation and performance of the agreement.” (Id.
at p. 187.)
Here,
the Court finds that the scope of the October 1, 2022
Engagement Agreement contains an arbitration provision that is applicable to
the claims alleged against Defendant Michelman, i.e., breach of fiduciary duty
and declaratory relief regarding that Agreement: “[A]ny and all disputes,
claims or controversies that cannot be resolved informally through discussion
will be resolved by final and binding arbitration before ADR ….” (Mot., Camhi
Decl., at Ex. 6, § 12 [arbitration clause in Engagement Agreement].) This scope
is broad because it subjects to arbitration all claims between the parties
“that cannot be resolved informally through discussion,” conceivably
encompassing all imaginable claims between the parties, not only those arising
from the Engagement Agreements.
However,
for the purposes of this section, it is enough to note that the scope of the
arbitration agreement encompasses the first and third causes of action, as
alleged against Defendant Michelman.
D. 
 Defenses to the Arbitration Agreement
A
“party opposing arbitration must prove by a preponderance of the evidence any
defense to the petition” to compel arbitration in the matter. (Lacayo v.
Cataline Restaurant Group Inc., supra, 38 Cal.App.5th at p. 257.)
Here,
the limited opposition limits its arguments to Defendant Michelman’s standing
to enforce the arbitration clause in the Engagement Agreements. (Opp’n, pp.
3-6.)
The
Court has rejected those arguments and thus, no defense is otherwise properly
raised against enforcement of the arbitration clause in, at the least, the October 1, 2022 Engagement Agreement by Defendant
Michelman.
Defendant Michelman’s motion is therefore GRANTED.
E.
Dismissal
or Stay of Action
“If
a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
Here,
the Court STAYS this action pending the outcome of the arbitration between the
parties or until such earlier time as the Court specifies. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.4; see Opp’n, p. 6 [not opposing stay of entire action pending arbitration
of claims against M&R].) 

Conclusion
Defendants Michelman &
Robinson, LLP, and Sanford Michelman’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
The Court STAYS this action pending
the outcome of the arbitration between the parties or until such earlier time
as the Court specifies. The Court will set an OSC re status of arbitration about
12 months into the future.