  Case Number:  23PSCV00156    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT is GRANTED.  
 
(2)   MOTION FOR ORDER QUASHING SUBPOENA TO
TESTRITE PRODUCTS CORPORATION; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT
CLAREMONT COLLEGES, INC. AND THEIR ATTORNEYS IN THE AMOUNT OF $3,575.00 is DENIED
because Plaintiff
not met his burden to establish a reasonable expectation of privacy in
personnel records as he has made them the subject of litigation.[1] The court would have modified the
subpoena because some requests appear duplicative (e.g., items 1 and 2 seeking
handbook for job duties addressed by item 4; item #1 is duplicative of item #5)
or irrelevant (e.g., item 1 files maintained by loss prevention), but as
Plaintiff has not sought a modification, the court will not do so. There is no
need for an in-camera review as the parties have a stipulated protective order
in place.[2]
 
 
 
 
Background[3]
 
This case is
an alleged discrimination case. Plaintiff RICHARD CHOI alleges the following
against Defendants THE CLAREMONT COLLEGES, INC. (“the Claremont Colleges”,” “Colleges”
or “Defendant”), a California corporation; STAN SKIPWORTH, an individual; and
CINDY CAHILL, an individual (collectively, “Defendants”): Plaintiff began his
employment at Claremont College’s Department of Campus Safety as a Campus
Safety Officer in 2004. Due to his religious Christian beliefs, around 2018,
Plaintiff requested a religious accommodation for his schedule to be arranged
so that he could ensure his attendance of church on Sundays. Defendants did not
grant the request and instead engaged in a concerted effort to make Plaintiff
quit such as (i) unwarranted and disproportionate discipline; (ii) extended
meetings where Plaintiff would be verbally berated and yelled at; (iii)
questioning of Plaintiff’s character and integrity; (iv) and precluding Plaintiff
from being promoted due to his religious beliefs. Plaintiff was also alienated
due to his Korea ethnicity. 
 
On January
18, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On March 8,
2023, Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint (FAC) against Defendants for: 1.     Religious Discrimination (Cal. Govt.
Code § 12940, et seq.) 2.     Racial Discrimination (Govt. Code
§12940, et seq.) 3.     Hostile Work Environment (Govt. Code
§§ 12923 and 12940(j)) 4.     Retaliation (Govt. Code § 12940(h)) 5.     Retaliation (Lab. Code § 1102.5(b)) 6.     Constructive Discharge
 
On May 5,
2023, the Claremont Colleges and Cahill filed their answer. 
 
On May 8,
2023, Skipworth filed his answer.
 
On September
11, 2023, Plaintiff a motion for relief from jury waiver, which the court
granted. (The Claremont Colleges and Cahill filed a notice of non-opposition to
the motion.)
 
On November
20, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed Cahill from the lawsuit. 
 
On December
20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a MOTION FOR ORDER QUASHING SUBPOENA TO TESTRITE
PRODUCTS CORPORATION; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT
CLAREMONT COLLEGES, INC. AND THEIR ATTORNEYS IN THE AMOUNT OF $3,575.00. (On
2/28/24, the court conducted an IDC on the matter and, as the matter was left
unresolved, the court allowed the parties to proceed with a formal hearing.) 
 
On December
21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint
(SAC), which on 1/31/24, the court, despite a filing of a non-opposition by the
Claremont Colleges, the court denied without prejudice for various defects. 
 
On March 6,
2024, the Claremont Colleges filed its Opposition to the instant motion for
leave to file a SAC. 
 
On March 12,
2024, the Claremont Colleges filed its opposition to the motion to quash. That
same day, Plaintiff filed his Reply in support of the motion for leave to amend
to file a SAC. 
 
On March 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed his reply. 
 
I.               
Motion for Leave to File a SAC
 
Legal
Standard
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice and on any
proper terms, allow a party to amend any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a)(1); Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Association (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) The court may also, in its
discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may
be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and
may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by
this code. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a); Branick, supra, 39
Cal.4th at 242.) The court may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if
there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Id.)  
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, a motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) A
separate supporting declaration specifying (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., rule
3.1324(b).)
Discussion[4]
 
Plaintiff
seeks leave to file a SAC to (1) add additional factual
allegations/detail/context to allegations that were previously pled and (2) add
two COAs for (1) Failure to Accommodate Religious Belief or Observance and (2)
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation. 
 
Previously,
the court denied Plaintiff’s initial motion for leave to file a SAC because the
motion failed to comply with CRC[5]
and CCP requirements. More specifically, the court denied the motion because
there was no explanation as to why the request for amendment was not made
earlier (suggesting lack of diligence on part of Plaintiff’s Counsel)
considering the facts, based upon the similarity of the proposed new two COAs,
were already known to Plaintiff before the action was filed. (See
generally 1/31/24 Ruling.) 
 
Now, though the motion is albeit vague as to the exact
information learned,[6]
abiding by principle of liberal leave to amend, the court grants the
motion. 
 
Plaintiff explains that the amendment is not delayed because the facts
giving rise to the amendment were discovered on or about July 18, 2023 and
November 29, 2023 when Plaintiff’s Counsel conducted further client interviews
after the failed 6/22/22 mediation. (Motion p. 7, citing Kim Decl., ¶3.) 
 
Though
glossed over by the Colleges in opposition, it does appear that early
mediation stalled discovery. To the extent that the Colleges suggests this
is a case of “inexcusable delay” (Opp. pp. 7-8), it cites to two cases
that are factually distinguishable. 
 
In Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, the appellate court found
that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying leave to amend for
two reasons. First, the plaintiff sought leave to amend “on the eve of trial,
nearly two years after the complaint was originally filed.” (Id. at p.
486.) Second, while the original complaint was based on breach of contract,
misrepresentation, and intentional infliction of emotional distress arising
from the plaintiff’s tenure as agent for the defendant, the proposed Unruh Act
claim would prejudice the defendants because they
“had not discovered or deposed many of the witnesses who would support the new
allegations, and had not marshaled evidence to oppose the contention that a
systemwide discriminatory policy existed.” (Id. at pp. 486-487.) 
 
Here, however, the case is about
one year old, there are no discovery cut offs, and no trial date is yet set. 
 
Next, the Colleges’ citation to Melican v. Regents of University of
California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168 is equally distinguishable. There,
the appellate court determined that the trial court did not abuse its
discretion when the plaintiffs, at the summary judgment stage over five
years later, sought to add a new claim, notably one that was not viable
based on the facts. (Id. at p. 176.)
 
Here, however, for reasons stated above, the amendment is not long
delayed.
 
To the extent that the Colleges argues it will be prejudiced,[7] the Colleges has not
provided authority that increased cost and time alone are sufficient for the type
of prejudice the court is concerned with. Ultimately, whether it be through
this motion or others, cost and time are but a necessary in any litigation. 
 
Therefore, the court finds that Plaintiff did not engage in unreasonable
delay in proposing the amendment nor would it (severely) prejudice the Colleges
to warrant denying the motion. (See Magpali, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th at p.
487, quoting Estate of Murphy (1978) 82 Cal.App.3d 304, 311 [denying
leave to amend is appropriate where inexcusable and prejudice is shown
to the opposing party.] 
 
All in all, the foregoing
establishes that it isn’t necessarily new facts that warrant amendment but better
due diligence on part of counsel. In fact, Counsel Kim appears to tacitly concede this point by
noting involvement of new associated counsel provided additional legal insight
and analysis. (Motion p. 7:22-23.) While an attorney should carefully review
the facts to determine what COAs support said facts at the outset of
litigation, leave to amend should be given where the complaint is merely
“imperfectly pleaded.” (Kirby v. Albert D. Seeno Construction Company (1992)
11 Cal.App.4th 1059, 1067.) Thus, as this is a not a situation wherein the gravamen of
the claims was not pleaded at all or a case wherein the proposed
amendment would “open[] up an entirely new field of inquiry,”[8] denying leave to amend
would be an abuse of discretion. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing—as the amendment is not inexcusably delayed, the amendment would not
severely prejudice Defendant as discovery is still on going and the issues are
related to the underlying facts and ruling otherwise would very likely
constitute as an abuse of discretion—the motion is GRANTED. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.             
Motion for Order Quashing Subpoena to
Test-Rite Products Corporation and Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
Legal
Standard[9]
 
CCP section
1987.1 governs motions and orders to quash subpoenas. The statute provides that
when a subpoena requires the production of documents: 
 
[T]he court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.
 
As for attorney fees, “the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one
or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code of Civ.
Proc., §
1987.2, subd. (a).) 
 
Discussion[10]
 
The deposition subpoena at issue seeks the following information: 
 
1. Any personnel file, wherever maintained; any departmental file,
wherever maintained; any formal or informal file kept by any supervisor or
manager, wherever maintained; any file maintained by any loss prevention or
security department, wherever maintained? 
 
2. Any and all employee handbooks provided to CHOI during his employment
or tenure as an employee and/or independent contractor; any documents
pertaining to any reference check done concerning CHOI; any payroll records,
wherever maintained; appears partially moot since getting payroll records;
extent handbook for job duties, that is addressed in number 4.
 
3. Any documents pertaining to any complaint or charge made by, or
concerning, CHOI, internally, or with any local, state, or federal governmental
agency, including, but not limited to, the State of California Department of
Fair Employment and Housing, the United States Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, or the State of California Workers' Compensation Appeals Board; relevant
agencies in terms of governing employment 
 
4. Any and all documents pertaining to CHOI, wherever maintained, in
YOUR possession, custody or control, including, but not limited to, documents
concerning or pertaining to offers of employment; dates of employment; terms,
benefits, and conditions of employment; employment contracts, if any, and/or
assignments; job requirements; benefit statements; insurance-related documents;
rates of pay; form and amount of compensation received by CHOI, whether as an
employee or independent contractor; job title or job status; resumes;
employment applications; termination and reasons for ending CHOI 's employment
or independent contract relationship; complaints about job or work performance;
formal or informal complaints concerning CHOI; any documents pertaining to any
investigation concerning or relating to CHOI. 
 
5. Any other documents, wherever maintained, that refer to CHOI, by name
or by other description, including but not limited to, any notes, memoranda, or
documents of any kind, in the possession, custody or control of your entity or
any employee thereof, that refer to CHOI either by name, or by other
description. 
 
Plaintiff’s argument: Plaintiff seeks to quash the subpoena because
Plaintiff’s personnel files are private and Defendant has not made a showing
otherwise that the documents and information are relevant. (See Headers “A” and
“B” Motion pp. 5, 6.) 
 
The Colleges’ argument: The Colleges argues that Plaintiff has failed to
demonstrate a privacy interest in his personnel records and to the extent he
has, Defendant has legitimate and countervailing interests. 
 
Here, for reasons
to be discussed below, the court agrees with the Colleges that Plaintiff has
not met its burden, a burden which was to be met before the
burden shifts to the Colleges to demonstrate a countervailing
interest in disclosure of the personnel files. Both Plaintiff’s motion and Reply
fail to adhere to the directive set forth by the California Supreme Court (in
Hill infra) regarding privacy concerns. In fact, as observed by Defendant in opposition, Plaintiff cites to cases that
were expressly disapproved by the Williams court including
Board of Trustees v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516 and Life
Technologies Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640. The
Reply not only ignores this point but continues to heavily rely
upon the incorrect standard set forth in Board of Trustees.[11] 
 
The California Supreme Court in Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 30-40 set forth a
three-pronged test that a party asserting a right against discovery must
establish: 
 
(1) a “legally protected privacy interest;”
(2) there is a “reasonable expectation of privacy in the
circumstances;” and 
(3) that this is a “serious invasion of privacy.” (See
Opp. p. 8.) 
 
The
burden is “on the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of
the prospective invasion, and against that showing [a court] must weigh the
countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 557, emphasis and underline added; see also Hill, supra, 7
Cal.4th at p. 37 [the invasion of privacy must be “sufficiently serious in
[its] nature, scope, and actual or potential impact to constitute an egregious
breach of the social norms underlying the privacy right.”], emphasis
and underline added) The Williams court
clarified, and disapproved of numerous cases holding otherwise, that a
defendant need show a compelling need only if
the information sought would invade “interests fundamental to
personal autonomy.” (Id. at p. 557, emphasis and underline added.)
 
“[W]hether a legally recognized
privacy interest exists is a question of law, and whether the circumstances
give rise to a reasonable expectation of privacy and a serious invasion thereof
are mixed questions of law and fact.” (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v.
Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 370 citing Hill, supra, 7
Cal.4th at p. 40.) “If the undisputed material facts show no reasonable
expectation of privacy or an insubstantial impact on privacy interests, the
question of invasion may be adjudicated as a matter of law.” (Ibid.) Ultimately, the court must utilize a “nuanced
approach” by striking a balance “between privacy interests and a litigant’s
need for discovery.” (Alch v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th
1412, 1422.) 
 
1.     Factor #1: Legally Protected
Privacy Interest
 
[T]he privacy claimant must possess a legally protected
privacy interest, of which there are two general types, autonomy privacy (the
interest in making intimate personal decisions or conducting personal
activities without observation, intrusion or interference) and informational
privacy. Informational privacy—the form at issue in this case—is the interest ‘in
precluding the dissemination or misuse of sensitive and confidential
information.’ [internal citation omitted.] Information
in this class is deemed private ‘when well-established social norms recognize
the need to maximize individual control over its dissemination and use to
prevent unjustified embarrassment or indignity.’” (Id, at p. 1423,
quoting Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 35) (emphasis added.) 
 
Here, “[p]ersonnel
files at a person’s place of work are within a constitutionally protected zone
of privacy….” (Motion p. 6, citing Board of Trustees v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 526,
528-529.)[12]
In fact, the California Supreme Court has construed the California Constitution
to provide broader protection in employment litigation than the privacy rights
guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution. (American Academy of Pediatrics v.
Lungren (1997) 16 Cal.4th 307, 327-328.) 
 
Therefore, as the opposition does not
otherwise dispute this factor, employees have a bona fide interest in the
confidentiality of their personnel files. 
 
2.     Factor #2: Reasonable
Expectation of Privacy[13]
 
“Second, the privacy
claimant must have a reasonable expectation of privacy under the specific
circumstances, including ‘customs, practices, and physical settings surrounding
particular activities [which] may create or inhibit reasonable expectations of
privacy.’” (Alch, supra, 165 Cal.App.4th at p. 1423, quoting Hill,
supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 36.) It is an “objective entitlement founded on
broadly based and widely accepted community norms.” (Id. at p. 37.) 
 
For example, matters wherein one has an
indisputable reasonable expectation of privacy include those found within the
intimacies of a marriage. (Motion p. 6, citing Tylo v. Superior Court (1997)
55 Cal.App.4th 1379.) Or other “patently sensitive items” include medical and
financial records.[14] (Opp. p. 9, citing Chin, et
al., Cal. Prac. Guide: Emp’t Litig. (Rutter Group ¶ 19:684, quoting Alch,
supra, 165 Cal.App.4th at p. 1427.) 
As for employment records, “California
recognizes a limited privacy right in employment records.” (Opp. p. 9, quoting Sirota
v. Penske Truck Leasing Co. (2006) WL 708910, at *2 (N.D. Cal. 2006).) And
the limited privacy right becomes even more limited when a plaintiff
initiates a lawsuit. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, though there is
no argument nor evidence that Plaintiff has voluntarily, knowingly, and
publicly disclosed portions of his personnel file such that the information
contained within those portions is no longer confidential and cannot support a
constitutional violation of privacy claim, Plaintiff could not have a
reasonable expectation that his personnel records would not be disclosed
in this litigation. In an action alleging racial and religious discrimination,
it would be “completely unreasonable” for Plaintiff
to expect that his personnel file would not be disclosed to the Colleges so
that the Colleges can determine (1) what Plaintiff communicated to his new
employer regarding the reasons for leaving his employment with the Colleges (as
to constructive discharge COA) and (2) whether Plaintiff has requested the same
or similar religious accommodations and whether Test-Rite has accommodated
those requests differently or in the same as TCC did (evidence of the
reasonableness of the accommodations the Colleges provided). (See Rosales v.
City of Los Angeles (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 419, 428-429, emphasis and
underline added [police officer “could not” have a reasonable
expectation of privacy in his personnel file in an action alleging sexual
misconduct during his employment as an officer]; see also Heller v. Norcal
Mutual Ins. Co. (1984) 8 Cal.4th 30, 43-44 [no reasonable expectation of
privacy where disclosed medical records “would have been inevitably discovered
…Any expectation on plaintiff's part that such information would remain
confidential was thus unreasonable.”].)
 
Moreover, in the
context of Test-Rite’s work—wholesale distribution of home furnishings and
housewares—[15]
it is difficult to see how or why a warehouse worker might expect the logistics
of his employment, his benefits, and/or salary to remain confidential when the
information can be retrieved through internet searches (e.g., glassdoor.com) or
a telephone call to the company’s human resources department. Additionally, given the nature of the work,
which presumably involves physical tasks rather than requiring extensive
specialized skills or advanced training,[16] it can
be argued that a reasonable expectation of privacy in work records may not be
as strong as in professions that involve highly specialized knowledge or
creative expertise, such as in Alch wherein the writers’ evaluative
materials were sensitive due to the inclusion of script coverages and other
critiques.
 
Thus, Plaintiff does not have a
reasonable expectation of privacy in his personnel record. As a defendant
may prevail by negating any of the three elements (Hill, supra, at
p. 40), the court need not address the third element. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues the
evidence would constitute as improper character evidence, Plaintiff misstates
rules governing discovery. Information within the scope of discovery need not
be admissible in evidence to be discoverable. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff appears to
argue that this rule does not apply if a privilege applies (Gonzalez v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546 [information, unless
privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence]), this argument is unclear.
Plaintiff appears to conflate between a privilege and the right to privacy (the
focus of the motion being the latter), but the right to privacy is not itself a
privilege. (See Evidence Code section 900 et seq. for
exclusive statutory source of recognized privileges.)[17]  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion to
quash the subpoena is DENIED.  


