 Case Number:  23PSCV02986    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
DEFENDANT CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY CREDIT UNION’S NOTICE OF DEMURRER AND
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with leave to amend so that
Plaintiffs can properly plead breach of contract.
 
(2)   DEFENDANT CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY CREDIT
UNION’S APPLICATION TO FILE DOCUMENTS UNDER SEAL IN SUPPORT OF DEMURRER TO
COMPLAINT is GRANTED.[1] 
 
Background
 
This is a contracts case. GILROY FOURSQUARE CHURCH, d/b/a FOOTHILLS FOURSQUARE
CHURCH (“Gilroy Foursquare”), a California unincorporated association; and THE
FOOTHILLS CHURCH OF GILROY (“Successor”), a California nonprofit corporation,
as Successor in Interest (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege the following
against Defendant CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY CREDIT UNION: In October 2022, Gilroy
Foursquare disaffiliated from International Church of the Foursquare Gospel
(“ICFG”). Thereafter, ICFG advised Gilroy Foursquare that it would seize all of
Gilroy Foursquare’s assets and property. Plaintiffs believe, and therefore
allege, the change to Plaintiffs’ Accounts with the Defendant were made by
ICFG. Plaintiffs have made demand on the Defendant to remove the ICFG signors
from Plaintiffs’ Accounts, but the Defendant has refused to restore Plaintiffs’
authorized signors to Plaintiffs’ Accounts. 
 
On September 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed suit for: 1.     Breach Of Contract 2.     Breach Of Covenant Of Good Faith And
Fair Dealing 3.     Breach Of Fiduciary Duties 4.     Declaratory Judgment And 5.     Injunctive Relief
 
On October 20, 2023, a proof of service (POS) was filed
indicating that Defendant was served via substituted service on 10/10/23. 
 
On January 25, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer
and motion to seal.  
 
On March 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to
the demurrer. 
 
On March 18, 2024, Defendant filed its reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer,
in pertinent part, may be asserted when the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action or when the pleading is uncertain
(“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible). (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§430.10 subds. (e), (f).) Accordingly, a demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the
pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code of Civ. Proc. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
 
Request
for Judicial Notice (RJN)
 
Defendant
asks the court to take judicial notice of 11 Exhibits, including the alleged
agreements. 
 
A written instrument attached to a pleading and
properly incorporated by reference may be examined by the court on a motion for
judgment on the pleadings (similar legal standard as a demurrer), in lieu of
the pleader's allegations of the instrument's legal effect. (Cohen v.
Ratinoff (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 321, 327, quoting Washer v. Bank of
America (1943) 21 Cal.2d 822, 829-830 [“When, however, ‘a written
instrument is attached to a pleading as an exhibit and incorporated into it by
proper reference, the court may, upon demurrer [or motion for judgment on the
pleadings], examine the exhibit and treat the pleader's allegations of its
legal effect as surplusage.’”]; see also Lumbermens Mut. Cas. Co. v. Vaughn (1988)
199 Cal.App.3d 171, 178 [extending rule to approve consideration of document
whose legal effect was merely alleged in complaint, where certified copy was
attached to plaintiff's trial brief, defendant's brief quoted document, and
parties evidently approved of trial court's consideration].) 
 
In
fact, when there is an inconsistency between the complaint and writing
incorporated by reference, a court may strike any allegations of a complaint that are
inconsistent with an unambiguous written instrument incorporated by reference
into the complaint (Pacific States Enters v. City of Coachella (1993) 13
Cal.4th 1414, 1426, fn. 8, quoting Nichols v. Canoga Industries (1987)
83 Cal.App.3d 956, 965) because the terms of that agreement take precedence
over any contradictory allegations in the body of the complaint. (Kim v.
Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.4th 267, 282, internal citation
omitted [“In support of that claim, Kim
incorporates by reference seven written promissory notes which reflect
defendants' alleged indebtedness to him. And that is where the trouble
begins. When a plaintiff attaches a written agreement to his complaint, and incorporates
it by reference into his cause of action, the terms of that written agreement
take precedence over any contradictory allegations in the body of the complaint.
‘If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts in
the exhibits take precedence.’”], emphasis added.) 
 
Notwithstanding, taking judicial notice of the
documents does not require the court to accept the truth of factual
matters which might be deduced therefrom. (Plaintiffs’ Objections p. 6, citing Mangini
v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1057, 1063-1064; see also
Plaintiffs’ Objections p. 6, quoting Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986)
184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374 [“Taking judicial notice of a document is not the same
as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a particular interpretation
of its meaning. [internal citation omitted.] On a demurrer a court's
function is limited to testing the legal sufficiency of the complaint.
[internal citation omitted.] ‘A demurrer is simply not the appropriate
procedure for determining the truth of disputed facts.’ The hearing on
demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing through the
guise of having the court take judicial notice of documents whose truthfulness
or proper interpretation are disputable.”], emphasis added.) 
 
Here, while Plaintiffs concede
that the documents are referred to in the complaint (Plaintiffs’ Objections
to RJN, p. 2:11-12), absent more facts (which the complaint needs to
establish any purported inconsistency), making any comparison between the
complaint and exhibits is premature at this stage. 
 
Therefore,
considering this is the first demurrer to the original complaint, the court DENIES
the RJN.[2]
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
demurs on the following grounds:
 
1.     The Complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action because no such contractual relationship
exists.
2.     It cannot be ascertained from the
Complaint whether the contract at issue for these claims is written, is oral or
is implied by conduct, or, more importantly, the terms of the alleged contract
which has not been attached to the complaint, alleged verbatim or alleged by
its legal effect. 
3.     The cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty fails as a matter of law, as a credit union owes no fiduciary
duty to its depositors. 
4.     The claims asserted are entirely
duplicative of one another. 
 
The court will focus on the second point as that
is dispositive of the motion and involves no determinations of fact, hence,
making it appropriate to resolve on a demurrer. 
 
1.     1st COA for Breach of
Contract 
 
Here, the
court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiffs have not adequately pled
breach of contract. Plaintiffs do not plead whether their purported contractual
relationship with the Credit Union is based on an oral, written or implied
contract, and, if written, fail to attach the purported contract to the
Complaint, allege its terms verbatim or plead the legal effect of the contract.
(See Bowden v. Robinson (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 705, 718; see also Demurrer
pp. 9-10, quoting Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 972, 993.) “In order to plead a contract by its legal effect,
plaintiff must allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more
difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument,
comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.” (Ibid.,
internal citations omitted.)
 
All that is
alleged is that Gilroy Foursquare has a contractual relationship with the
Credit Union that was “memorialized by the signature card and other account
documents and agreements, signed by Gilroy Foursquare’s authorized signors.”
(Complaint at ¶¶ 18, 22.)
 
For one, though the complaint appears to allege a written contract,
it appears that are multiple documents and agreements. How many? Are
three agreements, one per each bank account? Are three documents, one per each
bank account? Or does the signature card the contract? The pleading does not
provide answers to these basic questions as the ultimate facts required in a
complaint. 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the said material was signed by Gilroy Foursquare’s
authorized signors or users, but there is no reference as to the identity of
these parties. To the extent that Plaintiffs allege in opposition that
those individuals are “Pastor Mark Wilson, Reba Taylor, Mark Stewart and Angel
Ruiz,” that fact is not found within the four corners of the complaint. (Melikan
v. Truck Ins. Exchange (1955) 133 Cal.App.2d 113, 114 [“In approaching that issue we are bound, just as the
trial court was bound, by the allegations in the verified complaint and cannot
consider the outré-judicial statements of counsel nor the additional facts
found in the briefs.”].)  
 
The
opposition does not address the foregoing argument.  
 
Therefore, as
it cannot be ascertained from Plaintiffs’ complaint whether the contract at
issue is written, oral or implied by conduct, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend as to the breach of contract COA. 
 
2.     2nd COA For Breach Of
The Implied Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing 
 
As to the
second COA for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, that
cannot survive without a contract. (See Reply p. 9, citing Racine
&Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032 [“There is no obligation to deal fairly or in good faith
absent an existing contract.”].) 
                                                               
Therefore,
the demurrer is sustained WITH leave to amend as to the 2nd COA. 
 
3.     3rd COA for Breach of
Fiduciary Duties
 
Plaintiffs
allege a COA for breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
However, in
opposition, Plaintiffs concede that “a bank does not owe a depositor a
fiduciary duty.” (Opp. p. 10; see also Demurrer p. 13, quoting Kurtz-Ahlers,
LLC v. Bank of America, NA (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 952, 956 [quoting Chazen
v. Centennial Bank (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 532, 537 [“banks ‘are not
fiduciaries for their depositors’”].)
 
Therefore, as
Plaintiffs’ contentions concerning the possible existence of other duties are
irrelevant to its alleged duty, the demurrer is sustained WITH leave to amend
(to change the duty/duties). 
 
4.     4th COA for Declaratory Judgment 
 
As this COA
is predicated upon the purported contractual agreement, the court sustains the
demurrer WITH leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend. 


