


[1] The court would have granted monetary
sanctions due to Plaintiff’s motion not even meeting its burden nor addressing
instructive cases on the issue. But as the Colleges does not seek monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s Counsel, the court does not
impose any upon Plaintiff’s Counsel.  
 


[2]
Opp. p. 12:23-14. 
 


[3] The factual
background of the case will be updated upon a subsequent ruling using
allegations found in the SAC. 


[4] Neither party
provided an analysis (i.e., comparing facts of this case to those cited). 
 


[5] The instant motion
now complies with CRC Rule 3.1324 as it provides a copy of the proposed
amendment that shows what allegations will be deleted and what allegations will
be added. 
 


[6] Counsel Kim’s declaration still does not
provide exactly what information Plaintiff provided during the client
interviews and why Plaintiff could not previously provide that
information. For example, there is no statement that Plaintiff looked through
emails or texts to find certain statements made by Defendant’s employees or
interactions he forgot to tell his attorney about. Frankly, the allegations
forming the new COAs are boilerplate and do not contain different material
facts, evidencing the two new causes of action could have been previously
alleged. 
 


[7] In its discussion
section on prejudice, the Colleges cites to P&D Consultants, Inc. v.
City of Carlsbad (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 1332 (Opp. p. 10), but that case
focused on unreasonable delay. (Id. at p. 1345 [“The court's ruling was based on unreasonable delay.”].) Even taking P&D,
there, the appellate court affirmed the trial court’s decision in denying
leave to amend the complaint because the plaintiff waited until the trial
readiness conference to make that request, one that “would require additional
discovery and perhaps result in a demurrer or other pretrial motion.” (Ibid.)
Here, as stated above, the case is in the beginning stages. 
 


[8] Estate of Murphy,
supra, 82 Cal.App.3d at p. 311. 
 


[9] Plaintiff does not
provide the statute under which he brings forth the motion. 
 


[10] Personnel files
generally contain person data including, but not
limited to, where a person was born, name of parents, residences, results of
examinations, and evaluations of work performance. (Department of the Air
Force v. Rose (1976) 425 U.S. 352, 369.) 


[11] "'Issues
do not have a life of their own: If they are not raised or supported by
argument or citation to authority, [they are] ... waived.' [internal citation
omitted.] It is not our place to construct theories or arguments to undermine
the judgment and defeat the presumption of correctness. When [a party] fails to
raise a point, or asserts it but fails to support it with reasoned argument and
citations to authority, we treat the point as waived." (Benach v.
County of Los Angeles (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 838, 852.) Should
Plaintiff not provide a thorough analysis supported by instructive authority,
future arguments will be deemed waived by this court.
 


[12] While Board of Trustees was overturned by Williams, it was only to the extent that the case assumes, without
conducting the inquiry required by Hill, that a compelling interest or compelling need is required
automatically when private information is sought.
 


[13] Defendant cites to federal cases
because no California state court appears to have addressed this precise
question of whether an employee has a reasonable expectation of privacy in his
personnel records in an employment dispute. (Opp. p. 9, fn. 2.) From the
court’s research, that appears to be correct. While an employee does have a reasonable expectation of privacy in one’s
personnel files, that appears to for a public employee, not, as
here, a private employee. (See e.g., Teamsters Local 856 v.
Priceless, LLC (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1500, 1514-155, citing former Gov.
Code, § 6254, subd. (c) [reliance on the fact
that the California Public Records Act’s (CPRA) exemption of the
disclosure of one’s personnel file as basis to determine reasonable expectation
of privacy, but CPRA promotes disclosure of the conduct of governmental
operations]; see also Detroit Edison Co. v.
NLRB (1979) 440 U.S. 301, 319, fn. 16
[“A person's interest in preserving the confidentiality of sensitive
information contained in his personnel files has been given forceful
recognition in both federal and state legislation governing the recordkeeping
activities of public employers and agencies.”].) 
 


[14] Plaintiff has already agreed to provide medical
records and documents reflecting his pay. (Motion p. 3, Opp. p. 5:17-18.) Thus,
any concerns about privacy with disclosure of his salary are moot.
 


[15] Neither party
explained the work Test-Rite engages in. The court, on its own motion, takes judicial notice of
the corporation’s Statement of Information as provided by the Office of the
Secretary State. This document is judicially noticeable pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c), because it is an official act of
the Secretary State, a constitutional officer in the executive branch of
government and subdivision (h) as it is capable of “immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (See
Evidence Code section 452.)
 


[16] Presumption is also
based on Plaintiff being hired because of previous work experience (i.e.,
campus security officer is a physical job). 
 


[17] See e.g., Header A
‘Defendant’s Subpoenas Violate Plaintiff’s Right to Privacy;’ Header C
‘Plaintiff Employee has not Waived his Right to Privacy by Initiating a Legal
Action.’ Evidence Code section 900 provides the
exclusive statutory source of
recognized privileges. (See also Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975)
15 Cal.3d 652, 656.) While the Constitution is the ultimate authority on
compelled testimonial disclosure or production and thus may require courts to
recognize other forms of protection (e.g., constitutional right to privacy),
those are still not privileges. 

