 Case Number:  22STCV23942    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant Direct
Chassislink, Inc.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part.
Background
On July 25, 2022, Plaintiff Janine Cervantes-Castanon
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against ACI Trucking, Inc. (“ACI”), AEF Freight
USA, Inc., David Cai, and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of action for
general negligence and motor vehicle negligence arising out of an accident
occurring on July 29, 2020, on the I-10 Freeway near Rosemead Boulevard in
Rosemead.
 
On August 15, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to
name Direct Chassislink, Inc. (“Defendant”) as Doe 1.
 
On July 27, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the
complaint and a cross-complaint for indemnity and contribution against ACI.  ACI filed an answer to the cross-complaint on
October 24, 2023.
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendant
filed this motion to continue trial. No opposition has been filed.
 
Preliminary Issue Regarding Filing Notice
of Related Cases
 
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of related
cases, identifying an earlier-filed case, Velasquez vs. ACI Trucking Inc. (Case
No. 22STCV13160) as a related case.  This
notice should have been filed “in all pending cases listed in the notice” and “served
on all parties in these cases.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.300(d).)  Instead,
the notice was filed only in this case.
 
Whether two cases are to be ordered related is a decision
that must be made by “the judge who has the earliest filed case.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.300(h)(1)(A).)  That is the judge in
Department 28 (Jaskol, J.), not the judge in this department.  Accordingly, the judge in this department did
not have the authority to rule on the notice of related cases.
 
Plaintiff is ORDERED to refile the notice of related
cases in both this case and Case No. 22STCV13160 and to serve the notice on all
parties in both cases.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
 
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 

 
“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendant contends that good cause for continuance exists as substantial
discovery remains to be conducted and Defendant has reserved a hearing date for
a motion for summary judgment for the Court’s first available date, which was February
20, 2025.  (Daniel Decl., ¶¶ 3, 6.)  Trial is currently set for May 20, 2024. 
The reservation of a hearing date for a summary judgment
motion is not good cause for a trial continuance.  A reserved hearing date may or may not lead
to a timely filed motion.  Of course, a party
has a right to have a timely filed motion for summary judgment heard before
trial.  (Cole v. Superior Court
(2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88; Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989)
207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.)  But no such
motion has been filed here.
The need to conduct additional discovery, however, does
establish good cause for a trial continuance. 
The Court also notes that one party has appeared only recently, and that
the related cases issue has yet to be resolved.
No party has argued that the requested continuance would cause
any unfair prejudice or otherwise opposed the motion.
Accordingly, the motion is granted in part.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
in part the motion to continue trial.
The trial date
is advanced and continued to a date in mid September 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
The Court ORDERS
Plaintiff to refile the notice of related cases in both this case and Case No. 22STCV13160
and to serve the notice on all parties in both cases.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.