 Case Number:  20STCV33804    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  29 
Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendants James Pierre, Shana
 Pierre, and Courtney Pierre
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
 
              On
September 3, 2020, Plaintiff Charles Volpe filed this motor vehicle negligence action
against Defendants James Pierre, Shana Pierre, and Courtney Pierre, arising out
of a car accident that occurred on September 13, 2018. Defendants filed their
answers on March 24, 2022; September 1, 2022; and January 18, 2023. 
 
              Trial
is currently scheduled for April 11, 2024.
 
              On
February 15, 2024, Defendants filed the
instant motion to continue trial and all related dates. The motion is
unopposed. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
              Although continuances
of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on
its own merits. (CRC rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may grant a continuance only on
an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. (Ibid.)   
 
              Circumstances that may
indicate good cause include: (1) the unavailability of an essential lay or
expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances, (2)
the unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances,
(3) the unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances, (4) the substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice, (5) the addition of a new party if the new party has not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial, or if
the other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery
and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case, (6)
a party's excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts, or (7) a significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial. (Ibid.) 
 
              In ruling on the
motion, the Court must consider all the facts and circumstances relevant to the
determination.  Courts may look to the
following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:  (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of
the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address
the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial. (See generally, CRC, rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)   
              
              Additionally, factors
for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; the proximity of the trial date; whether all parties have stipulated
to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. (CRC, rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
 
Discussion
 
              Defendants move for an order continuing the
current trial date to August 12, 2024, or approximately four months out.
Defendants argue there is good cause to continue trial because there are
pending discovery motions set for after the trial date and additional discovery
is needed such Plaintiff’s responses to written discovery and the depositions
of the billing persons most knowledgeable from Hawthorne Surgery Center and
California Sports and Spine Surgery Center. 
 
              Defendants also point
out that while the trial date has been continued before, it was initially
vacated in February 2022 because Plaintiff had not filed a proof of service of
summons and complaint. (Mendoza Decl., ¶9.) In September 2022, the Court set
the trial date for October 25, 2023, but in September 2023, the parties
stipulated to continue trial to the current date to allow for private mediation
and discovery. (Id. at ¶¶10-11.) Defendants now request a 4 month
continuance and argue that this case presented unique procedural issues that
required multiple motions to compel. 
 
              Plaintiff does not
argue that he would be suffer any unfair prejudice from the requested
continuance or otherwise oppose the motion.
 
              The Court finds that
Defendants have shown good cause for a continuance. The motion is GRANTED.
 
Conclusion
 
              The Court GRANTS Defendants’
motion.
 
              The date of trial is
advanced and continued to mid August 2024. The Final Status Conference and all
deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
 
              Defendants to give
notice.