  Case Number:  23AHCV01187    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  P TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR
MONETARY SANCTIONS and ORDER DENYING FORMER COUNSEL’S REQUEST FOR MONETARY
SANCTIONSI.         INTRODUCTION
This is an action involving claims
for: (1) breach of statutory obligations under Labor Code § 1194 et seq. for
minimum wage violations; (2) breach of statutory obligations under Labor Code §
226 for paycheck stubs; (3) breach of statutory obligations under Wage Order
5-2001 regarding maximum rent; (4) common count for money paid, laid out, and
expended; (5) misclassification as an independent contractor; and (6) unfair
business practices under Business and Professions Code § 17200 et seq.
Plaintiff Diana Cuamea (“Plaintiff”) filed this suit on May 25, 2023, against
Defendants BP RE Management LLC, Zhimin Li (“collectively Defendants”). 
Defendants were initially represented by Farhad Novian of Novian &
Novian LLP (“Former Counsel”), who was later substituted with David M. Daftary
as counsel of record.
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion seeking
monetary sanctions against Defendants, current counsel, and former counsel,
alleging discovery misuse and non-compliance with court orders. Defendants and former
counsel each filed oppositions to Plaintiff’s motion on October 18, 2024,
disputing the validity of Plaintiff’s claims and procedural basis for
sanctions. Plaintiff subsequently filed a reply on October 22, 2024, addressing
the arguments raised by both Defendants and former ounsel.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 permits courts to
impose sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that constitutes a misuse
of the discovery process. Section 2023.010 provides a non-exhaustive list of
conduct that is considered misuse of the discovery process, including as
relevant here, failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery and disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Cal. Civ. Proc. §
2023.010(d), (g).)  
Further, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 subdivision (d) gives
courts the authority to issue a terminating sanction by one of four following
orders: (1) an order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of
any party engaging in misuse of the discovery process; (2) an order staying
further proceedings until an order for discovery is obeyed; (3) an order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party; or (4) an
order rendering a default judgment against that party.  
In determining whether to impose terminating sanctions, trial courts must
consider the totality of the circumstances, including whether the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of informal and
formal attempts to obtain the discovery. (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77
Cal.App,4th 1225, 1246.) 
The trial court has broad discretion in selecting discovery sanctions,
subject to reversal only for abuse. (Reedy v. Bussell (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 1272, 1293; Miranda v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2004) 117
Cal.App.4th 913, 928–929.)  The trial court should consider both the
conduct being sanctioned and its effect on the party seeking discovery and, in
choosing a sanction, should “attempt to tailor the sanction to the harm caused
by the withheld discovery.” (Do It Urself Moving & Storage, Inc. v.
Brown, Leifer, Slatkin & Berns (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 27, 36.) 
The discovery statutes encourage an incremental approach to discovery
sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate
sanction of termination.  “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Laguna Auto Body
v. Farmers Ins. Exchange, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 487.)  If a lesser
sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted; continuing
misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until
the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.  (Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal. App. 4th 967, 992.) 
 
III.      ANALYSIS
Plaintiff argues that current counsel
and former counsel engaged in discovery misuse by withholding relevant
information about properties owned or managed by Defendants, concealing
identities of additional resident managers associated with those properties,
providing incomplete response to specific interrogatories, providing evasive
responses to document demands, and failing to cooperate in good faith during
meet and confer discussions. Specifically, Plaintiff contends that Defendants’
counsel failed to comply with the court’s February 27, 2024, Order, which
required full, complete responses under oath to Interrogatories 1 and 2,
without objection, within 20 days. (Motion pg. 4) Plaintiff argues that
Defendants did not disclose all resident managers at Defendants’ properties in
the court-ordered responses, forcing Plaintiff to take two depositions to
obtain this information. (Id.) Plaintiff also claims Defendants
misrepresented that all properties owned or managed by Defendants had been
listed in response to Special Interrogatories (Set One), which required
Plaintiff to physically visit certain properties located independently and to
take further depositions to confirm which properties had resident managers
pertinent to Plaintiff’s PAGA claims. (Id.)  Plaintiff further
alleges that Defendants failed to properly search for and produce documents in
response to document demands, necessitating additional depositions to clarify
the completeness of Defendants' production. Lastly, Plaintiff asserts that
Defendants canceled a scheduled deposition at the last minute, resulting in
reporter fees. (Motion pg. 5) Plaintiff argues that this collective behavior
constitutes discovery misuse under CCP § 2023.010 and seeks sanctions on the
basis that the misuse stems from Defendants' counsel's actions.
In response, Defendants and former counsel
argue that Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions under CCP § 2023.030 is
procedurally flawed. Former counsel asserts that they did not violate the
February 27, 2024, Order, as they were substituted out of the case on December
4, 2023, well before the order was issued (Novian Opposition, pg. 4). They also
argue that they did not fail to respond to special interrogatories as claimed;
during meet-and-confer correspondence, they clarified that “Defendants will not
agree to describe all buildings owned by them,” as Plaintiff’s interrogatories
“grossly exceed[ed] the scope of permissible discovery” (Novian Opposition, pg.
4). Former counsel further contends that Plaintiff’s accusations regarding
hidden documents are unsupported and lack specific evidence showing how or why
the document production was inadequate. Additionally, they emphasize that the
cancellation of the April 17, 2024, deposition occurred months after their
substitution and thus cannot be attributed to them (Novian Opposition, pg.
7-8).
Additionally, former counsel argues
that Plaintiff’s assertion that Defendants failed to disclose all resident
managers in Court-ordered responses is unsubstantiated. Former counsel
maintains that they were entitled to rely on Defendants verified discovery
responses to Special Interrogatories Set One, which identified only one
additional resident manager besides Plaintiff. Former counsel further contends
that current defense counsel had the opportunity to identify any additional
individuals in the supplemental responses. Consequently, former counsel asserts
they should not be held accountable for any oversights attributed to current
counsel.
Defendants assert that Plaintiff
cannot bring a motion for sanctions under CCP § 2023.030 without an underlying
discovery motion or court order. Defendants emphasize that Plaintiff’s failure
to file any motion to compel further responses undermines her request for
sanctions, as CCP § 2023.030 sanctions are generally intended to be granted in
conjunction with method-specific discovery violations, such as failing to
attend depositions or respond to interrogatories, where conduct is directly
tied to a discovery motion (Defendants’ Opposition, pg. 2-3). Additionally,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s allegations reflect routine discovery
disputes that could have been resolved through further meet-and-confer efforts
or by filing a motion to compel, rather than escalating to sanctions.
Under the general sanctions
provision in CCP §§ 2023.010 and 2023.030, the California Supreme Court in City
of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP held that a court may impose
sanctions for systemic or extensive discovery abuse, beyond method-specific
violations, when there is a demonstrated pattern of discovery misuse. (15
Cal.5th 794.) In that case, the City engaged in repeated, egregious discovery
misconduct, including improper privilege claims, defiance of court orders, and
withholding critical documents over years of litigation, which warranted
independent sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act. 
Here, Plaintiff’s alleged conduct
does not constitute the extensive and egregious conduct displayed in the City
of Los Angeles. In that case, the abuse involved ongoing and intentional
violations of the discovery process and court orders, while here, Plaintiff’s
claims are more general allegations. Without support from prior court orders or
subsequent motions to compel on these issues, the Court finds that this does
not rise to the level of egregious conduct required to warrant sanctions
against former counsel or current counsel for Defendants.
Additionally, the Court finds that
both former counsel and current counsel acted in good faith by relying on the
provided verifications of discovery responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
One, at the time. Given the foregoing, the Court does not find it appropriate
to impose sanctions on either former counsel or current counsel on this basis.
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.
            
Former Counsel Sanction Requests
Former counsel seeks sanctions
against Plaintiff under California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030,
subdivision (a), citing a lack of civility by Plaintiff’s counsel throughout
this process. Specifically, former counsel points to the lack of response from
Plaintiff’s counsel to their letter requesting withdrawal of the Motion,
asserting that Plaintiff’s counsel ignored their plea for civility and
professionalism (Novian Opposition pg. 8-9; see Phipps Dec. at ¶10-11,
Exh. G). Additionally, during the meet-and-confer process, former counsel
suggested a civil discussion to address competing interests, but Plaintiff’s
counsel responded dismissively, stating that “the ship has sailed” on mediation
(Id.)
Due to the necessity of opposing
what they consider a meritless motion, former counsel incurred $8,533.50 in
attorneys’ fees, plus an additional $1,980 for hearing preparation and
attendance, totaling $10,513.50. These fees represent time spent by Novian
& Novian LLP attorneys, with rates consistent with prevailing market rates in
Los Angeles, which they argue are reasonable under the circumstances (Novian
Opposition pg. 9) 
The Court finds that there is no
explicit showing of malice or intent by Plaintiff’s counsel in filing the
motion. Therefore, the Court DENIES former counsel’s request for monetary
sanctions.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for Sanctions.
The Court DENIES former counsel’s request for sanctions.
Defendants are to give notice. 
 
Dated: October 31, 2024                                                                                                                                                         
 
 
                                                                                             JARED
D. MOSES          JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                               