 Case Number:  24NNCV00356    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES SET ONEI.        INTRODUCTION
          On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff Chuan Tang (“Plaintiff”) filed
the instant action against Defendants FCA US LLC (“FCA”) and Puente Hills
Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram (“Puente Hills”), asserting violations of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. The complaint arises from alleged defects
in a 2022 Dodge RAM 3500, which Plaintiff claims persisted despite numerous
repair attempts under warranty. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
failed to adequately resolve issues with the vehicle, including metal-to-metal
noises and transmission problems.
On
September 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Further Discovery
Responses from FCA. On October 18, 2024, FCA filed its Opposition, contending
that its responses were code-compliant and complete based on the current stage
of discovery. Plaintiff replied to FCA’s Opposition on October 24, 2024,
maintaining that FCA’s responses remain insufficient and do not meet discovery
requirements.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          
Code
Civ. Proc. §2030.300 governs motions to compel further responses to
interrogatories. It provides as follows:
“(a)
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any
of the following apply:
(1)
An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
(2)
An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.
(3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”
Motions
must be made within 45 days of any response or supplemental response (Subdivision
(c)) and must be accompanied by a declaration demonstrating the parties met and
conferred to attempt informal resolution; they must also be accompanied by a
separate statement or concise outline. (Subdivision (b).) 
Subdivision
(d) provides for the issuance of monetary sanctions against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses, unless the
court finds the party who would be subject to sanctions acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make sanctions unjust.
 
On the 45-day limit: Golf
& Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127
           
III.     ANALYSIS
Meet and Confer
A
motion to compel further discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration stating, “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt
at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.)¿
          Here, on April 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel served FCA
with the first set of Form Interrogatories with responses due by May 31, 2024.
Defendant responded to Plaintiff’s FIs on May 29, 2024, but without
verifications. Verifications were subsequently served on July 31, 2024.
(Aivazov Decl. ¶¶ 5-8)
On
July 18, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent Defendant a meet and confer letter,
requesting supplemental responses within ten days. (Aivazov Decl. ¶ 9) On July
31, 2024, Defendant responded with its own meet and confer letter but did not
provide the requested supplemental responses or any substantive explanation
addressing Plaintiff’s concerns. (Aivazov Decl. ¶ 10)
On
September 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a follow-up email to Defendant
regarding the outstanding FI responses, but no supplemental responses were
received. (Aivazov Decl. ¶ 11)
The
Court notes that, as of October 24, 2024, the Parties have resolved the dispute
regarding Form Interrogatory 1.1. Defendant’s supplemental response is now
complete and code-compliant, and Plaintiff has withdrawn this item from the
motion. However, Form Interrogatories 12.1, 15.1, and 17.1 remain unresolved,
necessitating the Court’s intervention.
Therefore,
the Court notes the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
Legal Analysis
Plaintiff
moves to compel FCA to further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 12.1, 15.1,
and 17.1.
 
Interrogatory No. 12.1
Plaintiff
argues for compelling further responses to 12.1 because FCA has the necessary
information to identify individuals who performed repairs on Plaintiff’s vehicle.
Specifically, Plaintiff argues that FCA has extensive training and
certification of mechanics at authorized repair facilities and likely keeps
records indicating technicians and their associated dealerships. 
Plaintiff
also challenges FCA’s claim that “no principal agency: exists, highlighting
that it is a franchisor-franchisee relationship.” Plaintiff argues this
supports the inference that FCA would retain technician details, including
those performing warranty repairs.
Plaintiff
also asserts that a similar interrogatory was served on the repairing
dealership (Puente Hills), but the responses were evasive. Plaintiff contends
that FCA can provide this information now. This would avoid the need for an
additional motion to compel against the Puente Hills. 
FCA argues
that they have a lack of direct knowledge of the identities of the individuals
who worked on Plaintiff’s vehicle beyond what is listed in repair orders. FCA
also objects as vague, ambiguous, compound and overly broad and unintelligible
specifically to the definition of “incident” arguing these phrases are unclear.
FCA also denies having a principal-agent relationship with the independent
dealership. FCA also argues that it has provided complete code-compliant
responses and should not be compelled further.
In
this case, the Court finds that FCA’s responses sufficiently comply with Code
requirements. FCA has reasonably provided the available information from the
repair orders, identifying individuals who worked on the vehicle who are
current and/or former employees. Additionally, Defendant asserts that it has no
knowledge beyond what is contained in the repair orders. Accordingly, the Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s request to compel further responses to Interrogatory No.
12.1.
 
Interrogatory No. 15.1
Interrogatory
No. 15.1 requests that FCA provide detailed information for each denial and
affirmative defense, including specific facts supporting each position. FCA
must also identify all individuals with knowledge of these facts, along with
their contact information, and list all documents or tangible evidence that
supports each denial or defense, specifying the custodian of each document.
This interrogatory aims to ensure each defense is factually substantiated and
transparent about evidence and knowledgeable persons.
Plaintiff
argues that FCA’s response is inadequate and requests further responses because
Defendant failed to provide specific facts supporting each affirmative defense.
Plaintiff contends that FCA relies on general statements and legal conclusions.
Additionally, Plaintiff challenges FCA’s reliance on privilege claims, arguing
that the lack of detailed factual information prevents proper judicial
evaluation of these claims.
FCA argues
that no further responses are necessary, as they have provided complete
responses based on the information available at this stage of discovery. FCA maintains
that affirmative defenses were pled as a general procedural measure and will be
sustained later through continued discovery. FCA also asserts that privilege
objections are appropriate due to the ongoing nature of the investigation.
The
Court finds that FCA’s responses are insufficient, as affirmative defenses
require factual support. While FCA’s answer may comply with Code requirements
as to the general denials, FCA should provide a Code-compliant response
specifically addressing the affirmative defenses with factual support.
Consequently, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
to Interrogatory No. 15.1.
 
Interrogatory 17.1
This
interrogatory asks FCA to confirm if each response to Plaintiff’s requests for
admission is an unqualified admission. If not, for each denial or
qualification, FCA must (a) state the request number, (b) provide all
supporting facts, (c) list names and contact information of individuals
knowledgeable about those facts, and (d) identify documents and their
custodians that support the response.
Plaintiff
argues FCA’s responses are inadequate and improperly formatted as Defendant
grouped responses together without separating each request or providing
specific facts for each denial. Plaintiff contends that FCA’s explanations lack
factual support.
FCA
argues that further responses are unnecessary because they have provided
Code-complaint answer. FCA objects that the interrogatory is overly broad,
burdensome and seeks information equally available to Plaintiff while also
asserting privileges over certain materials.
The
Court finds that FCA’s responses are insufficient and should provide more
detailed information for each denial. Defendants must separately address each
request for admission. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to No. 17.1.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatory Set One - Interrogatory No. 15.1 and No. 17.1.
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatory
No.12.1.
Defendant
is to provide further responses within 40 days of this order.
Plaintiff
is to give notice.
 
Dated: October 31, 2024                                                      
 
 
 
                                                                                     JARED D MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     