  Case Number:  19STCV37687    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
LENNY & LARRY’S,
  LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
A&B INGREDIENTS,
  INC., 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  19STCV37687
  Hearing Date:  October 13, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion in limine to exclude
  undisclosed witnesses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 21, 2019, Lenny &
Larry’s, LLC filed this action against Defendant A&B Ingredients, Inc. The
operative Second Amended Complaint, filed June 6, 2022, alleges (1) breach of
the implied warranty of merchantability, (2) breach of the implied warranty of
fitness, (3) negligent misrepresentation, (4) fraudulent misrepresentation, and
(5) unfair competition. The complaint arises from the following facts.
            Plaintiff is a manufacturer of
health and fitness oriented food products, such as cookies. Defendant sells a
variety of ingredients to food manufacturers, including Plaintiff. The
particular ingredient at issue in this case is the antioxidant CytoGuard.
CytoGuard is a cultured dextrose powder (“CDP”). Plaintiff alleges that the inclusion
of CDP in its cookies caused the products to have an “off flavor” and “soapy”
taste, leading to customer complaints and forcing Plaintiff to discontinue
sales. Plaintiff contends that the cause of the flavor issue was the presence
of lipase in the CDP.  
            On September 18, 2023, Defendant
filed the instant motion in limine to exclude the testimony of witnesses
who were not disclosed by Plaintiff in discovery or in expert designations. Plaintiff
filed its opposition on October 2, 2023. Defendant filed its reply on October
6, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
            The Court has the inherent power and
responsibility to grant a motion in limine to exclude “any kind of
evidence which could be objected to at trial, either as irrelevant or subject
to discretionary exclusion as unduly prejudicial.” (Clemens v. American Warranty
Corp. (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 444, 451.) “The advantage of such motions is to
avoid the obviously futile attempt to ‘unring the bell’ in the event a motion to
strike is granted in the proceedings before the jury.” (Hyatt v. Sierra Boat
Co. (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 325, 337.) 
DISCUSSION
            The court has authority “to bar the
testimony of a witness willfully excluded from an answer to an interrogatory
seeking the names of witnesses . . . .” (Thoren v. Johnston & Washer
(1972) 29 Cal.App.3d 270, 273.) “Where the party served with an interrogatory
asking the names of witnesses to an occurrence then known to him deprives his
adversary of that information by a willfully false response, he subjects the
adversary to unfair surprise at trial.” (Id. at p. 274.) A response to a
witness interrogatory is “willfully false” if “counsel knew that [the new
witness] was a person of the class described in [the] interrogatory . . . or
deliberately refrained from determining whether he was such a person.” (Id.
at p. 275.) On the other hand, if the situation involves “an inadvertently
misleading answer . . . justice might dictate that, upon a proper showing, the
answering party be relieved of his default and the interrogating party be
protected by a continuance.” (Ibid.) 
            Defendant argues that the new
witnesses identified in Plaintiff’s Amended Witness List were known to
Plaintiff and deliberately excluded from Plaintiff’s interrogatory responses and
witness exchange. These witnesses include current and former employees of
Plaintiff, consumers of Plaintiff, and current or former employees of outside
consultants. Relying on Thoren, Defendant argues that these witnesses
should be precluded from testifying at trial. Defendant contends it is
insufficient that the names appeared somewhere among thousands of pages of
document production. The critical point, according to Defendant, is that
Plaintiff did not identify these individuals when specifically asked to do so,
thus surprising Defendant with its belated disclosure this close to trial.   
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues, as
Defendant predicted, that it disclosed the names of the witnesses because those
names appear somewhere in Plaintiff’s document production. Plaintiff points out
that evidence may not be excluded “based on the mere failure to supplement or
amend an interrogatory answer that was truthful when originally served.” (Biles
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1325.) 
However, Plaintiff provides no explanation
for how the mere appearance of certain names on its document production is
sufficient to place Defendant on notice of pertinent witnesses. For example, Plaintiff
claims to have “disclosed” the names of its employees merely because those
names appear as recipients in extensive email lists in Plaintiff’s document
production. (See Prout Decl., Ex. 1-3.) The emails were sent to a multitude of
individuals, any one of whom could have been a pertinent witness. Defendant cannot
be expected to assume that every email recipient is a pertinent witness. The
same goes for Plaintiff’s customers. Plaintiff claims the new names had been
disclosed when Plaintiff produced its consumer complaints. (See Prout Decl., TE
412.) Trial Exhibit 412 is a 92-page list of many consumer complaints, but Plaintiff
only selected three individual customers to add to its Amended Witness List.
Defendant is not clairvoyant and cannot be expected to predict which customers
Plaintiff plans to use as witnesses. The same applies to the newly-named
consultants.   
Plaintiff also does not explain how its
interrogatory responses were true when originally served. In fact, if Plaintiff
had always possessed the documents identifying these additional pertinent
witnesses but failed to disclose the witnesses in the interrogatories, its
responses were false when made. Plaintiff expects Defendant to identify the
pertinent witnesses from the documents, yet Plaintiff itself failed to identify
those same witnesses in its interrogatory responses despite having access to the
same documents. 
Plaintiff relies on Saxena v. Goffney
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316, 334, where interrogatory responses specifically “directed
plaintiffs to look in Saxena's ‘medical records’ to determine the identities of
individuals with knowledge of the incident.” Here, Plaintiff’s interrogatory
responses did not refer Defendant to any specific records to identify pertinent
witnesses. Rather, Plaintiff responded by identifying particular witnesses but
omitting others, making its response misleading to the extent Plaintiff intends
to call witnesses who were not identified in the response.
Plaintiff argues that it directed
Defendant to its document production in its supplemental response, which stated:
“Plaintiff has produced additional responsive documents that Plaintiff has
discovered in its due diligence as Plaintiff prepares for trial.” (Mauge Decl.,
Ex. D, p. 4.) Unlike Sexena, this response does not direct Defendant to
a particular set of documents to identify pertinent witnesses. Instead, the
response references an entire document production and does not even mention
that new witnesses may be found in that production. To the extent the response
was meant to suggest to Defendant that new interrogatory answers may be found
in the document production, the response does not specify which interrogatories.
As Plaintiff itself noted, there were “four hundred thirty-six (436) written
requests.” (Ibid.) Referencing an entire document production in relation
to 436 discovery requests does not constitute placing Defendant on notice of
specific new witnesses. 
Plaintiff’s position is that producing thousands
of pages containing hundreds of names gave it carte blanche to pick any of
those names as additional witnesses regardless of its previous discovery
responses and disclosures. This contention is unsupported by legal authority. In
the case of an inadvertently false answer, the responding party may be relieved
from its default “upon a proper showing.” (Thoren, supra, 29 Cal.App.3d at
p. 275.) Plaintiff has not made that showing. The false answers were also not inadvertent,
because Plaintiff possessed the documents that contained the names of pertinent
witnesses yet omitted certain witnesses until the eve of trial.   
Allowing Plaintiff to add new witnesses at
this late stage would unduly prejudice Defendant, as it constitutes trial by
surprise. Additionally, Plaintiff does not explain the necessity of the new witnesses,
who appear to be redundant of existing witnesses.    
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion in limine is
GRANTED. 
            