 Case Number:  23SMCV02412    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  I This is a demurrer by Dr. Hwang to the complaint.  It is SUSTAINED IN PART AND OVERRULED IN
PART.
 
First, the court will not deal with the discovery issues at
this time.  It is not necessary.  Second, the objection to service of the reply
is OVERRULED.  The Code states that
service of the opposition and reply must be done in a way calculated to ensure
quick service—meaning service by regular mail is not permitted.  Electronic service is not improper, nor is
there a two court day extension for such service in this context.  With that, the court turns to the merits.
 
The gist of the allegations in the extremely detailed first
amended complaint is that the various defendants are involved in various ways
in the sale and use of the J-plasma/Renuvion device, which was used on
plaintiff here.  The device, it is
alleged, was being used in an off-label manner. 
According to plaintiff, the manufacturer was aware of the fact that the
off-label use of the device was dangerous, but nonetheless continued to market
and sell the device without adequate warnings and took affirmative steps to
silence anyone who complained about problems that were suffered due to the
product.  Plaintiff in the instant case
presented to a clinic for a liposuction. 
According to the complaint, three minutes before the procedure and while
she was on the gurney, defendants, including demurring defendant Hwang,
pressured her to use the J-plasma treatment even though she had previously
refused it.  The complaint alleges that
she was ultimately pressured into taking out her credit card while on the
gurney to pay for the J-plasma device and that she was threatened that she
would have poor results without it. 
Plaintiff alleges that but for the threats and coercion and the
concealment of the problems with the device, she would not have agreed to the
J-plasma use.  She suffered severe pain
and scarring after the procedure, allegedly caused by the J-plasma device.
 
As an initial matter, the court STRIKES the Jones
declaration.  The jurat is improper.
 
Hwang demurs to the first, second, third, fifth, and sixth
causes of action.  To the extent it is
based on uncertainty, it is OVERRULED. 
The extremely detailed complaint is anything but uncertain, and such
demurrers are disfavored.  (Butler v.
Sequeira (1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143.)
 
The first cause of action is for failure to warn.  It is OVERRULED.  Such a claim can be made against physicians,
such as Dr. Hwang.  It is not
improper.  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg,
Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276.)  Even
if duplicative, a demurrer is not the best place to address the issue.  But defendant goes on to argue that (and the
real argument as to the first and second causes of action) a physician cannot
be held strictly liable because the doctor did not sell the product in the
manner addressed through the product defect torts.  It is true that where a product is used in a
medical procedure, the medical provider is often not subject to a strict
liability standard because the provider is not really selling the product.  (San Diego Hospital Assn. v. Superior
Court (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 8.)  For
example, where a doctor inserts a pacemaker, the doctor is not strictly liable
for a defect in the pacemaker even though the doctor might technically be
selling the product.  The theory is that
while the doctor is certainly using the device and selling it in a technical
sense, the doctor is not selling it like a grocer would sell a can of
beans.  Rather, the essence of the
service is providing medical care, not selling the product.  (Hector v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 493.)  And here,
the J-plasma device was used during a medical procedure.  But the complaint here goes further.  The complaint alleges that defendant received
a direct financial benefit from the sale and use of the J-plasma device and
that he had been effectively co-opted by the manufacturer to become a salesman
for the device rather than a doctor simply providing a medical service.  (FAC ¶¶ 459-463.)  While that will be a significant thing to
prove, for purposes of the demurrer it takes the doctor outside of the normal San
Diego protection.  Hwang argues that
this is of no moment and that there are not sufficient allegations to show any
“co-opting” of Hwang by the manufacturer. 
But this is the pleading stage; more facts are not needed.  While the question is a relatively close one,
the court believes it is better addressed at summary judgment or, if necessary,
at trial.  Thus, the demurrer to the
second cause of action is also OVERRULED.
 
The third cause of action is for negligence in various forms
(other than professional negligence). 
Defendant here argues that he was the agent, not the principal, and thus
cannot be liable for the principal’s negligence or negligent hiring.  The court is not sure of that.  Who was the principal and who was the agent
is better sorted out in discovery and resolved by way of summary judgment or
trial, not on the pleadings.  Nor is
there any protection on the theory that who to hire really goes to malpractice,
not negligent hiring or supervision. 
That doctrine is more commonly used with regard to hospitals and medical
staff.  (Bell v. Sharp Cabrillo
Hospital (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1034.) 
Bound up in that doctrine are issues of licensure and the like.  Those issues do not seem to apply here with
regarding to the specific demurring defendant. 
Further, the gist of the complaint in this regard is that the doctor
stepped out of the role of being a medical provider and instead became the
knowing tool by which the J-plasma device was improperly sold.  That is a distinction with at least a
potential difference.  The demurrer to
the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
The fifth cause of action is IIED.  For reasons discussed in other orders, the
demurrer is OVERRULED.  It would be one
thing to discuss the J-plasma device in the waiting room, for example.  But it is another to push the device on
plaintiff while plaintiff is on the gurney minutes away from the procedure and
force plaintiff to pay for it then and there with threats of a poor outcome
absent agreement.  That is not the way to
get consent, and at least for pleading purposes, it is outrageous enough for
the tort.
 
However, the demurrer to the NIED cause of action is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, as plaintiff concedes.  That is a very narrow tort and has no
application here.
 
Finally, the sixth cause of action is for fraud.  The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.  Plaintiff alleges that she was
not told about the defects in the J-plasma device.  However, the details are lacking—specifically
the need to allege that this particular defendant was aware of specific details
that were misrepresented or of which defendant had a duty to disclose but did
not.  The complaint at least implies that
there were many problems with the device, but it is not clear that this
particular defendant was aware of them, or, if so, which of them.  Absent such awareness, there is no
fraud.  Plaintiff contends that she has
been trying to get these details in discovery but has been stymied by repeated
requests for extensions.  That may or may
not be, but plaintiff’s discovery either has now been answered or will be
answered shortly, and that ought to solve that problem.
 
The motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED as to the
causes of action concerning medical malpractice.  In all other respects, it is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff has 30 days’ leave to amend to the extent set
forth above.