  Case Number:  20SMCP00231    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for attorneys’ fees as permitted by
Corporations Code section 1604.  That
statute states that where a shareholder seeks to inspect books and records but
must bring suit to obtain the requested documents (and prevails), the
shareholder is entitled to fees at least where the company’s failure was
“without justification.”  The amount must
be sufficient “to reimburse the shareholder . . . for the reasonable expenses
incurred by” the shareholder in connection with the action to enforce.  (See Farnum v. Iris Biotechnologies, Inc.
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 602.)  There is not
a lot of case law interpreting this statute. 
Plaintiff, who brought a petition to compel inspection of books and
records, seeks such fees.  The petition
was resolved in November 2021, when the parties stipulated to a
production.  Plaintiff seeks fees both
before and after suit was filed, but includes a 50% reduction in the fees
sought to account for the fact that plaintiff also sued for damages.  The court has previously denied plaintiff’s
request for fees concerning other causes of action. 
 
Defendant contends that the statute only allows fees to be
recovered after suit is filed, and therefore all pre-litigation fees are not
recoverable.  The court disagrees.  To be sure, had plaintiff made a demand and
had defendant agreed to produce the records, no fees would be recoverable.  But that is not what happened.  Defendant, without cause, refused to allow
any reasonable inspection even though plaintiff was unquestionably a
shareholder (indeed, he was at least arguably a director).  Suit was necessary to enforce the right.  This court simply does not believe that the
Legislature meant to bar recovery for all of the work necessary to attempt to
obtain the documents short of litigation and then to prepare the petition, and
APA has provided no authority for its very unusual position.  In fact, the court is aware of no fee
shifting provision that is so oddly construed. 
Nor is there any policy reason to justify such a forced reading of the
statute.  The goal is to get the company
to comply with its obligations, not to punish a shareholder who is forced to
bring a justifiable action.
 
Defendant also contends that plaintiff is only entitled to
recover that which plaintiff actually spent. 
More specifically, APA argues that the statute’s use of the word
“reimburse” means that only money the plaintiff is actually out of pocket can
be recovered.  There is some facial
appeal to that argument, but the court ultimately finds it unpersuasive in this
context.  First, the court disagrees that
a fee award is improper if the fee is only owing but not paid.  Like a cost that is “incurred” but not yet
paid, a fee incurred but not paid is recoverable.
 
Somewhat more difficult, though, would be a fee that is not
owing at all.  That can come about in two
ways that would be at odds with the traditional lodestar approach.  The first is where the attorney charges a
discounted rate to the client.  For
example, an attorney’s normal billing rate might be $500/hour but the attorney
(in the retainer agreement perhaps) agrees to a 10% discount and charges only
$450.  Does the statute permit recovery
at $500 or $450?  An argument can be made
either way, but the court can certainly see the logic behind $450, at least
absent some other fact suggesting that $450 is artificial.  Or a firm might be representing a client pro
bono, or on a contingency.  In that
regard, it might well be that there is no fee to be “reimbursed.”  Certainly that is the case for pro bono
representation.  And while a contingency
would make no sense if this case involved only the petition, where there is
also a suit for damages it could well be that the fee is contingent because the
one fee encompasses both sorts of action. 
The court must agree with plaintiff here that the statute does envision
a recovery for such a circumstance.
 
That said, though, defendant is entitled to know what the
fee arrangement actually is.  Thus, if
the fee is hourly and the fee sought is based on the fee actually charged and
to be paid, that is some evidence of reasonableness.  Clients are typically not in the habit of
overpaying fees or paying a higher than necessary hourly rate.  On the other hand, if the hourly rate charged
is less than the one sought, that might be evidence that the rate sought is not
reasonable.  It might not be—it could be
that the discount is because the client is related to the attorney by blood so
the attorney is not seeking a profit. 
But it might also be more reflective of an argument that the “rack rate”
is not the real hourly rate.  Finally,
where the fee charged is a contingency fee, the court would want to see some
good justification for the hourly rate chosen—for example, that such is the
rate charged to clients who are billed by the hour or some market analysis of
hourly rates for similar attorneys and cases of similar complexity.  And where the fee is the result of a mixture
of the work on the petition and the hoped-for recovery, the court would need to
understand how the two relate.
 
That was not done here. 
So, while the court agrees that the lodestar approach is the correct
one, more information is needed for the court to determine whether the actual
hourly rate is the correct one.  The
court has reviewed the Stein declaration, and believes that, subject to some
reconsideration in light of the foregoing, his hourly rate appears to be
reasonable.  The same is true of Mr.
Brettler’s rate.  Mr. Singer’s rate is
much higher.  He is well known to this
court as one of the pre-eminent entertainment litigation attorneys in the
industry—a deserved reputation.  His
hourly rate is well justified in cases where he is the lead counsel, but his
involvement here seems to have been quite minimal.  The court does not believe that it is
appropriate to have billed his time under those circumstances.  Further, although it is hard to be certain,
the court would assume that the retention of someone of Mr. Singer’s stature
related more to the non-petition side of the case.  The court notes that Mr. Brettler’s bills
seem to have been sent and invoiced as due and payable upon receipt.  If so, and if they were in fact paid without
deduction or offset, that would be prima facie evidence of their
reasonableness.  But the court does not
know if such is the case.  Mr. Goldman’s
rate seems to be based at least in part on the Laffey Matrix.  The court has never been overly impressed
with that matrix, which deals with the Washington DC area and does not seem to
have direct correlation to the matters at hand. 
His bills do not reflect a contemporaneous billing (in the sense of
sending a bill to the client) nor do they reflect any payments made.  The court will need to see a better
justification for the $950 hourly rate and better understand the fee
relationship.
 
As to the amount of time spent, the court is to some degree
faced with the problem of block billing. 
That means that all the time spent by a lawyer for a given day is billed
in one entry and not differentiated by task. 
If the entire fee were recoverable, the court would not be particularly
troubled, but that is not the case here. 
Plaintiff has tried to avoid the need to specify what time was done for
what task by taking a 50% across the board reduction.  The court’s problem is that such does not
seem right.  Indeed, there is lots of
case law suggesting that if the court had done that on its own, the action
would be reversable error.  It is little
better just because the attorney—who has a financial interest in the
percentage—does the across-the-board reduction. 
Further, it is likely that the time spent actually fashioning the
argument as to the fair value of the share buy-back is not recoverable as
opposed to the work done simply to get the documents.  It might be that 50/50 is the right division
pre-litigation, but the court is not sure that it sees that as being
compelling.  And after litigation, the
court would not think that is the right number. 
The court would have thought that very little discovery would be
appropriate, for example, for the petition, which was resolved by stipulation
but could have been resolved on the pleadings. 
 
The bottom line is that the attorneys doing the work need to
take a bit more time sorting out what parts of the work related to the petition
and what parts did not.  The court is not
convinced that 50/50 is the right approach. 
Having said that, the court will award “fees on fees,” meaning that the
fees expended to recover these fees (that is, phase II, not phase I) will be
fully recoverable.  It might well be that
APA would rather reach an accord on that issue rather than have plaintiff’s
counsel go back and parse through the entries to provide the best division
possible under the circumstances.  
 
Simply put, plaintiff is entitled to fees, and more likely
than not the hourly rates will be approved. 
And fees are recoverable whether or not the fee is contingent, and will
be recoverable including pre-litigation fees. 
And work on phase II of the fee motion will be 100% recoverable to the
extent reasonable.  What remains is to
firm up the hourly rates and also to provide some better justification for the
actual hours worked.
 
The court again suggests that the parties reach an accord on
this point.  The court notes that it will
award fees without regard to the actual recovery here on the merits.  The court does not believe that a reduction
is appropriate to the lodestar under the circumstances of this case and
plaintiff seeks no enhancement.