 This is an unlawful detainer action.  Defendants Rafael Manso Rocha and Paulina Espinoza Casillas, in pro per, demur to the Complaint because the “complaint states that ‘Defendants failed to comply with the requirements of the notice served.’ This statement is incorrect because plaintiff did not accept the rent before the notice expired.  Therefore, this action is based upon a fraudulent document and this court has not cause against this answering Defendants.”When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)The Demurrer is improper because it challenges the truth of the pleadings.  Within their declarations, Defendants also argue that the subject notice to quit was never posted at the premises.  This too merely challenges the Complaint’s allegations.Also within their declarations, Defendants contend that the Complaint “is in violation of the Los Angeles County Covid-19 Tenant Protection Resolution Section VI.A.1, Defendants raise the Los Angeles County Covid-19 Tenant Protection Resolution as a whole affirmative defense to this unlawful detainer eviction case as allowed by the Los Angeles County Covid-19 Tenant - Protection Resolution section XI.C.”This lacks merit because the LA County COVID-19 Protections Resolution “expired March 31, 2023” (https://dcba.lacounty.gov/noevictions/), and the Complaint pertains to outstanding rent from June through August 2023.  Indeed, “[b]eginning April 1, 2023:Normal rent payments must resume for rent due on or after April 1, 2023 to avoid being evicted.Most evictions for residential tenants [ ] may resume as normal unless permanent tenant protections apply.”  (Ibid.)Therefore, the Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within five days.Plaintiff to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.