 This is an unlawful detainer action.  Defendant Tashagay Spencer, a pro per litigant, demurs to the Complaint because “[t]he 3-Day Notice that was served on Defendant does not contain the provision mandated nor any language there from. Therefore, the 3-Day Notice to Pay/Quit is defective.”When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Defendant argues the subject 3-day notice is defective because it doesn’t contain the language mandated by Civ. Code § 1946 and Code Civ. Proc. § 1161(2).This lacks merit.  Civ. Code §1946 is not applicable as that section merely pertains to renewing or terminating leases that don’t have a stated duration.  This matter pertains to the failure to pay rent.   Code Civ. Proc. § 1161(2) requires that a 3-day notice for failure to rent include “the amount that is due, the name, telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent payment shall be made, and, if payment may be made personally, the usual days and hours that person will be available to receive the payment [ ], or the number of an account in a financial institution into which the rental payment may be made, and the name and street address of the institution (provided that the institution is located within five miles of the rental property), or if an electronic funds transfer procedure has been previously established, that payment may be made pursuant to that procedure, or possession of the property, shall have been served upon the tenant and if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also upon the subtenant.” It’s not clear what information is missing as the 3-day notice attached to the Complaint indicates the amount due as well as the name, telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent payment should be made.  (Compl., Exhibit 1.)  Without actual citation, Defendant also references the Protecting Tenants at Foreclosure Act of 2009, but this is irrelevant because there is no foreclosure at issue. Because it is not apparent how the Complaint is defective, the Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within 5 days.Plaintiff to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.