  Case Number:  23STCV20363    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Cross-Complainaints’ Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Cross-Complainaints’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted. 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Joseph Cohen and Janet Cohen (“Plaintiffs or “Cross-Defendants”)
filed this action against Mendy Ezagui and Mayta Malamud (“Defendants” or “Cross-Complainants”),
alleging that Defendants breached the lease agreement they had with Plaintiffs by
failing to pay rent for the years 2020, 2021, and 2022 for the property located
at 1115 S. Sherbourne (“Property”). Defendants’ Cross-Complaint alleges claims related
to habitability issues with the Property. 
Cross-Complainants filed a First-Amended Cross-Complaint, adding
a cause of action for declaratory relief.
Cross-Complainants filed
a Motion for Summary Adjudication. Plaintiff
filed an Opposition. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Cross-Complainants request
the Court take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint and the First-Amended
Cross-Complaint for Damages (FACC). The Court grants judicial notice of these
documents under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d) as court records.
LEGAL STANDARD
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more
causes of action within an action … if that party contends that the cause of action
has no merit or that there is no affirmative defense thereto …. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action….”
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication shall
proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. Id.,
subd. (f)(2).) Therefore, a defendant moving for summary adjudication “has met his
or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown
that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or
that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).
A party is entitled to summary judgment only if there is no triable
issue of material fact and the party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
§ 437c, subd. (c). A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for summary judgment
“bears the burden of persuasion that ‘each element of’ the ‘cause of action’ in
question has been ‘proved,’ and hence that ‘there is no defense’ thereto.” Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850. “Once the plaintiff …
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant … to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto. The defendant … shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth
the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” § 437c, subd. (p)(1).
“The party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 850. A triable issue of material fact exists if the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing
the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof. Ibid. “When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence
set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection),
as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the
light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467; Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).
 
ANALYSIS
Cross-Complainants move for summary adjudication of the eighth
cause of action in the First-Amended Cross-Complaint, seeking declaratory relief
as the parties' respective rights and obligations under the Lease, specifically
regarding the attorney’s fees available under the Lease.
I. Declaratory Relief
“Declaratory relief generally operates prospectively to declare
future rights, rather than to redress past wrongs.” Jolley v. Chase Home Finance,
LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909. The elements required to state a claim
for declaratory relief on a contract include (1) a legally binding contract that
is “a proper subject of declaratory relief” and (2) “an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to [the Cross-Complainant's] rights or obligations.”
Wilson & Wilson v. City Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
1559, 1582; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.
Here, it is uncontested that there is a contract between the
parties and that there is an actual controversy relating to their rights and obligations
under the contract to provide attorney’s fees to the prevailing party in litigation
between them. Accordingly, this issue is appropriately before the Court as a matter
of declaratory relief. 
II. Attorney Fee Cap
Cross-Complainants argue that
the terms of the Lease limit any potential attorney fees and costs to no more than
$1,000. Cross-Defendants argue that the Lease does not contain such a cap.
“The goal of contractual
interpretation is to determine and give effect to the mutual intention of the
parties.” Safeco Ins. Co. v. Robert S. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 758, 763 (citing
Civ. Code § 1636; Bay Cities Paving & Grading, Inc. v. Lawyers' Mutual
Ins. Co. (1993) 5 Cal. 4th 854). “That intent is to be inferred, if
possible, solely from the written provisions of the contract.” Pardee
Construction Co. v. Insurance Co. of the West (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1340,
1352. “The language of a contract is to govern its interpretation, if the
language is clear and explicit, and does not involve an absurdity.” Cal. Civil
Code § 1638. “The whole of a contract is to be taken together, so as to give effect
to every part, if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.”
Civ. Code, § 1641. “If possible, the court should give effect to every provision.
An interpretation which renders part of the instrument to be surplusage should be
avoided.” Appalachian Ins. Co. v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
1, 12 (citaitons omitted).  
It is undisputed that Paragraph 40 of the Lease states, “In any
action or proceeding arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing party between
Landlord and Tenant shall be entitled to reasonable attorney fees and costs, collectively
not to exceed $1,000 (or $__________), except as provided in paragraph 39A.” Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement at 2.
Paragraph 39A of the Lease states, “Consistent with paragraphs
B and C below, Landlord and Tenant agree to mediate any dispute or claim arising
between them out of this Agreement, or any resulting transaction, before resorting
to court action. Mediation fees, if any, shall be divided equally among the parties
involved. If, for any dispute or claim to which this paragraph applies, any party
commences an action without first attempting to resolve the matter through mediation,
or refuses to mediate after a request has been made, then that party shall not be
entitled to recover attorney fees, even if they would otherwise be available to
that party in any such action.” Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement at 3. 
The plain reading of the Lease is that there are no circumstances
in which it authorizes any party to recover more than $1,000 in attorney’s fees
and costs. Cross-Defendants attempt to make much out of the blank space for an alternative
cap to be placed, “(or $__________),” arguing that it indicates the parties
intended no cap to apply. This argument is without merit. The plain meaning of that
blank line, set off by parenthesis, is that the parties can substitute an alternative
cap if they choose to do so. That the parties left the line blank when executing
the lease indicates not that they intended for no cap on attorney’s fees and costs
but that they intended the $1,000 cap to apply. To hold otherwise would violate
the rule against surplusage by rendering the inclusion of the $1,000 default cap
meaningless. Accordingly, under the terms of the Lease, neither party can
recover more than $1,000 in attorney fees and costs. 
III. Mediation
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainants
cannot recover attorney fees because they refused to participate in mediation.
Opp. at pp. 3:25-28, 4:1-8. The uncontroverted evidence is that
Cross-Defendants refused to participate in mediation before filing their
Cross-Complaint. Kintzele Decl. ¶ 4. Moreover, Cross-Complainants
do not address this argument in their Reply. Accordingly, under the plain terms
of paragraph 39A of the Lease, Cross-Complainants
cannot recover attorney fees under the Lease. 
 
CONCLUSION
Cross-Complainaints’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted. The
terms of the Lease limit attorney fees and costs to no more than $1,000.