 Case Number:  23STLC05999    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  26 Casillas
v. Merrilee’s, Inc., et al.DEMURRER(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Merrilee’s, Inc. dba Merrilee’s Swimwear’s Demurrer
to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
On September 18, 2023, Plaintiff Jose Casillas (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against
Defendant Merrilee’s, Inc. dba Merrilee’s Swimwear (“Defendant”). The
Complaint alleges a single violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act (“the
UCRA”). Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to the
Complaint on January 25, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on February 14,
2024 and Defendant replied on February 21, 2024.
 
Discussion

 
Plaintiff alleges that he is a visually impaired individual
who requires screen-reading software to access and read website content.
(Compl., ¶3.) Defendant is the owner/operator of a public accommodation known
as https://merrilees.com (“the Website”) and locations connected to it. (Id.
at ¶4.) The Website and its subgroup of websites, which provide information,
price lists, product descriptions, and other material relating to the public
accommodations and online retail, are not fully accessible to screen-reading
technology used by visually impaired and blind individuals. (Id. at ¶¶6,
8.) On August 19, 2023, Plaintiff attempted to use the Website to access
information about Defendant’s business but was unable to do so. (Id. at
¶¶9-10.) As a result, Plaintiff was deterred from potentially transacting
business with Defendant and suffered damages. (Id. at ¶¶11-13.) The
Complaint alleges a single cause of action for violation of Civil Code section
51. (Id. at ¶16.) 
 
Defendant demurs to the Complaint
for failure to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action and
uncertainty. The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Motion, Stillman Decl.,
¶3.) Plaintiff argues that the demurrer is untimely because it was not filed
within 30 days. While a demurrer may be filed within that time, the Court has the
discretion to hear it even if filed after that time. (McAllister v. County
of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 279-280 [citing Code Civ. Proc., §
430.40].) 
 
Regarding the failure to allege sufficient facts, Defendant first
argues that the Complaint does not include a sufficient nexus between the
website and the physical location of the store, as required by case law.
Specifically, “[C]ourts applying the nexus test consider whether the alleged
website deficiencies impinge on the plaintiff’s ability to have equal access
to, and enjoyment of, the products and services offered at the physical
location.” (Martinez v. San Diego County Credit Union (2020) 50
Cal.App.5th 1048, 1067.) “But most courts have interpreted the requirement
broadly to conclude that a plaintiff has made the requisite showing if the
facts show the website “connect[s] customers to the goods and services of [the
defendant's] physical” place. [Citations omitted].” (Ibid.) The
Complaint only alleges that Defendant owns the public accommodations known as
the Website and any locations connected to the Website. (Compl., ¶4.) No other
information is alleged about the “locations” including whether they are
physical locations or the nature of their connection to the Website. The
Complaint, therefore, does not allege a sufficient nexus between the Website
and a physical location. 
 
Next, the demurrer argues that the Complaint does not allege
any specific facts regarding the deficiencies in the Website that impeded
Plaintiff’s access. The Court agrees. The Complaint simply alleges that the
Website and its subgroup of webpages were not fully accessible to
screen-reading technology. (Id. at ¶8.) No facts are alleged regarding
what full access entails and how it was lacking with respect to the Website,
such that the Complaint fails to put Defendant on notice of the accessibility
violations that purportedly caused Plaintiff harm.
 
Finally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged that he was deterred from the enjoyment of services
because access to information is not a right protected under the UCRA. The
authority on which Defendant relies, however, is a non-binding concurrence in Acheson
Hotels, LLC v. Laufer (2023) 601 U.S. 1, 11. This is not grounds to find a
failure to allege sufficient facts. 
 
Based on the first two grounds, however, the demurrer to the
Complaint is sustained. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment, however, the
burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Plaintiff
has filed an opposition and the Court finds a reasonable possibility that
Plaintiff can allege facts demonstrating the requisite nexus and nature of the
accessibility defects. Therefore, leave to amend is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Merrilee’s, Inc. dba Merrilee’s Swimwear’s
Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 