 Case Number:  23STLC06236    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  26  
Lupa-Chazan
v. Garcia, et al.MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES(CCP §§ 435, 436)
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Defendants Alicia Garcia and Sergio Garcia’s Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages is GRANTED WITH 30 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On September 28, 2023, Plaintiff Daniel Lupa-Chazan,
(“Plaintiff”), in pro se, filed this action for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence against Defendants Alicia Garcia and Sergio Garcia (“Defendants”).
Defendants filed the instant Motion to Strike Punitive Damages on December 22,
2023. Plaintiff filed an opposition on February 7, 2024 and an additional
opposition on February 13, 2024. Defendants filed a reply on February 21, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
Defendants bring the instant
Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 436. The Motion is accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5. (Motion, D’Andrea
Decl., Exh. 1.) Defendants move to strike the allegations and prayer for
punitive damages on the grounds that they do not meet the statutory
requirements. 
 
The Complaint alleges that the motor vehicle accident
occurred on March 26, 2023 in Glendale, California when Defendant rear-ended
Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Compl., ¶GN-1.) With respect to punitive damages,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant (presumably Defendant Sergio) was having a
medical emergency but continued to drive after he had stopped. (Id. at
¶EX-2.) It is further alleged that “At any point in time, he could have stopped
his vehicle or pulled over the side of the road. But he knowingly chose to
continue driving.” (Ibid.) With respect to Defendant Alicia, the
Complaint alleges that she should not have allowed Defendant Sergio to drive
such a large vehicle. (Ibid.) The police report attached to the
Complaint states that Defendant Sergio was not fully conscious during the
accident due to hypoglycemia and was unable to control his vehicle. (Id.
at Exh. 1, p. 5.) 
 
Punitive damages are authorized by Civil Code section 3294
in non-contract cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied . . . .” 
(Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) Malice means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(2).) Fraud means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the party of
the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) 
 
The Complaint does not allege sufficient facts to
demonstrate that either Defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious. It alleges that Defendant Sergio was having a medical emergency and
could have stopped driving. However, it does not allege the facts regarding how
the medical emergency occurred, Defendant Sergio’s history of driving with such
medical condition, or either Defendant’s state of mind leading up to the
accident. It cannot be shown from the facts alleged, therefore, that Defendants’
conduct leading up to the accident was despicable, which is defined as “base,
vile, or contemptible.” 
 
 Therefore, Plaintiff
has not alleged facts to support a request for punitive damages. However,
Plaintiff has shown that additional facts may be added to the Complaint to
sufficiently allege a lawful basis for punitive damages, following discovery.
(See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Leave to amend is
granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Alicia Garcia and Sergio Garcia’s Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages is GRANTED WITH 30 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 