 Case Number:  22STCV38717    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  26  
Daniel
v. Credit Corp Solutions, Inc., et al.DEMURRER(CCP §§ 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Demurrer of Defendant Credit Corp Solutions, Inc., assignee
of Compass Bank, to Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On December 13, 2022, Plaintiff Marzina Daniel aka Marzina
Florenstine Daniel (“Plaintiff”) brought the instant action against Defendant Credit
Corp Solutions, Inc., assignee of Compass Bank (“Defendant”). The case was
originally assigned to the unlimited jurisdiction court. On February 15, 2023,
the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint with
leave to amend. (Minute Order, 02/15/23.) Plaintiff filed the Second Amended
Complaint on December 14, 2023. On December 26, 2023, the Court reclassified
the action as a limited jurisdiction case. (Notice of Reclassification,
12/26/23.)
On January 2, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint. Plaintiff
filed an objection to the Demurrer on January 8, 2024.
Discussion
The demurring
party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading to resolve objections raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a).) Here, Defendant did not properly meet and confer with Plaintiff as
required under section 430.41. The supporting declaration indicates that
defense counsel made a single attempt by email to reach out to Plaintiff on December
27, 2023. (Demurrer, Shlink Decl. ¶3, Ex. A.) Plaintiff did not respond to this
email. This does not satisfy the meet and confer requirements under section
430.41, which requires the parties to meet over the phone or in person. Here,
Defendant had evidence that Plaintiff is of limited means but did not attempt
to call Plaintiff or provide an opportunity to meet in person to confer about
resolving the objections raised in the demurrer. Despite this deficiency, the
Court cannot sustain or overrule the demurrer under this basis and therefore
will address the merits of the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)

 
The Second
Amended Complaint states a single cause of action for general negligence but
attaches no facts to support the claim. (SAC, ¶10.) The form pleading indicates
that facts in support of each cause of action must be included in a separate
attachment. (Ibid.) However, no attachment with the necessary facts is
included with the Second Amended Complaint. (Ibid.) The demurrer to the
Second Amended Complaint, therefore, is sustained. 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) 
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can
be amended successfully. (Id.)
Here, Plaintiff has only filed an objection to the demurrer on two irrelevant
grounds, First, that the case was reclassified as a limited jurisdiction case,
which has no bearing on the sufficiency of the allegations. Second, Plaintiff
objects that the location of the hearing on the Demurrer is incorrectly stated
to be 111 N. Hill Street, Los Angeles, California, instead of 312 S. Spring
Street, Los Angeles, California. Again, this has no relevance to the
sufficiency of the allegations in the Second Amended Complaint and demonstrates
that Plaintiff is not prejudiced by the incorrect notice. These arguments,
therefore, do not demonstrate that amendment to the Second Amended Complaint is
possible to assert any cause of action against Defendant. Leave to amend is
denied.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Credit Corp Solutions, Inc., assignee of Compass
Bank’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 