  Case Number:  22STCV34846    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  17 SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES 
 
DEPARTMENT
17 
 



JENNIFER
  A. AYLWARD, an individual, 
 
                       
  Plaintiff, 
   
        
  vs. 
 
BRINKER
  INTERNATIONAL, INC., a Delaware corporation, et al., 
 
                       
  Defendants. 


 Case
  No.:   22STCV34846 
 
  
 
 Hearing
  Date: July 19, 2024 




 


 



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to quash the Annie Ortega Subpoena is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to quash the California Pizza Kitchen Subpoena is DENIED.
 
Each
of Plaintiff’s following motions to compel is GRANTED: 
 
(1) Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set No. 2); 
 
(2) Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set No. 3);
 
(3) Motion to
Compel Rosa Vasquez To Produce Documents;
 
(4)  Motion to Compel Courtney Peck To Produce
Documents;
 
(5) Motion to
Compel Frank Meija To Produce Documents; and 
 
(6) Motion to
Compel Defendant To Produce A PMQ Witness For Deposition
 
On
November 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit against Brinker International, Inc.,
Brinker International Payroll Co. LP, Brinker Restaurant Corporation, and Paul
Aoun, alleging: 
 
1.   
Disability Discrimination in Violation
of FEHA; 
2.   
Wrongful Discharge in Violation of
Public Policy; 
3.   
Failure to Accommodate Disability in
Violation of Government Code § 12940(m); 
4.   
Failure to Engage in Interactive
Process, California Government Code section 12940(N); 
5.   
Retaliation Under FEHA; 
6.   
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and
Harassment; 
7.   
Discriminatory Termination/Interference
in Violation of California Family Rights Act, California Government Code §
12945.2; 
8.   
Retaliation for Exercising the Right to
CFRA Leave Under Government Code § 12945.2; 
9.   
Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy Based Upon CFRA 
10.                      
Retaliation for Exercising the Right to
CFRA Leave Under Government Code § 12945.2; 
11.                      
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code
§ 232.5; 
12.                      
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code
§ 1102.5; 
13.                      
Harassment Based on Disability in
Violation of FEHA; 
14.                      
Declaratory Relief; 
15.                      
Injunctive Relief; 
16.                      
Failure to Allow Inspection of
Personnel File; and 
17.                      
Unfair Business Practices. 
 
On 6/27/2024,
Plaintiff moved to quash Defendant’s Notice of Deposition and/or Subpoena for
Annie Ortega. 
 
On 6/27/2024,
Plaintiff also moved to quash Defendant’s Subpoena to California Pizza Kitchen.

 
For ease, the
Court has consolidated its analysis into a single ruling. 
 
Discussion 
 
I.                  
Motion to
Quash (Annie Ortega)
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to quash the deposition of Annie Ortega, arguing it is defective because:
(1) the Notice of Deposition fails to provide the requisite ten-day notice
period); (2) it is unreasonable to issue and serve a Notice of Deposition and a
subpoena based on only a few days’ notice, especially given that (a) Brinker
has known for almost two months that Plaintiff intended to obtain testimony
from the deponent, (b) the deponent is a current or former employee of Brinker,
and (c) Brinker has had the deponent’s contact information; and (3) the
deponent is a third party and must be served with a deposition subpoena. A copy
of the subpoena must have been attached to the Notice of Deposition. (CCP §
2025.240(c).)
 
            In
opposition, Defendants argue that “[w]hile Defendants acknowledge the notice
was served with less than 10 days’ notice, Defendants did so because (a) the
witness was available on this date, (b) the Court recently instructed the
parties to work together in good faith on completing depositions even if the
dates fell after the discovery cut off; and (c) the 10th day fell on the same
date as this Court’s hearing on Defendants’ motions for summary judgment.
Despite Plaintiff’s position on witness Ortega’s deposition, Defendants have
been working with Plaintiff in good faith to finalize depositions including the
deposition of witness Sara Phinney noticed by Plaintiff and scheduled to
proceed after the discovery cut-off.” (Opp., 2: 11-18.)
 
            The
Court has instructed the parties to cooperate and work in good faith to
complete outstanding discovery, including depositions. 
 
Ms. Ortega is
an important witness as she submitted a declaration in support of Plaintiff’s
opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, and her deposition is
necessary due to Plaintiff’s reliance on her statements in support of
Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
On the
evening of 6/21/2024, Defendants learned that Plaintiff had obtained a written
declaration from Ms. Ortega when Plaintiff served her opposition papers to
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. (Quiles Nevarez Dec. at ¶8.) On 6/24/2024
(the next business day), Defendants noticed Ms. Ortega’s deposition for
7/3/2024. (Quiles Nevarez Dec. at ¶9.)
 
As such,
Defendants’ conduct is not the result of delay or gamesmanship. Moreover, just
as Plaintiff continues to seek discovery past the technical cut-off date,
Defendants are entitled to seek relevant discovery.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to quash is denied. The deposition of witness
Ortega to proceed within 10 days of entry of the Court’s ruling.
 
II.              
Motion to
Quash (California Pizza Kitchen) 
 
Plaintiff
seeks to quash the subpoena served on California Pizza Kitchen (CPK) for
documents relating to Aylward. 
 
The Subpoena
seeks Plaintiff’s personnel file from CPK, the job that Plaintiff held, and
continues to hold, since her termination by Defendants. More specifically, the
Subpoena seeks
 
All
employment records pertaining to PLAINTIFF, including, but not limited to, (a)
Personnel records, compensation, and pay records; (b) Job descriptions related
to PLAINTIFF’s employment; (c) All performance reviews, disciplinary notices,
and counseling memos related to PLAINTIFF’s job performance; (d) Employment
agreements, or offer letters; (e) Separation letters, or resignation notices.
 
Plaintiff
contends that the subpoena is overbroad because it requests all employment
records pertaining to Plaintiff, and because it contains specific categories
that request documents that are protected by Aylward’s constitutional right to
privacy, such as “performance reviews, disciplinary notices, and counseling
memos related to [Aylward’s] job performance” (Subpoena ¶ 2(c)), as well as a
catchall request for all “personnel records.” (Subpoena ¶ 2(a).)
 
Plaintiff
requests that the Subpoena be quashed or modified to only those categories of
documents to which Plaintiff does not object. Plaintiff does not object to the
following specific categories: documents relating to Aylward’s efforts to
obtain employment, her compensation records, the job descriptions relating to
her job, employment agreements or offer letters, and any resignation or
separation letters.
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that the scope of the subpoena is not overbroad,
and that the scope of documents are relevant to showing whether or not
Plaintiff has a history of ongoing performance problems with meeting or exceeding
restaurant sales, profit, and other KPI goals. (Nevarez Decl. ¶ 3).
Additionally, Plaintiff’s subsequent employment records will confirm whether
she has suffered the alleged loss of earnings damages she now claims and how
she explained her separation from employment with Defendants and whether her
explanation is consistent with the allegations in this lawsuit. (Nevarez Decl.
¶ 4)
 
After review,
the Court agrees with Defendants that the documents sought are relevant, and
the request is appropriately tailored. Plaintiff’s privacy interests in her own
employment records are diminished because Plaintiff placed her employment
history at issue by filing this litigation. Specifically, Plaintiff claims that
she was not terminated for cause (poor performance) but rather because of her
alleged disability. As such, the relevance of her performance records outweighs
the intrusion into Plaintiff’s privacy. (See e.g. Board of Trustees v.
Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 526-27.) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to quash the CPK Subpoena is denied. 
 
III.           
Motions to Compel
 
In addition
to the motions to quash set forth above, the following motions to compel are
pending: 
 
(1) Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set No. 2); 
 
(2) Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set No. 3);
 
(3) Motion to
Compel Rosa Vasquez To Produce Documents;
 
(4)  Motion to Compel Courtney Peck To Produce
Documents;
 
(5) Motion to
Compel Frank Meija To Produce Documents; and 
 
(6) Motion to
Compel Defendant To Produce A PMQ Witness For Deposition
            
            On
7/2/2024, the Court ordered counsel to file a Notice indicating which motions
would actually need to be heard on July 19, 2024. Any motions that were
resolved between counsel were to be cancelled on the Court's reservation system
by the moving party.
 
            No
such notice was filed. Rather, the only filing was a 7/17/2024 reply from
Plaintiff indicating that all motions remained on calendar, and indicating that
Defendants had, on July 8, 2024, asked Plaintiff to stipulate that their
opposition could be filed on July 16, 2024. As noted by Plaintiff, this offer
made little sense as it would leave only two days before the hearing, and
virtually no time for Plaintiff to respond to Defendant’s opposition (nor would
it provide this Court any reasonable opportunity to review the moving papers). 
 
Defendants
did not respond, and did not thereafter file an opposition to any of these
motions. 
 
As such, in
addition to failing to oppose any of these motions, the evidence also indicates
that they made no effort to engage in meet and confer to resolve any or all of
these motions. Plaintiff’s reply sets forth multiple emails sent to Defendants
counsel to address the relevant issues here, and those emails were
ignored.  As such sanctions are
warranted.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 