  Case Number:  23STCV03290    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Guillermo Alamilla Canul’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
Plaintiff
Guillermo Alamilla Canul moves for summary adjudication of “the issue that
Defendant owed a duty to consider Plaintiff an employee (and not an independent
contractor) as a matter of law.” 
(Motion, p. 2.)  
This
“issue of duty” is not a proper subject of summary adjudication.  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (CCP § 437c(f)(1).)  “[T]he Legislature ‘did not define what it
meant by “an issue of duty.” ’ ”  (Linden
Partners v. Wilshire Linden Associates (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 508, 518 (Linden
Partners).)
  Courts have only held two
types of “issues of duty” are subject to summary adjudication: the issue of a
whether defendant owed a duty of care in a negligence cause of action, and “the
existence or non-existence of a duty in the nature of a contractual obligation.”  (Linden Partners, supra, 62
Cal.App.4th at pp. 518-519.)  Linden
Partners held summary adjudication was proper on the issue of whether the
seller of a commercial property had a contractual duty “to be accurate in
furnishing the amount of [a subtenant’s] rent.” 
(Id. at p. 522.)  
Similarly, in Transamerica Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1994)
29 Cal.App.4th 1705, the court held that whether an insurer had a contractual
duty to defend was an “issue of duty” capable of summary adjudication.  (Id. at p. 1713.)  The court reasoned, “The question of whether
a duty exists under certain circumstances is generally a question of law.  [Citation.] 
This is particularly true in the context of insurance and the issue of
duty to defend.  [Citation.]  It is reasonable to conclude that this is why
the Legislature included duty as an issue to be addressed in a motion for
summary adjudication.”  (Ibid.)
These issues of duty may be
summarily adjudicated because they are questions of law.  In negligence claims, “[d]uty, being a
question of law, is particularly amenable to resolution by summary judgment.”  (Regents of University of California v.
Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 618.) 
The same is often true for contractual duties.  “The
interpretation of a contract is a judicial function.  [Citation.] 
In engaging in this function, the trial court ‘give[s] effect to the
mutual intention of the parties as it existed’ at the time the contract was
executed.  [Citation.]  Ordinarily, the objective intent of the
contracting parties is a legal question determined solely by reference to the
contract’s terms.”  (Brown v.
Goldstein (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 418, 432.)  
Plaintiff argues the “duty to
consider Plaintiff an employee” is a duty in the nature of a contractual
obligation because “[a]n employment relationship is a contract, whether it is
written or oral, express or implied.” 
(Motion, p. 2.)  But plaintiff
provides no authority referring to the question of employment status as a
matter of “duty” at all.  Rather than
engaging in the judicial function of deciding duty for negligence or deciding a
contract’s legal effects, answering this question generally requires a
fact-specific inquiry under the relevant legal standard.
Plaintiff’s motion seeks to
establish he was an employee under the ABC test stated in Dynamex Operations
W. v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 903. 
The California Supreme Court held, “[A] worker is properly considered an
independent contractor to whom a wage order does not apply only if the hiring
entity establishes: (A) that the worker is free from the control and direction
of the hirer in connection with the performance of the work, both under the
contract for the performance of such work and in fact; (B) that the worker
performs work that is outside the usual course of the hiring entity's business;
and (C) that the worker is customarily engaged in an independently established
trade, occupation, or business of the same nature as the work performed for the
hiring entity.”  (Id. at pp.
916-917.)  Substantively, plaintiff seeks
an order summarily adjudicating that defendant cannot establish at least one of
the three prongs of the ABC test.  Deciding
the question requires making factual findings. 
It is not an “issue of duty” within the meaning of Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c and such an order would not dispose of an entire cause
of action.  The court therefore cannot
grant summary adjudication.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Guillermo Alamilla
Canul’s motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 