 Case Number:  22STCV20788    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 9, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Maral Kazandjian, et al. v. Does 1-100
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV20788            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Kevork Kahwajian
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Maral
Kazandjian and Souzi Zerounian-Khanzadian
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for defamation that was filed on June 24, 2022.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants created and shared several social media posts
accusing Plaintiffs of being adulterers and prostitutes and making derogatory
comments about their sexual orientation.
 
Defendant Kevork Kahwajian, sued as
Doe 2, demurs to the Complaint in its entirety. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Special Motion to
Strike is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Kevork Kahwajian, sued as
Doe 2, demurs to the Complaint in its entirety. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Defendant’s
counsel attached to the Demurrer states that the parties met and conferred on
March 26, 2024 and March 29, 2024, without success. (Declaration of Michael L.
Allan ISO Dem ¶¶ 3-5.) Defendant has satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer
requirement. 
 
First Cause of Action: Defamation per Se
 
            Defendant
asserts that the first cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action because the Complaint fails to allege the elements
of defamation, the alleged statements are not defamatory on their face, and
because the statements involve matters of public concern. Defendant’s bald
assertions, unsupported by citations to the Complaint or to legal authority are
not sufficient to demonstrate the insufficiency of a cause of action, nor is
Defendant’s unexplained surmise that Plaintiffs are public figures. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Second Cause of Action: False Light Invasion of Privacy
 
            Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for false light invasion of privacy. As
the parties agree this cause of action survives or falls with the first cause
of action, Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Third Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress
 
            Defendant asserts
that the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. However,
despite reciting the standards for pleading this claim, Defendant offers no
explanation beyond bare assertions devoid of citation to the pleadings
demonstrating the insufficiency of the third cause of action as pled. Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
Defendant asserts that the fourth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. However, despite reciting the
standards for pleading this claim, Defendant offers no explanation beyond bare
assertions devoid of citation to the pleadings demonstrating the insufficiency
of the third cause of action as pled. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Immunity Under Communications Decency Act
 
            Defendant
also argues that he is immune from liability under section 230 of the
Communications Decency Act. This statute states, in pertinent part, that “[n]o
provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the
publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information content
provider.” (42 U.S.C. § 230(c)(1).) The CDA also prohibits liability under
state law that is inconsistent with section 230. (42 U.S.C. § 230(e)(3).) As
interpreted by the California Supreme Court, the CDA protects an individual
user from liability for republication of allegedly defamatory material created
by another. (Barrett v. Rosenthal (2006) 40 Cal.4th 33, 40-41.) 
 
Defendant asserts that the
Complaint’s claims against him are based entirely on republished material—a
conclusion which is wholly unsupported by the Complaint with the sole exception
of the May 5, 2022 post. (Complaint ¶ 14.) However, the protections of section
230 do not apply to someone who creates or develops defamatory content or who
makes a material contribution to the illegality of the content. (Phan v.
Pham (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 323, 328 [introductory paragraph to defamatory
email forwarded by defendant did not create liability where the paragraph
merely invited the recipient to read the underlying material].) With respect to
the May 5 post, Defendant’s addition to the underlying material appears to
continue the derogatory speculation as to Plaintiffs’ sexual conduct. Thus, the
Complaint alleges that Defendant is the creator and not merely the distributor
of allegedly defamatory content, and therefore Defendant may not claim immunity
under section 230 of the Communications Decency Act. 
 
//
 
//
 
Uncertainty
 
            Defendant
also asserts that the Complaint is uncertain as to him. A cursory examination
of the Complaint belies that contention, and Defendant’s conclusions that the
Complaint is vague and ambiguous do not make it so. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 9,
2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 