  Case Number:  22STCV13087    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  47 TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
CASE:    Albert Santa v. Sky Asset Management Group, et
al.
CASE NO.:  22STCV13087
Plaintiff’s MIL #1 -- seeking to preclude defendant
from raising any affirmative defense not asserted in Defendant’s answer.  
RULING:  Denied,
without prejudice.
Putting aside defects in fundamental jurisdiction, “other
sorts of objections a defendant might have on the merits—including an objection
that liability is barred by an affirmative defense—are ordinarily deemed
‘waived’ if the defendant does not raise them in its demurrer or answer to the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.80, subd. (a).)”  (Quigley v. Garden Valley Fire Prot. Dist.
(2019) 7 Cal. 5th 798, 807.)  This means
that both the evidence and arguments that may be raised by Defendant at trial
are circumscribed by the allegations and defenses in its Answer.  That said, Plaintiff has failed to identify
an allegedly waived defense that Defendant seeks to assert at trial nor any
specific evidence that should be excluded based on the waiver of any
defense.  Accordingly, the Court is
unable to issue any ruling excluding or limiting arguments or evidence at
trial.  If an objection to specific
evidence or arguments is raised at trial based on the contention that an
affirmative defense has been waived, the Court will deal with it at that time.
Plaintiff’s MIL #2 -- seeking to exclude any evidence
not disclosed during discovery.    
RULING:  Denied,
without prejudice.
Plaintiff has not
identified any specific evidence that should be excluded nor demonstrated a
right to an exclusion order.  
In general, a party
who has responded to formal written discovery has no affirmative duty to
supplement its responses when new information comes into its possession.  (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1318–1319, 1328.) 
“[A]bsent unusual circumstances, such as repeated and egregious
discovery abuses,” courts will not impose an evidentiary sanction for a failure
to disclose unless there has been a “willful” failure to disclose.  (Id., at p. 1327.)  Here, there has been no showing that any of
Plaintiff’s discovery responses were willfully false or incomplete.  (Id., at p. 1323-1324.)  Nor has Plaintiff pointed to any violation of
a court order directing Defendant to provide further answers to Plaintiff’s
discovery.  
Here, Plaintiff has
not only failed to identify specific evidence that he claims should be
excluded, but he has made no effort to show that any non-disclosure by Defendant
was willful or that the failure to disclose violated a court order.  On this record, there is no basis for an
exclusion order, but if there are specific objections made at trial grounded on
the proper showing, the Court will consider whether previously unproduced
evidence should be excluded. 
Plaintiff’s MIL #
3:  to exclude undesignated witnesses and
undisclosed expert witness testimony.  
TENTATIVE
RULING:  DENIED, without prejudice.
Plaintiff has failed
to identify any expert or lay witnesses he seeks to exclude so the Court is
unable to issue a meaningful evidentiary order. 
To the extent Plaintiff seeks to bar testimony by witnesses not
identified in discovery, the standards for doing so are set forth above.  As for Plaintiff’s objection to undisclosed
experts, the Court will apply the following standards at trial.  
The legal standards applicable to the admission of expert
testimony at trial are as follows.  Under
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 2034.210, subdivision (a), any party may
demand the exchange of expert witness information.  In this exchange, a party may provide either
“[a] list setting forth the name and address of any person whose expert opinion
that party expects to offer in evidence at the trial” or “[a] statement that
the party does not presently intend to offer the testimony of any expert witness.”
(CCP § 2034.260, subds. (b)(1 & 2).) 
The statute and the case law interpreting this statute “require that
‘the general substance of the testimony which the witness is expected to give’
must be disclosed upon proper request. As interpreted by the California courts,
this requires a party to ‘disclose the substance of the facts and the
opinions to which the expert will testify, either in his witness exchange list,
or in his deposition, or both.’”  (Easterby
v. Clark  (2009) 1717 Cal. App. 4th
772, 778 [citations omitted, emphasis in original]; see also Kennemur v.
State of California (1982) 133 Cal. App. 3d 907, 919 [if an appropriate
statutory demand is made, the party is required to disclose the “general
substance” of the expected expert testimony, “either in his witness exchange
list or at his expert’s deposition, if the expert is asked,” including the
substance of the facts and the opinions to be offered at trial].) 
A party may move to exclude the opposing party’s undisclosed
expert but only if certain requirements are satisfied.  Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.300,
a party who has made a complete and timely expert disclosure under section
2034.260 may move for exclusion of another party’s expert if the latter party
has “unreasonably failed” to disclose the expert in response to a demand to
exchange expert information under Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.210, et
seq., to provide the requisite expert declaration, to produce expert
reports, or to make the expert available for deposition.
Here, Plaintiff has not established any of the predicates
for an exclusion order.  There is no
evidence of a demand for exchange of expert information, nor any proof that
Plaintiff made a complete and timely expert disclosure, thus entitling him to
relief.  Nor is any showing as to
Defendant’s compliance with such a demand and the other statutory requirements
flowing from it.    
Plaintiff’s MIL #
4:  to exclude any evidence of Plaintiff’s
receipt of collateral source benefits or payments, including unemployment
benefits, disability payments, and workers’ compensation benefits.  
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED, to the extent that there
is evidence that Plaintiff received such payments.
Plaintiff invokes the collateral source rule to argue that
any unemployment benefits, disability
payments, and workers’ compensation benefits received by him are
irrelevant, so evidence of such payments should be excluded from trial.  Courts in California have “long adhered to
the doctrine that if an injured party receives some compensation for his
injuries from a source wholly independent of the tortfeasor, such payment
should not be deducted from the damages which the plaintiff would otherwise
collect from the tortfeasor. (Helfend v. S. Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1970) 2 Cal. 3d 1, 6 [Citations omitted].) 
This rule applies in cases “in which the plaintiff has been compensated
by an independent collateral source—such as insurance, pension, continued
wages, or disability payments—for which he had actually or constructively . . .
paid or in cases in which the collateral source would be recompensed from
the tort recovery through subrogation, refund of benefits, or some other
arrangement.”  (Id., at pp. 13–14
[emphasis added].)
Defendant may argue that government benefits should not be
treated as a collateral source because they are not derived from a private
insurance policy that Plaintiff opted to fund. 
But this is not the proper question under the collateral source rule,
which embodies two policy goals – to credit the employee’s contributions to a
system designed to secure the prospect of future payments and to deny the
tortfeasor the benefit of such payments. 
(Id., at pp. 9-10.)  In
cases involving governmental benefits, the Court is required to ask whether
Plaintiff made contributions entitling him to these benefits and whether
Defendant’s role, if any, in funding such benefits involved its general status
as an employer or its special status as a tortfeasor covering Plaintiff’s
injuries.  
In McQuillan v. Southern Pacific Co. (1974) 40 Cal.
App. 3d 802, for example, the Court of Appeal confronted the question of
whether retirement benefits paid to a state employee were subject to the
collateral source rule.  Ruling that the
rule applied to bar any offset based on retirement payments, the appellate
court observed that both employees and employers make contributions to the
system, that the right to secure such benefits is earned by employee’s
performance of his or her duties, and that they are part of the contract for
state employment guaranteed by statute. 
(Id., at pp. 807-808.) 
Based on these factors, the McQuillan Court held:  
It is clear from the nature of the retirement system that the
contributions by the State to the retirement fund were not contributions made
by it as a tortfeasor but resulted from a contractual and statutory obligation
completely outside the notions of tort liability. Rather, they fall within the
ambit of the cases that hold pension and insurance payments to be collateral
sources which are not intended to benefit a tortfeasor and which do not reduce
his liability.
(Id., at p. 808; see also Mize-Kurzman v. Marin
Community College District (2012) 202 Cal. App. 4th 832, 872-873
[Citing McQuillan with approval]; Rotolo Chevrolet v. Superior Court (2003)
105 Cal. App. 4th 242, 246 [“With respect to his lost earnings, the
[disability] pension benefits clearly are a collateral source and cannot reduce
[Plaintiff’s] damages.”].) 
The same reasoning applies to Plaintiff’s receipt of any
government benefits from the State. “To finance state unemployment and
disability benefits, California requires contributions from both employers and
employees. Generally, employers must annually contribute to the unemployment
fund based on wages paid to their employees. 
([Unemployment Ins. Code] § 976.) Employees contribute to the disability
fund based on wages received; however, employers must withhold the employees'
contributions from their wages. (§§ 984, 986–987, 2901.)” (Hunt Bldg. Corp.
v. Bernick (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 213, 219.)  A company’s obligation to make payments to
the state disability program grows out of its employment relationship with its
employees.  (Id.)  But disability payments paid by the State to
a worker with a disability are not charged to the specific account of the
worker’s employer.  (Unemployment Ins.
Code § 2603.)  Instead, they are
government entitlements designed to advance the public purpose of replacing the
employee’s lost wages during a period of disability and reducing the suffering
caused by unemployment.  (Unemployment
Ins. Code § 2601.)  There is no basis for
concluding that state disability payments should be used to offset an
employer’s liability to its worker.  The
Court concludes, therefore, that Plaintiff’s receipt of state disability
benefits or other government payments cannot be used to reduce or offset any
damages sought by him in this case.  
Nor is there any other basis for admitting such
evidence.  “The collateral source rule
operates both as a substantive rule of damages and as a rule of evidence. As a
rule of evidence, it precludes the introduction of evidence of the plaintiff
being compensated by a collateral source unless there is a ‘persuasive showing’
that such evidence is of ‘substantial probative value’ for purposes other than
reducing damages. (Hrnjak v. Graymar, Inc. (1971) 4 Cal.3d 725, 733, 94
Cal.Rptr. 623, 484 P.2d 599; see also Blake v. E. Thompson Petroleum Repair
Co. (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 823, 830–832, 216 Cal.Rptr. 568.)”  (Arambula v. Wells (1999) 72 Cal. App.
4th 1006, 1015.)  As Defendant has not
offered any opposition to the motion, the Court concludes that any evidence that
Plaintiff received government payments should be excluded for all purposes in
this trial.    
Plaintiff’s MIL #
5:  to exclude any evidence of Plaintiff’s arrest
and felony conviction from 1996.  
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED.
Under Evidence Code § 788, the credibility of a witness may
be attacked by showing that he or she has been convicted of a felony.  (Evidence Code § 788.)  This may be done by examination of the
witness or by offering the record of the criminal judgment.  (Id.)   Plaintiff moves to exclude his felony
conviction for the sale of cocaine under Evidence Code § 352, arguing that its
probative value is outweighed by the prejudice to Plaintiff and its tendency to
confuse and mislead the jury and consume unnecessary time.  
Although it is relevant evidence to challenge witness
veracity, the Court has discretion under Evidence Code § 352 to exclude such
criminal evidence if the probative value is substantially outweighed by its
prejudicial effect.  (People v. Beagle
(1972) 6 Cal.3d 441 (felony convictions); People v. Feaster (2002)
102 Cal.App.4th 1084, 1093-1994 [“The admission of past misconduct involving
moral turpitude to impeach a witness in a criminal trial is subject to the
trial court’s discretion under Evidence Code section 352].)
The California Supreme Court explained the factors to be
considered in assessing whether a felony conviction admissible under § 788
should nonetheless be excluded under § 352. 
In People v. Beagle, the Supreme Court held that a trial court
may exclude evidence of prior felony convictions offered to impeach a witness
upon balancing the following four factors:
(1) Whether the prior convictions
reflect adversely on the defendant's honesty or veracity;
                (2) Whether the prior felony
conviction is near or remote in time;
(3) Whether the prior felony
conviction is for substantially similar conduct for which the accused is on
trial;
(4) The effect if the defendant
does not testify out of fear of being prejudiced because of impeachment by
prior convictions.
(Id., at p. 453.) 
The first two factors are to be weighed “against the probability that
admission of such evidence ‘will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or
(b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or
of misleading the jury,” while the “third and fourth factors provided guidance
in assessing the weight of these countervailing considerations.”  (People v. Lassell (1980) 108 Cal.
App. 3d 720, 724.)  
Weighing these factors, the Court finds that the 1996 arrest,
conviction, and related evidence should be excluded under Evidence Code §
352.  Assessing the first factor, the
Court finds that a conviction for sale of cocaine does not involve a crime that
reflects on Plaintiff’s honesty or veracity and, thus, is not probative of his
credibility.  The second factor also
strongly supports exclusion in that a criminal conviction entered more than 25
years ago says little about Plaintiff’s present veracity or morality.  This is particularly true since the evidence here
shows that Plaintiff served his sentence and completed his probation more than
a decade ago.  The third factor is
immaterial as Plaintiff is not charged with any crime in this lawsuit, but the
civil character of this case and Plaintiff’s status as the allegedly wronged
party reinforce the disconnection between Plaintiff’s current lawsuit and the
prior conviction.  As to the fourth
factor, the Court finds it would be against public policy to impede Plaintiff’s
prosecution of this case, involving as it does the enforcement of important labor
statutes protecting workers’ rights, based on the potential admission of a
decades-old conviction.  Given these
considerations, the Court finds that any probative value of the criminal
conviction is exceedingly small and strongly outweigh by the potential
prejudice to Plaintiff and the likelihood that its admission would confuse
and/or mislead the jury and lead to an undue consumption of time at trial. 
In summary, while a criminal conviction may be admitted
under Evidence Code § 788 in some cases, the Court finds that, in this trial,
all mention of the arrest, underlying conduct, conviction, sentence and
probation should be excluded under Evidence Code § 352.  
 