  Case Number:  24LBCV02271    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Victoria Sims filed this
action against Defendants, Grand Avenue Healthcare & Wellness LP, Grand
Avenue wellness GP, LLC, and Rockport Administrative Services, LLC for elder
abuse and related claims.  
 
2.     Motion
for Trial Setting Preference
a.            
Governing Law
Plaintiff moves for trial setting
preference pursuant to CCP §36(a), which provides:
(a) A party to a civil action who
is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the
court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings:
 (1) The party has a substantial interest in
the action as a whole.
(2) The health of the party is
such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest
in the litigation.
 
b.            
Issues Presented
Plaintiff establishes she is over
70 years of age, and Defendants do not contest the showing.  Defendants argue Plaintiff failed to
establish her health is such that preference is necessary, and also that their
Constitutional right to due process will be violated if the motion is granted.
 
c.            
Plaintiff’s Health
The threshold inquiry is whether
Plaintiff made a sufficient showing that her health is such that preference is
necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest in the litigation.  
 
Plaintiff supports her motion with
the Declaration of Shahab Attarchi, M.D. 
Attarchi declares he examined Plaintiff on 10/20/24, and concludes
Plaintiff’s health is such that there is a substantial medical doubt that she
has more than six months to live. 
Attarchi, at page 2 of his declaration, details a laundry list of
physical conditions from which Plaintiff suffers.  The Court will not detail each and every one
of those conditions, but notes that they include blindness, being bed-bound,
congestive heart failure, COPD, repeated hospitalizations, edema, multiple
falls, A-fib, strokes, etc.  The Court
finds the conditions are such that any reasonable person can conclude that
Plaintiff will likely be prejudiced if her case is not heard on a preferential
basis.  
 
Defendants, in their opposition,
argue Plaintiff should have presented the declaration of her treating
physician, rather than a physician retained by her attorney.  CCP §36.5, however, specifically permits a
motion under §36(a) to be supported by an attorney and made on information and
belief.  If an attorney affidavit is
sufficient, then a declaration from a retained medical professional is clearly
also sufficient.  
 
d.            
Due Process
Defendants argue their
Constitutional rights will be violated if the motion is granted.  The court of appeals considered the issue in
Peters v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218.  The court’s ruling in Peters is ambiguous in
this regard.  The court held:
Real parties in interest's due
process argument is that section 36, subdivisions (b) and (f) deprive a
defendant of adequate time to prepare for trial. An under 14 year old
prospective plaintiff, real parties in interest speculate, may leisurely secure
experts, prepare for trial and then spring a subdivision (b) preference motion,
forcing a trial date within 120 days or at most 135 days (§36, subd. (f)).
 
But real parties in interest do not
claim, nor did real parties in interest claim to the trial court, that if
petitioner's trial setting preference motion was granted they would have
inadequate time to prepare for trial. Therefore, real parties in interest have
no standing to raise this due process claim. “The rule is well established ...
that one will not be heard to attack a statute on grounds that are not shown to
be applicable to himself....” (In re Cregler, supra, 56 Cal.2d 308, 313, 14
Cal.Rptr. 289, 363 P.2d 305.) Real parties in interest do not suggest that any
exception to this rule applies.
 
We therefore decline to consider
real parties in interest's due process argument.
 
The Court has researched this
issue, and has not found any case subsequent to Peters that has expressly ruled
on the issue.  The Los Angeles Superior Court consistently hears and manages preference
cases.  Defense Counsel is encouraged to
use the ex parte application process to obtain hearing dates when necessary,
and to work with Plaintiff’s attorney to ensure discovery is completed
expediently.  The Court admonishes the
parties that it will be likely to impose sanctions if either party does not
fully comply with discovery obligations in light of the preference status.
 
e.            
Trial
Setting
CCP §36(f) requires the Court to set trial not more than 120 days after
the hearing on this motion.  120 days
after the hearing on today’s motion falls on Thursday, 3/20/25.  The Court therefore sets this case for trial
on Thursday, 3/20/25 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The Court sets the case for a Final Status
Conference on Monday, 3/17/25 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  
 
f.             
Summary
Judgment Motions
Defendants ask that, in the event
the motions are granted, they be permitted to file summary judgment motions and
the Court schedule a hearing date on those motions.  Plaintiff, in reply, concedes that a hearing
date is necessary and indicates she is amenable to a hearing date up to the
date of trial.  She asks that she also be
permitted to file a summary judgment motion. 

 
The Court is aware that a
plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment in the elder abuse context is
exceedingly rare.  The plaintiff must
prove up each element of her claim, including the amount of her damages, in
order to obtain summary judgment, which is not possible.  
 
The Court is specially setting a
hearing on any summary judgment motions the parties wish to file in this case
for Thursday, 3/06/25.  The parties must
familiarize themselves with Assembly Bill 2049, which changed the statutory
dates for moving, opposition, and reply papers, and must file all papers in
compliance with the newly enacted statute. 

 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.