 Case Number:  23SMCV00120    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  I The court is in receipt of the ex parte application
to vacate the order dismissing the cross-complaint entered in July 30,
2024.  What happened is apparently
this.  The motion was initially set for
July 23, 2024.  The court believes
everyone was aware of that.  However, due
to the cyberattack on the court, on its own motion the court continued the
matter for one week to July 30, 2024. 
The court was to give notice. 
Notice was mailed the next day by the court clerk.  However, for reasons unknown, the court did
not mail the notice to Ashkar’s counsel, Mr. Malone.  It was mailed to other counsel, including
Ashkar’s prior counsel, but not to current counsel.  This is the court’s error.  Mr. Malone substituted in as counsel on June
10, 2024, and filed a formal substitution of counsel on that date.  The address given was in Lake Forest, which
is apparently not the correct address either, but nonetheless the substitution
was in proper form and should have been recorded by the clerk’s office.  Apparently, the actual address ought to be
Trabuco Canyon (at least that is the address on various pleadings), although no
change of address has been filed of which the court is aware.
 
There might be an interesting question had the court mailed
the notice to the Lake Forest address and had that notice not been
received.  But that is a question the
court need not answer.  The court simply
failed to give notice to Ashkar’s counsel at all.  Not to Lake Forest, not to Trabuco
Canyon.  That fault does not lie with
Ashkar, and it does not lie with Fenske, who was not tasked with giving notice.
 
Because the court failed to give notice of the continued
hearing date, Ashkar’s application is well taken and it will be GRANTED.  The order granting the motion to dismiss is
VACATED.  The court therefore will not
entertain the motion for fees today.  The
court will discuss with the parties a new hearing date for the motion to
dismiss.  However, there will be no
further briefing as the matter has already been fully briefed as it relates to
the dismissal, but the court will allow further briefing on the fee question—first
by Ashkar and a reply by Fenske.  That is
not to say that fees will be awarded, but it is to say that Fenske seeks fees
and, if the motion to vacate is granted (which is likely given that such was
the court’s tentative ruling before), the fee issue will need to be decided.
 
The court apologizes to both parties for its error in
service.  That mistake has delayed the
resolution of this case and has required unnecessary appearances, for which the
court is sorry.
 