  Case Number:  24STCV07481    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendant Iris M.
Whiting’s, as Trustee of the Iris M. Whiting 2006 Revocable Trust Dated January
13, 2006, Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff Henry David Holloway’s Complaint
is GRANTED. The court will inquire whether Plaintiff can seek leave to amend the
Complaint.
Background   
Plaintiff Henry David Holloway (“Plaintiff”), alleges the
following:
Plaintiff is a tenant of the
residential property located at 1864 Cordova Street, Pomona, California, 91767
(hereinafter “Subject Property”). Plaintiff has at all material times satisfied
their lease and was in lawful possession of their apartment.
 
Throughout at least the last four
years, the Plaintiff has suffered uninhabitable, substandard housing conditions
in the building and within their rental unit, including structural
deficiencies, defective plumbing, flooring and weather proofing, moisture and
water intrusion, lack of adequate heating, as well as infestation of
cockroaches. At all times during the tenancy, Plaintiff complied with all
provisions of their applicable rental agreement. During all the times that
Plaintiff occupied the Subject Property, Plaintiff was not given notice of any
violations of the terms of their tenancy. 
 
Defendant
Iris M. Whiting, as Trustee of the Iris M. Whiting 2006 Revocable Trust Dated January
13, 2006 (“Defendant”), has been the owner, manager and/or controller of
the Subject Property since April 28, 2016.
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Complaint, asserting a Habitability cause of action against Defendant,
Dean Enterprises LLC, and Does 1-100.
A Case Management Conference is
set for August 15, 2024.
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (b) [s]trike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must
“appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
Defendant moves the court for an order striking out the
following portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint:[1]
1.         Page 4, lines 21-22: “. . . or was
personally guilty of oppression fraud or malice.”
2.         Page 5, lines 14-15: “. . . is
personally guilty of oppression, fraud and/or malice against Plaintiff.” 
3.         Page 9, lines 13-15: “Plaintiff is
informed and thereon alleges that Defendants’ conduct as outlined in the
preceding paragraphs of this Complaint has been willful, oppressive, and
malicious.” 
4.         Page 10, lines 7-9: “Accordingly,
Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial.” 
5.         Page 15, line 18: “(7) For exemplary and
punitive damages in an amount to be determined at trial;”
 
Punitive damages may be awarded in an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract upon clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).) 
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
“Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
A “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional,
willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression,
fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [emphasis added].)
Here, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met their burden. As a general
matter, the Complaint does not allege affirmative conduct on the part of Defendant
and exclusively focuses on the lack of adequate abatement of the conditions
alleged. In fact, Plaintiff acknowledges that Defendant did indeed respond to
Plaintiff’s complaints albeit “inconsistently and ineffectively[.]” (Complaint,
¶29.)
Plaintiff’s
reliance on Penner v. Falk (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 858, does not support their
request for punitive damages as that case focused on the landlord’s duty to a tenant
to protect against intentional acts of “non-tenant intruders[.]” (Id. at
861.) The case was also decided prior to the amendments to Civil Code section
3294, which set forth the requisite conduct that needed to be alleged in order
to seek punitive damages. Moreover, in Penner, the Court did not discuss
the issue of punitive damages in the context of a Habitability cause of action.
(Id. at 868.) However, what it did say was instructive: “Under the implied warranty which we recognize, a
residential landlord covenants that premises he leases for living quarters will
be maintained in a habitable state for the duration of the lease. This implied
warranty of habitability does not require that a landlord ensure that leased
premises are in perfect, aesthetically pleasing condition, but it does mean
that 'bare living requirements' must be maintained.” (Id.) Clearly,
Plaintiff has sufficiently met the pleading requirements for the Habitability
cause of action, but not as to their request for punitive damages.
The motion is granted.


