  Case Number:  19CHCV00108    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49                                                                
Date: 10-25-23
Case #19CHCV00108
Trial Date: 2-5-23
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Bradley Brokop
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Eileen Lopez
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication as to
the First Amended Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action: Breach of
Fiduciary Duty 
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
3rd Cause of Action: Professional
Negligence
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Eileen Lopez alleges her ex husband
“mismanaged” household finances thereby leading to demands for payment and
penalties from the IRS and Franchise Tax Board for the years 2003 through 2007.
In 2009, Plaintiff hired Defendant Bradely Brokop to manage Plaintiff’s assets,
provide financial advice, mitigate the liabilities for prior tax bills, and
prepare future income tax returns. Plaintiff alleges the existence of a written
agreement, but is unable to provide a copy of said agreement in the complaint.
On September 27, 2011, Plaintiff executed a durable power of attorney for asset
management agreement with Defendant.
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “made no attempt to
paydown, negotiate or otherwise address Plaintiff’s liabilities for past-due
taxes, interest and penalties” from 2009 to 2015. In November 2015, Plaintiff
demanded a revocation of the power of attorney agreement. On December 23, 2015,
Plaintiff discovered at least some correspondence showing the past-due taxes
and penalties based on the turnover of documents from Defendant. In March 2017,
Plaintiff alleges her full discovery of the conduct of Defendant following the
retention of a new tax professional.
 
On February 8, 2019, and May 7, 2019, Plaintiff filed a
complaint and first amended complaint for breach of fiduciary duty, negligence
and professional negligence. On July 25, 2019, the court overruled the demurrer
to the first amended complaint. 
 
On January 30, 2020, the court entered the parties’
stipulation to stay the case. On May 25, 2022, the court lifted the stay. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The court takes judicial notice of the filed pleadings for
the existence of their filing, and the minute orders and stipulations in
regards to actions taken by the court, but in all documents declines to
consider the factual content of any and all for the truth of the matter
asserted.
 
Evidentiary Objections: Overruled.
·        
Declaration of Cressy Lopez: Not Relied Upon
(Code of Civil Procedure § 437c, subd. (q).)
·        
Declaration of Eileen Lopez: Plaintiff qualified
to testify about beliefs, opinions, observations on own claims, not hearsay.
·        
Declaration of Gary Slavett: Qualified and
supported declaration, not hearsay.
 
Defendant Bradley Brokop moves for summary judgment on the
three causes of action pled in the first amended complaint, and alternatively
states nine (9) different issue statements for summary adjudication on the same
three causes of action. Defendant moves on grounds of the statute of
limitations, and lack any claim supporting any and all of the three causes of
action for breach of fiduciary duty, negligence and professional negligence.
Plaintiff in opposition denies any bar under the statute of limitations.
Plaintiff maintains triable issues of material fact on the issue of breach and
damages require denial of the entire motion. Defendant in reply reiterates the
statute of limitations arguments through reliance on selected authority for
accrual, and additional argument contending the negligence and fiduciary duty
claims arise from the same common core of claims, thereby governed by a single
statute of limitations. 
 
The pleadings frame
the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which the
motion must respond. (Citation.)” 
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)  
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v.
Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation
omitted).)
 
The court first addresses the notice of motion. “A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that
the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Nothing in the statute
allows for summary adjudication on the separately considered issue of “breach.”
Defendant improperly moves for summary adjudication on issues 2, 3, 5, 6, 8,
and 9 which effectively seek adjudication on the “breach,” “causation,” and
non-punitive “damages” elements within the three causes of action but in no way
constitutes a total defense or addresses the complete cause of action within
the statutory framework. The motion otherwise lacks any
stipulation allowing the subject motion to proceed as to the breach argument
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c, subdivision (t). The court
therefore restricts the motion for summary adjudication to the statute
limitations defense in the first, fourth, and seventh pled issue statements. 
 
Statute of Limitations
Like the previously considered demurrer, Defendant again contends that the gravamen of
the complaint arises from accounting malpractice, and therefore a two year
statute of limitations governs all claims. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 18.] Defendant maintains that
the Plaintiff was aware of the facts supporting the complaint as early as
November 20, 2015, and certainly no later than January 19, 2016, while the
instant complaint was not filed until February 8, 2019. The argument itself
depends on a challenge to the alleged discovery date of the “allowed taxes,
penalties and [accrued] interest” in March 2017, and a preemptive challenge to
any claim under the delayed discovery rule for accrual of the statute of
limitations. According to Defendant, actual event putting Plaintiff on notice
was the revocation of the Power of Attorney in November 2015, due to the
failure to pay “back taxes” and the subsequent hiring of a tax lawyer in
January 2016 to address said tax liabilities and property liens. [See First Amend. Comp., ¶ 16.] Upon returning the file
with the revocation of the power of attorney, the contents admittedly included
tax liens and notices from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 16.] Furthermore, upon hiring
the tax attorney in January 2016, Plaintiff admits to concern over tax
liability. [First
Amend. Comp., ¶ 18.] The harm was appreciable and actual at the time of the
notice of tax liability regardless of the later determined amount. 
 
Plaintiff
in opposition first challenges the blanket application of the two year statute
of limitations to all three causes of action in that the breach of fiduciary
claim both relies on a differing factual basis and a four year statute of
limitations. Plaintiff concedes to the two year statute of limitations on the
professional negligence claim, but maintains the statute only accrued upon
receipt of the final determination of tax liability. Plaintiff concedes to the
revocation of the power or attorney in December 2015 for purposes of allowing
her son, Cressy Lopez, to take over asset management, but contends only limited
information was released to Cressy. Plaintiff maintains Defendant failed to
keep Plaintiff up to date on the issues either way, which led to the retention
of a tax attorney. An offer to the IRS was rejected in March 2017, thereby
triggering the two year statute of limitations in that the tax deficiency and
alleged malpractice was confirmed.
 
A two year statute of limitations
governs accounting malpractice claims. (Apple Valley Unified School
Dist. v. Vavrinek, Trine, Day & Co. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 934, 942; International
Engine Parts, Inc. v. Feddersen & Co. (1995) 9 Cal.4th 606, 608; Moonie v. Lynch (1967) 256 Cal.App.2d 361, 362.) Whether a two year statute
of limitations governs all three causes of action requires consideration of the
substance of the claims. “[W]here
the gravamen of the case is accounting negligence, the two-year statute is
applicable, notwithstanding the existence of other claims against the
professionals, such as misrepresentation, for which a different statute of
limitations might otherwise apply.” (Sahadi v. Scheaffer (2007)
155 Cal.App.4th 704, 715; Curtis v. Kellogg & Andelson (1999) 73
Cal.App.4th 492, 503 accord Barton v. New United Motor
Manufacturing, Inc. (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th
1200, 1207 [“The statute of limitations to be applied in a particular case is
determined by the nature of the right sued upon or the principal purpose of the
action, not by the form of the action or the relief requested”].)
 
On the two year statute of
limitations, Defendant contends the common core of facts leading to the subject
action render the entire complaint as primarily for accounting malpractice [First
Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 14, 28], while Plaintiff cites to
the same common core of facts as a basis of distinction between accounting
malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 8, 23;
Declaration of Eileen Lopez, ¶¶ 10-11]. Plaintiff’s
argument depends on a characterization of the relationship with Defendant a
fiduciary in nature in that Defendant received a fee for investment services
imposed a superseding fiduciary relationship. (McMillin v. Eare
(2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 893, 912.)
 
The undertaking of a fiduciary duty itself requires a
finding of a knowing and voluntary undertaking “to act on behalf and for the
benefit of another” or entry “into a relationship which imposes that
undertaking as a matter of law.” (McMillin v. Eare, supra, 70
Cal.App.5th 912 [internal quotations omitted]; American Master Lease LLC v.
Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1479-1480.) The
existence of the fiduciary duty cause of action, and four year statute of
limitations, remains undisputed by the parties.
 
Nevertheless, while the imposition of a fiduciary duty and
statute of limitations remains unchallenged, the court considers the standard
under the gravamen of the complaint criteria cited in support of the motion. A district
court case found “a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty is its own ‘right sued on’ and cannot be compartmentalized into
another rubric for time-bar purposes.” The attempt to characterize the breach
of fiduciary duty as part of a negligence claim was rejected based on an
opinion from the Ninth Circuit. (Federal
Deposit Ins. Corp. v. McSweeney (S.D. Cal. 1991) 772 F.Supp. 1154, 1157 accord Robuck
v. Dean Witter & Co., Inc. (9th Cir. 1980) 649 F.2d 641, 644-645.) The
federal courts interpreted state law statute of limitations, and eventually
cited back to California court authority on the subject. 
 
Consistent with the standard established in Sahadi, Curtis
and Barton, California recognizes the application differing statutes of
limitations based on the nature of the right, not the form of action or relief
demanded for determination of the statute of limitations. (San Filippo v.
Griffiths (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 640, 645-646; Schneider v. Union Oil Co.
(1970) 6 Cal.App.3d 987, 993; Kornbau v. Evans (1944) 66 Cal.App.2d 677,
685-686.) “‘Thus, if a plaintiff states several purported causes of action
which allege an invasion of the same primary right he has actually stated only
one cause of action. On the other hand, if a plaintiff alleges that the
defendant's single wrongful act invaded two different primary rights, he has
stated two causes of action, and this is so even though the two invasions are
pleaded in a single count of the complaint.’” (Choi v. Sagemark Consulting
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 308, 335.)
 
While the same core of allegedly wrongful conduct factually
underpins all claims, the authority indicates a separate and independent basis
of conduct and claim for breach of a fiduciary from negligence based on the
elevated nature arising within fiduciary relationship versus the similarly
situated professional standard for negligence. The burden remains on Defendant
to establish a complete defense to the cause of action. Defendant fails to address
the factual distinctions between a claim for breach of fiduciary duty versus
professional negligence. Reliance on the existence of the two year statute of
limitations in and of itself and a common core of facts will not render the intertwined
primary claims consolidated. (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v.
Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1157-1158 [No distinction found between negligence and breach
of fiduciary duty for an insurance broker in that claim relied upon improper
insurance policy rather than evidence of self-dealing, conflict of interest, or
excessive compensation].)
 
The court therefore finds Plaintiff can articulate a
separate and independent claim for breach of fiduciary duty under a separate,
four year statute of limitations. It remains undisputed that the agreement for
Defendant to undertake financial management services imposed a fiduciary duty.
[First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 10-11, 22; Lopez Dec., ¶¶ 5-8, 11.] (McMillin v.
Eare, supra, 70 Cal.App.5th at p. 912.) Again, because the nature of
the claim, rather than the form of relief or action sought or relief requested
governs, the court finds Plaintiff states a valid claim for breach of fiduciary
duty separate and apart from the negligence claims based on the agreement. The
court declines to make factual gradations on core rights in order to determine
whether Defendant can shift the burden of proof on a defense supposition. The
court therefore concludes the February 2017 filed complaint was well within the
four year statute of limitations for purposes of the instant motion.
 
The motion for summary judgment is therefore denied in that
the court cannot adjudicate the entire action. The motion for summary
adjudication on issue number one (1) is also denied.
 
Negligence and Professional Negligence
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication based on a determination that accrual of the claim occurred upon
the suspicion of potential malpractice following the revocation of the power of
attorney agreement and turnover of the file more than two years prior to the
filing of the action. The
relief sought arises under an undisputed two year statute of limitations.
 
Generally, a statute of limitations begins to run “when the cause of
action is complete with all of its elements”—namely, wrongdoing, causation, and
resulting harm.  (Norgart v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 397; Pooshs v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2011)
51 Cal.4th 788, 797 [“A cause of action accrues ‘when [it] is complete with all
of its elements’—those elements being wrongdoing, harm, and causation”].) “The statute of limitations in professional negligence cases starts to run
when all the elements are complete. The last element to be determined may be
the actual injury caused by the negligence.” (Moss v. Duncan (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 569, 574-575.)
 
The “discovery rule”
constitutes a basis for accrual. (Norgart
v. Upjohn Co., supra, 21 Cal.4th
at p. 397; Pooshs v. Philip Morris USA,
Inc., supra, 51 Cal.4th at p.
797.) “Under the discovery
rule, the statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff suspects or
should suspect that her injury was caused by wrongdoing, that someone has done
something wrong to her [him].” (Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1110.) “While resolution of the
statute of limitations issue is normally a question of fact, where the
uncontradicted facts established through discovery are susceptible of only one
legitimate inference, summary judgment is proper.” (Id. at p. 1112; see Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery,
Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808–809.)
 
Case law specifically clarifies
the standard for accrual for accounting malpractice claims. Where damages are a
result of tax liabilities, damages are not fixed until the completion of the
audit and the final tax deficiency is assessed by the tax authority. The
damages constitute the additional penalty assessed as a result of the late
payment. These damages are distinct from the tax already owed. (Moss v. Duncan (2019)
36 Cal.App.5th at pp. 576-578; International Engine Parts, Inc. v. Feddersen & Co. (1995)
9 Cal.4th 606, 619-620.) The rule derives in part on public policy. “[A]ctual
injury’ represents a legal term of art which recognizes that an inchoate or
potential injury cannot give rise to a professional malpractice action until
there has been an actual determination that the accountant's alleged negligence
is related to the deficiency assessment. Once the audit process is finalized,
however, the harm caused by the accountant's negligence is no longer contingent
and the taxpayer's cause of action in tort for alleged malpractice against the
accountant accrues under [Code of Civil Procedure] section 339, subdivision 1.”
(Moss v. Duncan, supra, 36 Cal.App.5th at p. 578 (internal
quotations omitted).)
 
Plaintiff alleged negotiations remained ongoing at the time
of the filing of the complaint [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 18], and it remains
unclear if a final settlement was reached in that Plaintiff represents an
agreement for payment of $100,000 pursuant to an “OIC” in May 2019 though that
agreement was revoked and negotiations continued at least into 2020. [Lopez
Dec., ¶¶ 16, 18; See Declarations of Gary Slavett and Cressy Lopez, ¶¶ 18-20.] The
court finds the declaration of Slavett as an attorney sufficient for purposes
of attesting to the ongoing resolution of the dispute with the IRS. 
 
The court otherwise finds no argument challenging the basis
for the claimed accrual of damages, in that Defendant only depends on the
diligence/duty to investigate requirement. In other words, under the standard
cited above, unless and until the final penalties and interest is determined,
the mere notice of potential penalties and interest as part of the negotiation
process will not constitute an accrual action. No final decision or agreement
appears on the record. The court declines to consider the factual scenarios
considered in other cases distinguished by Moss v. Duncan. (Apple
Valley Unified School Dist. v. Vavrinek, Trine, Day & Co., supra,
98 Cal.App.4th at pp. 946-947; Van Dyke v. Dunker & Aced (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 446, 455.) 
 
The court additionally therefore finds the argument in reply
contending the existence of interest and penalties in and of themselves
constitutes the accrual point improperly narrows the scope of the rule. The
court also declines to consider the legal malpractice standard relied upon in
reply and instead adheres the standard for accounting liability. (See Jordache
Enterprises, Inc. v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739,
752.) To reiterate, the existence of the amount of the possibility of interest
and penalties, which may be rendered to zero or amount to a significant sum,
remains a specific factor under the accounting standard for accrual. [See Declaration
of Jonathan Mishkin.] The declaration of Johnathan Mishkin also presents
testimony on the subject matter of finalizing the dispute. The declaration
remains both unchallenged and only conclusively addressed in the last section
of the reply. The court therefore finds triable issues of material fact on the
issue of accrual based on the admissible evidence regarding the existence of
the dispute and potential for significant, outstanding penalties and interest
separate an apart from the original tax deficiency Plaintiff arguably
constructively became aware of upon receiving the file and revoking the power
of attorney agreement.
 
Finally, the court rejects the argument in the reply
regarding the improper effort to seek merger of the fiduciary duty and
negligence claims via the interest and penalties, which as addressed above the
court finds inapplicable. (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v.
Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc., supra, 115 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1157-1158 [No
distinction found between negligence and breach of fiduciary duty for an
insurance broker in that claim relied upon improper insurance policy rather
than evidence of self-dealing, conflict of interest, or excessive
compensation].) Even considering the merger of damages strenuously emphasized
in the reply, however, Defendant fails to establish any factual lack of
fiduciary duty. Again, Defendant cannot simply rely on a claim under the
statute of limitations without establishing a basis of no separate and
independent conduct thereby factually merging the alleged claims into an
undistinguishable primary right. (Id. at pp. 1158-1159.)
 
The motions for summary adjudication on the statute of
limitations to the negligence causes of action are denied.
 
Standard of Care
While the court declines to consider the specifically
articulated motions for summary adjudication on the elements within the claim,
the court considers the standard of care argument for purposes of determining
whether Plaintiff properly states the challenged claims.
 
“[A]ccountants have been recognized as ‘a skilled professional
class ... subject generally to the same rules of liability for negligence in
the practice of their profession as are members of other skilled professions.’”
(Lindner v. Barlow, Davis & Wood (1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 660, 665 [internal
quotation marks omitted].) Defendant challenges the lack of any evidence of
conduct falling below the standard of care for an accountant. The argument
depends on citation to the deposition of Plaintiff and a series of documents
identified as the “inspection report.” [Declaration of Andrew Wright,
Compendium of Exhibits, Exhibit 8.] Plaintiff, on the other hand, presents a
declaration of tax attorney Jonathan Mishkin. Attorney Mishkin categorically
addresses the IRS negotiation process and potential impacts regarding the
amount settled upon. Mishkin specifically contends the actions of Defendant
fell below the standard of care as a result of the sale certain property, and
non-payment of taxes following said sale. Said failure to pay taxes led to the
imposition of penalties and interest that would not have otherwise accrued.,
and later requiring new counsel for resolution. [Mishkin Decl.] The court finds
triable issues of material fact on the issue of the negligence claims,
specifically breach standard of care, causation and resultant damages. 
 
Defendant lastly offers an argument that the damages
claim itself is speculative. The argument relies on a lack of evidence in
support of the claim, and that Defendant in fact reduced outstanding liability.
A defendant may satisfy its burden on summary adjudication by pointing to an
absence of evidence supporting plaintiff’s claims. (Union Bank (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590; see Ganoe v. Metalclad Insulation Corp. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1577, 1584; Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Const. Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 81-83.) A defendant must do this
by providing evidence that a plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence, rather than simply by arguing that a plaintiff has no
evidence. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 854-855.) The
court finds no support for this argument simply based on documents produced in
the compendium of evidence and deposition testimony from the Plaintiff. Triable
issues of material fact exist based on the expert testimony of Mishkin. The
motions for summary adjudication on the negligence causes of action are
therefore denied.
 
In summary, the motion for summary judgment and
motions for summary adjudication are denied in their entirety. 
 
Motions to compel further responses currently set for
November 1 and 2, 2023. Trial also remains set for February 5, 2024.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
 