 Case Number:  22STCV35872    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial Date, filed by Defendants
Pacific Steel Group and Hensel Phelps Construction Co.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
Plaintiff
Kenneth Willoughby (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he was injured in a workplace
accident on February 18, 2022, at a construction project at Belvedere Middle
School on Record Avenue in Los Angeles.
 
Plaintiff
filed the Complaint in this action on November 14, 2022. In the Complaint,
Plaintiff asserts causes of action for negligence and premises liability
against Defendants Hensel Phelps Development, L.L.C.; PSG Construction, LLC;
and Does 1 through 50. 
Subsequently:
(1) Plaintiff amended his complaint to name Pacific Steel Group (“PSG”) as Doe
1; (2) Plaintiff amended his complaint to name Hensel Phelps Construction Co. (“HP”)
as Doe 2; and (3) the Court, at Plaintiff’s request, dismissed without
prejudice all claims against the original named defendants, Hensel Phelps
Development, L.L.C. and PSG Construction, LLC.
PSG
and HP filed Answers to the Complaint in February and March 2023.
On
September 5, 2023, HP filed a motion for summary judgment, or in the
alternative for summary adjudication.  The
Court heard argument on November 22, 2023, took the motion under submission,
and issued a ruling denying the motion on January 29, 2024..
On January 25, 2024, PSG and HP (collectively “Defendants”) filed this motion to
continue trial. Plaintiff filed his opposition on February 7, 2024. Defendants
filed their reply on February 14, 2024.
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
 
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets
forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether
good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such
as:  
“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior
Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
Defendants PSG and HP move to continue trial.  PSG timely filed a motion for summary
judgment on January 25, 2024, with the hearing set for June 13, 2024. (Weiss
Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6.)  That is one month after
the current trial date of May 13.  In
addition, both Defendants have been, since late September 2023, seeking
out-of-state medical and employment records of Plaintiff through subpoenas, but
the records have not yet been received. 
(Id., ¶¶ 7-15.)  Defendants request a new trial date on or
after August 19, 2024.
Plaintiff opposes the continuance, arguing that Defendants have not
been diligent in seeking the medical and employment records and that rather
than continue trial, the Court should advance the hearing date on PSG’s summary
judgment motion.
After carefully considering the evidence and argument presented by both
sides, the Court GRANTS the motion.  The
Court does not have summary judgment hearing dates available prior to trial,
and PSG is entitled to have a hearing on its timely filed summary judgment
motion in advance of trial. 
Conclusion
The Motion to
Continue is GRANTED.
The trial date
is advanced and continued to a date on or after August 19, 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 