 Case Number:  22STCV16339    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Bifurcate filed by Defendants Federal Express Corporation
and Toananton Manh Nguyen.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is
denied without prejudice.
 
Background
On May 17, 2022, Plaintiff Carol
Evette Lyles (“Plaintiff”) field her complaint against Defendants Federal
Express Corp., Toananton Manh Nguyen, and Does 1 through 50, for Negligence and
Negligence Per Se arising from an automobile accident occurring on May 26,
2020.
On November 13, 2023,
Defendants Federal Express Corporation and Toananton Manh
Nguyen (collectively “Defendants”) filed this motion to bifurcate. Plaintiff
filed her opposition on February 7, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on
February 15, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause
of action … or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or
issues…”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048 (b).)  The court has general
discretion to order certain issues tried before others “when the convenience of
witnesses, the ends of justice or the economy and efficiency of handling the
litigation would be promoted thereby.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
 
Discussion 
 
Defendants move to
bifurcate this matter into two parts as to liability and damages. (Motion, 3:2-4.)
 
In cases assigned
to the Personal Injury Hub, the case will be tried by a different judge than
the one assigned to rule on this motion. The Court finds that because of the
close relationship between bifurcation motions and trial management, it is appropriate
in this matter for the trial judge to determine whether bifurcation is
warranted.
 
A motion to
bifurcate is not a motion in limine. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule3.57(c).)
Nonetheless, as it relates to management of the trial proceedings, a motion to
bifurcate
has certain
attributes that are similar to motions in limine. And, in cases assigned
to the Personal
Injury Hub, the trial judge (not the judge in the Personal Injury Hub) rules on
all motions in limine. While this bifurcation request is not a motion in
limine, the logic of having the trial judge determine it here is similar. The
request for bifurcation here appears to be one for which the trial judge should
make a discretionary determination based on the judge’s role in managing the
trial proceedings.
 
Accordingly, the
Court rules that Defendants may submit a motion for bifurcation at the time
that motions in limine are filed. Any other party may submit an opposition when
oppositions to motions in limine are filed. The Court orders that the bifurcation
briefing be included in the trial binders in Tab B along with any motions in
limine filed in the case. If there is any issue with regard to Rule of Court
3.57, Defendants or any other party may direct the trial court to this order
(which of course does not impose any obligation on the trial judge with regard
to ruling on the motion).

Conclusion 
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to bifurcate is DENIED without prejudice.  
 
Moving
parties to give notice.
 