 Case Number:  21STCV36747    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant
Michael English
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant City
of Culver City’s Employee Joseph Betts
 
Tentative
The motions are granted.
The requests for sanctions are granted in
part.
Background
This
case arises out of an incident on November 6, 2020, near the intersection of
Washington Boulevard and Jean Place in Culver City.  On October 6, 2021, Plaintiff Janet Baker
(“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against Defendants City of
Culver City (“City”), Michael English (“English”), and Does 1 through 25 asserting
one cause of action for motor vehicle negligence.  On December 16, 2021, Defendants City and English
(collectively, “Defendants”) filed their Answer to the Complaint.
 
Currently
before the Court are two motions to compel depositions.
 
Plaintiff
initially noticed the depositions of Defendant English and City employee Joseph
Betts in October 2022, with both depositions scheduled for December 12,
2022.  (Ramon Decls., ¶ 3 & Exh.
A.)  Defendants objected to the date, and
there were subsequent deposition notices issued, as well as inconclusive correspondence
between counsel regarding deposition scheduling, for much of 2023.  (Id., ¶¶ 4-19 & Exhs. B-R.)  On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the
depositions of English and Betts for October 27.  (Id., ¶ 20 & Exh. S.)  Defendants objected to the date once
again.  (Id., ¶ 21 & Exh.
T.)  Neither deponent appeared; Plaintiff
followed up about the non-appearances and alternative dates for the deposition,
but Defendants never provided alternate deposition dates.  (Id., ¶¶ 23-25 & Exhs. V-X.)
 
On
November 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed these two motions to compel the depositions
of English and Betts.  Plaintiff also
seeks sanctions in each motion.  
 
No
opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210
through 2025.280 provide the requirements for (among other things) what must be
included in a deposition notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and
how and when the notice must be served.  
“The service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any
deponent who is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection
and copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
Section 2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a
written objection at least three days before the deposition if the party
contends that a deposition notice does not comply with the provisions of
sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for¿inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (Id.,  § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  
Such a motion to compel must show good cause for the production of
documents and, when a deponent has failed to appear, the motion must be
accompanied “by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
(Id., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
“Implicit in the requirement that counsel contact the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance is a requirement that counsel listen to the reasons
offered and make a good faith attempt to resolve the issue,” including by rescheduling.
(Leko v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1109,
1124. See also L.A.S.C.L.R. 3.26,
Appendix 3.A(e) (reasonable consideration should be given to accommodating
schedules in setting depositions).) 
When a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450,
subd. (g)(1).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney
has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
Discussion
Both
motions to compel are GRANTED.  Plaintiff
repeatedly noticed the depositions of Defendant English and City’s employee
Betts and communicated with defense counsel regarding deposition dates.  (Ramon Decls., ¶¶ 3-19 & Exhs. A-R.)  After approximately a year, when still no dates
had been provided by defense counsel, Plaintiff noticed the depositions for
October 27, and neither deponent appeared. 
(Id., ¶ 20 & Exhs. S.) 
Plaintiff followed up with defense counsel about the non-appearances and
alternative deposition dates, but no agreement was reached.  (Id., ¶¶ 23-25 & Exhs. V-X.)
 
Defendants
did serve timely objections to the October 27 deposition, but the only
objection was that the deposition dates were “selected unilaterally by
plaintiff’s counsel.”  (Id., ¶ 21
& Exhs. T.)  Given the year-long
attempt to schedule these depositions, and Defendants’ to offer a firm
deposition date through this long period, Defendants’ objections are OVERRULED.

Plaintiffs’
requests for sanctions in these two motions are also GRANTED in part.  Given the relatively straightforward nature
of a motion to compel a deposition, and the economies of scale associated with preparing
multiple discovery motions, the Court sets sanctions on each motion in the
amount of $935, calculated based on 2.5 hours of attorney time per motion,
multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $350 per hour, plus a $60
filing fee.  (Ramon Decls., ¶ 28.)
Conclusion
The
Court GRANTS the motions to compel.
The
Court ORDERS Defendant English to appear for his deposition on a date to be
arranged by counsel that is no later than 30 days after notice of this ruling.
The Court
ORDERS Defendant City to produce its employee Joseph Betts for his deposition on
a date to be arranged by counsel that is no later than 30 days after notice of
this ruling.
The
Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions.
The
Court ORDERS Defendant English and counsel of record McCune & Harber, LLP,
jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff under the Civil
Discovery Act in the amount of $935 within 30 days of notice of this ruling.
The
Court ORDERS Defendant City and counsel of record McCune & Harber, LLP,
jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff under the Civil
Discovery Act in the amount of $935 within 30 days of notice of this ruling.
Moving
party to give notice.
 