 Case Number:  22STCV11531    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Previous proceedings 
On
April 5, 2022, Plaintiff Samuel Rojas (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants C&C North America, Inc. (“C&C”), Nolan Transportation Group,
LLC (“Nolan”), Emmet Isaacs, Cosentino Los Angeles (“Cosentino”), and Does 1-50
for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
May 10, 2022, the Court dismissed Nolan without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
November 18, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Nolan as Doe 1. 
On
January 11, 2023, C&C filed an answer. 
On
March 10, 2023, the Court granted Nolan’s motion to quash service of the
summons and complaint on Nolan. 
On
June 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants
C&C, Nolan, Emmitt Isaacks, Cosentino, and Does 1-50 for general negligence
and premises liability. 
On
June 30, 2023, Nolan filed an answer to the first amended complaint. On July
10, 2023, C&C filed an answer. On August 28, 2023, Defendant Emmet Isaacs
filed an answer. 
On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff amended the first amended complaint to include
Defendant Jose Tapia as Doe 1. On March 5, 2024, Plaintiff amended the first
amended complaint to include Defendant Jose Tapia Perez as Doe 2. 
On
April 8, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant Jose Tapia (Doe 1) without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. On April 11, 2024, the Court dismissed
Defendant Emmet Isaacs without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. On April 17,
2024, the Court dismissed Defendant Jose Tapia Perez (Doe 2) without prejudice
at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
April 11, 2024, C&C filed a stipulation signed by counsel for C&C,
Plaintiff, and Nolan stating in part: 
“1. On July 1, 2021, Defendant JOSE TAPIA PEREZ was in
the course and scope of his employment with Defendant C&C NORTH AMERICA,
INC. at the time of the accident that is the subject of this lawsuit. 
“2. JOSE TAPIA PEREZ was acting within the scope of
his employment with Defendant C&C NORTH AMERICA, INC. when plaintiff Samuel
Rojas was harmed on July 1, 2021. 
“3. At the time of plaintiff Samuel Rojas’s harm, on
July 1, 2021, JOSE TAPIA PEREZ’S conduct was reasonably related to the kinds of
tasks that he was employed by Defendant C&C NORTH AMERICA, INC. to perform. 
“4. If a jury finds Defendant JOSE TAPIA PEREZ
negligent for causing Plaintiff SAMUEL ROJAS’s injuries, then Defendant C&C
NORTH AMERICA stipulates it is jointly and severally liable for all
compensatory damages attributed to Defendant JOSE TAPIA PEREZ awarded to
Plaintiff. 
“5. Defendants C&C NORTH AMERICA and JOSE TAPIA
PEREZ do not admit to liability and instead expressly reserve, their right to
contest all elements of Plaintiff’s causes of actions along with the nature and
extent of Plaintiff’s injuries and damages that were caused by the accident
that is the subject of this lawsuit. . . .” 
On
April 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against C&C,
Nolan, Emmet Isaacks, Cosentino, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and
premises liability, including a prayer for punitive damages. 
On
June 4, 2024, the Court denied C&C’s motion to transfer the case to Placer
County. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 19, 2024. 
B.   This motion 
On
April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash C&C’s subpoena for out-of-state
records from Rick Parrotta & Associates and for sanctions, to be heard on
June 13, 2024.  On May 30, 2024, C&C
filed an opposition. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to quash C&C’s subpoena for records served on Rick Parrotta & Associates and to impose sanctions
on C&C. 
C&C
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2026.010 provides in part: 
“(a) Any party may obtain discovery by taking an oral
deposition, as described in Section 2025.010, in another state of the United
States, or in a territory or an insular possession subject to its jurisdiction.
Except as modified in this section, the procedures for taking oral depositions
in California set forth in Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 2025.010) apply
to an oral deposition taken in another state of the United States, or in a
territory or an insular possession subject to its jurisdiction. 
* * *
 “(c) If the deponent is not a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, a party serving a
deposition notice under this section shall use any process and procedures
required and available under the laws of the state, territory, or insular
possession where the deposition is to be taken to compel the deponent to attend
and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing for inspection, copying, testing, sampling, and
any related activity. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2026.010,
subds. (a), (c).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon
those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a),
provides:  
“Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making an
order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The second amended complaint 
The second
amended complaint alleges the following: 
On
or about July 1, 2021, Plaintiff was involved in an accident at a business
owned or managed by C&C and Cosentino,
located at 10015 Foothills Boulevard in Roseville, California.  Plaintiff was moving granite slabs for Defendants’
benefit and at their direction.  Defendants
removed the crane straps from a granite slab. Defendants should not have
removed the crane straps until Plaintiff had strapped the granite slab with the
truck straps.  Defendants should have
bolted or screwed the two a-frame horses into the floor of the trailer but Defendants
did not do so.  As a result of the
accident, Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages. 
Nolan
assumed a duty, via contract with Cosentino, to train Plaintiff to perform his
job duties and tasks.  Plaintiff was not
a party to the contract between Cosentino and Nolan.  Nolan failed to train Plaintiff.  Nolan’s failure to train Plaintiff was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. 
If fault is apportioned to Plaintiff for the accident, the fault should be
imputed to Nolan for failing to train Plaintiff. 
Defendants
negligently owned, maintained, managed and operated the premises and failed to
warn Plaintiff of the dangerous condition. 
Cosentino
failed to ensure that Tapia Perez, who was operating a bridge crane to move the
slab onto the trailer, was certified and licensed by an accredited certifying
agency as required by California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Section
5006.2.  At least one manager, director,
or supervisor at Cosentino had advance knowledge of Tapia Perez’s unfitness to
operate the bridge crane and employed him with a conscious disregard of the
rights and safety of others, entitling Plaintiff to an award of punitive
damages. 
Tapia
Perez, a warehouse specialist for Cosentino, also demonstrated a conscious
disregard for the safety of others when he used an A-frame that did not have
safety bars.  Tapia Perez was aware of
the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct and deliberately and
willfully failed to avoid those consequences. 
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages against C&C based on Tapia Perez’s
conduct. 
B.   The subpoena for business records 
On
April 10, 2024, C&C issued a subpoena to Rick Parrotta & Associates in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The subpoena requested “[a]ll payroll and tax records
for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, pertaining to Plaintiff Samuel Rojas.” 
C.   The motion to quash 
Plaintiff
argues that (1) Code of Civil Procedure section 2026.010 provides the exclusive
means of obtaining discovery of records from non-parties in other states and
(2) based on Code of Civil Procedure section 2026.010, C&C was required to
comply with requirements of the Uniform Interstate Depositions and Discovery
Act (“Act”) and Pennsylvania law governing out-of-state subpoenas for business
records.  According to Plaintiff, the Court
should quash the subpoena because it does not comply with these requirements. 
C&C
responds by arguing that Plaintiff’s motion is moot because C&C withdrew
the subpoena.  On May 1, 2024, C&C
informed Plaintiff that it was withdrawing the subpoena but Plaintiff refused
to take the motion off calendar unless C&C paid Plaintiff over $12,000.00
in sanctions.  The Court finds the motion
is moot. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to impose $12,810.00 in sanctions on C&C because C&C’s
counsel did not respond to Plaintiff’s request, on April 25, 2024, to withdraw the subpoena by April 30, 2024. 
On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash the subpoena.  On May, 2, 2024, C&C withdrew the
subpoena. 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, the Court has discretion to award
sanctions “if the court finds the motion [to quash] was made or opposed in bad
faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements
of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code
Civ. Proc, § 1987.2, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions appears to be based on C&C’s failure to respond to
Plaintiff’s April 25, 2024 request to withdraw the subpoena, forcing Plaintiff to file a motion to quash.  Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), does not authorize
sanctions for this reason. 
Plaintiff
also cites Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (b), to
support his sanctions request.  The
statute does not, by itself, authorize a sanctions award here.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 is “
‘definitional’ and monetary sanctions may not be imposed based solely on [the
statute].  Monetary sanctions may be
imposed only if authorized by some other provision of the Discovery Act.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:1900, p. 8M-2; see Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 [court may impose sanctions for misuse of the discovery
process “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular
discovery method or other provision of this title”]; City of Los Angeles v.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 498-504, review
granted Jan. 23, 2023 with order permitting citation of opinion for its
persuasive value and to establish the existence of a conflict in authority that
would “allow trial courts to exercise discretion . . . to choose between sides
of any such conflict.”) 
 The Court denies Plaintiff’s
sanctions request. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES as moot Plaintiff Samuel Rojas’s motion to
quash the subpoena issued by Defendant C&C North America, Inc. to Rick Parrotta
& Associates. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Samuel Rojas’s request for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.