 Case Number:  24STCV00101    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
January 3, 2024, Plaintiff Daveon Marnell St. Julian (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants 7-Eleven, Inc.
(“7-Eleven”), Megdal Century, LLC (“Megdal Century”), Veronica Miranda Perez
(“Perez”), Javier Martinez (“Martinez”), and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort,
general negligence, premises liability, and negligent entrustment of a motor
vehicle. 
On
January 26, 2024, 7-Eleven filed an answer. On April 18, 2024, Megdal Century
filed an answer. On May 2, 2024, Perez and Martinez filed an answer. 
On
April 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney form substituting
himself as a self-represented litigant in place of his former attorney. 
On
October 21, 2024, the Court granted 7-Eleven’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s
further responses to form interrogatories 2.8 and 2.13 and ordered Plaintiff to
serve further verified code-compliant responses to form interrogatories 2.8 and
2.13 by November 21, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 2, 2025. 
B.   This motion 
On
September 19, 2024, 7-Eleven filed a motion for terminating sanctions.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
7-Eleven
asks the Court to impose terminating sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating
sanctions 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part: 
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: 
“(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(b) The court may impose an issue sanction ordering
that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance
with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery
process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or
opposing designated claims or defenses. 
“(c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an
order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence. 
“(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
“(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. 
“(2) An order staying further proceedings by that
party until an order for discovery is obeyed. 
“(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of
the action, of that party. 
 “(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against
that party. 
“(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
“(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other
section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not
impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030.)               
B.   Terminating sanctions for failure to comply with
discovery orders 
A
violation of a discovery order may support the imposition of terminating
sanctions. (See Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 795-796 (Deyo).) 
A
terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with
caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (Mileikowsky).)  
DISCUSSION 
On
August 9, 2024, the Court granted 7-Eleven’s unopposed motion to compel
Plaintiff’s responses to special interrogatories, set two, and ordered
Plaintiff to serve verified, code-compliant responses to the special
interrogatories without objections by September 9, 2024. 
Plaintiff
did not comply with the Court’s August 9, 2024 order.  7-Eleven now asks the Court to dismiss Plaintiff’s
action as a sanction for failing to comply with the order.  According to 7-Eleven, Plaintiff has
abandoned his case. 
The
Court denies 7-Eleven’s request for terminating sanctions.  Plaintiff has violated one discovery
order.  7-Eleven has not shown that less
severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing compliance with the
discovery rules. (See Mileikowsky, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at pp.
279-280.) 
Instead,
the Court orders Plaintiff to comply with the Court’s August 9, 2024 order by December
12, 2024. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant 7-Eleven, Inc.’s motion for terminating sanctions
against Plaintiff Daveon Marnell St.
Julian. 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Daveon Marnell St. Julian to serve verified, code-compliant responses to Defendant 7-Eleven,
Inc.’s special interrogatories, set two, without objections by December 12,
2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.