 Case Number:  22STCV11915    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 7, 2022, Plaintiff Gary Dean Swisher (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants California Department of Transportation, City of Los Angeles
(“City”), Kaiser Permanente Ventures, LLC (“Ventures”), McCarthy Building
Companies, Inc. (“McCarthy”), and Does 1-40 for general negligence and premises
liability. 
On
May 20, 2022, Defendant The People of The State of California, acting by and
through the Department of Transportation, erroneously sued as the California
Department of Transportation (“State”) filed an answer. 
On
July 19, 2022, McCarthy filed an answer. 
On October 12, 2023, the Court dismissed McCarthy without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
July 25, 2022, Ventures filed an answer. 
On November 28, 2022, the Court dismissed Ventures without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
October 20, 2022, the Court dismissed the City without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
October 26, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals as Doe 21 (“Kaiser”). 
On
December 28, 2022, Kaiser filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
California Department of Transportation and Roes 1-100 for declaratory relief
and comparative indemnity and equitable indemnity. 
On
February 1, 2023, the Court dismissed Kaiser without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request.  On February 3, 2023, the Court
dismissed Kaiser’s cross-complaint without prejudice at Kaiser’s request. 
On
September 20, 2024, the State filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against the City and Roes 1-20 for breach of contract and declaratory relief.  The motion was set for hearing on November
12, 2024.  No party has filed an
opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 17, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
The
State asks the Court for leave to file a cross-complaint against the City and Roes 1-20 for breach of contract and declaratory relief. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
“A party against whom a cause of action has been
asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting
forth either or both of the following: 
“(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this
subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in
an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
          “A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the
course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is
demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”  (Silver Org. Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  “Cross-complaints
for comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually always
transactionally related to the main action.” 
(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development
Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
July 14, 2021, on the sidewalk of Pacific Coast Highway near the entrance of
Kaiser Permanente in Harbor City, California, Plaintiff’s bicycle hit an
uneven, raised portion of the sidewalk, throwing Plaintiff from the bicycle to
the ground and injuring him.  Defendants
controlled and maintained the property where Plaintiff was injured.  Defendants failed to sufficiently maintain
the property.  Defendants’ lack of
maintenance created a dangerous condition which caused Plaintiff’s injury.  No warning signs alerted Plaintiff to the
presence of a dangerous condition and the condition was not open and obvious. 
B.   The State’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint 
The
State contends that the City is contractually obligated to indemnify the State
for any damages the State is required to pay Plaintiff because a City streetlight
adjacent to the accident location was not working properly when Plaintiff fell
from his bicycle.  According to the State, Plaintiff is likely to
argue that if the light had been working properly, he would have seen the
dangerous condition and avoided the accident. 
The
proposed cross-complaint is based on the same facts as Plaintiff’s complaint.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant The People of The State of California, acting by and
through the Department of Transportation’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint.
 Defendant is ordered to file and serve
the cross-complaint within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.