 Case Number:  21STCV03391    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers and ex parte application, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 27, 2021, Plaintiff Haran Jackson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants The Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”), Lyft Inc. (“Lyft”), Eme
Nkugba (“Nkugba”), and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort, products liability,
general negligence, and negligence per se. 
On
November 4, 2021, Lyft filed an answer. 
On
December 16, 2021, the Court sustained Hertz’s demurrer to the second cause of
action for products liability and the fourth cause of action for negligence per
se with leave to amend and granted Hertz’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request
for punitive damages with leave to amend. 
On
January 3, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Hertz, Lyft,
Nkugba, and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort, products liability, and general
negligence. The first amended complaint did not include a proof of service. 
On
January 11, 2022, Hertz filed an answer to the original complaint. 
On
August 24, 2022, the Court granted Hertz’s motion to strike the first amended
complaint because Plaintiff had not served it. 
The original complaint became the operative complaint. 
On
September 21, 2022, the Court granted Hertz’s motion to deem admitted matters
specified in its requests for admission served on Plaintiff and awarded Hertz
sanctions. 
On
December 27, 2023, the Court granted Nkugba’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s
punitive damage claim against Nkugba with 30 days leave to amend.  The Court overruled Nkugba’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s negligence per se claim. 
On
January 24, 2024, Nkugba filed an answer. 
On September
30, 2024, Hertz filed a motion for summary judgment.  The motion was set for hearing on April 7,
2025. 
Also
on September 30, 2024, Lyft filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.  The
motion was set for hearing on December 17, 2024. 
On
October 4, 2024, Hertz filed a motion to continue the trial and trial-related
dates or, in the alternative, to specially set a hearing on its motion for summary
judgment.  The motion was set for hearing
on November 12, 2024.  Plaintiff has not
filed an opposition. 
On
October 7, 2024, Lyft filed an ex parte application to specially set a hearing
on its motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, to continue the
trial, or to set a hearing on November 12, 2024.  The Court continued the ex parte application
to November 12, 2024 at 1:30 p.m.  Plaintiff has
not filed an opposition. 
On
November 4, 2024, the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s products liability claim with
prejudice and struck Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim based on the stipulation
of Plaintiff and Lyft. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 13, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Hertz
moves to continue the trial and trial-related dates or, in the alternative, to
specially set a hearing on its motion for summary judgment. 
Lyft
asks the Court to specially set a hearing
on its motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication or to continue the
trial. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial
date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.)  
C.   Summary judgment scheduling 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a) provides: 
“(1) A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any
time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or
proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier
time after the general appearance that the court, with or without notice and
upon good cause shown, may direct. 
“(2) Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall
be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time
appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day
period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within
the State of California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the State
of California but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of address
is outside the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile
transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for
overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by
two court days. 
“(3) The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days
before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. The
filing of the motion shall not extend the time within which a party must
otherwise file a responsive pleading.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (a).) 
To
satisfy the statutory notice requirement, a summary judgment motion “must be
served at least 105 days before trial (longer if served by mail)
[citation].  Motions served
electronically must be served at least 107 days before trial.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 10:71, pp. 10-32 to
10-33.)  “The 30-day ‘cut-off’ under
[Code of Civil Procedure section 437c] is measured from the trial date in
effect when the summary judgment motion is made.”  (Id., ¶ 10:74, p. 10-33.)   “[A] continuance of the trial date ‘reopens’
the time for such motions.”  (Ibid.) 
“A
trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the
time limits of [Code of Civil Procedure] section 437c.”  (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Hertz’s motion 
Hertz
filed its motion for summary judgment on September 30, 2024.  The same day, Hertz personally served the motion
on Plaintiff.  The service was timely.  However, due to the Court’s impacted calendar,
the hearing was set for April 7, 2025, after the January 13, 2025 trial. 
Hertz
asks the Court to continue the trial to June 14, 2025.  Although Hertz asserts that “factors”
aside from the pending summary judgment motion support the request for a trial
continuance, Hertz has not explained why it is asking to continue the trial for
more than two months after the hearing on its summary judgment motion. 
The
Court finds good cause and continues the trial to May 9, 2025.
B.   Lyft’s ex parte application 
Based
on the order granting Hertz’s motion,
Lyft’s ex parte application is moot. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant The Hertz Corporation’s motion to continue the trial.  The Court continues the trial to May 9, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring
Street Courthouse. The Court continues the Final Status Conference to April 25, 2025 at
10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. All discovery and
related dates will be based on the new trial date.
The
Court DENIES as moot Lyft Inc.’s ex parte
application. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.