  Case Number:  20STCV27665    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SANDRA NORLUND, an individual, and SANDRA NORLUND, Trustee of
  the Norlund Family Trust Dated September 15, 2000,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
RICHARD L. NORLUND; SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND; RICHARD L. NORLUND
  as Successor Trustee of “Trust A” of the “Norlund Family Trust dated March
  16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Successor Trustee of “Trust B” of the
  “Norlund Family Trust dated March 16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Trustee of
  “Richard L. Norlund Separate Property Trust dated December 11, 1997”; RICHARD
  L. NORLUND and SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND, as Trustees of the “Norlund Family
  Trust dated May 13, 2019” and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
NANCY HYMAS, as Trustee for Trust A FBO NANCY HYMAS and Trust B
  FBO NANCY HYMAS,
                        Nominal
  Defendants.


 Case No.:   
  20STCV27665 – Lead Case
 (Related Case No. 23STCV19070)   
 Hearing Date:   3/1/24
 Trial Date:        8/20/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff in
  Intervention Nancy Hymas’s Motion for Leave to Amend and File First Amended
  Complaints in Intervention.



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff in
Intervention Nancy Hymas.
 
OPPOSITION:                     Defendants
Richard L. Norlund, Sharon K. Norlund, Richard L. Norlund as Successor Trustee
of “Trust A” of the “Norlund Family Trust dated March 16,
1987,” Richard L. Norlund as
Successor Trustee of “Trust B” of the “Norlund Family Trust dated March 16,
1987,” Richard L. Norlund as
Trustee of “Richard L. Norlund Separate Property Trust dated December 11,
1997,” and Richard L. Norlund
and Sharon K. Norlund, as Trustees of the “Norlund Family Trust dated
May 13, 2019.” [For ease of reference, the Norlund Defendants.]
 
REPLY:                                 Plaintiff
in Intervention Nancy Hymas.
 
Background
Pleadings in Los Angeles Case (23STCV27665)
On July 22, 2020, Plaintiffs Sandra
Norlund—individually and as a trustee—filed a Complaint suing the Norlund
Defendants and Nominal Defendant Nancy Hymas—as Trustee for Trust A FBO Nancy
Hymas and Trust B FBO Nancy Hymas (Nancy Hymas)—pursuant to claims of (1)
Judicial Foreclosure, (2) Fraud, and (3) Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage.
On July 29, 2020, Sandra Norlund
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) stating the same claims against the same
Defendants and Nominal Defendant.
The fraud and interference claims
were stricken by Department 40 on April 13, 2021, based on a representation by
Plaintiffs that only the Judicial Foreclosure cause of action remained, i.e.,
an election of remedies.
The FAC’s judicial foreclosure claim
arises from the following allegations. Richard Norlund, Nancy Hymas (sister to
Richard), and Sandra Norlund (sister-in-law to Richard and Nancy, husband
deceased) were the trustees of Trust A and B of the Norlund Family Trust dated
March 16, 1987, and, on or about April 11, 2019, after litigation between these
individuals in Butte County, California, the parties reached a settlement
agreement. Pursuant to that agreement, the trustee of these trusts would sell
real property known as 14924 and 14930 Arrow Highway, Baldwin Park, California
(the Subject Properties) to Richard Norlund in exchange for a deed of trust and
promissory note worth $1.47 million to be assigned to Sandra Norlund and Nancy
Hymas, among other terms. Richard defaulted on the promissory note by failing
and refusing to pay Sandra the agreed upon $7,668.22 per month required by the
note and breached the settlement agreement by modifying the terms of the deed
of trust so that it referred to a different promissory note, undercutting
Sandra’s and Nancy’s ability to foreclose on the deed of trust. Specifically,
Richard, with Sharon’s assistance, changed the date of the promissory note
appearing on the deed of trust such that the promissory note on the deed of
trust did not match the date on the promissory note assigned to Sandra and
Nancy. Richard also recorded the altered deed of trust without Sandra’s approval
and refused to provide Sandra with appropriate documentation to allow her to
obtain a lender’s policy of title insurance.
On October 20, 2023, Nancy Hymas filed
a Complaint in Intervention alleging claims of (1) Judicial Foreclosure, (2)
Fraud, and (3) Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage against the
Norlund Defendants.
The Complaint in Intervention’s
claims arise largely from the same allegations as Sandra Norlund’s pleading but
framed around Nancy Hymas’s resulting injuries.
The Los Angeles case was and is
assigned to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse (the Court).
Pleadings in Butte Case (23STCV19070),
Now Before Department 40
On September 8, 2021, Sandra
Norlund—in her individual and representative capacities—filed a Complaint naming
Richard Norlund in his various capacities, Tittle & Company LLP (Tittle
& Co.), Chandese Meghadi, CPA (Meghadi, CPA), Old Republic Title Company
(Old Republic), and Does 1 through 100 as Defendants and alleging claims of (1)
Breach of Contract against Richard Norlund and Does 1 through 70, (2) Actual
Fraud, (3) Constructive Fraud, and (4) Conversion against all Defendants, and
(5) Professional Negligence against Tittle & Co., Megdhadi, CPA, and Old
Republic.
On February 1, 2022, Sandra Norlund
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) naming Richard Norlund in his various
capacities, Tittle & Co., Meghadi, CPA, Old Republic, and Does 1 through
100 as Defendants and alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract against Richard
Norlund and Does 1 through 70, (2) Actual Fraud and (3) Constructive Fraud
against all Defendants, and (4) Professional Negligence and (5) Aiding and
Abetting against Old Republic.
On November 30, 2022, Sandra
Norlund filed an amendment to complaint naming John C. Schaller as Doe 1.
On January 18, 2023, Nancy Hymas
filed a Complaint in Intervention in the Butte case naming Richard Norlund in
his various capacities, Tittle & Co., Meghadi, CPA, Old Republic, and Does
1 through 100 as Defendants and alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract
against Richard Norlund and Does 1 through 70, (2) Actual Fraud and (3)
Constructive Fraud against all Defendants, and (4) Professional Negligence and
(5) Aiding and Abetting against Old Republic.
On August 10, 2023, the Butte
County Superior Court—where this later-filed action was filed—transferred the
action to the Los Angeles Superior Court, which was assigned to Department 72
at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse as 23STCV19070.
On August 28, 2023, the Court
related the Los Angeles and Butte cases, transferred the Butte Case to
Department 40 with the Los Angeles case as the lead case, and advanced and
vacated all hearings in the Butte case.
Motion Before the Court
On January 17, 2024, Nancy Hymas
filed a motion for leave of court to file a First Amended Complaint in
Intervention (FACI) in both actions. The motion was filed in the lead case.
The proposed amendment in the lead
Los Angeles case (20STCV27665) would add to the allegations to go beyond the
initial framework provided by the Sandra Norlund pleadings, add causes of
action for breach of contract and specific performance, declaratory relief, and
quiet title, delete allegations against attorney Shaller and add several
regarding attorney Rick Edwards, and completely amend the prayer sought in
Nancy Hymas’s pleadings.  (Exhibit 2 to
Motion).
The proposed amendment in the Butte
case (23STCV19070) would add to the allegations to go beyond the framework of
the initial pleadings, amend the breach of contract claim to add a specific
performance component, add declaratory relief and quiet title claims, delete
allegations against attorney Shaller and add several regarding attorney Rick
Edwards, and completely amend the prayer sought in Nancy Hymas’s pleadings. (See
Motion at pp. 8-10).
Intervenor also states that the proposed
pleading removes Old Republic as a named defendant because it was dismissed on
February 9, 2023. (See Mot. at p. 9). However, the proposed pleading, Exhibit 3
to Micaraset Decl., actually keeps in a paragraph regarding that defendant as
well as defendants Tittle & Co. and Chandese Meghdadi, CPA. The latter two
defendants were dismissed with prejudice on April 1, 2022. (Compare Micaraset
Decl., Exhibit 3, ¶¶15-17 with Request for Dismissal in 23STCV19070 filed April
1, 2022.)
On February 16, 2024, the Norlund
Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition, noting that they did not oppose
the amendment but reserved its right to challenge the proposed FACIs.
On February 23, 2024, Nancy Hymas
filed a notice noting the Norlund Defendants’ non-opposition.
Nancy Hymas’s motion is now before
the Court.
 
Motion
for Leave to File Amended Pleading
Legal Standard
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
Under California Rules of Court
Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall: 
(1) Include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion
and must specify:
(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary
and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
“This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047 (Kittredge Sports);
accord California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173
Cal.App.3d 274, 280 (California Casualty) [Even if the proposed legal
theory is a novel one, the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment
and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for
judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings], overruled on other
grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23
Cal.4th 390, 403-406.)
The Court has discretion to deny
leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of
action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.
(California Casualty, supra, 173 Cal.App.3d at pp.  280-281) or if a long, unwarranted and
unexcused delay preceded the request for leave to amend (Roemer v. Retail
Credit Co. (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 926, 939-940).
Order Granting Leave to Amend:
GRANTED, with conditions.
I. Procedural
Requirements
Plaintiff in Intervention Nancy
Hymas’s motion satisfies California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision
(a)(1) by providing copies of the proposed FACIs in the Los Angeles and Butte
cases. (Mot., Micaraset Decl., Exs. 2-3.)
Plaintiff in Intervention Nancy Hymas’s
motion satisfies California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivisions (a)(2)-(3)
by providing copies of the proposed FACIs in the Los Angeles and Butte cases,
with redlines showing differences from the initial pleadings, and a declaration
from counsel providing a more concise summary of the changes to the pleadings.
(Mot., Micaraset Decl., ¶¶ 4-5(q), Exs. 2-3.)
Plaintiff in Intervention Nancy
Hymas’s motion does not on its face satisfy California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subdivisions (b)(1)-(4) because the Micaraset declaration does not
explicitly detail the information required from this rule of court. (Mot.,
Micaraset Decl., ¶¶ 1-5(q).) However, the description of the proposed amendments
shows that the effect of the amendments is to amend the allegations and prayers
and add causes of action to vindicate Nancy Hymas’s rights in relation to the
settlement agreement and subsequent transactions related to the Subject
Properties. (Mot., Micaraset Decl., ¶¶ 4-5(q).) Moreover, the motion is
unopposed (Norlund Non-Opposition, p. 2), and prior discussions with the
parties have informed the Court that Nancy Hymas’s counsel seeks to amend the
pleadings to go beyond the Sandra Norlund pleadings initially framing the
intervention pleadings. The Court is satisfied that the purpose of this rule is
met under these circumstances. 
The Court does, however, see some
potential issues that could arise in consequence of naming attorney Rick
Edwards as a defendant, which it will address with the parties at the hearing.
Moreover, because three defendants
have already been dismissed, as noted above, the Court will order as a condition
of its approval that the First Amended Complaint in Intervention attached as
Exhibit 3 to the Micaraset Declaration be further amended to strike or delete paragraphs
15-17 regarding defendants Old Republic, Tittle & Co. and Chandese
Meghdadi, CPA.
II. Other Arguments
Because the Norlund Defendants have
filed a notice of non-opposition to Nancy Hymas’s motion (Norlund
Non-Opposition, p. 2), and because Sandra Norlund has not opposed this motion
despite service (Mot., Proof of Service, Service List [service on Mark B.
Plummer, Esq.]), the Court has no grounds to decline to exercise its liberal
discretion in allowing amendments to the pleadings.
Nancy Hymas’s motion is therefore
GRANTED. 
Conclusion
Plaintiff in Intervention Nancy
Hymas’s Motion for Leave to Amend and File First Amended Complaints in
Intervention is GRANTED. Nancy Hymas is to lodge the Proposed First Amended
Complaints in Intervention in compliance with this Order. The Court, however,
wishes to first discuss with the parties the potential consequences of naming attorney Rick
Edwards as a new defendant. 