 Case Number:  23STCV02953    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  39 Gensis Pink v.
5335 W. Adams LA, LLC, et al.
Case No.
23STCV02953
 
NOTICE
 
            The Court
posts these tentative orders on Monday, January 22, 2024.  The Court provides notice: If the parties do not
appear at the hearing, either remotely or in-person, they shall waive the right
to be heard and shall submit to entry of these tentative orders.  
 
Order #1 of 4
Demurrer and
Motion to Strike
 
            Plaintiff
Genesis Pink (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants asserting
various causes of action stemming from the parties’ landlord-tenant
relationship.  Defendants demur to the
complaint and move to strike certain allegations.  However, Defendants’ counsel filed two copies
of the motion to strike and did not file the demurrer.  Therefore, the Court continues the hearings
on the demurrer and motion to strike to March 8, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  The Court orders Defendants to file the
demurrer.  If the version filed differs
from the version served on Plaintiff, Plaintiff may file a supplemental
opposition, and Defendant may file a supplemental reply brief, based upon
statutory deadlines.  Defendants’ counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.   
 
Order #2 of 4
Case Management
Conference
 
The Court continues the case
management conference to March 8, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.  
 
Order #3 of 4
Motions to Compel
Responses to Form Interrogatories
 
            Defendants
move to compel Plaintiff to provide responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set
One (“FROG”).  The FROG were served on
April 5, 2023, by mail, which means Plaintiff’s responses were due on or before
May 10, 2023.  (Declaration of Michael B.
Seuylemezian, ¶¶ 2-3 & Exh. A.)  As
of the date of the motion, Plaintiff has not responded.  (Id., ¶ 5.) 
Plaintiff has not file an opposition, and the record reflects no good
cause for her failure to respond to this discovery.  Therefore, the motion is granted.
 
            Defendants
seek monetary sanctions in the amount of $855. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s failure to respond to basic discovery
for over eight months is an abuse of the discovery process warranting monetary
sanctions.  The Court finds that the
hourly rate and number of hours is reasonable under the circumstances.  Therefore, the Court grants the request for
sanctions.
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Defendants’ motion to
compel responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One.
 
            2.         Plaintiff shall serve responses to the
Form Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, on or before February 26,
2024.  
 
            3.         Defendants’ counsel shall file a
declaration informing the Court whether Plaintiff has complied with this order
on or before March 1, 2024.
 
            4.         The Court orders Plaintiff Genesis Pink
to pay monetary sanctions to Defendants, through Defendants’ counsel, in the
amount of $855.  The sanctions shall be
paid on or before February 26, 2024.
 
            5.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court.
 
Order #4 of 4
Motion to Deem
Admitted
 
            Defendants
move to have the matters specified in the Requests for Admission, Set One
(“RFAs”) deemed admitted by Plaintiff Genesis Pink.  If the Court grants the motion, Defendants
would be able to move for summary judgment based on the deemed admissions.  The Court continues the hearing on the motion
to March 8, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. to afford Plaintiff an opportunity to correct
the issue by serving verified responses without objections.  Defendants’ counsel shall file a declaration
on or before March 1, 2024, informing the Court whether Plaintiff has served
verified responses, without objections, to the RFAs.  Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.   
  
            
 
 
 