  Case Number:  20STCV39532    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  39 Bertha Velasquez
v. Pretty Fashion, Inc.
Case No.
20STCV39532
Ex Parte
Application to Set Aside Default Judgment
 
            Plaintiff
Bertha Velasquez (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment discrimination and wage-and-hour
case on October 15, 2020.  Plaintiff obtained
default judgment on November 29, 2021. 
Now, over two years later, Defendant Francisca Gonzalez (“Defendant”) filed
an ex parte application to set aside the default judgment and to recall and
quash the writ of execution.  
 
            Defendant argues
that the judgment is void because the complaint alleges damages in the amount
of $103,436, and the default judgment imposes joint and several liability in the
amount of $281,663.75 (in addition to prejudgment interest, attorneys’ fees,
and costs).  Defendant also argues that
the judgment is void because it includes a PAGA penalty of $22,500 but does not
include the State of California’s share of the penalty.
 
            The Court
agrees with Defendant that the judgment is void.  The complaint asserts claims for
discrimination, retaliation, failure to prevent discrimination/retaliation, failure
to provide reasonable accommodation, failure to engage in the interactive
process, and wrongful termination in violation of public policy.  However, the Court only attributed $35,000 to
those claims.  The remaining claims stem
from the wage and hour claims and exceed the amounts requested in the complaint.  The judgment also includes a PAGA penalty of
Plaintiff but not the State of California. 

 
            Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Defendant Francisca Gonzalez’s
ex parte application.
 
            2.         The Court vacates the default judgment
and recalls and quashes the writ of execution.
 
            3.         Defendants shall remain in default, as
the ex parte application did not seek that relief, and there is no good cause
to set aside default at this time.    
 
4.         Plaintiffs
may prepare and submit a new default judgment packet.  Defendant Francisca Gonzalez may file a noticed
motion to set aside the default and reinstate the case to the Court’s active
docket.  The Court orders the parties to
meet-and-confer to discuss these issues before they proceed.
 
5.         If
the parties reach any agreement on how the case shall proceed, they shall file
a joint statement on or before February 26, 2024.  If the parties cannot reach any agreement,
Plaintiffs shall submit a new default judgment packet on or before February 26,
2024.  The Court will not enter any
default judgment before February 26, 2024, which should afford the defendants
sufficient time to file any noticed motion to set aside default.  
 
6.         The
Court sets an Order to Show Cause why the Court should not enter default
judgment on March 8, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
7.         Defendant
Francisca Gonzalez shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 