 Case Number:  24STCV13533    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  57 BURBANK AND LA CIENEGA'S MOTION TO RECONSIDERATIONOn October 24, 2024, the  Court denied the motion of Defendant Burbank and La Cienega, LLC ("BLC")  to compel arbitration of the claims in the complaint against BLC that was filed  by Plaintiff Cadlac, Inc. ("Cadlac").   The  Court denied BLC’s motion on the grounds that (A) enforcement of the  arbitration provision in the parties’ lease agreement for Cadlac’s operation of  a Del Taco restaurant on property BLC owns would violate Code of Civil  Procedure Sections 1298(a) and 1298(c), and (B) the Federal Arbitration Act (“the  FAA”) did not preempt application of Sections 1298(a) and 1298(c) because BLC  did not carry its burden of proving that the lease agreement involves  interstate commerce, which was necessary to trigger FAA preemption.   The  Court’s decision marked a shift from its tentative ruling issued prior to the  hearing on BLC’s motion to compel arbitration.   In its tentative decision, the Court stated that the FAA preempted Sections  1298(a) and 1298(c).  BLC has timely moved under  Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008 for reconsideration of the Court’s  decision denying BLC’s motion to compel arbitration.  Section 1008 provides that a party may move  for reconsideration of an order “based upon new or different facts,  circumstances, or law.”  BLC contends  that reconsideration is warranted here because, at the hearing on the motion to  compel arbitration, counsel for Cadlac referred the Court to FAA preemption precedent  that Cadlac did not cite in its brief opposing the motion and this “new law”  that was improperly invoked by Cadlac for the first time at the hearing caused  the Court to reverse the course on FAA preemption charted in the tentative  ruling.   The Court disagrees with  BLC and is denying its motion for reconsideration.   The tentative ruling granting  BLC motion to compel arbitration was based on the Court’s initial supposition that  the parties’ lease agreement for Cadlac’s operation of a Del Taco restaurant on  BLC’s property necessarily involves interstate commerce thereby triggering FAA  preemption of Sections 1298(a) and 1298(c).   Cadlac had argued otherwise in its brief opposing the motion to compel  arbitration.  There, Cadlac said that BLC  had failed to carry its burden of proving that the agreement involves interstate  commerce.  Yes, at the hearing on the  motion to compel arbitration, Cadlac’s counsel cited precedent that did not  appear in Cadlac’s opposition brief.  But  it was not the newly-cited precedent that compelled the Court to reverse  course.  Rather, the Court’s shift from  granting the motion to denying it stemmed from the Court’s dialogue at the  hearing with counsel for both sides as to whether the declarations that BLC  submitted in support of the motion carried BLC’s burden of demonstrating that  the lease agreement involved interstate commerce.  After the hearing, the Court reviewed the  declarations anew and concluded that they did not satisfy that burden.   BLC’s position at the  hearing and in its reconsideration motion is that of course operating a Del  Taco restaurant involves interstate commerce.   The Court’s tentative decision bought into that idea.  But precedent that the Court itself cited in  the tentative ruling, Hedges v. Carrigan (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 578, makes  clear that the party relying on FAA preemption must furnish evidence that  interstate commerce is implicated.  In  denying BLC’s motion to compel arbitration, the Court concluded that BLC failed  to supply that evidence.  The Court did  not need the precedent that Cadlac’s counsel cited at the hearing on the motion  to compel arbitration to reach that conclusion.CADLAC'S MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF ALEX COHENThe Court is denying Cadlac's to compel the deposition of Alex Cohen.   BLC's objections to the notice of the deposition of Alex Cohen while technical were well-grounded because Alex Cohen is not the actual, real name of the person whom Cadlack was seeking to depose.  The evidence submitted by both sides in connection with Cadlac's motion indicates that the person in question is named Alexander Ezzati.  Cadlac was aware of this and should have revised the deposition notice to change the name of the person to be deposed from Alex Cohen to Alexander Ezzati instead of filing the motion.  The Court is declining, however, to impose sanctions against Cadlac and its counsel.   If this case were not as contentious as it is, BLC probably should have accepted the notice to Cohen under the circumstances, or, at minimum, worked with Cadlac in facilitating the revised notice.  But this case unfortunately is super contentious.  Hence, the motion.  The Court's message to both sides is this: it does not have to be this way.    