 Case Number:  23STCV10856    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  86 SANTANDER CONSUMER USA INC. v. POLOVYI
Case Number: 23STCV10856
Hearing Date: October 11, 2023
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING APPLICATIONS FOR WRITS OF POSSESSION 
 
 
Plaintiff, Santander Consumer USA Inc., moves for
writs of possession against Defendants Artem Polovyi, California Department of
Motor Vehicles , Eco Blue, and Christopher Stephan (collectively, Defendants) with
respect to the following property: 2022 Nissan Armada, motor vehicle, Vehicle
Identification Number JN8AY2AC7N9160854 (Vehicle).
 
RELEVANT PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendants for claim and delivery, conversion, quiet title, and
declaratory relief.
 
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff its applications for
writs of possession.  
 
On June 30, 2023, DMV filed a stipulation,
acceptance of service, and order regarding waiver of appearance by and of
monetary recovery against DMV.  
 
On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed proof of
service of the summons, complaint, and application for writ of possession on
Defendant Polovyi by substituted service.
 
No proof of service of the summons, complaint,
and application for writ of possession has been filed as to Defendants Eco Blue
and Christopher Stephan.
 
SUMMARY OF
APPLICABLE LAW 
 
“Upon the
filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply
pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing a written
application for the writ with the court in which the action is brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.010, subd. (a).)
              
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010, subd. (b), an application for a writ
of possession must be submitted under oath and include:
 
(1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff
is entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the
plaintiff's claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be
attached.
 
(2) A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the
property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular description of the property and a statement of its
value.
 
(4) A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and
belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property,
or some part of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to
take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there.
 
(5) A statement that the property has not been taken for a tax,
assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution
against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute
exempt from such seizure.
 
“The writ
will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid
and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established.” (Code Civ.
Proc., 512.040, subd. (b).) “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more
likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant
on that claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 511.090.) 

 
Prior to the
issuance of a writ of possession, the plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an
amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's interest in the
property or in a greater amount.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 515.010, subd. (a).)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
No Proof of Service for Defendants Eco
Blue and Christopher Stephan
 
Before the
hearing on the application for writ of possession, the defendant must be served
with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and
Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.030.)
 
No proof of service of the summons, complaint, notice
of hearing, and application for writ of possession has been filed with respect
to Defendant Eco Blue and Defendant Stephan. 
Accordingly, the applications are DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE as to those
Defendants.  
 
Probable
Cause re: Location of the Vehicle as to Defendant Polovyi
 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure, section 512.010, subdivision (b)(4), the application must
include: 
 
(4) A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and
belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property,
or some part of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to
take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there.
 
Because the
application asks for an order permitting a levying officer to enter private
property and take possession of the Vehicle, Plaintiff must establish “probable
cause” to believe that the Vehicle is located at the property.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 512.010, subd. (b)(4),
512.080.)   
 
Plaintiff
contends the Vehicle is located at 7236 Woodman Avenue, Van Nuys, CA 91405 or
18336 Soledad Canyon Road, Suite 1819, Canyon Country, CA 91386.  (Appl. ¶ 6; Vargas Decl. ¶ 18.)  Plaintiff’s representative declares that
Plaintiff’s file reflects that Defendant Polovyi resides at 7236 Woodman Avenue
and Defendants Eco Blue and Stephan operate a body shop at 18336 Soledad Canyon
Road. (Vargas Decl. ¶¶ 6, 18.) Plaintiff’s
representative further declares Defendant Polovyi transferred the Vehicle to Defendant
Eco Blue and Defendant Stephan for repairs or storage; the Vehicle has accrued
labor, tow, and storage fees in excess of $10,000; Defendant Eco Blue and Defendant
Stephan applied to the DMV for a lien sale, which Plaintiff opposed; and Defendant
Eco Blue and Defendant Stephan have confirmed they still have possession of the
Vehicle. (Id. ¶¶ 6-12.) In light of this evidence, Plaintiff does not
show probable cause to believe the Vehicle is located at Defendant Polovyi’s
residence at 7236 Woodman Avenue. Nor does Plaintiff show Defendant Polovyi
currently has possession of the Vehicle. Accordingly, the application is DENIED
as to Defendant Polovyi and to the extent it seeks to authorize the levying
officer to enter 7236 Woodman Avenue, Van Nuys, CA 91405.
 
DMV 
 
Plaintiff has
not shown that DMV currently has possession of the Vehicle.  Accordingly, the application is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE as to DMV.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The application seeking a writ of possession with
respect to Defendant Polovyi and property located at 7236 Woodman
Avenue, Van Nuys, CA 91405 is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
The applications seeking a writ of possession
with respect to Defendant Eco Blue and DEFENDANT Stephan and property located
at 18336 Soledad Canyon Road, Suite 1819, Canyon Country, CA 91386 are DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
The application seeking a writ of possession with
respect to DMV is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
 IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
October 11, 2023                                                                  _______________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 