  Case Number:  22STCP01429    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  86 USC CENTER FOR HEALTH JOURNALISM v. LOCAL
INITIATIVE HEALTH AUTHORITY FOR LOS ANGELES COUNTY
Case Number: 22STCP01429
Hearing Date: October 11, 2023
 
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 
 
 
Petitioners, University of Southern California Center
for Health Journalism and University of Southern California Center for Health
Financing, Policy, and Management, seek a writ of mandate directing Respondent,
Local Initiative Health Authority for Los Angeles County [Respondent or L.A.
Care], to produce unredacted records in response to Petitioners’ request under
the California Public Records Act (CPRA), Government Code section 7920.000 et
seq. for performance score cards developed by Respondent for each of its individual
provider organizations.[1]
Respondent opposes Petitioners’ request.
 
The petition is denied.
 
Respondent’s evidentiary objections: 
 
              Declaration
of Michelle Levander
 
Respondent’s general objection to “all footnotes”
is sustained. The declarant cites the materials for their truth. (See, e.g.,
footnotes 3, 4.) Petitioners did not request judicial notice of the materials. Objections
4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10 are sustained. Objections 1, 2, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17,
18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 are overruled. The court sustains in part objections 3
(as to “spurring a state . . . access to care”) and 15 (as to “helped spark . .
. laws and regulations”). 
 
              Declaration
of Abigail Coursolle
 
Objection 1 is overruled. The remaining objection
is sustained. (Petitioners concede Exhibits G, H and I are no longer relevant.)
  
Declaration of Glenn Melnick
 
Respondent’s general objection to “all footnotes”
is sustained. The declarant cites the materials for their truth. (See, e.g.,
footnotes 3, 4.) The objections are otherwise overruled.
 
Petitioners’ evidentiary objections:
 
              Declaration
of Thomas Mapp
 
The objection is sustained. The court has
received the document into evidence. The declarant’s summary of the document is
impermissible secondary evidence of the contents of the document.
 
 BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
Respondent “is a public health plan created by
the State of California and Los Angeles County to provide health coverage to
low-income Los Angeles County residents. L.A. Care contracts with providers in
Los Angeles, including Independent Physician Associations (‘IPAs’) and
Participating Physician Groups (‘PPGs’) . . ., to deliver Medi-Cal covered
services to its members.” (Pirritano Decl. ¶ 6; see also Pet. ¶¶ 11-27.)[2]  
 
In 2015, Respondent commenced a Value Initiative
for IPA Performance (VIIP). Matthew Pirritano, Respondent’s Director of
Population Health Informatics, describes the VIIP program as follows: 
 
In
2015, under the umbrella of its Quality Improvement Program, L.A. Care began to
pilot its VIIP program to measure the quality of services provided by its
contracted Provider Groups. This program was subsequently implemented as a
Pay-for-Performance program for measurement year 2017, reported in 2018, which
provides financial rewards for providers who provide high-quality care to L.A.
Care Medi-Cal members. The purpose of the VIIP program is to allow L.A. Care to
have objective data that it can use to work with its Provider Groups to improve
the quality of healthcare provided to all L.A. Care members. L.A. Care
continues to refine the VIIP methodology, measures, and program implementation
to this day. 
 
The
VIIP program measures Provider Groups' performance across multiple domains,
including Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (“HEDIS”), clinical
quality, utilization, encounters, and member experience. The program uses
approximately 42 measures. . . .
 
The
data gathered as part of this program is then compiled into VIIP Scorecards.
The Provider Groups use these VIIP Scorecards to track their individual
progress on achieving L.A. Care's targeted quality improvement efforts. . . . [¶]
 
Some
of the measures used for the VIIP Scorecards (e.g., Healthcare Effectiveness
Data and Information Set [“HEDIS”]) and Clinician and Group Consumer Assessment
of Healthcare Providers and Systems ("CG-CARPS") are standard
measures used by many health plans and health plan accreditation organizations
while others are unique to L.A. Care. The scores on individual measures in the
VIIP Scorecards are not publicly reported for Provider Groups.
 
(Pirritano
Decl. ¶¶ 7-10.)
 
Respondent submits evidence the VIIP Scorecards
are shared confidentially with each Provider Group reflected in the scorecard; VIIP
Scorecards have not been shared in an unredacted form outside of L.A. Care or
the individual VIIP participants. (Id. ¶ 14 and Exh. C, D.) The services
agreement between Respondent and its Provider Groups includes a confidentiality
provision, which states in part: “All information, records, and data collected
by Healthplan, from PPG and each Affiliated Provider and Subcontracted
Provider, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, including but not limited to
. . . shall be maintained in confidence.” (Lageson Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B,
§ 3.3 [fee for service], ¶ 6, Exh. C, 3.3 [shared
risk agreement, substantially similar].)
 
On July 28 and 30, 2021, pursuant to the CPRA, Petitioners
requested copies of “[a]ll documents between LA Care and individual provider
organizations related to performance and the LA Care IPA Performance
[Scorecards]” for every year since the launch of the VIIP Scorecards (the
Request). (Levander Decl. Exh. 2, 3.)
 
In or about September 2021, Respondent produced
the VIIP Scorecards but redacted the names of the Provider Groups. Respondent
asserted multiple exemptions in the CPRA to support the redactions. (Levander
Decl. Exh. 4, 5.) The single issue in this litigation is the whether Respondent’s
may properly claim an exemption under the CPRA for the individual Provider Group’s
name on the scorecard.
 
This proceeding ensued.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Pursuant to
the CPRA, individual citizens have a right to access government records. In
enacting the CPRA, the Legislature declared “access to information concerning
the conduct of the people's business is a fundamental and necessary right of
every person in this state.” (Gov. Code, § 7921.000; see also County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 57, 63.) 
 
Article 1, Section 3(b) of the
Constitution affirms that “[t]he people have the right of access to information
concerning the conduct of the people’s business.” The Constitution mandates the
CPRA be “broadly construed,” while any statute “that limits the right of
access” must be “narrowly construed.” (See National Lawyers Guild, San
Francisco Bay Area Chapter v. City of Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488, 507; see
also County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (Anderson-Barker) (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 57, 60.) The CPRA “does not allow limitations on access to a public record
based upon the purpose for which the record is being requested, if the record
is otherwise subject to disclosure.” (Gov. Code, § 7921.300.)  “Any
reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be available for inspection by
any person requesting the record after deletion of the portions that are
exempted by law.” (Gov. Code, § 7922.525, subd. (b).)
 
Petitioners
bear the burden of proof and persuasion in a mandate proceeding. (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.) “To establish an agency has a duty to
disclose under [the CPRA], the petitioner must show that: 
(1) the
record ‘qualif[ies] as [a] ‘public record[ ]’ . . .; and (2) the record is ‘in
the possession of the agency.’ ” (Anderson-Barker v. Superior Court (2019)
31 Cal.App.5th 528, 538.)  
 
CPRA
exemptions must be narrowly construed and the agency bears the burden of
showing a specific exemption applies. (Sacramento
County Employees’ Retirement System v. Superior Court (2013) 195
Cal.App.4th 440, 453.) “Because the agency has full
knowledge of the contents of the withheld records and the requester has only
the agency's affidavits and descriptions of the documents, its affidavits must
be specific enough to give the requester ‘a meaningful opportunity to contest’
the withholding of the documents.” (American Civil Liberties Union of
Northern California v. Superior Court (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 55, 83; see also Getz v. Superior Court (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 637.)
 
“
‘On questions of law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s]
independent judgment.’ . . . . Interpretation of a statute or regulation is a
question of law.” (Christensen v.
Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Respondent contends it properly denied the
Request under the catchall exemption set forth in Government Code section
7922.000.  
 
Government Code section 7922.000 authorizes “a government agency to
withhold [public] records if it can demonstrate that, on the facts of a
particular case, the public interest served by withholding the records clearly
outweighs the public interest served by disclosure.” (City of San Jose v. Superior Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1008,
1017.)  “The burden of proof is on the
proponent of nondisclosure, who must demonstrate a ‘clear overbalance’ on the
side of confidentiality.” (Id. at 1018.) 

 
The courts employ the following three-part test when considering the
catchall exemption: 
 
(1) We
determine if there is a public interest served by nondisclosure of the records;
(2) If so, we determine if a public interest is served by disclosure of the records;
and (3) If both are found, we determine whether (1) clearly outweighs (2). If
it does not, the records are disclosed. In applying this test, we keep in mind
the public policy favoring disclosure of records dealing with the public's
business, the policy of construing exemptions narrowly, and the fact that the
burden is on the party resisting disclosure to prove an exemption applies. (Los
Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Superior Court (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 222,
243 [LAUSD].)
 
Public Interest in
Non-Disclosure 
 
Respondent contends non-disclosure
of the names of the Provider Groups on the scorecards serves an important
public interest in protecting candid and accurate participation by Provider
Groups in the VIIP program and, ultimately, Provider Groups’ participation in
Respondent’s healthcare network. As support, Respondent relies on declarations
provided by Matthew Pirritano, Respondent’s Director of Population Health
Informatics; Gary J. Mihalik, a physician and healthcare consultant whose
expertise includes performance measurement of medical groups and other
healthcare organizations; and John Baackes, Respondent’s Chief Executive
Officer. 
 
              Summary of Respondent’s Evidence Related to Public
Interest in Non-Disclosure 
 
Declaration of Matthew
Pirritano
 
In addition to those
statements from Pirritano quoted earlier in the Background and Procedural
History section of this order, Pirritano also attests: 
 
The robust quality improvement
efforts of the Provider Groups—as detailed on the requested VIIP
Scorecards—contributes directly to L.A. Care's competitive advantage and
overall performance in the healthcare marketplace. The VIIP Scorecards were
carefully and deliberately designed as a tool for improving the quality of care
among individual Provider Groups. Also, the VIIP Scorecards encourage Provider
Groups to collaborate in the development of targeted quality improvement
initiatives. Developing future quality improvement initiatives is important
because quality of care is a basis for competition in the healthcare
marketplace. (Pirritano Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
The standard for reporting healthcare quality in the industry is to
publish summary quality scores for the various healthcare organizations, such
as using a five-star rating system. It is not the industry standard to publicly
report the numerical scores for the individual measures that support the
star-ratings. (Pirritano Decl. ¶ 11.) 

 
I am not aware of any organization
that publicly reports individual numerical scores like the detailed scores in
the VIIP Scorecards for medical groups or independent practice associations.
Reporting the detailed numerical data is not industry standard.  (Pirritano Decl. ¶ 13.)  
 
L.A. Care has taken a variety of
actions to protect the secrecy of the Provider Groups' VIIP scores. The VIIP
scorecards and their underlying data have not been shared in an un-redacted
form outside of L.A. Care or the VIIP participants. On the rare occasion that
information is shared, only limited information is shared and that which is
shared is marked as confidential trade secret. Each Provider Group receives its
own un-redacted scorecard, pursuant to similar confidentiality restrictions
that require each Provider Group to maintain the confidentiality of the VIIP
data. When each Provider Group receives its VIIP Scorecard, it also receives a
cover letter from L.A. Care reminding them to keep this information
confidential. Additionally, each Scorecard also includes language reminding the
Provider Group that the VIIP Scorecard is confidential. L.A. Care does not
presently intend to disclose the measure level numerical data.”  (Pirritano Decl. ¶ 14.)
 
Declaration of Gary J.
Mihalik[3]  
 
Based on his professional
experience in the field of healthcare accreditation and review of documents
from this case, Mihalik opines confidentiality is necessary for quality
improvement efforts in the healthcare setting and disclosure of such data is
harmful to Respondent’s initiatives to improve the quality of health care to
its members. (Mihalik Decl. ¶¶ 13-25.) 
 
 Mihalik declares: 
 
The data collected for quality
improvement differ from the data collected for public reporting. The
distinction between quality improvement performance data and public reporting
performance data do not necessarily hinge on the measures specifically. Instead,
it hinges on what the intent and understanding was at the beginning of the
process. (Mihalik Decl. ¶ 15.)  
 
When data are collected for quality
improvement, the mutual understanding is that these are confidential data for
quality improvement that will not be used for public reporting in any kind of
granular way. . . .  (Mihalik Decl.  ¶ 16.)  
 
The expectation in providing data for
public reporting differs because, while the provider may not be happy that the
data will be publicly reported, the provider understands that this is the plan
going into the endeavor. . . .  (Mihalik
Decl. ¶ 17.)
 
L.A. Care uses the data that is
reported on the VIIP Scorecards in two ways: one is to catalyze quality
improvement efforts throughout the network and to try to get all the Provider
Groups to improve. The second way is to determine a portion of reimbursement
based on performance. [¶] Releasing un-redacted practitioner performance and
quality improvement data is not industry standard. Even for some organizations
who do make available such data, they do so at a summary level and only after a
very careful pre-release review of that data. [¶] Taking data that were
originally collected for quality improvement purposes, under the assurances
that the data would remain confidential, and to then publicly report that data
would have a negative impact on L.A. Care and its providers. . . .  (Mihalik Decl. ¶¶ 18-20.)
 
To the extent that the data
collected with assurances of confidentiality are not maintained as such,
providers no longer have confidence that it will not happen to other data that
they submit to health plans other than L.A. Care. This can have a chilling
effect on quality-improvement efforts throughout the whole Southern California
area. A provider's willingness to fully participate in health plan activities
that involve quality improvement data submission hinges in large part on the
assurances that the data will not be misused or used against them. Publicly
reporting the data that L.A. Care told the Provider Groups would be kept
confidential is a prime example of misusing data and is therefore likely to
have a chilling effect on the desire of Provider Groups to cooperate with such
activities. Even if Provider Groups are contractually obligated to participate
in the L.A. Care VIIP Program, knowing that the data will be disclosed to the
public may influence their decisions to not participate fully. For example, the
provider may choose to not submit the data or selectively submit data. (Mihalik
Decl. ¶ 21.)
 
Based on my experience, I have seen instances where Provider Groups did
not provide data that would have gotten them a higher reimbursement. This
occurred for multiple reasons, one of which had to do with the cost of
collecting the data. Often Provider Groups did not have enough staff to collect
such data, so even though there were incentives to provide the data, they just
could not do it. If a Provider Group believes that the data it provides are
going to be publicly released, and the data are not going to show the Provider
Group in a favorable light, it may choose to not report. Additionally, if the
Provider Group has multiple health plans to which it needs to report data, and
its resources are stretched thin, it may decide that L.A. Care is the one health
plan to which it will not report to because L.A. Care will publicly release its
data, whereas other health plans would not. (Mihalik Decl.  ¶ 22.)
 
Releasing the data that L.A. Care has collected under assurances of
confidentiality could also result in L.A. Care losing some of their Provider
Groups or making it more difficult to contract with other Provider Groups in
the future. For example, groups with lower measured performance (which is not
the same as lower actual performance) may decide that it is not worth it for
their data to be made public and decide to opt out of L.A. Care and go with
another health plan instead.  (Mihalik Decl. ¶ 23.)
 
Another impact from publicly releasing this data is that other health
plans might try to recruit the higher performing Provider Groups with better
incentives because they appear to be doing a better job, which could negatively
impact L.A. Care's network. It is already difficult for Provider Groups to take
care of Medicaid patients because the reimbursement is not very good, and for
L.A. Care to lose its ostensibly higher performing Provider Groups would have a
negative impact on their ability to serve those patients within their care. (Mihalik Decl.  ¶ 24.)
 
Observing these negative consequences of publicly reporting healthcare
quality improvement data are difficult for multiple reasons. First, entities
that withdraw from a health plan will frequently do so when a contract expires
and the Provider Groups do not typically publicly announce why they do not
renew a contract. They also do not publicly explain why they may be slow to
provide data or why they may provide incomplete data. However, given my
extensive experience in working in healthcare quality improvement, I know that
these consequences have occurred. In working with various health plans, I have
observed changes in the use of quality improvement data correlate with changes
in the makeup of a health plan's network. I have also had these changes reported
to me. These changes occur too frequently for it to be chance alone.
Additionally, this opinion is also based on human behavior. If a Provider Group
has the option to remain with a health plan that is not trustworthy with the
Provider Group's data and the Provider Group can join another health plan that
places fewer burdens on the Provider Group's operations and treats its data
confidentially, the Provider Group is more likely to switch its affiliation. (Mihalik Decl.  ¶ 25.)
 
Declaration of John Baackes 
 
Respondent’s Chief Executive Officer attests: 
 
The data gathered as part of VIIP is compiled into VIIP Scorecards. The
Provider Groups use these VIIP Scorecards to track their individual progress on
achieving L.A. Care's targeted quality improvement efforts. The robust quality
improvement efforts of the Provider Groups—as detailed on the requested
Scorecards—contribute directly to L.A. Care's competitive advantage and overall
performance in the healthcare marketplace. The VIIP Scorecards were carefully
and deliberately designed as a tool for improving the quality of care among
individual providers. Also, VIIP Scorecards encourage Provider Groups to
collaborate in the development of targeted quality improvement initiatives.
Developing future quality improvement initiatives is important because quality
of care is a basis for competition in the healthcare marketplace. Information
pertaining to detailed scores on individual measures and their components that
is included in the VIIP Scorecards is not publicly reported for Provider Groups.  (Baackes Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
L.A. Care acquired information from its Provider Groups for VIIP in
confidence. When Provider Groups originally agreed to participate in VIIP, they
were informed on multiple occasions that the VIIP data would not be publicly
released. For example, I personally assured leaders of Provider Groups in
face-to-face meetings that the VIIP data would not be publicly disclosed.
Acquiring this data confidentially was necessary for VIIP to function as
intended. If L.A. Care were to voluntarily release the unredacted VIIP
Scorecards after collecting the information with the assurance of
confidentiality, Provider Groups would view that as a betrayal of the trust
that L.A. Care has cultivated with its Provider Groups. Based on my experience
in healthcare, and in particular with the Medi-Cal line of business, I believe
such a breach of trust would negatively impact L.A. Care's network, and
ultimately the services provided to our members.  (Mihalik Decl.  ¶ 10.)
 
The Evidence Demonstrates a Strong
Public Interest in Non-Disclosure of Provider Group Names 
 
Significantly, Respondent submits evidence that a
Provider Group’s VIIP Scorecard is shared only with that Provider Group on a
confidential basis. VIIP Scorecards are not shared in an unredacted form
outside of L.A. Care or the particular VIIP participant reflected in the
scorecard. (Pirritano Decl. ¶ 14 and Exh. C, D; Baackes Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.) The services
agreement between Respondent and its Provider Groups includes a confidentiality
provision, which applies to “All information, records, and data collected by
Healthplan, . . . .” (Lageson Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B,
§ 3.3 [fee for service], ¶ 6, Exh. C, 3.3 [shared
risk agreement, substantially similar].) The evidence supports a finding that “[w]hen
Provider Groups originally agreed to participate in VIIP, they were informed on
multiple occasions that the VIIP data would not be publicly released.” (Baackes
Decl. ¶ 10.) Petitioners have not cited any evidence the unredacted scorecards—that
is Provider Group names—have been disclosed publicly or to persons or entities
outside of L.A. Care or the particular VIIP participant.  
 
In
context of Respondent’s assurances of confidentiality, the evidence from Pirritano,
Mihalik, and Baackes supports a finding there is a strong public interest in
non-disclosure of the Provider Group names on the scorecards. Mihalik
explains the types of harms that could result if the unredacted scorecards are publicly
disclosed. (Mihalik Decl. ¶¶ 17-25.) To summarize, Mihalik reports disclosure
of the unredacted scorecards could have a chilling effect on Respondent’s
quality improvement efforts as providers would be less willing to provide
comprehensive quality improvement data. (Mihalik Decl. ¶¶ 21-22.) In addition,
Mihalik believes “releasing the data that L.A. Care has collected under
assurances of confidentiality could also result in L.A. Care losing some of
their Provider Groups or making it more difficult to contract with other
Provider Groups in the future.” (Mihalik Decl. ¶ 23.) Baackes’ statements
corroborate Mihalik’s opinions concerning the negative consequences of public
disclosure of the unredacted scorecards.   (Baackes Decl. ¶¶ 8-17.) The evidence
demonstrates a significant impact on health care delivery provided by
Respondent. Releasing Provider Group names will likely undermine quality of
care improvement efforts and Respondent’s ability to compete in the marketplace
to maintain and attractive health care providers. Further, releasing Provider
Group names after assurances of confidentiality has the potential to undermine
overall data collection efforts by Respondent.
 
The
evidence also establishes “[t]he standard for reporting
healthcare quality in the industry is to publish summary quality scores for the
various healthcare organizations, such as using a five-star rating system. It
is not the industry standard to publicly report the numerical scores for the
individual measures that support the star-ratings.” (Pirritano Decl. ¶ 11.) Given such
evidence, common experience also suggests public disclosure of the unredacted scorecards
would cause providers to be less forthcoming in the VIIP program and even to
seek to transfer to other health plans, including private ones not subject to
public disclosure of internal quality improvement data. In CPRA litigation,
courts “have looked to human experience in order to form their conclusions
on the likely effect of disclosure.”  (LAUSD,
supra, 228 Cal.App.4th at 245.)
 
The court finds Petitioners’ arguments suggesting
little public interest in non-disclosure of unredacted scorecards unpersuasive.
  
 
Petitioners contend “L.A. Care’s ability to
receive the information it uses to create its scorecards could not be
compromised if the scorecards are released, because the provider groups are
contractually obligated to provide the data.” (Opening Brief 13:15-17.)[4]
Petitioners also contend the applicable service agreements allow release of
data collected by Respondent. For example, section 2.18 of the fee for service
agreement provides:
 
“Healthplan
shall have the right to use performance data, including but not limited
to data of the PPG, its Affiliated Providers and Subcontracted Providers, as
applicable, for activities of Healthplan, as determined by Healthplan in its
sole discretion, including but not limited to quality improvement
activities, public reporting to consumers, preferred status designation in
the networks, and reduced Member cost sharing.” (Coursolle Decl., Exh. J [emphasis
added]. See Coursolle Decl., Exh. K [same at section 2.17 (d) in shared risk
agreement].)
 
The agreements further explain:
 
“All
information, records, and data collected by Healthplan, from PPG and each
Affiliated Provider, and Subcontractor Provider, pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement, including but not limited to financial information, credentialling
information, and applicable information received during attendance at quality
management and utilization management meetings . . . shall be maintained in
confidence.” (Coursolle Decl., Exh J [section 3.3], K [same at section 3.3].)
 
The
agreements also note the confidentiality provisions do not apply to disclosures
required of Respondent pursuant to the CPRA. (Coursolle Decl., Exh J [section
3.3], K [same at section 3.3].)
 
While the scorecard information is derived from
“performance data” and appears to conflict with the service agreements’
provisions requiring Respondent to maintain certain the confidentiality of collected
confidential information, Respondent reports “[w]hen Provider Groups originally
agreed to participate in VIIP, they were informed on multiple occasions that
the VIIP data would not be publicly released.” (Baackes Decl. ¶ 10.) Respondent’s
evidence of assurances of confidentiality are bolstered by the cover letter reiterating that VIIP data are not
subject to public disclosure. (Pirritano Decl. ¶14, Exh. C [statements
admonishing the information not be disclosed].) Respondent also includes a
confidentiality statement on the VIIP Scorecards themselves. (Pirritano Decl.
¶14, Exh. D [not subject to public disclosure under law].)  
 
While the Provider Groups are contractually
obligated to participate in VIIP, they entered into such contracts with
Respondent’s assurances their performance data for VIIP would remain
confidential.[5] Mihalik’s
expert opinion evidence demonstrates a Provider Group’s understanding
performance data will be disclosed to the
public, despite earlier promises of confidentiality, will negatively impact the
Provide Groups’ future participation in VIIP and risk overall participation in Respondent’s
health plan.
 
Respondent also submits evidence the purpose of
the “public reporting to consumers” provision in section 2.18 of the service
agreements “was to give L.A. Care the option to create a summary rating
system and publish those summary quality ratings on its website at a later
date.” (Baackes Decl. ¶ 13 [emphasis added].) Such evidence is consistent with
the confidentiality provisions and Respondent’s assurances of
confidentiality under the VIIP program.  Significantly, there is no evidence that
Respondent or a Provider Group have ever publicly disclosed VIIP Scorecard
results. 
 
Petitioners also point out that “the contracts
specifically warn that the confidentiality provisions ‘shall not apply to any
disclosures required of Healthplan, as determined in its sole discretion,
pursuant to the California Public Records Act’ and other open government laws.”
(Opening Brief 14:7-10.) While true, the provision does not detract from
Respondent’s assurances to Provider Groups its specific performance data would
be kept confidential. The CPRA provision suggests Respondent has the “sole
discretion” to determine whether to disclose the information, and the evidence
supports a finding Respondent advised Provider Groups it would not release the
information. In fact, Respondent advised Provider Groups on their scorecards
the scorecard is a “confidential document not subject to public disclosure . .
. .” (Pirritano Decl., Exh. D.) Given the ongoing and consistent
representations made by Respondent, Provider Groups could reasonably believe
their specific performance data would remain confidential despite the broad
provision in the service agreements.
 
Petitioners argue Mihalik’s expert opinion is
speculative. They advise at deposition Mihalik could cite only one example—from
Kentucky and 15 years ago—of a provider group opting out of a health plan after
performance scores were released publicly. (Opening Brief 23:4.)
 
Mihalik’s reliance on a single event, however,
illustrates “[w]here a party is trying to show a public interest in
nondisclosure, by its very nature it is trying to prove how people will respond
to something that has not occurred; it is trying to show that if previously
secret records are made public, something bad will happen.” (LAUSD, supra, 228
Cal.App.4th at 244.) “[E]xperts often opine on what they predict will be the
consequences of proposed actions, and expert opinions can be admissible in this
setting.” (Id. at 244-245.)  
 
Mihalik explains why the
negative consequences of publicly reporting healthcare quality improvement data
are difficult to observe. (Mihalik Decl. ¶ 25.) Entities withdrawing from a
health plan will do so when a contract expires without announcing a reason for
withdrawal.   Provider Groups are also not
necessarily transparent and do not publicly explain why they may be slow to
provide data or provide incomplete data. (Mihalik Decl. ¶ 25.) Moreover, Mihalik has extensive experience in the quality
improvement field and, in working with various health plans, has observed
“changes in the use of quality improvement data correlate with changes in the
makeup of a health plan's network.” (Mihalik Decl. ¶
25.) He finds such “changes occur too
frequently for it to be chance alone.” (Mihalik Decl. ¶
25.) Finally, Mihalik notes human behavior supports his opinion: “If a Provider
Group has the option to remain with a health plan that is not trustworthy with
the Provider Group’s data and the Provider Group can join another health plan
that places fewer burdens on the Provider Group’s operations and treats its
data confidentially, the Provider Group is more likely to switch its
affiliation.” (Mihalik Decl. ¶ 25.)
 
Given Mihalik’s extensive experience in the quality
improvement field and his other expert qualifications, the court credits
Mihalik’s opinions, finds them credible. The court disagrees the opinions have
no value as speculation.
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds disclosure of provider
names on VIIP Scorecards would negatively impact Respondent’s VIIP program and
interfere with its ability to carry out its duties in improving quality of medical
care and providing quality medical services to its members.  Since Respondent “serves more than 2.4 million low-income Los Angeles
County residents and is the nation’s largest publicly-operated health care
plan” (Pet. ¶ 1), the public has a substantial public interest in avoiding
these identified negative consequences in a public health care plan and,
therefore, in non-disclosure of the provider names of VIIP Scorecards.  
 
Public Interest in
Disclosure 
 
“ ‘If the records sought pertain to the conduct of the
people's business there is a public interest in
disclosure. The weight of that interest is proportionate to the gravity
of the governmental tasks sought to be illuminated and the directness with
which the disclosure will serve to illuminate.’ . . . [I]n assigning weight to the
general public interest in disclosure, courts should look to the ‘nature of the
information’ and how disclosure of that information contributes to the
public's understanding of government.” (Humane Society of U.S. v. Superior
Court (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1268 [emphasis added].)  
 
Importantly here, “for the public interest to carry weight,
it must be more than ‘hypothetical’ or ‘minimal.’ [Citation.] Where a requester
has an alternative, less intrusive means of obtaining the information sought,
the public interest in disclosure is minimal.” (LAUSD, supra, 228
Cal.App.4th at 242.)
 
Petitioners assert four public interests in disclosure of Provider
Group names on the VIIP Scorecards: (1) individual patients can use the VIIP
Scorecards to make enrollment decisions; 
(2) the press and the public could use the scorecards to ascertain whether
certain Provider Groups contributed to violations of state law alleged in an
administrative complaint filed against Respondent by the California Department
of Managed Health Care (DMHC) and Department of Healthcare Services (DHCS);[6] (3) unredacted scorecards
will help determine if Respondent is spending public funds wisely; and (4)
unredacted scorecards will reveal the performance of individual Provider Groups
and the VIIP program as a whole so the public, researchers, and policy makers
can evaluate the program and Respondent’s health care plan.
 
              Interest
in Using Unredacted Scorecards for Enrollment Decisions 
 
Petitioners
allege “the Scorecards compiled by L.A. Care would provide invaluable
information for Medi-Cal patients to enable them knowledgably to choose their providers.”
(Pet. ¶ 34.)  Respondent argues,
persuasively and with authority, that the interest in learning the scores of
individual Medical Groups for this purpose is a private one. (Opposition 12:21-24.)
That is, the individual interest served is not a public interest.
 
In
analyzing the catchall exemption, “[w]hat is material is the public interest
in disclosure, not the private interest of the requesting party. . . .” (LAUSD,
supra, 228 Cal.App.4th at 248.) In LAUSD, the Court of Appeal held
the interest of parents in obtaining individual teacher scores to select the
highest-performing teacher for their children was a private interest. (Ibid.)
Similarly here, the interest of Medi-Cal patients in using the scorecards to
choose their medical providers is a private one. When the VIIP Scorecards are
used for the purpose of selecting a physician, the information does not contribute
to the public’s understanding of government. 

 
Further, since the
unredacted scorecard applies to the entire Provider Group and not an individual
physician, the Provider Group name would provide limited or no benefit to a
Medi-Cal patient selecting an individual provider. Pirritano explains: 
 
L.A. Care members must choose or will be assigned an individual
physician as their primary care provider (“PCP”); they are not required to
choose a Provider Group. Almost 60 [percent] of L.A. Care's members do not even
select a PCP and are instead auto-assigned. The VIIP data does not provide
quality information about any particular physician. Provider Group quality
scores are made up of many distinct medical groups or clinics, each of which
may have multiple PCPs on staff. Further, an individual physician may
participate in multiple Provider Groups. It is possible that a high quality
physician could be a member of a high ranking and low ranking Provider Group,
yet the VIIP data for those groups would say nothing about the quality of that
particular physician.  (Pirritano Decl. ¶
15.)  
 
Mihalik corroborates Pirritano’s testimony. (Mihalik
Decl. ¶¶ 34-36.)  Petitioners do not
rebut the evidence in reply.  
 
The asserted interest in individual patients using the
unredacted VIIP Scorecards to choose medical providers is a private one and
does not show a public interest in disclosure. That is, the Provider Group
names do not inform on government functioning. Moreover, given that the
information requested is for Provider Groups and not individual physicians,
even the private interest in disclosure is minimal and not particularly useful.
 
Interest
in Using Provider Group Names on VIIP Scorecards to Evaluate DMHC’s and DHCS’s
Allegations Against Respondent 
              
In March 2022, DMHC and DHCS filed accusations against
Petitioner seeking $55 million in fines for alleged violations of the
Knox-Keene Act and other rules and regulations. (Coursolle Decl. Exh. A.) While
Respondent self-reported certain incidents alleged in the accusations,
Respondent is challenging the agencies’ actions and proposed fines. The matter
is scheduled for administrative trial in the second half of 2024 and remains
unresolved. (Mapp Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
The DMHC accusation alleges, in summary, as follows: 
 
Respondents have repeatedly violated numerous provisions of the Act and
the implementing regulations found in title 28 of the California Code of
Regulations, including but not limited to violations concerning the handling of
enrollee grievances, the processing of requests for authorization (utilization
review or utilization management), overseeing and adequately supervising its
contracted entities regarding timely access, and the processing of claims. The
widespread, systemic, and unrelenting nature of these violations is
unprecedented and has caused harm to Respondents’ enrollees. As the regulator
of California health care service plans, the Department brings the instant
disciplinary action against Respondents seeking a monetary penalty to ensure
these violations do not recur, to protect California’s health plan enrollees,
and to ensure a stable health care delivery system. (Coursolle Decl., Exh. A at
1.)  
 
The accusation asserts 20 causes for discipline. It
also summarizes multiple examples based on consumer complaints to the DMHC illustrating
delays in authorization and other enrollee harm.  (Coursolle Decl., Exh. A at 7-45.)
 
In their Opening Brief, Petitioners refer generally to
the accusations. They do not explain with any specificity, however, how disclosure
of Provider Group names on the VIIP Scorecards would contribute to the public’s
understanding of the allegations made in the accusations. (Opening Brief 7:3-25,
25:11-16.) In fact, Petitioners provide no tie between the accusations and the
Provider Group names on the VIIP Scorecards.
 
In her declaration, health care journalist Michelle
Levander attests, in pertinent part: “It is entirely possible, for
example, that the unredacted scorecards could reveal that the violations that
resulted in penalties and sanctions last year were primarily driven by the poor
performance of a handful of provider groups that contract with L.A. Care. The
unredacted scorecards could also let the Center for Health Journalism analyze
how long the problems of particular provider groups had persisted before the
investigation began or penalties were imposed. . . .” (Levander Decl. ¶ 21 [emphasis
added].)
 
Lavander’s belief is speculative. She provides no
specific examples of how Provider Group names on scorecards would contribute to
the specific allegations in the accusations. She does not suggest how Provider
Group names would inform on the allegations. She does not identify any
particular accusation to suggest how a Provider Group name would inform on the
allegations.
 
In reply, Petitioners assert in relevant part, as
follows: 
 
the allegations focus on denials and delays of care that directly
impacted patient lives and health. For example, the DMHC’s allegation
highlights one enrollee whose complaint was cancellation of appointments by her
primary care physician (“PCP”). (DMHC Accusation, Ex. A to Coursolle Dec., at
12.) Since one of the scorecard measures is “Adult Timely Care and Service for
PCPs,” (Excerpted Scorecards, Ex. 5 to Levander Dec., at []), the scorecards
could prove highly relevant to how likely this sort of problem is to occur.
DMHC also alleges that a patient with an open wound in October 2020 was unable
to get care for that problem as of December 2020 (Coursolle Dec., Ex A. at 11),
an allegation to which provider group ratings on “Timelines: Urgent care within
48 Hours” (Levander Dec., Ex. 5 at []) is relevant. (Reply 6:8-19.)
 
Petitioners refer to the examples of Enrollee J and
Enrollee G alleged in the accusation. 
The relevant allegations in the accusation state, in pertinent part: 
 
///
 
Enrollee G 
 
35. An enrollee (Enrollee G) filed a grievance on October 27, 2020,
regarding an authorization and referral request for wound care. The enrollee,
who had an open wound, complained she attempted to call the referral department
several times but was having difficulty getting through. On November 30, 2020,
Respondent L.A. Care sent the enrollee a Member Grievance Extension Letter. The
letter advised Enrollee G it was unable to complete its review by November 26,
2020, but would respond by December 10, 2020. Enrollee G filed a complaint with
the Department on December 10, 2020. Respondent L.A. Care responded to the
Department on December 21, 2020, and stated that resolution of Enrollee G’s
grievance was still pending.
 
[¶]
 
Enrollee J 
 
38. An enrollee (Enrollee J) called Respondent L.A. Care on April 8,
2021, and complained about appointments cancelled by her PCP. Respondent L.A.
Care sent the enrollee a written grievance response letter on December 1, 2021—207
days late. 
 
39. Respondents’ ongoing backlog continues to add additional cases with
untimely resolutions. As of February 14, 2022, in addition to new case,
Respondents’ backlog included 2,044 grievances and 0 appeals from the original
backlog reported as of June 25, 2021.
 
(Coursolle Decl. Exh. A.)
 
These two examples concern consumer complaints related
to a call made to the “referral department” and an appointment cancelled by a
primary care physician and a grievance. The complaints do not refer to care
provided by a Provider Group—they concern Respondent’s administration and
grievance process. While the scorecards provide information about timeliness of
care from physicians and urgent care within the Provider Groups participating
in the VIIP program (see Reply 6:5-19 and Levander Decl. Exh. 5), Petitioners
do not explain how Provider Group names on the scorecards would materially
support or shed light on the allegations made related to Enrollee G and J.
Given the allegations, the Provider Group names provide no insight on the
allegations in the accusations.
 
More generally, Petitioners do not show the unredacted
scorecards—Provider Group names—would meaningfully contribute to the public’s
understanding of the allegations and issues raised in the accusations. Petitioners
do not identify any allegations that discuss any specific Provider Groups. The
accusations also summarize relevant evidence and speak for themselves.  Any public benefit from reviewing the
unredacted scorecards, in order to understand the accusations, is speculative, minimal,
and has not been demonstrated by Petitioners. Petitioners’ claim of public
interest here is unpersuasive.
 
Interest
in Using Provider Group Names to Evaluate Respondent’s Use of Public Funds and to
Evaluate Performance of Individual Provider Groups, the VIIP Program, and
Respondent’s Health Plan
 
The remaining two public interests in disclosure of
Provider Group names on VIIP Scorecards asserted by Petitioners are closely related
and may be analyzed together. In their Opening Brief, Petitioners summarize the
public interests as follows: 
 
With a healthcare program as troubled as L.A. Care’s has been, the need
for public scrutiny and understanding is critical. In particular, without the
names of provider groups, neither the public, nor researchers or journalists
can tell whether the lowest-performing groups are concentrated in a particular
geographic area, or whether they have improved over time on any metric (since
it is impossible to tell whether the low performers in any given year are the
same groups as in other years). (See Levander Dec. ¶ 21; Melnick Dec. ¶¶
10-11.) Indeed, whether the entire VIIP initiative has been successful at
incentivizing improved performance is completely opaque without the names of
the provider groups. (See Levander Dec. ¶¶ 18-21; Melnick Dec. ¶ 11.) Moreover,
courts have specifically noted the public interest in accountability for the
use of public funds. (Opening Brief 21:12-22.) 

 
Petitioners elaborate on these points in their Reply
Brief:
 
[W]ith provider group names, researchers could compare how those
provider groups’ performance for their Medi-Cal members on certain key
indicators compares to their performance for paying members in commercial plans
for which performance data is publicly available. This data (alone or in
combination with other publicly available information) could be useful in
analyzing such things as whether the geographic location of high and
low-performing provider groups combined with what is known about the demographics
of certain population groups accounts for some discrepancies in results, and
why Medi-Cal members select certain primary care doctors or Provider Groups.
(Declaration of Glenn, ¶¶ 10-14.) This kind of information would not only be
valuable to researchers in better understanding the Medicaid market, but also
in furthering our understanding of Medicaid beneficiary behavior, which can
ultimately inform policy-making about Provider Group contracting, payment, and
marketing.  (Reply 6:22-7:10.)
 
Petitioners rely on the declarations of Michelle
Levander, the healthcare journalist and founding director of the University of
Southern California Annenberg Center for Health Journalism, and Glenn Melnick,
a public policy professor at the University of Southern California and expert
on health economics, health finance, health care systems, and managed care to
support their position. (Melnick Decl. ¶ 2.) The court has carefully reviewed the declarations,
as well as responsive evidence provided in the declarations of Pirritano,
Baackes, and Mihalik.  
 
The court finds Levander’s declaration too generalized
to support a significant public interest in disclosure.[7]
While Levander asserts a public interest in disclosure, she does not explain in
any detail how the unredacted VIIP Scorecards with Provider
Group names would contribute meaningfully to the public’s understanding of
Respondent’s health plan and government function. (See Levander
Decl. ¶¶ 17-24.) Levander also does not explain, convincingly, why similar
information and public benefit could not be obtained from the redacted scorecards
or other publicly available information. (See Levander Decl. ¶ 19.) Levander concedes
“L.A. Care reports on many of the metrics contained in the scorecards for the
plan as a whole.” (Levander Decl. ¶ 19.) Further, as discussed below, the
redacted scorecards—those already provided by Respondent—provide information
that may be used by the public to understand the VIIP program and the
performance of Respondent’s Provider Groups as a whole.  
 
Melnick provides a somewhat more detailed explanation
of how he would use the unredacted scorecards—Provider Group names—to further
public understanding of Respondent’s health plan. (Melnick Decl. ¶¶ 9-14.) Of
particular note, Melnick states: 
 
In research terms, provider group performance data of the type we are
requesting can help construct models that explain performance differences. For
example, the Medi-Cal patient population is by definition less affluent than
healthcare consumers overall, and better health outcomes often correlate with
higher incomes. It is therefore especially important to study what factors
influence Medi-Cal patients in selecting provider groups and seeking care, and
teasing out through careful research all the factors that influence better or
less optimal results. With L.A. Care’s unredacted provider group rankings,
we could begin to do this. Researchers could build databases that include
provider group level performance measures for different populations such as
Medicare and/or commercially insured populations to assess differences and
quantify the role that patient characteristics play versus the role that
providers and provider groups play in explaining performance differences.  (Melnick Decl. ¶ 14 [emphasis added].)
 
Based on Melnick’s expert opinion, corroborated in
part by Levander, the court finds some public interest in disclosure of Provider
Group names so that researchers, journalists, and other members of the public
could attempt to analyze “whether the geographic location of high and
low-performing provider groups combined with what is known about the
demographics of certain population groups accounts for some discrepancies in
results, and why Medi-Cal members select certain primary care doctors or
Provider Groups.” (See Reply 7:3-6.) Such information is of public interest to
the extent the information informs policy making and the public’s understanding
of the use of taxpayer funds for Respondent’s health plan—that is, government
function.
 
However, as argued persuasively by Respondent,
substantial public insight may be obtained solely from the scorecards without
Provider Group names and other available information made publicly available by
Respondent. (See Opposition 14:12-15-4.) 
As examples, the redacted VIIP Scorecards show the performance of
Provider Groups across all VIIP quality measures and include year-over-year
changes for specific Provider Groups beginning in 2015. The methodology for
collecting information and calculating scores has been made public and the
total amount of public funds spent on VIIP has also been made public.
(Pirritano Decl. ¶¶ 7-8, 16-18, Exh. A, E.) Based on this publicly available
information, Petitioners may track the performance of specific Provider Groups
even though the name of the Provider Groups are redacted. (See Opposition
15:6-14; Pirritano Decl. ¶ 16, Exh. E.)[8]
As a result, Petitioners can analyze whether Respondent is achieving its
performance goals on a year-over-year basis based on the Provider Group name
redacted VIIP Scorecards.  (Pirritano
Decl. ¶17.)
 
Furthermore, Petitioners do not show public disclosure
of the unredacted scorecards, in itself, would be sufficient for the policy
research contemplated by Melnick. Petitioners concede in reply that additional
demographic information would be necessary to conduct meaningful policy
research. (Reply 7:3-7.) The unredacted scorecards would enable researchers to
“begin” building databases and “teasing out through careful research all the
factors that influence better or less optimal results. (Melnick Decl. ¶
14.)  However, as attested persuasively by
Mihalik, this research “would require access to a range of additional, internal
information for each individual Provider Group plus enrollment data, none of
which is contained in the VIIP Scorecards.” (Mihalik Decl. ¶26.) “[S]uch
studies would rely on information about patient characteristics, the
distribution of enrollment, and a range of factors internal to the providers.
Again, none of those analysis can be conducted by merely unblinding the
provider name.”  (Mihalik Decl. ¶
28.)  In reply, Petitioners do not rebut
or persuasively address Mihalik’s expert opinions on this issue.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds some public
interest in disclosure of the unredacted VIIP Scorecards to support policy
research into the factors that influence health care results in Respondent’s
plan; public understanding of whether Respondent is spending public funds
wisely; and similar issues. However, that public interest is not particularly
strong because meaningful public insight into such issues can be obtained from
review of the redacted scorecards and other publicly available information. Furthermore,
Petitioners do not show that removing the redactions would be sufficient to
complete the policy research contemplated by Melnick.  
 
Balancing of Interests 
 
Respondent
has shown a compelling interest in non-disclosure of the unredacted VIIP Scorecards.
The purpose of the VIIP Scorecards is to
provide an internal tool for Respondent to provide feedback to Provider Groups
and incentivize them to improve the quality of care.  Provider Groups are given assurances of
confidentiality when they participate in VIIP. Mihalik’s expert opinion, which
is corroborated by declarations of Pirritano and Baackes, and also by common
experience, supports the court’s factual finding that various negative
consequences to the VIIP program, Respondent’s health care quality improvement
efforts, and Respondent’s health plan would likely occur if those assurances of
confidentiality are not upheld and the unredacted scorecards—that is, Provider
Group names—are disclosed publicly. Since Respondent “serves more than 2.4 million low-income Los Angeles
County residents and is the nation’s largest publicly-operated health care
plan” (Pet. ¶ 1), the public has a substantial public interest in avoiding
these negative consequences and, therefore, in non-disclosure of the unredacted
scorecards. The public interest served by non-disclosure of Provider Group
names on the scorecards clearly outweighs the public interest in disclosure. Given
all of the evidence, there is a clear overbalance in favor of non-disclosure.
 
As outlined above, some of the interests in
disclosure asserted by Petitioners are either private or speculative and
minimal. While the court finds some public interest in disclosure to support
policy research, journalism, and similar public endeavors to understand
Respondent’s health plan and use of taxpayer funds, such interests are reduced
because similar benefits can be obtained from review of the redacted scorecards
and other publicly available information. 
Also, Petitioners do not show that
removing the redactions would be sufficient to complete or advance the policy
research contemplated by Melnick.  
 
The court has considered LAUSD,
supra, 228 Cal.App.4th 222, which is cited and relied upon by all parties
for support. Although LAUSD is not factually identical, the Court of
Appeal’s decision provides helpful and persuasive guidance in analyzing the catchall exemption as
applied here.  The court disagrees with
Petitioners’ assertion “the data plaintiffs seek is analogous to the
unprotected school scores, not the individual teacher scores.” (Reply 9:3-4.)
Petitioners do not demonstrate the schools at issue in LAUSD were given
any assurances of confidentiality related to the Academic Growth Over Time (AGT)
scores or there were similar concerns of harm to a quality improvement program,
like VIIP, from disclosure of the AGT scores for individual schools. Significantly, the
VIIP program applies to Provider Groups and the scorecards do not display
performance data for individual medical providers. In that respect, the
unredacted AGT scores of individual teachers are somewhat analogous to the
unredacted scorecards in this case. Overall, the court finds LAUSD is more
supportive of Respondent’s position. To be clear, however, the court has
analyzed the catchall exemption and balanced the competing interests at issue here
based on the specific facts as presented by the parties.  
 
Based on the
foregoing, the court finds a clear
overbalance on the side of maintaining the confidentiality of the unredacted scorecards.  Respondent has met its burden of proof and
established that Provider Group names on the scorecards may be withheld
pursuant to the catchall exemption of the CPRA. Accordingly, Respondent is not
required to provide the names of the Practice Groups it redacted from the VIIP
Scorecards.
 
Other CPRA Exemptions 
 
Respondent asserted peer review and
rate of payment exemptions in its answer as a defense to Petitioners’ claims.
Respondent no longer asserts those exemptions and has not attempted to
establish the exemptions. Accordingly, such exemptions do not apply here.
 
Respondent continues to assert the
official information privilege under Evidence Code section 1040 and the trade
secret privilege. The balancing test for Evidence Code section 1040 is the same
balancing test required in Government Code section 7922.000. (See American
Civil Liberties Union of Northern California v.
Superior Court (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th
55, 68-69.)  For the reasons discussed
above and also as argued in opposition, the court finds Respondent met its
burden on the official information privilege. 
 
As Respondent’s non-disclosure is
supported by two CPRA exemptions, the court need not reach Respondent’s
contention the information sought is exempt as a trade secret as well.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, the petition is denied.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
October 11, 2023                                                                                                                                                         
      _______________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


