 Case Number:  24STLC00423    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  26 Nowhere Holdco, LLC v. CSI Group, Inc. et al.,TENTATIVE RULING: 
Plaintiff Nowhere Holdco, LLC’s
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication, is
DENIED. 
ANALYSIS:
Plaintiff Nowhere Holdco, LLC (“Plaintiff”) brought this action for (1) breach of contract; (2) open book account; (3) account stated; and (4) unjust enrichment against Defendant C.S.I. Group, Inc. dba CSI Group, Inc. (“Defendant”) on January 22, 2024. Defendant filed an answer on February 13, 2024.On September 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion
for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication. Defendant
filed an opposition on January 7, 2025 and Plaintiff replied on January 15,
2025.
Discussion 
Allegations in the Complaint
Plaintiff alleges that between February 2022 and
about May 2023, the parties entered into an open book account, memorialized by
various invoices and credit memos, for the purchase and sale of nitrile gloves.(Compl.,
¶6 and Exh. A.) Defendant issued a credit memo to Plaintiff in the amount of
$2,070.00 but Defendant refused to honor it. (Id. at ¶7.) Plaintiff
demanded Defendant refund the $2,070.00 memorialized by the Credit Memo and
Defendant’s refusal to honor it is a breach of the parties’ agreement. (Id.
at ¶8.) The Credit Memo is an agreement based on a book account. (Id. at
¶9.) 
Summary Judgment
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment on the Complaint
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, which provides “[a] party may
move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that the
action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a) [emphasis added].) On a motion for summary judgment,
a moving plaintiff must show that there is no defense by proving each element
of every cause of action entitling the party to judgment on that cause of
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Then the burden shifts to the
defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as
to the causes of action or a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
Additionally, in ruling on the Motion, the Court must view the “evidence
[citations] and such inferences [citations], in the light most favorable to the
opposing party.” (Intrieri v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 72,
81 [citing Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
843].)
The elements for a claim of breach of contract are: (1) the
contract; (2) plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) resulting damages. (Otworth
v. So. Pacific Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458; Lortz
v. Connell (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 286, 290.) Plaintiff presents the
following facts in support of its initial burden of proof.
Defendant issued a credit memo in the amount of $2,070.00,
which is a contract. (Motion, Separate Statement, Fact No. 1; Shiring Decl., ¶7
and Exh. A.) Defendant issued the Credit Memo to Plaintiff to memorialize its
debt to Plaintiff in the amount of $2,070.00 and that Defendant would remit
that amount to Plaintiff. (Motion, Separate Statement, Fact No. 4; Shiring
Decl., ¶9.) Defendant refused to honor the Credit Memo. (Motion, Separate
Statement, Fact No. 2; ¶8.) Plaintiff demanded the refund of the $2,070.00
memorialized in the Credit Memo from Defendant. (Motion, Separate Statement,
Fact No. 1; Shiring Decl., ¶9.) Plaintiff performed all its obligations under
the Credit Memo except those that were prevented or excused by Defendants
and/or third parties. (Motion, Separate Statement, Fact No. 5; Shiring Decl.,
¶19.) Defendant owes Plaintiff $2,080.00. (Motion, Separate Statement, Fact No.
9; Shiring Decl., ¶15 and Exh. A.) Defendant’s breach has caused Plaintiff to
suffer damages of $2,070.0. (Motion, Separate Statement, Fact No. 12; Shiring
Decl., ¶7 and Exh. A.)
Plaintiff’s evidence fails to demonstrate that no triable
issues of material fact exist regarding a contract between the parties that was
breached by Defendant and resulted in damages of $2,070.00 to Plaintiff. First,
the Credit Memo that purports to memorialize the parties’ agreement does not include
Plaintiff’s name, “Nowhere Holdco, LLC.” Instead, the document refers to an
entity called “Erewhon Distribution Center.” (Motion, Shiring Decl., Exh. A.) “Erewhon
Distribution Center” is not mentioned as a party in the Complaint, which frames
the issues for summary judgment or adjudication. (See Hutton v. Fidelity
National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493.) Also, Plaintiff does
not further explain how the Credit Memo amounts to a contract, as opposed to
simply a statement of the debt owed by Defendant to Plaintiff. It does not
appear that the Credit Memo imposes any obligation upon Plaintiff, and it is
unclear exactly what obligation it imposes on Defendant. (See Civ. Code, § 1549
[“a contract is an agreement to do or not to do a certain thing.”].) Finally,
the Motion confusingly states that the Credit Memo is for $2,070.00 but that
Defendant owes Plaintiff $2,080.00. The $2,080.00 amount appears multiple times
in Plaintiff’s supporting declaration. (See Motion, Shiring Decl., ¶¶16, 19,
21.) As Plaintiff has not carried its initial burden of proof on the breach of
contract cause of action, the request for summary judgment of the Complaint is
denied.
The Court additionally notes that the Motion fails to
address the third and fourth causes of action for account stated and unjust
enrichment, respectively. Code of Civil Procedure section 437c provides “[a]
party may move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is
contended that the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)
[emphasis added].) On a motion for summary judgment, a moving plaintiff must
show that there is no defense by proving each element of every cause of action
entitling the party to judgment on that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(1). By failing to address the third and fourth causes of
action, Plaintiff has not met its burden for summary judgment.
Summary Adjudication
Plaintiff alternatively moves for summary adjudication of
(1) the breach of contract cause of action; (2) the open book account cause of
action; and (3) all the affirmative defenses have no basis is law or fact. 
For the reasons stated above, summary adjudication of the
breach of contract cause of action is denied. 
The cause of action for open book account must demonstrate
the existence of a written record of the credits and debts between parties to a
contract. (CACI No. 372.) The contract may be oral, in writing, or implied by
the parties’ words and conduct. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s evidence of the
account running from October 2022 to February 2023 is attached at Exhibit D to
the supporting declaration. (Motion, Separate Statement, Fact No. 14; Shiring
Decl., ¶13 and Exh. D.) However, of those documents, only the purchase orders
dated February 9, 2023 and February 20, 2023 are between named Plaintiff and
Defendant. The other orders and invoices do not include Plaintiff’s name. Therefore,
summary adjudication of the cause of action for open book account is also
denied.
Finally, Plaintiff requests summary adjudication of the
affirmative defenses on the grounds that they have no basis in law or fact. In
support of this contention with respect to each affirmative defense, the Motion
broadly cites to the entire evidentiary record. (Motion, p. 11:21-12:10.)
Litigants, however, are required to “reference the number or letter of the
exhibit, the specific page, and, if applicable, the paragraph or line number.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(k).) Citing the entire evidentiary record
does not comply with this requirement. The Court cannot guess which part of the
supporting declaration and exhibits supports the specific facts asserted. To
the extent Plaintiff’s separate statement with respect to this issue cites only
the last paragraph of its counsel’s declaration, the Court finds no facts
asserted therein. Only legal conclusions regarding the viability of each
affirmative defense, which are insufficient to carry Plaintiff’s burden of
proof, are asserted. Therefore, the request for summary adjudication with
respect to the affirmative defenses is denied.
Conclusion
Plaintiff Nowhere Holdco, LLC’s
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication, is
DENIED. 
Court clerk to give notice. 