 Case Number:  24STCP02913    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  26 Oldziewksi v. Mitigation, Inc. et al.,TENTATIVE RULING: 
Petitioner Judy C. Oldziewski’s Petition
to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.  
ANALYSIS: 
Petitioner Judy C. Oldziewski (“Petitioner”) filed the
instant Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien against Respondent Mitigation,
Inc. (“Respondent”) on September 10, 2024. Petitioner filed a proof of service
by mail on October 8, 2024. Respondent filed an objection on January 14, 2025. 
Discussion 
Petitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded
against their property by Respondent released. Under Civil Code section 8484
the petition for release order must be verified by the petitioner and allege
the following:
(a) The date of recordation of the
claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the
petition.
(b) The county in which the claim of
lien is recorded.
(c) The book and page or series number
of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.
(d) The legal description of the
property subject to the claim of lien.
(e) Whether an extension of credit has
been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for
commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.
(f) That the owner has given the
claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do
so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found.
(g) Whether an action to enforce the
lien is pending.
(h) Whether the owner of the property
or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is
another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to enforce
the lien. 
(Civil Code, § 8484.) Respondent filed an objection to the
Petition, which includes a request for judicial notice of the release of the
mechanic’s lien recorded on December 17, 2024. (Obj., RJN, Exh. 1.) The Court
takes judicial notice of the release pursuant to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (c) and section 453. In light of the release of the subject lien,
the instant Petition is deemed moot. 
Conclusion 
Petitioner Judy C. Oldziewski’s Petition
to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT. 
Court clerk to give notice. 