 Case Number:  24STLC00287    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  26 Pena v. Engeln, et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:
Defendant Kimberly Engeln’s Motion for Leave to Withdraw
Improperly Propounded Discovery and Re-Propound Discovery Within CCP § 94
Limits; or, in the alternative, Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional
Discovery Pursuant to CCP § 95 is DENIED.
ANALYSIS:
On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff
Daisy Pena (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this
action for motor vehicle against Defendant Kimberly Engeln (“Defendant”).
Defendant filed an answer on September 3, 2024.  
On November 25, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant Motion for Leave to Withdraw Improperly Propounded Discovery and
Re-Propound Discovery Within CCP § 94 Limits; or, in the alternative, Motion for
Leave to Conduct Additional Discovery Pursuant to CCP § 95. Plaintiffs filed an
opposition on December 30, 2024 and Defendant replied on January 2, 2025. 
Discussion 
The request to withdraw discovery
propounded on Plaintiff is brought on the grounds that it is necessary to
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 94, which limits the number of
interrogatories and requests for production of documents to 35 total in the
limited jurisdiction court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 94, subd. (a).) As Plaintiff
points out in opposition, however, the Motion cites neither statutory nor
caselaw authority for the withdrawal of discovery after a party has already
served responses. Defendant’s reply refers to Doe v. United States Swimming,
Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1424 for the broad proposition that discovery
is necessary to ensure fair resolution of disputes but points to no authority
relevant to the specific facts of this action. In fact, Defendant fails to even
provide a pin citation for the relevant portions of the case. The request to
withdraw the already propounded discovery, to which Plaintiff has responded,
therefore, is denied. 
Defendant alternatively moves for
leave to propound additional discovery pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 95, which states in relevant part:
(a) The court may, on noticed motion
and subject to such terms and conditions as are just, authorize a party to
conduct additional discovery, but only upon a showing that the moving party
will be unable to prosecute or defend the action effectively without the
additional discovery. In making a determination under this section, the court
shall take into account whether the moving party has used all applicable
discovery in good faith, and whether the party has attempted to secure the
additional discovery by stipulation or by means other than formal discovery.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 95, subd. (a).) Defendant has not shown
that they will be unable to defend this action effectively without the
additional discovery, which is required by the statute. The declaration of
defense counsel in support of the Motion makes a vague assertion that
restricting discovery would “hinder Defendant’s ability to fully defend the
case.” (Motion, Hemati Decl., ¶7.) The specific nature of the discovery
propounded and the responses received are not explained nor analyzed.
Plaintiff’s opposition explains that responses to all the document demands and
to 20 special interrogatories were served on Defendant. (Oppo., Haddad Decl.,
¶7 and Exh. C.) Neither the Motion, nor reply, explains what additional
discovery is crucial to the defense in light of these responses. Therefore,
Defendant has not demonstrated that legal or factual grounds exist,  to propound
additional discovery.
Conclusion 
Defendant Kimberly Engeln’s Motion for Leave to Withdraw
Improperly Propounded Discovery and Re-Propound Discovery Within CCP § 94
Limits; or, in the alternative, Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional
Discovery Pursuant To CCP § 95 is DENIED.  
Court clerk to give
notice.