  Case Number:  20STCV38285    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  B SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
B
 
 



KAI
  SMITH,
 
                        Plaintiff,
 
            vs.
 
GAME SPORTS BAR
  AND GRILL, LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


 


CASE NO:  20STCV38285
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO AMEND THE COMPLAINT TO ADD A CLAIM FOR FRAUD AND ADDITIONAL
  DEFENDANTS
 
Dept. B
8:30 a.m. 
OCTOBER 11, 2024



 
I.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Kai Smith (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
granting leave to file a second amended 
complaint (“SAC”) to add
a cause of action for Fraud (Intentional Misrepresentation) and to add
additional defendants to the operative complaint, based on alleged fraudulent
declarations by Defendant Tyrei Lacy (“Defendant”) made after Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint (“FAC”). and in the course of litigation (Motion, p.
2.)
            Plaintiff filed his initial Complaint on October 5, 2020,
alleging four causes of action: (1) negligent hiring, retention, and
supervision; (2) assault; (3) battery; and (4) intentional infliction of
emotional distress against Defendants Game Sports Bar and Grill “Game Sports”)
and DOES 1 to 10. (See Complaint.)
            On December 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed a FAC to add
Defendants Tyrei Lacy (herein “Defendant”) and Sylvia Lacy (“Sylvia”). 
            On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant
motion.
            On September 30, 2024, Defendant filed their opposition.
Plaintiff did not file a reply.
 
II. LEGAL STANDARDS
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Cal. Code of
Civ. Proc. §473(a)(1).) 
“Trial
courts are vested with the discretion to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in
furtherance of justice.’ That trial courts are to liberally permit such
amendments, at any stage of the proceeding, has been established policy in this
state since 1901.”  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d
486, 488-489.) 
Cal.
Rules of Court Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a motion to amend must: “[i]nclude
a copy of the proposed . . . amended pleading . . . [and] state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or added],
if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the [deleted and/or
additional] allegations are located.” 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” 
 
III. DISCUSSION
            Procedural
Deficiencies
Plaintiff’s
motion does not comply with CRC Rule 3.1324(a). The motion fails to
include a copy of the proposed SAC.  Additionally, Plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration fails to set forth the allegations proposed to be added and
deleted, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number. (CRC Rule 3.1324(a).)
Plaintiff’s
motion does not comply with CRC Rule 3.1324(b). 
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration does not specify the effect of the
amendment nor explain why the amendments are necessary and proper.  (CRC
Rule 3.1324(b).)
Plaintiff’s
counsel states when the facts giving rise of the amended allegations were
discovered but does not explain why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  Plaintiff’s counsel declares
that, on October 12, 2023, Defendant provided two fraudulent declarations from
Defendant’s employees, alleged percipient witnesses Rayshawn Billups and Dean
Michels. (Diourbel Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s counsel alleges that each declarant
falsely claimed that they saw Plaintiff safely exit Game Sports Bar without any
incident or harm, and that there were no reports of any altercations on the day
of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Ibid.)
However, Plaintiff’s counsel claims that, on November 20, 2023, Defendant was
shown a cellphone video of Defendant’s bouncers attacking Plaintiff. (Ibid. at ¶ 9.) Therefore, Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that Defendant’s declarants provided “material, ostensibly
false statements, which are refuted by the video evidence” and which are
potentially felonious and perjurious pursuant to Cal. Pen. Code § 118. (Ibid. at ¶ 11.) Despite these claims,
Plaintiff fails to explain why the instant motion was not filed for almost a
year after the facts giving rise to the motion occurred. Therefore, Plaintiff’s
motion fails to comply with CRC Rule 3.124(b).)
“A
long unexcused delay may be the basis for denying permission to amend pleadings
[citations], especially where the proposed amendment interjects a new issue
[citations], which may require further investigation or discovery procedures
[citations].” (Nelson v. Specialty
Records, Inc. (1970) 11 Cal.App.3d 126, 139.) “[T]he
trial court has wide discretion in determining whether to allow [proposed]
amendment[s], but the appropriate exercise of that discretion requires the
trial court to consider a number of factors: ‘including the conduct of the
moving party and the belated presentation of the amendment. . . The law is well settled that a long
deferred presentation of the proposed amendment without a showing of excuse for
the delay is itself a significant factor to uphold the trial court’s denial of
the amendment.’ [Citation].” (Ibid. at
613.) Here, Plaintiff knew of the facts which gave rise to the proposed
amendment for nearly a year before taking action. Plaintiff does not proffer an
explanation for their delay.
While
the Court has a liberal policy of granting leave to amend, the Court may not do
so when opposing parties would be substantially prejudiced. Prejudice exists where the amendment
would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added
costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488; see P & D Consultants, Inc. v. City of
Carlsbad (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1345; Fisher v. Larsen (1982)
138 Cal.App.3d 627, 649, [leave to amend properly denied where P knew for over
five months claims had not been properly pleaded and took no action to amend
until after summary judgment granted against it.]) Here, the discovery cut-off date has passed, and
Plaintiff seeks to introduce privileged declarations obtained during the course
of this litigation and through efforts to get a mediation on calendar.
(Masserat Decl. ¶ 2.) Pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 1119 and 1152,
declarations obtained during settlement negotiations are inadmissible. Additionally,
the declarations at issue are protected by the litigation privilege doctrine
since they were made in the course of litigation. This doctrine protects
statements even if they are “alleged to be fraudulent, perjurious, unethical,
or even illegal.” (Kashian v. Harriman (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 892, 920.) Therefore, in
addition to Plaintiff’s failure to comply with CRC Rule 3.124(a) and (b),
granting the instant motion would substantially prejudice Defendant and the
alleged statements are privileged. 
IV. CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend his complaint is DENIED.  
            Moving Party to give notice.SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES 


KAI SMITH,
                        Plaintiff, 
            vs.
 
 
GAME
   SPORTS BAR AND GRILL,
                        Defendant.


 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      
CASE
  NO: 20STCV38285
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT TYREI LACY’S MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
   PLAINTIFF KAI SMITH’S COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  B 
DATE:
  OCTOBER
   11, 2024
TIME:  8:30
   A.M.
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: OCTOBER 5, 2020
TRIAL
  DATE: FEBRUARY 3, 2025


 I.      
BACKGROUND
             Defendant
Tyrei Lacy (“Defendant”) moves to strike portions of plaintiff Kai Smith
(“Plaintiff’)’s Complaint in connection to its allegations for punitive damages
(Compl., Prayer, Lines 11-12), attorney’s fees (Compl., Prayer, Lines 12-13),
and any allegations of personal liability as to Defendant.            The
Complaint alleges that, on or about October 6, 2018, Plaintiff attended a
birthday party at Game Sports Bar and Grill. (Compl. ¶ 6.) Later that night, as
the bar was closing, Plaintiff made his way to the restroom while holding a
bottle of champagne that he purchased. (Ibid. at ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges
that, at this time, a bouncer confronted him, shouting that he couldn’t take
the champagne bottle out of the bar. (Ibid.) Plaintiff explained that he
just needed to use the restroom and began to walk away. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that another bar employee took the bottle from Plaintiff, and
then two to three more bouncers assaulted Plaintiff, punching his head, face,
and upper body. (Ibid.) Plaintiff claims serious injuries as a result. (Ibid.
at ¶ 8.)             On
October 5, 2020, Plaintiff filed the Complaint against Defendants Game Sports
Bar and Grill, LLC (“Game Sports”) and DOES 1 to 10 alleging four causes of
action: (1) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; (2) assault; (3)
battery; and (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress. The Complaint
seeks punitive damages and attorney’s fees.            On
December 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) adding
Defendants Tyrei Lacy and Sylvia Lacy (“Sylvia”). II.         
LEGAL STANDARDS
            “In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255; accord Cyrus v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal. App. 3d 306, 316-17.)
Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to
support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith
v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)            CCP § 3294(a), governing punitive damages,
provides: “In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.”             Malice
is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP §
3294(c)(1).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Ibid.,
§ 3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Ibid., § 3294(c)(3).) III.      
DISCUSSION
Defendant’s
Liability            Defendant moves the Court to strike
any and all allegations of their personal liability.            “[P]laintiff must plead the ultimate
facts which give rise to liability.” (Blegen v. Superior Court (1981)
125 Cal.App.3d 959, 963.) An employer can be liable for an employee’s tortious
acts even if the acts were unauthorized, willful, malicious, or criminal, if
the acts were an outgrowth of employment, inherent in the working environment,
typical of or broadly incidental to the employer’s business, or reasonably
foreseeable from the employee’s duties. (Yamaguchi v. Harnsmut (2003)
106 Cal. App.4th 472, 481.) However, an employer is not liable if the employee
substantially deviates from their employment duties for personal purposes. If
the employee’s tortious act is personal in nature, not engendered by the
employment, or not an outgrowth of the employment, the employer will not be
held liable. (Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11
Cal.App.4th 992, 1004-1005.) The determination of whether an employee’s act
falls within the scope of employment is generally a question of fact, but it
can become a question of law when the facts are undisputed and no conflicting
inferences are possible. (Montague v. AMN Healthcare, Inc. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1515, 1520) The burden of proving that the employee’s tortious
conduct was committed within the scope of employment lies with the plaintiff. (Ibid.
at 1520-1521.)            Here, it is undisputed that
Defendant is an owner of Game Sports and employer of its employees. Plaintiff
alleges this fact in their FAC. (See FAC ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s FAC also alleges
that Game Sports employees violently attacked and beat Plaintiff, resulting in
serious injuries. (Ibid. ¶¶ 9-11.) The employees allegedly beat
Plaintiff when attempting to usher him out of the premises. (Ibid. at ¶
9.) This tortious conduct is an outgrowth of the bouncers’ employment under Defendant
and, while unauthorized and malicious, was reasonably foreseeable from the
bouncers’ duties. Bouncers are often hired and retained for security efforts in
entertainment venues. Therefore, it is reasonably foreseeable that a bouncer
who is negligently hired might provoke heated altercations with patrons,
resulting in an attack like the one alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint.
Therefore, Plaintiff pleads facts which, if proven at trial, may support Defendant’s
liability. Defendant’s request to strike any and all allegations of their personal
liability is denied. Punitive Damages            Defendant’s
request to strike punitive damages is also denied. Punitive damages are
properly plead when Plaintiff alleges facts showing oppression, fraud, or
malice. Malice is defined as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (CCP § 3294(c)(1).) Plaintiff plead facts showing malicious conduct by Defendant’s
employees when they violently attacked and beat Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 9-11.)
Additionally, Plaintiff plead facts demonstrating Lacy’s liability for this
conduct. (See discussion supra.) Therefore, Plaintiff’s request
for punitive damages is well-plead and Defendant’s request to strike is denied.Attorney’s Fees            Plaintiff
agreed to withdraw his request for attorney’s fees. Therefore, Defendant’s
request to strike attorney’s fees is granted. IV.    CONCLUSION            Defendant’s motion is
GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Defendant’s requests to strike Defendant’s personal
liability and punitive damages from Plaintiff’s complaint are denied. Defendant’s
request to strike attorney’s fees is GRANTED.            Moving
party is ordered to give notice.
