  Case Number:  BC684669    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  55 10/11/24 Plaintiff’s Additional MILs   Plaintiff’s MIL No. 29 to Preclude any Defense  Arguments that Alleged Comparative Fault of Plaintiff has any Bearing on the  Existence of a Dangerous Condition is denied. This is not a motion in limine as  it does not seek exclusion or limitation of any evidence.   Instead, the moving party is seeking to preclude the  non-moving party from raising or arguing the defense of comparative fault to  the claim for dangerous condition of public property.  In essence, the moving party is arguing that the  non-moving party should not be permitted to raise the issue because it is  unmeritorious as a matter of law.  This  is an improper use of a motion in limine.   Plaintiff’s  MIL No. 30 to  Exclude Defendant from Introducing Plaintiff’s Alleged Instagram Messages is  denied. There is no MIL No. 31Plaintiff’s  MIL No. 32 to  Preclude Testimony that Jeff Sugar, M.D. was Unable to Finish his Examination  of Plaintiff is denied. Plaintiff’s MIL No. 33 to Exclude Evidence of any  Reference to Plaintiff’s School Project Videos is denied.Plaintiff’s MIL No. 34 to Exclude Defendant’s Experts  Not Produced [Jeff Bruno, Melissa Keddington, David Weiner] because not  produced for deposition is denied as moot given Defendant’s representation that  the parties have scheduled the depositions of Melissa Keddington and Jeff Bruno  and reached a stipulation to exchange the reports of David Weiner and Plaintiff’s  economist expert in lieu of deposition. Plaintiff’s MIL No. 35 to preclude Defendant’s Expert  Dr. Mi-Yeoung Jo from Testifying at Trial Due to her Failure to Produce all Raw  Data as Court Ordered is denied based on Defendant’s representation that the  parties have stipulated that Dr. Lechuga’s testing manuals are the same ones  used by Dr. Jo, that Dr. Lechuga can testify about those manuals, and that this  resolves the dispute about the materials provided by Dr. Jo. Plaintiff’s MIL No. 36 to Exclude Testimony from  Defendant’s Experts Regarding the Lack of an Opportunity to Interview  Plaintiff’s Parents is denied. 10/11/24 Defendant’s Additional MILS

Defendant’s MIL No. 23 to limit the introduction into
evidence of the amount of Plaintiff’s medical bills to the actual amount paid
is granted, unless the parties reach a stipulation that Plaintiff is not seeking
to introduce such evidence because she is not seeking recovery of past medical
expenses of any kind. Plaintiff’s opposition states Plaintiff is not seeking past
medical expenses as an item of damages but the jury instructions still contain CACI
3903A so the Court needs confirmation from the parties that this is a moot
issue.Defendant’s MIL No. 24 to preclude Mark J. Burns from
giving testimony with respect to school playground supervision is denied.Defendant’s MIL No. 25 to preclude Plaintiff and her
experts including Mark J. Burns from making reference to or presenting evidence
related to the American Society for Testing and Materials and Other Standards
which Public Entities are not required to meet is denied.Defendant’s MIL No. 26 to preclude Plaintiff and her
experts including Mark J. Burns from making reference to or presenting evidence
related to the cost effectiveness of improving the playground or taking other
preventative measure at Marvin elementary school is granted as follows: If
Plaintiff and/or her expert opens the door by introducing evidence about the
costs of securing compliance with Defendant’s inspection standards, then the
Court will re-visit its prior rulings about Defendant’s ability to introduce
evidence regarding its financial status for the limited purpose to permit
Defendant to introduce evidence of its financial ability to absorb the costs as
opined by Plaintiff’s expert. Plaintiff cannot introduce evidence about what
Defendant should or should not have done to the playground from a cost perspective
without Defendant having the ability to introduce evidence regarding its
financial ability to do so.Additional MILAfter the last continued FSC, Defendant filed motions in
limine Nos. 27, 28, and 29 and Plaintiff filed motion in limine No. 31. These motions,
all filed on the eve of trial, are denied without prejudice.  

With respect to all motions in limine above that have been
denied, the moving party may renew the objection to the introduction of this
evidence at trial, and the Court will rule on the evidentiary objection anew in
the context of the other evidence that is presented at trial. 