 Case Number:  21STCV43384    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  B KRYSTYN CHAVEZ, Plaintiff, vs. JOSE TORRES CARBALLO, et al. Defendants. ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 21STCV43384 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT MEHRAN TEMECHI’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT Dept. B DATE: NOVEMBER 14, 2024 TIME: 8:30 A.M. COMPLAINT FILED: NOVEMBER 24, 2021 TRIAL DATE: DECEMBER 2, 2024I. BACKGROUNDOn November 24, 2021, Plaintiff Krystyn Chavez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Jose Torres Carballo (“Carballo”), Retail Baking LLC (“Retail Baking”), Wholesome Melrose Baking Inc. (“Melrose Baking”), Mehran Termechi (“Termechi”), and Does 1 to 50 alleging two causes of action: (1) motor vehicle negligence; and (2) general negligence. Plaintiff alleges she was walking her bicycle across an intersection when Carballo, within the scope of his employment under Retail Baking, Melrose Baking, and Termechi, struck Plaintiff in the crosswalk. Plaintiff claims property damages and serious injuries as a result.On March 28, 2024, Defendant Termechi filed the instant motion for summary judgment.On June 7, 2024, the case was reassigned to the Honorable Judge Karen Moskowitz inDepartment B at Van Nuys Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.On October 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed their opposition.On October 30, 2024, Defendant filed their reply.II. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTDefendant Termechi moves for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s complaint. Termechi alleges that Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence fails as a matter of law because Termechi, in his personal capacity, was not involved with the underlying incident. (See Motion p. 1:7-10.)III. LEGAL STANDARDSIn reviewing a motion for summary judgment, the Court must apply a three-step analysis: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has met his or her initial burden; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue. (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)A moving defendant may satisfy the initial burden to show that one or more elements cannot be established by “presenting evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action or by relying on the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses toshow that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, evidence to establish that element.” (Schmidt v. Citibank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1119; Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 856 [It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.]; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The defendant must present evidence… showing that plaintiff does not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” (Ibid.)Unless and until a defendant meets that burden, the plaintiff has no burden to present controverting evidence. (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468 [“There is no obligation on the opposing party . . . to establish anything by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every element . . . necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”].) If a defendant fails to meet that burden, summary judgment must be denied, even if the plaintiff fails to file an opposition and fails to proffer any evidence.On the other hand, if the defendant “has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials in its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)IV. DISCUSSIONDefendant’s BurdenTermechi meets their initial burden.Termechi argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence fails as a matter of law because Termechi, in his personal capacity, was not involved with the underlying incident. (See Motion p. 1:7-10.) Termechi argues that his personal liability, if any were to exist, is only ripe for consideration if Plaintiff obtains judgment against Retail Baking, which Termechi admits to owning and operating at the time of the underlying incident. (Termechi Separate Statement of Facts “T-SSF” No. 1.; Exh. B [Termechi deposition].)“It is well settled that corporate directors cannot be held vicariously liable for the corporation's torts in which they do not participate. Their liability, if any, stems from their own tortious conduct, not from their status as directors or officers of the enterprise.” (Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Assn., (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 503.) In short, “an officer or director will not be held liable for torts in which he does not personally participate, of which he has no knowledge, or to which he has not consented … While corporation itself may be held liable for such acts, the individual officer or director will be immune unless he authorizes, directs, or in some meaningful sense actively participates in the wrongful conduct.” (Ibid. at 503-504; see also United States Liability Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc., (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 595 (holding that “Directors and officers or a corporation do no incur personal liability for torts of the corporation merely by reason of their official position, unless they participate in the wrong or authorize or direct that it be done.”).Here, Termechi provides evidence that Carballo was operating the vehicle at the time of the underlying incident while acting within his scope of employment with Retail Baking. (T-SSF No. 2; Exh. A, at 14:10-11 [Carballo deposition]; Exh. B, at 12:1-25 [Termechi deposition].) Termechi also provides evidence that the subject vehicle was owned and operated in furtherance of Retail Baking’s corporate objectives. (T-SSF No. 3; Exhs. A and B.) It is undisputed thatTermechi was not involved in the underlying accident, nor did he authorize, direct, or in some meaningful sense actively participate in the accident.Therefore, Termechi meets his initial burden.Plaintiff’s BurdenThe burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue of fact as to Termechi’s involvement with the underlying incident.Plaintiff argues that Termechi failed to produce any evidence that Carballo was an employee of Retail Baking at the time of the underlying incident. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Facts “P-SSF” No. 5.) Plaintiff instead argues that, at the time of the underlying incident, Carballo was acting within his scope of employment with Melrose Baking. Plaintiff further argues that Melrose Baking is an unincorporated “Doing Business As” (“DBA”) of Termechi, and is therefore not legally distinct from Termechi. (P-SSF No. 1.) Plaintiff further asserts that Termechi was the registered owner of the subject vehicle at the time of the incident. (P-SSF No. 6; Exh. 4 [Termechi deposition].)Here, Carballo asserts that he was acting as a delivery driver for Retail Baking at the time of the underlying incident. (Plaintiff Exh. 8; Carballo’s Response to Form Interrogatories No. 2.11.) Carballo specifically denies being employed by Melrose Baking. (Ibid. at No. 17.1.) Carballo further denies being employed by Termechi in his personal capacity. (Ibid.) Additionally, Plaintiff’s evidence does not state what they assert. Termechi never stated that he was the registered owner of the subject vehicle at the time of the incident. Instead, Termechi stated that, while he could not recall the registered owner of the subject vehicle, it was “highly unlikely” that it was registered under his name. (Plaintiff’s Exh. 4 at 55:8-16.) Furthermore,Termechi asserts that Melrose Baking is a dba for Breadbox Corp., which is an entity separate from Termechi as an individual. (Ibid. at 50:22-51:21.) Therefore, Plaintiff fails to provide any evidence supporting their claim that Termechi was involved with, or otherwise authorized, the underlying incident.A plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials in its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Consumer Cause, Inc., supra, 91 Cal.App.4th at 468.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) Accordingly, Plaintiff fails to meet their burden and summary judgment should be granted.V. CONCLUSIONNo triable issue of material fact exists as to Termechi’s personal liability. Accordingly, Defendant Termechi’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.Moving party is ordered to give notice.Dated: November 13 2024 __________________________________Hon. Karen MoskowitzJudge of the Superior Court