  Case Number:  21STCV38437    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 3-6-24 c/f 1-31-24
Case # 21STCV38437
Trial Date: 5-13-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, National General Insurance
Company, et al.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Pamela and Clifford Cole
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
·        
1st Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract 
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Breach of Duty
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
·        
Claim for Punitive Damages
·        
8th Affirmative Defense: Insured
Property 
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiffs Pamela and Clifford Cole own certain real
property located at 28913 Medea Mesa Rod., Agoura Hills, CA. Plaintiffs
maintain an active fire insurance policy with defendants National General
Insurance Company, National General Premier Insurance Company, and Integon
Insurance Company, at all relevant times. 
 
On November 9, 2018, Plaintiffs home sustained damage
during the Woolsey Fire. Plaintiffs specifically identify damage to a retaining
wall abutting a tributary of Malibu Creek, and a deck at least partially over
the retaining wall. Plaintiffs allege the wall constitutes a covered item under
the “other structure” provision of the policy, with a coverage amount of up to
$226,522, and potentially doubled in case of a brush fire to $453,044.
Plaintiffs also allege a “code upgrade” provision in the policy, whereby any
reconstruction/repair requiring an update to current code provisions, an
entirely new concrete structure in this case, are covered. Plaintiffs maintain
Defendants improperly refuse to pay the contractually due amount for wall
repair and update, as well as for replacement of the damaged deck.
 
On October 19, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a complaint for
Breach of Contract, Tortious Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, and Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. On
February 24, 2022, Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint. On April 27,
2022, the court sustained the demurrer with 10 days leave to amend. On June 17,
2022, Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint for Breach of Contract, and
Tortious Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. Defendants
answered the second amended complaint on July 19, 2022. 
 
RULING: Denied in Part/Granted in Part.
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The court takes judicial notice of the second amended
complaint, but cannot take judicial notice of the content of the pleading for
the truth of the matter asserted.
 
Defendants National General Insurance Company, National
General Premier Insurance Company, and Integon Insurance Company (Integon) move
for summary judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication on the breach
of contract, breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, punitive
damages claim, and eighth affirmative defense. National General Insurance
Company, and National General Premier Insurance Company, contend neither entity
issued nor adjusted the underlying claims. As for insurer Integon, it maintains
full payment for the cash value of the damaged retaining wall and deck
occurred, thereby satisfying the obligations on the policy, and undermining any
claims for breach of contract or bad faith. Integon also denies any obligation
for code upgrade replacement, based on the purported designation of retaining
wall zone as part of a Los Angeles Department of Water and Power floodway and
encroachment into the neighboring property.
 
Plaintiffs in opposition concede to the resolution of all
property claims with the exception of the retaining wall following the filing
of the operative complaint. Plaintiffs maintain they obtained a permit for wall
reconstruction notwithstanding the floodway and encroachment issues; the wall
must be brought up to code, rather than replaced with the original material;
and, the refusal to provide code upgraded concrete replacement of the retaining
wall constitutes a wrongful denial of benefits.
 
Defendants in reply reiterate the “other structures”
terms for adjusting said claims. Defendants maintain Integon properly paid the
cash replacement value without upgrades, as provided in the clause. Without a
breach of contract, the bad faith and punitive damages claims also fail.
 
The pleadings frame
the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which the
motion must respond. (Citation.)” 
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD., v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  “An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons
v. Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041
(citation omitted).)  
 
National General Insurance Company and National General
Premier Insurance Company contend neither issued the policy nor adjusted the
claims. The argument solely depends on the policy declaration page and the
declaration of Meghan Jauhar, whereby the entities are described as “brand
names” under the National General Management Corp. umbrella. [Declaration of
Meghan Jauhar; Declaration of William Stroka, ¶ 4, Compendium of Evidence, Ex.
1: Policy.] Plaintiffs in opposition submit the declaration of Clifford Cole
which relies on a direct denial of the assertion regarding Integon as the sole
insurer, with reference to the policy. Neither party submits any legally
supported argument.
 
Plaintiffs offer no dispute to the existence of the policy
presented with the motion. The policy shows a letterhead from “Nat Gen
Premier,” with the underwriter identified as “Integon National Insurance
Company.” The policy also identifies “National General Insurance.” A December
3, 2019, letter from Nat Gen Premier identifies “National General Insurance
Company” as the “Writing Company.” [Cole Decl., Ex. B.] 
 
The court finds moving defendants insufficiently establish a
basis for dismissal of National General Insurance Company and National General
Premier Insurance Company based on a copy of the policy, and a declaration of
corporate counsel without any additional legally supported argument. The court
declines to address unmade arguments or make the arguments for Defendants. The
motion is denied as to National General Insurance Company and National General
Premier Insurance Company. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
1st Cause of Action: Breach of Contract 
Defendants concede to coverage for damage to the retaining
wall, but maintain full payment under the terms of the policy was made. All
parties agree that the “other structures” section of the policy applies to the
retaining wall. The court reviews the relevant sections.
 
“B. Coverage B – Other Structures 
1. We cover other structures on the ‘residence premises’
set apart from the dwelling by clear space. This includes structures connected
to the dwelling by only a fence, utility line, or similar connection. 2. We do
not cover: a. Land, including land on which the other structures are located;
b. Other structures rented or held for rental to any person not a tenant of the
dwelling, unless used solely as a private garage; c. Other structures from
which any ‘business’ is conducted; or d. Other structures used to store
‘business’ property. However, we do cover a structure that contains ‘business’
property solely owned by an ‘insured’ or a tenant . . .”
 
An “other structures endorsement” identified as
Endorsement SH 04 91 01 04 Coverage B-Other Structures Away from the Residence
Premises continues: 
 
“B. Coverage B — Other Structures 
The following is added to Paragraph 1.: We also cover
other structures which are owned by you and located away from the “residence
premises”, if used by you in connection with the “residence premises”. . . .
Paragraph 3. is deleted and replaced by the following: 3. The limit of
liability for other structures on or away from the “residence premises” will
not be more than 10% of the limit of liability that applies to Coverage A. Use
of this limit does not reduce the Coverage A limit of liability.”
 
“SECTION I — CONDITIONS C. Loss Settlement With respect
to structures covered under this endorsement, Condition C. Loss Settlement is
deleted and replaced by the following: Covered losses will be settled at actual
cash value at the time of loss, but not more than the amount required to repair
or replace.
 
“SECTION I - EXCLUSIONS A. We do not insure for loss
caused directly or indirectly by any of the following. Such loss is excluded
regardless of any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any
sequence to the loss. These exclusions apply whether or not the loss event
results in widespread damage or affects a substantial area.
 
“1. Ordinance Or Law Ordinance Or Law means any ordinance
or law: a. Requiring or regulating the construction, demolition, remodeling,
renovation or repair of property, including removal of any resulting debris.
This Exclusion A.1.a. does not apply to the amount of coverage that may be
provided for in E.11. Ordinance Or Law under Section I Property Coverages; b.
The requirements of which result in a loss in value to property; . . .
11. Ordinance Or Law a. You may use up to 10% of the
limit of liability that applies to Coverage A for the increased costs you incur
due to the enforcement of any ordinance or law which requires or regulates: (1)
The construction, demolition, remodeling, renovation or repair of that part of
a covered building or other structure damaged by a Peril Insured Against; (2)
The demolition and reconstruction of the undamaged part of a covered building
or other structure, when that building or other structure must be totally
demolished because of damage by a Peril Insured Against to another part of that
covered building or other structure; or (3) The remodeling, removal or
replacement of the portion of the undamaged part of a covered building or other
structure necessary to complete the remodeling, repair or replacement of that
part of the covered building or other structure damaged by a Peril Insured
Against. b. You may use all or part of this ordinance or law coverage to pay
for the increased costs you incur to remove debris resulting from the
construction, demolition, remodeling, renovation, repair or replacement of
property as stated in a. above.”
 
“‘While
insurance contracts have special features, they are still contracts to which
the ordinary rules of contractual interpretation apply.’ (Citation.) ‘The principles
governing the interpretation of insurance policies in California are well
settled. “Our goal in construing insurance contracts, as with contracts
generally, is to give effect to the parties' mutual intentions.”’ (Citation.) “‘Such
intent is to be inferred, if possible, solely from the written provisions of
the contract. (Citation.) The “clear and explicit” meaning of these provisions,
interpreted in their “ordinary and popular sense,’ unless ‘used by the parties
in a technical sense or a special meaning is given to them by usage’ (Citation),
controls judicial interpretation. (Citation.)’” (Citation) “‘If contractual
language is clear and explicit, it governs.’”
 
“‘If the
terms are ambiguous [i.e., susceptible of more than one reasonable
interpretation], we interpret them to protect “‘the objectively reasonable expectations
of the insured.’” (Citation.) This rule stems from the principle that “‘[i]f the terms
of a promise are in any respect ambiguous or uncertain, it must be interpreted
in the sense in which the promisor believed, at the time of making it, that the
promisee understood it.’” (Citation.) “‘Only if these rules do not resolve a claimed ambiguity
do we resort to the rule that ambiguities are to be resolved against the insurer....’ The
‘tie-breaker’ rule of construction against the insurer stems from the
recognition that the insurer generally drafted the policy and received premiums
to provide the agreed protection.” (Citation.) “[L]anguage in a contract must be interpreted as a
whole, and in the circumstances of the case, and cannot be found to be
ambiguous in the abstract.... Courts will not strain to create an ambiguity
where none exists. [¶] ‘The insured has the burden of establishing that a
claim, unless specifically excluded, is within basic coverage, while the
insurer has the burden of establishing that a specific exclusion applies.’ (Citation.) The principles of
contractual interpretation, as applied to insurance policies ‘do not include using public
policy to redefine the scope of coverage.’” (Inns-by-the-Sea v. California Mutual Ins.
Co. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 688, 697–698.)
 
The court finds the endorsement language for coverage of
“structures ... owned by you and located away from the ‘residence premises’ if
used by you in connection with the ‘residence premises,’” including prior
language regarding “structures connected to the dwelling by only a fence,
utility line, or similar connection” presents a basis of coverage for the
retaining wall as part of the entire residential property appurtenance. The
“other structures” clause therefore governs the coverage. As quoted above, the
Ordinance or Law section provides coverage for “increased costs...due to the
enforcement of any ordinance or law...”
 
Defendants concede to the plain language of the policy,
but maintain a legal limit applies to the replacement cost of the property at
the time of damage, due to the type of issued policy. Plaintiff cites to the plain
language of the policy allowing for replacement pursuant to code requirements,
rather than the sought after adjustment based on disallowed repair. The court therefore
considers the type of policy issued.
 
The parties both agree the terms constitute an open
policy:
“An open policy is one in which the value of the
subject matter is not agreed upon, but is left to be ascertained in case of
loss.” (Ins. Code, § 411.) The parties dispute two governing sections
addressing open policies.
 
“a) Under an open policy, the measure of indemnity in fire
insurance is the expense to the insured of replacing the thing lost or injured
in its condition at the time of the injury, the expense being computed as of the time of the commencement
of the fire.
(b) Under an open policy that requires payment of actual
cash value, the measure of the actual cash value recovery, in whole or partial
settlement of the claim, shall be determined as follows:
(1) In case of total loss to the structure, the policy limit
or the fair market value of the structure, whichever is less.
(2) In case of a partial loss to the structure, or loss to
its contents, the amount it would cost the insured to repair, rebuild, or
replace the thing lost or injured less a fair and reasonable deduction for
physical depreciation based upon its condition at the time of the injury or the
policy limit, whichever is less. In case of a partial loss to the structure, a
deduction for physical depreciation shall apply only to components of a
structure that are normally subject to repair and replacement during the useful
life of that structure.” 
 
(Ins. Code, § 2051.)
 
The above
quoted section was in effect at the time of the issuance of the relevant policy
(effective January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2019). The section was amended,
which now states effective January 1, 2020: 
 
(a) Under
an open policy, the measure of indemnity in fire insurance is the expense to
the insured of replacing the thing lost or injured in its condition at the time
of the injury, the expense being computed as of the time of the commencement of
the fire.
(b) Under
an open policy that requires payment of actual cash value, the measure of the
actual cash value recovery, in whole or partial settlement of the claim, for either a total or partial loss to the structure or its contents, shall be the
amount it would cost the insured to repair, rebuild, or replace the thing lost
or injured less a fair and reasonable deduction for physical depreciation based
upon its condition at the time of the injury or the policy limit, whichever is
less. A deduction for physical depreciation shall apply only to
components of a structure that are normally subject to repair and replacement
during the useful life of that structure.”
 
(Ins.
Code, § 2051.)
 
Even
assuming the difference constitutes a material distinction, neither party
addresses the which rule governs. Defendants instead emphasizes Insurance Code
section 2071 as superseding Insurance Code section 2051. (Breshears v. Indiana Lumbermens Mut. Ins. Co. of Indianapolis,
Ind. (1967) 256 Cal.App.2d 245, 250-251.)
 
Fire policies, including open policies, are governed by a
standard form. “All fire policies on subject matter in California shall be on the
standard form, and, except as provided by this article shall not contain
additions thereto. No part of the standard form shall be omitted therefrom ...”
(Ins. Code, § 2070.) The standard form reads in relevant part: “to the extent of the actual cash value of the property at the time
of loss, but not exceeding the amount which it would cost to repair or replace
the property with material of like kind and quality within a reasonable time
after the loss, without allowance for any increased cost of repair or
reconstruction by reason of any ordinance or law regulating construction or
repair...against all loss.” (Ins. Code, § 2071.)
 
The statutory language directly references actual
cash value policies, rather than a policy providing value protection, which includes
coverage for code upgrades upon reconstruction. (Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior
Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 462, 470.) Defendants properly cite to
the “other structures” endorsement language as an actual cash value policy. “Loss
Settlement With respect to structures covered under this endorsement, Condition
C. Loss Settlement is deleted and replaced by the following: Covered losses
will be settled at actual cash value at the time of loss, but not more than the
amount required to repair or replace (emphasis added).”
 
Plaintiffs offer no fundamental challenge to the specific language
identifying the “actual cash value” and instead interpret the term as one for
value or upgrade protection when read in conjunction with the “Ordinance Or
Law” section: “You may use up to 10% of the limit of liability that
applies to Coverage A for the increased costs you incur due to the enforcement
of any ordinance or law which requires or regulates: (1) The construction,
demolition, remodeling, renovation or repair of that part of a covered building
or other structure damaged by a Peril Insured Against...(3) The remodeling,
removal or replacement of the portion of the undamaged part of a covered
building or other structure necessary to complete the remodeling, repair or
replacement of that part of the covered building or other structure damaged by
a Peril Insured Against...” 
 
The court considers the context of the language. The policy section
relied upon by Defendants indisputably conforms to Insurance Code section 2071.
Fire, the identified peril under the regulations, constitutes the undisputed covered
event. 
 
“Actual cash value,’ as used in section 2071 of
the Insurance Code, is synonymous with ‘fair market value.’” (Jefferson Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 3 Cal.3d 398, 402.) A prior case interpreting “like kind
and quality” or “equivalent construction” arguably offers insight into the term.
In reviewing the policy, the court stated the purpose of the insurance policy
was “to compensate for the actual loss sustained, not to place the insured in a
better position than he or she was before the fire.” (McCorkle v. State Farm Ins. Co. (1990) 221
Cal.App.3d 610, 614–615.) Because of “replacement cost” language in a policy, a
later reviewing court specifically limited the prior court holdings on actual
cash value or “fair market value” holding based on an ambiguity of policy terms.
(Fire
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 464.) 
 
The retaining wall constitutes an integral part
of the property integrity. [Cole Decl., ¶¶ 18-26.] The retaining wall cannot be
rebuilt with prior materials, and requires code compliant concrete
construction. [Id., ¶ 51.] 
 
Defendants’ interpretation of the policy
provides an estimated actual cash value for a one-half destroyed retaining wall
that cannot be repaired or replaced with original materials. [Declaration of
Thomas Schaefer, ¶¶ 15-19.] Notwithstanding the inability to functionally
utilize the remaining wall or original materials, Defendants’ interpretation of
the policy logically conforms with the requirement to provide an “amount which it would cost to repair or replace the property with
material of like kind and quality ... without allowance for any increased cost
of repair or reconstruction by reason of any ordinance or law regulating
construction or repair...against all loss.” 
 
Plaintiffs emphasize the language of Insurance
Code section 2051: “(b) Under an open
policy that requires payment of actual cash value, the measure of the actual
cash value recovery, in whole or partial settlement of the claim, shall be
determined as follows: ... (2) In case of a partial loss to the structure, or
loss to its contents, the amount it would cost the insured to repair, rebuild,
or replace the thing lost or injured less a fair and reasonable deduction for
physical depreciation based upon its condition at the time of the injury or the
policy limit, whichever is less. In case of a partial loss to the structure, a
deduction for physical depreciation shall apply only to components of a
structure that are normally subject to repair and replacement during the useful
life of that structure.” The court finds both sections 2051 and 2071 harmonize
based on a cash equivalent valuation regardless of actual reconstruction
feasibility. 
 
The practical result causes concern under public
policy guidelines for interpreting insurance policies. Given the inability to
replace the wall with original materials, the payment for an unavailable
replacement effectively renders the property subject to potential further
failure from the remaining compromised wall if Plaintiffs are unable to pay for
the additional costs. In other words, while the “loss” sustained appears as the
value of the wall itself, a potential inability to repair and replace a functioning
retaining wall presents an ongoing threat and undermines the purpose of
insurance to protect against catastrophic losses within the scope of coverage
agreed upon by the parties.
 
A contextual review of the entire policy
supports a finding of potential, additional coverage. The plain language of the
“ordinance or law” section specifically allows for up to 10% of the liability
limit in order to account for “increased costs” from ordinance enforcement,
including “repair and replacement of that part of the covered building
or other structure damaged by a Peril Insured Against.” Again, the fire peril
remains a covered event. The plain language of this section specifically
accounts for increased costs due to ordinance enforcement. 
 
Thus, while part of the policy limits recovery to cash
value, another portion of the policy clearly provides for code required repair
and replacement costs. The court finds no support for the logical conclusion
that cash value for an illegal replacement sufficiently complies with the
statutory and case law rules. The court disagree with the argument that the cash value provision
governs over the ordinance or law provision. (San Francisco Taxpayers Assn.
v. Board of Supervisors (1992) 2 Cal.4th 571, 577;
Jane D. v. Ordinary Mutual (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 643, 651.) The court therefore finds ambiguity in the policy
terms based on conflicting interpretations of the policy. (Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior
Court,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 466.) 
 
Furthermore, Plaintiff specifically states an
intention to acquire an insurance policy with value protection in mind. [Cole
Decl., ¶¶ 28-29.] The terms of the policy support a finding for this
conclusion. (Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court, supra, 116
Cal.App.4th at p. 470.) The court therefore finds triable issues
of material fact as to whether the policy terms limit coverage to actual cash
value of an otherwise irreplaceable wall relying on valuation of previously
used, but now illegal materials; whether such payment actually compensates
Plaintiffs for the total loss given the potential instability caused by the
compromised wall if Plaintiffs remain unable to fix the wall due to the
shortcomings on the payment; and, whether the policy provides for an upgrade to
current code compliance standards under the “replacement” language and
ordinance standards. The motion is therefore denied. 
 
2nd Cause of Action: Breach of Duty of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing
Defendants depends on the breach
of contract cause of action for the argument that Plaintiff also lacks a valid
bad faith claim in that the denial of the claim on the interpretation of
contractual terms and determination of the cause constituted a reasonable
decision. (Love v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1151.) Plaintiffs counter that
the disputed terms, in and of themselves support triable issues. To the extent
Sate Farm unsuccessfully challenges the breach of contract cause of action on
the interpretation of the terms, the court also finds a lack of support for the
argument against a valid bad faith claim. (Carma
Developers (Cal.), Inc. v. Marathon Dev. California, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 342,
373; Chateau
Chamberay Homeowners Ass'n v. Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 335, 347; McMillin Scripps North
Partnership v. Royal Ins. Co. (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222; Racine &
Laramie, Ltd. v. California Dept. of Parks & Rec. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th
1026, 1031-1032; Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit,
Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,
1395; Love
v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221
Cal.App.3d 1136, 1153.) Triable issues of material fact on the same basis as
the breach of contract claim. The motion is denied.
 
Punitive Damages
Defendants lastly challenges the basis of punitive
damages. Plaintiff counters that the circumstances demonstrate support for
punitive damages.
 
Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (c) authorizes punitive
damages upon a showing of malice, oppression, or fraud, which are defined as follows:
 
(1) “Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
“[Simple
breach of contract, no matter how willful and hence tortious, is not a ground
for punitive damages. Such damages are accessible only upon a showing that the
defendant ‘act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure, or annoy.’” (Citation.) [¶] Punitive
damages for failure to pay or properly administer an insurance claim are
ordinarily, as in this case, based on ‘malice’ or ‘oppression,’ rather than on
the third possible ground for the award, ‘fraud.’ Both ‘malice’ and ‘oppression’
are defined in Civil Code section 3294 as involving ‘despicable conduct, which
in the case of malice ‘is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,’ and as to oppression is
‘conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.’” [¶] “[I]t is significant that the
Legislature amended Civil Code section 3294 in 1987 to add the requirement that
punitive damages be proved by ‘clear and convincing evidence.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1286–1287; Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing,
Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 909–910.)
 
While triable issues remain
on the bad faith claim, the circumstances fail to meet the demonstrate
oppressive or malicious conduct under heightened factual standard required for
punitive damages. Defendants clearly demonstrate its reasonable reliance on the
conclusions of the investigation. The dispute over the policy language demonstrates
a genuinely valid dispute over disputed contractual terms and circumstances for
a covered event. The motion for summary adjudication on the punitive damages
claim is therefore granted. 
 
 
In summary, the motion for summary judgment, and alternative
motions for summary adjudication on the breach of contract and bad faith causes
of action, as well as to the individual claims of National General
Insurance Company, National General Premier Insurance Company  are DENIED. The motion for summary
adjudication on the punitive damages claim is GRANTED.
 
Trial
remains set for May 13, 2024.
 
Moving party to
give notice.
 