 Case Number:  24STCV09524    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  73 11/21/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
WOODALL-SCHAEFER v. SILVERADO SENIOR
LIVING MANAGEMENT, INC. (24STCV09524)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: G. Samuel Cleaver (Law Offices of G. Samuel Cleaver)
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party: Michael O’Connor (Atkinson, Andelson, Loya, Ruud & Romo)
 
DEFENDANT’S motion to compel arbitration (filed on 8/16/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Motion to
Compel Arbitration is DENIED.  
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of an employment dispute. On
April 16, 2024, Plaintiff Felicia Woodall-Schaefer filed this action against Defendant
Silverado Senior Living Management, Inc.
 
Plaintiff brings the following causes of action
against Defendant: 
1.      Race Discrimination in Violation of FEHA
2.      Retaliation
3.      Hostile Environment Harassment in Violation of Gov. Code §
12940(j)
4.      Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Retaliation, and
Harassment
5.      Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
6.      Defamation
7.      Failure to Pay Overtime Wages
8.      Failure to Provide Meal Period and Rest Breaks
9.      Failure To Timely Pay Final Wages
10.  Violation of Labor Code § 226
11.  Wage Theft in Violation of Penal Code § 487m
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiff was employed by Defendants as Director
of Resident Engagement at their Torrance, CA facility. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff who is African-American made a complaint for race
discrimination to Silverado Human Resources Department (“HR”) on or around
November 2, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 12.) The race discrimination complaint was about a
racially offensive statement made by Defendant’s Marketing Director who is
Caucasian during a tour of the Torrance facility in October 2022. (Compl., ¶ 13.) After making the race discrimination complaint,
Plaintiff began to receive unfair treatment at work from the Marketing
Director, and Plaintiff’s supervisor, the Site Administrator, who is Caucasian.
(Compl., ¶ 14.) Such retaliation included ignoring Plaintiff,
excluding Plaintiff from meetings, and accusing her of failing to properly
perform her job. (Ibid.) Defendants’ Marketing Director referred to
Plaintiff as an “angry black woman.” (Ibid.) Following Plaintiff’s
January complaints, Defendants’ retaliatory conduct continued. (Compl., ¶ 17.) In March 2023, Plaintiff received a
positive evaluation of an audit of her department. (Ibid.) Nevertheless,
on or about April 20, 2023, Plaintiff received a write-up from the Site
Administrator. (Ibid.) Plaintiff was subsequently suspended after
receiving the write-up, even though it was the first write-up that Plaintiff
had received during her employment. (Ibid.) Plaintiff complained that the write-up was
false, was based on race discrimination and was retaliatory. (Compl., ¶ 18.) Instead of investigating Plaintiff’s
complaint, Defendants terminated her employment while she was on suspension. (Ibid.)
 
On
August 16, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration
arguing: 
·      
Plaintiff’s causes of action are subject to resolution exclusively
through final and binding arbitration, as required by a written Arbitration
Agreement (“Agreement”) signed by Plaintiff on April 28, 2022.
o  
The Agreement was provided to Plaintiff, electronically, by the Silverado
Human Resources department and Silverado used computer tracking software (HRMS)
to confirm and track when the document was, in turn, accessed and signed.
(Estrada Decl., ¶ 8.)
o  
Silverado has no records of Plaintiff objecting to the Agreement
or otherwise attempting to rescind her signature. (Id. at ¶ 18.)
o  
The Agreement expressly requires that Plaintiff submit to final
and binding arbitration all of her claims against Silverado, including claims
against its employees and agents.
·      
The FAA governs this dispute and required enforcement
·      
California law also mandates arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims
·      
The Agreement is not unconscionable and it satisfies the Armendariz
factors
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues:
·       Defendant fails to establish that an Agreement to arbitrate exists
o  
Plaintiff denies electronically signing the
Arbitration Agreement. She has reviewed the Arbitration Agreement and has no
memory of signing it or of seeing it before her attorney sent it to her as part
of her personnel file. (Schaefer Decl. ¶ 1 Ex. A.)
o  
Defendant Has Not Presented Sufficient Evidence to
Show That Plaintiff Electronically Signed the Agreement.
§ 
Estrada makes no mention of Plaintiff’s IP address in
her declaration. The Arbitration Agreement itself also lacks an IP address.
Without producing the IP address linked to the electronic signature on the
Agreement, Defendant cannot link the signature to Plaintiff.
o   To
establish Plaintiff signed the Agreement, Defendant must do so with a declarant
has knowledge of the procedures Defendant had in place in 2022. Since
Defendant’s evidence is insufficient to establish Plaintiff signed the
Agreement, Defendant’s motion fails.
·       The Agreement is unconscionable and cannot be enforced
o   Procedural unconscionability
§ 
Plaintiff Was Pressured to Sign the Agreement
§ 
Plaintiff Was Not Given a Copy of the Rules for the
Arbitration
§ 
The Arbitration Agreement Was Procedurally
Unconscionable Due to Surprise
o  
Substantively Unconscionable
§ 
The Agreement’s Fee and Cost Award Is Unconscionable
§ 
The Agreement Is Not Mutual
§ 
Plaintiff Must Arbitrate More than Her Employment
Related Claims
§ 
The Agreement Is Not Mutual Because It Exempts
Defendant’s Agents and Employees
§ 
The Agreement Is Unconscionable Because It Is Infinite
§  The
Agreement Has an Unlawful Confidentiality Provision
 
Defendant
filed a reply, arguing:
·      
An Agreement to Arbitrate Exists
o  
There is ample evidence that Plaintiff signed the
Agreement on April 28, 2022 at 19:11 UTC, or 12:11 PST.
o  
HR representative, Tabina Dayfallah, met with
Plaintiff personally on April 28, 2022. Dayfallah provided Plaintiff with
various policies and forms related to her employment and gathered Plaintiff’s
forms of identification to complete and submit Plaintiff’s I-9 to E-Verify.
(Dayfallah Decl., ¶ 9-11.)
·      
Plaintiff failed to establish unconscionability 
o  
Procedural unconscionability
§ 
Employees Can Be Made to Arbitrate Claims as a
Condition of Employment
§ 
Plaintiff Had an Opportunity to Read the Agreement,
Consult with Legal Counsel, and to Ask Silverado Questions Concerning the
Agreement
·      
Dayfallah was present to answer Plaintiff’s questions,
Plaintiff was not required to sign the Agreement as a condition of employment,
and Plaintiff does not claim that she could not understand or read the
Agreement 
§ 
An Employer is Not Required to Provide the Employee
with the “Rules”
o  
Substantive Unconscionability
§ 
The Agreement is Mutual
§ 
The Confidentiality Agreement and the Arbitration
Agreement Cannot be Read Together to Find Unconscionability
§ 
Class Action and Representative Action Waivers are
Valid
·      
Arbitration agreements survive the termination of
employment
·      
Any offending provision of the Agreement may be
severed
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
A written
agreement where the parties agree to arbitration is valid, enforceable and 
irrevocable
unless there is a contract defense. (C.C.P. § 1281.) “On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate
a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy,
the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”¿¿(C.C.P. § 1281.2.)  
¿ 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence…”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿¿“In determining
whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties'
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”¿¿(Weeks
v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an arbitration
clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending
the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it
is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿(California Correctional Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
There is
strong public policy in favor of both arbitration of disputes and resolving any
doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes in favor of arbitration.¿(Moncharsh¿v.¿Heily¿&¿Blase¿(1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 9.) Arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question.¿¿(Vianna¿v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)¿ 
 
B.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant
requests the Court take judicial notice of the following fact: Coordinated Universal Time (“UTC”) is 7 hours ahead of Pacific
Standard Time (“PST”) in April.
 
Evidence Code
§452(h) provides that a court may take judicial notice of “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.”  This includes
matters of “common knowledge within the jurisdiction which are certain and
indisputable.” (Hom v. Clark (1963) 221 Cal.App.2d 622, 637.) A court
may take judicial notice of the differences in time zones, as this is a matter
that is capable of immediate and accurate determination. (People v. Mayes
(1896) 113 Cal. 618, 625.) 
 
The Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice.
 
C.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court
rules on Plaintiff’s objections to Defendant’s evidence as follows:
 
·      
Estrada Decl. ¶¶ 8, 9, 15: Sustained (Lacks foundation).
·      
Estrada Decl. ¶¶ 13, 14, 15, 16, Ex. C: Overruled.
 
D.     Existence of
an Agreement to Arbitrate
 
Under California law, “[t]he burden of persuasion is always
on the moving party to prove the existence of an arbitration agreement with the
opposing party by a preponderance of the evidence ….” (Gamboa v. Northeast
Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-166.) 
 
“However, the
burden of production may shift in a three-step process.” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) 
 
“First, the
moving party bears the burden of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate the controversy.’ [Citation.]” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) “The moving party ‘can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the [motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the [opposing party’s] signature.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
“Alternatively, the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth the
agreement’s provisions in the motion.” (Ibid.) “For this step, ‘it is
not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document authentication.’
[Citation.] If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the
opposing party does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement,
then nothing more is required for the moving party to meet its burden of
persuasion.” (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant
asserts that on April 28,
2022, Plaintiff executed a stand-alone written arbitration agreement entitled
“Mutual Agreement Dispute Resolution Agreement” (“Agreement”). Defendant
attached a copy of the Agreement to the instant motion. (Estrada Decl., Ex. C.)
Defendant contends the Agreement
was provided to Plaintiff, electronically, by the Silverado Human Resources department and Silverado used computer
tracking software (HRMS) to confirm and track when the document was, in turn,
accessed and signed. (Estrada Decl., ¶ 8.) In pertinent part, the Agreement
covers: 
 
“disputes
regarding the employment relationship, claims for the breach of any contract or
covenant (express or implied), tort claims, trade secrets, unfair competition,
claims for wages or other compensation due, breaks and rest periods,
termination, or claims for discrimination or harassment….” (Estrada Decl., Ex. C,
p. 1-2.)
 
Thus, Defendant contends that the Agreement expressly provides
that employment-related disputes are subject to mandatory and binding
arbitration. Defendant further asserts that the Agreement is valid and
enforceable, and dictates this matter be compelled to binding arbitration. The
attached Agreement bears Plaintiff’s electronic signature. (Estrada Decl., Ex. C.) Therefore,
Defendant has met its initial burden by attaching the Agreement acknowledgment
purportedly bearing Plaintiff’s signature. Under the prima facie standard articulated in Gamboa, the
Court finds that Defendant has met its burden of producing prima facie evidence
of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy between them and
Plaintiff.  
 
“If the
moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party
disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing party bears the
burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa,
supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) “The opposing party can do this in
several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify under oath or
declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does not
remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does
not remember signing the agreement.” (Ibid. [emphasis added].) 
 
For example,
in the 2021 case Gamboa, the Court of Appeal found that the plaintiff
“met her burden on the second step by filing an opposing declaration, saying
she did not recall the agreement and would not have signed it if she had been
aware of it: ‘I do not remember these documents at all .... Had I been made
aware of the existence of an arbitration agreement, and been explained its
provisions, I would not have signed any such documents.’” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at p. 167.) 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff denies that she signed the Agreement. Plaintiff declares under
penalty of perjury that she did not electronically sign the Agreement and that
she has no memory of signing or seeing the Agreement before her attorney sent it to her as part of her personnel file.
(Schaefer Decl. ¶ 1 Ex. A.) 
 
In Gamboa,
the Court of Appeal held it did not need to “decide whether [the plaintiff]
challenged the authenticity of her purported signature on the arbitration
agreement” because “[i]t was enough that [the plaintiff] challenged the
authenticity of the agreement by saying under penalty of perjury that she did
not remember it.” (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p.
168.)  
 
Here, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden of producing evidence challenging
the authenticity of the Agreement by declaring under penalty of perjury that
she did not recall seeing or signing the Agreement.  
 
“If the
opposing party meets its burden of producing evidence, then in the third step,
the moving party must establish with admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties. The burden of proving the agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence remains with the moving party.” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at pp. 165–166.) In Gamboa, the court stated “[i]n sum, once Gamboa produced evidence challenging the
authenticity of the purported arbitration agreement, the Clinic was required
to rebut the challenge by establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that
the agreement was valid. The Clinic did not have to authenticate Gamboa's
signature on the arbitration agreement. The Clinic could have met its burden in
other ways, including a declaration from the Clinic’s custodian of records.
But proferring [sic] no admissible evidence was insufficient.” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at p. 171.) 
 
In
its reply, Defendant presented evidence rebutting Plaintiff’s challenge to the
Agreement. Defendant attached the declaration of HR representative, Tabina Dayfallah,
who met with Plaintiff personally on April 28, 2022. Plaintiff underwent an in-person new
hire orientation on April 28, 2022, and signed documents related to her
employment, including the Agreement. (Dayfallah Decl., ¶¶ 10-13.) Defendant also attached the declaration of its
custodian of records, Donna Yamaguchi, who contends that a review of the UKG
Log reflects that Plaintiff created a UKG account using her personal email
address and a password of her own choosing to review and acknowledge receipt of
and/or sign various documents. (Yamaguchi
Decl., ¶ 11.) Yamaguchi further contends that Plaintiff logged into her
UKG account and on April 28, 2022 at 19:11 (12:11 p.m.), Plaintiff viewed and
signed the Agreement. (Yamaguchi
Decl., ¶ 24.)
 
The
Court finds that Defendant has met its burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence the validity of
the Agreement. Defendant has produced sufficient
evidence that Plaintiff reviewed and signed the Agreement. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant has established
an Agreement to arbitrate exists. The Court also finds that the Agreement
covers Plaintiff’s claims since they arise from her employment with Defendant.
 
E.      Applicability of the Federal Arbitration Act 
 
“A party
seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA
preemption.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Mgmt. LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
676, 684.) California law provides that parties may expressly designate that
any arbitration proceeding should move forward under the FAA's procedural
provisions rather than under state procedural law. (Cronus Investments, Inc.
v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 376, 394).  Otherwise, the
FAA provides for enforcement of arbitration provisions in any “‘contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce.’ (9 USC § 2.)”  (Allied-Bruce
Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson¿(1995) 513 U.S. 265, 277.) 
Accordingly, “[t]he party asserting the FAA bears the burden to show it applies
by presenting evidence establishing the contract with the arbitration
provision has a substantial relationship to interstate commerce[.]”  (Carbajal
v. CWPSC, Inc.¿(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 234, [italics added].) 
Moreover, as noted above, the California contract law applies to the validity
of the arbitration agreement.  (Winter, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at
p. 947.) 
 
Here,
Defendant asserts the arbitration agreement specifically invokes the FAA. 
Specifically, the Agreement states: “The Federal Arbitration Act (FAA), 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. and its
rules and procedures govern this Agreement.
The FAA is a federal law that provides for compulsory and binding private
dispute resolution through arbitration, which results in an arbitration award
rather than a judgment that a court enters.” (Estrada
Decl., Ex. C.) Defendant also asserts that it engaged in activities part of
and in the stream of interstate commerce, including the fact that clients,
patients, supplies and other resources come from a variety of locations both in
an outside the state of California. (Taheri Decl. ¶¶ 6-10.)
 
Accordingly,
the FAA applies and will preempt California law if in conflict. 
 
F.       Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff opposes
arbitration on the basis that the Agreement is unconscionable.
 
“The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party
asserting it.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126.)
“California courts analyze unconscionability as having a procedural and a
substantive element.”  (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc.
(1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1329.) “[B]oth elements must be present before a contract
or contract provision is rendered unenforceable on grounds of
unconscionability.”  (Id.) The doctrine of unconscionability refers
to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together
with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas
A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133.) It consists of procedural
and substantive components, “the former focusing on oppression or surprise due
to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.”
(Ibid.) Although both components of unconscionability must be present to
invalidate an arbitration agreement, they need not be present in the same
degree. (Armendariz v. Found Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 83, 114.) “Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the
regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates
the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the
substantive terms themselves. [Citations.] In other words, the more
substantively unconscionable the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) “The party resisting arbitration
bears the burden of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn.
v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.) 
 
a.      Procedural
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff
contends that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because (1)
Plaintiff was pressured to sign the agreement, (2) surprise, and (3) Plaintiff
was not given a copy of the rules of arbitration.
 
Procedural
unconscionability concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and
the parties’ circumstances at that time. It focuses on the factors of
oppression or surprise. (Kinney v. United Healthcare Servs. (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.) “[P]rocedural unconscionability requires either
oppression or surprise.” (The McCaffrey Group, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1330, 1349.) Surprise occurs “where the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Pinnacle, supra,
55 Cal.4th at p. 247.) “Oppression generally takes the form of a contract of
adhesion, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 [quotations and citations omitted].) “‘“The
circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited
to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract;
(2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed
contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity
of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and
(5) whether the party’s review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.”’
[Citation.]” (Swain v. LaserAway Medical Group, Inc. (2020) 57
Cal.App.5th 59, 69.)  
 
Plaintiff
asserts that she was pressured to sign the agreement because she was worried
Defendant would not hire her if she did not sign the documents and she felt pressured to complete the paperwork because she
knew other people were waiting to get the paperwork done. (Schaeffer Decl.,
¶ 6.) However,
the plain
language of the Agreement states that Plaintiff has “entered into the Agreement
voluntarily and not in reliance on any promises or representations by Company
other than those contained in this Agreement.” (Schaefer
Decl. Ex. A, ¶ 19.) Further, the fact that the
arbitration agreement may have been presented on a take it or leave it basis or
that there is unequal bargaining power only establishes at most a modest degree
of procedural unconscionability.  (Baltazar v. Forever 21 Inc., supra,
62 Cal.4th at p.1246.) 
 
As for surprise,
Plaintiff argues she did not
have an opportunity to fully review the agreement and the last page of the
Arbitration Agreement with the signature block does not even identify the
document being signed as an arbitration agreement. (Schaefer Decl. Ex. A.)
However, the Agreement uses clear formatting and reasonable use of bolding, subsections,
and capital letters to put Plaintiff on notice what the document is and its
provisions. The agreement clearly sets forth in bolded text on the first page
that this is an arbitration agreement. (Schaefer Decl. Ex. A. p.
1.) In addition, just above Plaintiff’s signature, the Agreement states in all
capital letters that, “Associate further acknowledges that Associate has been
given the opportunity to discuss this agreement with Associate’s private legal
counsel and has availed himself or herself of that opportunity to the extent
that associate wishes to do so.” (Schaefer Decl. Ex. A, p. 7.) The Agreement
also states, “Associate has the right to consult with counsel of Associate’s
choice concerning any aspect of this Agreement” and provides two different
telephone numbers that the Associate may call if she has any questions about
the Agreement. (Schaefer Decl. Ex. A, ¶¶ 11, 15.) Defendant also provides the declaration of the HR representative, Tabina Dayfallah, who
testifies that she told Plaintiff she was there to answer any questions and
that she encouraged Plaintiff to take her time reviewing the documents.
(Dayfallah Decl. ¶¶ 15, 18.) Plaintiff
also argues surprise because the Agreement requires Plaintiff to arbitrate all
her claims against unidentified third-party beneficiaries. However, Plaintiff
does not cite to any authority requiring arbitration agreements to include the
legal name of the parties entering the agreement or the beneficiaries of same. (See, e.g., Oberstein v. Live Nation Entertainment, Inc.
(9th Cir. 2023) 60 F.4th 505, 511 [“California law does not require that
corporate parties to a contract use their full legal names.”]; Ambler v. BT
Americas Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2013) 964 F.Supp.2d 1169, 1175 [nonsignatory to an
arbitration agreement may compel arbitration if they are unnamed but
incorporated by reference].) Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find Plaintiff
can establish surprise. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that she was never provided with a copy
of the arbitration rules. However, the California Supreme Court has held that
the failure to attach the arbitration rules would not render the agreement
unconscionable unless “[t]he plaintiff’s unconscionability claim depended in
some manner on the arbitration rules in question.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21,
Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246; see also Nguyen v. Applied Medical
Resources Corp. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 232, 249 [“Baltazar removed the
nonprovision or nonattachment of the AAA rules as a basis for increasing the
procedural unconscionability level.”].)  
 
Although
Plaintiff establishes at most a modest degree of procedural unconscionability,
the Court finds that the degree is not high given that the agreement is clear enough that Plaintiff
was on notice of the agreement’s purpose and main provisions. Additionally,
as stated above, even if the arbitration agreement may have been presented on a
take it or leave it basis or that there is unequal bargaining power, it only
establishes at most a modest degree of procedural unconscionability.  (Baltazar
v. Forever 21 Inc., supra, 62 Cal.4th at p.1246.) 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown low procedural unconscionability. 
 
a.      Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Next, Plaintiff
contends that the agreement is substantively unconscionable. Based on the
reasons discussed below, the Court agrees.
 
“Substantive unconscionability”
focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are “so one-sided
as to ‘shock the conscience.’”  (Kinney, 70 Cal.App.4th at
p.1330.)  “Where a party seeks to arbitrate nonwaivable statutory civil
rights in the workplace, such as the FEHA claims and wrongful termination claim
that are involved here, there are five minimum requirements for the lawful
arbitration of such rights pursuant to a mandatory employment arbitration
agreement. Such an arbitration agreement is lawful if it “(1) provides for
neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires
a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that would
otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require employees to pay
either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators' fees or expenses as a condition
of access to the arbitration forum. Thus, an employee who is made to use
arbitration as a condition of employment ‘effectively may vindicate [his or
her] statutory cause of action in the arbitral forum.’ [Citation.]” (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 83,
102.)  
 
                                                                                     
i.     
Fee and Cost provision
 
First,
Plaintiff argues the
fee and cost award is unconscionable. 
 
Paragraph
12 of the Agreement states that should any party “pursue civil or
administrative action outside of arbitration for a Covered Claim…the responding
party shall be entitled to recover its fees and costs, including reasonable
attorney fees, incurred in defending such civil or administrative action.”
(Schaefer Decl. Ex. A.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff brings multiple claims under the Fair Employment and Housing Act
(“FEHA”). Government Code § 12965(c)(6) provides that a prevailing FEHA
Defendant “shall not be awarded fees and costs unless the court finds that the
action was frivolous, unreasonable or groundless when brought, or the plaintiff
continued to litigate after it clearly became so.” Plaintiff argues that Paragraph
12 is unconscionable because does not have any such limitation. Plaintiff
asserts that such a fee provision is further unconscionable because the
arbitration process cannot generally require the employee to bear any type of
expense that the employee would not be required to bear if he or she were free
to bring the action in court.
 
In
opposition, Defendant asserts that Paragraph 12 intends to shift the costs to a
party who attempts to bring a claim outside of arbitration and the opposing
party is successful in compelling the action to arbitration. Defendant contends
this provision is mutual; if Defendant attempted to file a claim against
Plaintiff in superior court, and Plaintiff successfully compelled the matter to
arbitration, Plaintiff could recover her costs here against Defendant. Thus,
Defendant argues the fees and costs provision is not unconscionable. However,
the Court disagrees. 
 
“[A]
prevailing plaintiff in a workplace discrimination lawsuit is usually entitled
by statute to an award of attorney fees. ([Gov. Code] § 12965, subd. (b); Williams
v. Chino Valley Independent Fire Dist. (2015) 61 Cal.4th 97, 115 [in a FEHA
action ’a prevailing plaintiff should ordinarily receive his or her costs and
attorney fees unless special circumstances would render such an award
unjust’].)” (Caldera v. Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation
(2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 601, 606.) On the other hand, “[i]t is well settled that
a prevailing defendant in a FEHA action ‘may recover attorney fees only when
the plaintiff's action was frivolous, unreasonable, without foundation, or
brought in bad faith. [Citation.]’ [Citations.] ‘[T]he strong equitable considerations
supporting an attorney fee award to a prevailing plaintiff—including that fees
are being awarded against a violator of federal law, and that the federal
policy being vindicated by the plaintiff is of the highest priority—are not
present in the case of a prevailing defendant.’ [Citation.]” (Baker v.
Mulholland Security & Patrol, Inc. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 776,
782–783.)
 
The
Agreement’s provision does not require Defendant to show, as FEHA would require
it to do in Court, that Plaintiff’s action was frivolous, unreasonable, without
foundation, or brought in bad faith before Defendant can recover attorney’s
fees and costs.
 
Accordingly,
the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the Agreement’s fee and cost provision is substantively
unconscionable.
 
                                                                                    
ii.     
Scope
 
Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement’s broad scope is substantively unconscionable. The
Court agrees.
The Agreement requires Plaintiff to arbitrate “any dispute whether
or not arising out of or related to an Associate’s employment” with Defendant
or its “affiliates, successors, subsidiaries or parent companies.” (Schaefer
Decl. Ex. A, ¶ 2.)  
In Cook v. Univ. of S. California (2024) 102 Cal. App. 5th
312, 322, the arbitration agreement similarly required the employee to
arbitrate claims that are unrelated to her employment with the employer
defendant. The court found that defendant did not establish a legitimate reason
for the broad scope of the agreement. (Ibid.) The court stated: 
“Here, the arbitration agreement
does not spell out any need for the broad scope and USC did not make any
attempt to factually establish this need in the trial court. Accordingly, USC
has not established a legitimate justification for the broad scope of the
arbitration agreement…The arbitration agreement drafted by USC applies to all
claims “whether or not arising out of Employee's University employment,
remuneration or termination.” If USC had been concerned about capturing
termination or retaliation claims related to Cook's employment, it simply could
have limited the scope of the agreement to claims arising out of or relating to
her employment or termination. It is difficult to see how it is justified to
expect Cook—as a condition of her employment at the university—to give up the
right to ever sue a USC employee in court for defamatory statements or other
claims that are completely unrelated to Cook's employment.”
(Cook, supra, 102 Cal. App. 5th at 325.) 
Defendant attempts to differentiate Cook by arguing that
here, the broad scope of claims applies equally to both parties, specifically
that Defendant must also arbitrate any of its claims against Plaintiff.
However, Defendant does not provide a legitimate justification for the broad
scope of the Agreement. Defendant does not establish the need for requiring
Plaintiff to arbitrate disputes unrelated to her employment. 
The Court agrees that this broad scope is indicative of
substantive unconscionability.
                                                                                  
iii.     
Class Action and Representative Action Waivers
 
Plaintiff also argues that the provision in the Agreement
prohibiting class and representative actions is substantively unconscionable. 
 
The Agreement provides in relevant part:
 
“Except as otherwise provided under applicable law, both the
Company and Associate expressly intend and agree to bring any dispute in
arbitration on an individual basis only, and not on a class, collective, or
representative basis. Nor will class or collective action procedures apply
pursuant to this Agreement. There will be no right or authority for any dispute
to be brought, heard or arbitrated as a class, collective or representative
action, or as a member in any purported class, collective or representative
proceeding, including without limitation pending but not certified class
actions ("Class Action Waiver"). This waiver does not apply to
representative claims that cannot be waived as a matter of law. Associate and
Company shall be entitled to seek dismissal of any such class, collective, or
representative claims and otherwise assert this Agreement as a defense in any
proceeding.” (Schaefer Decl. Ex. A., ¶ 3)
 
The Court agrees that this provision is substantively
unconscionable. In Hasty v. American Automobile Association of Northern
California, Nevada & Utah (2023) 317 Cal.Rptr.3d 295, the Court of
Appeal held that “the arbitration agreement [there was] further one-sided
because it require[d] the parties to bring their claims ‘in an individual
capacity,’ not ‘in a private attorney general capacity,’ and prohibit[ed]
class, representative, or private attorney general proceedings. [Those]
requirements [could] fairly be read to limit only the employee’s rights. (See Navas
v. Fresh Venture Foods, LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 626, 636, 301 Cal.Rptr.3d
423 [arbitration agreement’s prohibition of class or collective action was
one-sided and harsh because ‘these are the type of claims that only employees
bring against employers’].)” (Hasty, supra, 317 Cal.Rptr.3d at p. 315.) 
 
According to the Court of Appeal in Hasty, “it [was]
irrelevant that [the plaintiff there had] not brought a private attorney
general action.” (Hasty, supra, 317 Cal.Rptr.3d at p. 315; Mills v.
Facility Solutions Group, Inc. (2021) 84 Cal.App.5th 1035, 1064.)
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that this provision of the Agreement
is substantively unconscionable. 
 
                                                                                  
iv.     
Duration
 
Plaintiff next contends that the Agreement is unconscionable
because it is “infinite” in that it survives the end of Plaintiff’s employment. 
 
Paragraph 16 of the Arbitration Agreement states that “the
Agreement to arbitrate shall survive the termination of Associate’s employment.
It can only be revoked or modified by a writing signed by the parties that
specifically states an intent to revoke or modify this Arbitration Agreement.”
 
In Cook, the court found that an arbitration agreement of similar
unlimited duration was substantively unconscionable. (Cook, supra, 102
Cal. App. 5th at 326.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant merely states that Cook’s
reasoning should not be followed here, without citing any authority in support.
The Court does not find Defendant’s assertion persuasive. 
 
Thus, the Court finds this provision of the Agreement is also
substantively unconscionable.
 
                                                                                    
v.     
Severability
 
Defendant argues that the unconscionable provisions can be
severed. 
 
“In the context of severing unconscionable provisions from an
arbitration agreement, ‘the strong legislative and judicial preference is to sever
the offending term and enforce the balance of the agreement: Although “the
statute appears to give a trial court some discretion as to whether to sever or
restrict the unconscionable provision or whether to refuse to enforce the
entire agreement[,] ... it also appears to contemplate the latter course only
when an agreement is ‘permeated’ by unconscionability.” [Citation.]’
[Citations.]” (Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482,
495.)
 
“One factor weighing against severance is when ‘the arbitration
agreement contains more than one unlawful provision.’ [Citation.]” (Id.
at pp. 495–496; Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 126 [“Civil Code
section 1670.5 makes clear … that an arbitration agreement permeated by
unconscionability, or one that contains unconscionable aspects that cannot be
cured by severance, restriction, or duly authorized reformation, should not be
enforced”]; Hasty, supra [“We find no abuse of discretion and, in fact,
agree with the trial court that the arbitration agreement is permeated with
unconscionability, and the trial court could not simply sever the offending
provisions. Rather, the trial court would have needed to rewrite the
arbitration agreement, creating a new agreement to which the parties never
agreed. ‘Moreover, upholding this type of agreement with multiple
unconscionable terms [in addition to the high level of procedural
unconscionability] would create an incentive for an employer to draft a
one-sided arbitration agreement in the hope employees would not challenge the
unlawful provisions, but if they do, the court would simply modify the
agreement to include the bilateral terms the employer should have included in
the first place.’ ”].) 
 
Here, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that because the Agreement
contains more than one unlawful provision, it is permeated by
unconscionability, and, therefore, the Court cannot sever the unconscionable
provisions. 
 
In sum, the Court finds the entire Agreement unconscionable and
unenforceable. The Motion to Compel Arbitration is denied. Defendant’s request for stay is moot since the Court has denied
its request to compel arbitration.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

The
Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.  