 Case Number:  23STCV07922    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BETTY BRAWNER,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ICC CONVALESCENT CORP., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV07922
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date: 
  April 22, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
Defendants Karpus Medical Group, Inc. and Eugene Karpus, M.D. (“Karpus”)
(collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
The Court has considered
the moving papers. No opposition has been filed.
 
BACKGROUND
            This
action arises out of alleged misconduct that occurred during Plaintiff’s
admission at two skilled nursing facilities. 
Plaintiff’s operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges: (1) elder/dependent
adult abuse violation of Welfare and Institutions Code Section 15610, et seq.;
(2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) negligence; (4) negligence; (5) violation of
Patient’s Bill of Rights, (6) negligence (against Moving Defendants);
(7) negligence; and (8) elder abuse.
As to Moving Defendants, the FAC
alleges that during Plaintiff’s admission at Saint Vincent, Karpus treated
Plaintiff and negligently misdiagnosed Plaintiff, and as a result she was given
improper medications. As a direct result of the negligence of Defendants,
Plaintiff suffered significant injury, harm and loss, including but not limited
to: (a) Plaintiff suffered severe and unnecessary physical injury, pain,
suffering, humiliation, emotional and mental distress and suffering, worry,
anxiety, etc., and other forms of general and non-economic damages; (b) Plaintiff
suffered economic losses, including costs of healthcare set into motion by the
malfeasance of defendants; and (c) Various other forms of injury, harm and loss
according to proof. Plaintiff is also entitled to treble damages per Civil Code
section 3345. Plaintiff was both a senior citizen and disabled. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants engaged in unfair and deceptive acts and practices.
(FAC, ¶¶112-116.)
 
On March 4, 2024, Moving Defendants
filed the instant motion to strike treble damages from the FAC.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Meet and Confer
The meet and confer requirement has
been met. (Caballes Decl., ¶¶2-4.)
 
Legal Standard
Under CCP
section 436, a motion to strike either: (1) strikes any irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strikes any pleading or part
thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule or order of court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b).)
Treble Damages
Treble damages may be awarded in
actions brought by, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of senior citizens or
disabled person to redress unfair or deceptive acts or practices or unfair
methods of competition.  (Civ. Code §
3345(a).)  Treble damages may be awarded
under Civil Code section 3345 only if the statute under which recovery is
sought permits a remedy that is in the nature of a penalty.  (Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50
Cal.4th 605, 614.)  If a cause of action
is brought pursuant to a statute that allows the imposition of a fine or civil
penalty or other remedy with the purpose to punish or deter, the court may
award treble damages if: (1) the defendant knew or should have known that his
conduct was directed to one or more senior citizens or disabled persons; (2)
the defendant’s conduct caused one or more senior citizens or disabled persons
to suffer loss of encumbrance of a primary residence, principal employment or
source of income; substantial loss of property set aside for retirement, or for
personal or family care and maintenance, or substantial loss of payments
received under a pension or retirement plan; and (3) one or more senior
citizens or disabled persons are substantially more vulnerable than other
members of the public to the defendant’s conduct because of age, poor health or
infirmity and actually suffered substantial damage resulting from the
defendant’s conduct.  (Civ. Code §
3345(b).)  
 
Plaintiff
fails to allege a statute imposing fines, civil penalties, or other remedies
whose purpose or effect is to punish or deter. Plaintiff also fails to allege
the requisite facts to support an award of treble damages. The Court further
notes that the only cause of action alleged against Moving Defendants is common
law negligence, which does not support a claim for treble damages. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the unopposed Motion to Strike is GRANTED. 
 
Moving parties are
ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to
submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
  Dated this 22nd day of April 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 