 Case Number:  23STCV27119    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ONETASTE, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NETFLIX, INC., and DOES 1 to 100,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV27119
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT NETFLIX, INC.’S APPLICATION TO
  APPEAR PRO HAC VICE
 
Date: April 22, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Netflix, Inc. (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Onetaste, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff
Onetaste, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant Complaint against Defendant
Netflix, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive for a sole cause of
action for Defamation Per Se. 
 
            On March 5, 2024, Alison Schary (Schary”)
filed the instant Application for Admission Pro Hac Vice on behalf of
Defendant in this action. No opposition has been filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            California Rules of Court, rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application upon notice by
mail to all interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in San
Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a
resident of California, does not work in California, and does not perform
regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in the
State. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)¿ 
 
The
written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant
attorney’s residence and office address; (2) the courts to which the applicant
attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation that the
attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the courts of admission and
is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each
court and action in which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in
this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (5) the name, address, and
telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is counsel of
record in the local action.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)¿ 
 
Application for
Admission Pro Hac Vice 
            This Application is made on the
grounds that Schary satisfies each of the requirements of California Rules of
Court, rule 9.40. First, Schary’s application indicates she has been admitted
to practice in New York since May 2009; the District of Columbia since May
2013; the United States Supreme Court since March 2014; the United States
Courts of Appeals for the Second, Third, Fourth and Eleventh Circuits; the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia since April 2013; the United
States District Court for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York since
May 2011; the United States District Court for the District of Maryland; and the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia. (Schary Decl. ¶ 5.)
Furthermore, Schary declares she is a member in good standing in each of the
courts listed above and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court. (Id.
¶ 6.) Similarly, Schary declares she has never been subject to discipline by
any court or administrative body and never have been denied admission to the
courts of any state or to any federal court. (Id.) Moreover, Schary
declares that she applied to appear as counsel pro hac vice in Doe
One, et al. v. Chris Kosley, et al., Los Angeles County Superior Court Case
No. 22STCV34603 on November 4, 2022, but due to a clerical error she was directed
to resubmit the application. (Id. ¶ 9.) Schary further declares that due
to the Court’s simultaneously ruling on the ex parte matter for
which she was to appear, she never resubmitted the application, so it was
neither granted nor denied and she has not otherwise applied to appear pro
hac vice in any California action within the past two years. (Id.) Schary
declares she resides in Washington, D.C. and provides her office address. (Id.
¶ 4.) Schary’s application includes the name, address and telephone number of
the active California State Bar member who is counsel of record in this case.
(App. 4:21-25.) The proof of service attached also indicates that all
interested parties have been provided notice of the application. Finally,
Jonathan Segal declares that the California State Bar in San Francisco, CA has
been served with the application and received payment of the $50.00 fee for
this application. (Segal Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
            
            The Court finds that the Application
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice complies with the requirements set forth in
California Rules of Court, rule 9.40, subdivision (d).
 
Therefore,
the Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 22nd day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



