


[1] There is no Exhibit B attached to
Mr. Spade’s declaration.  


[2] “This arbitration section of the
Agreement shall be exclusively governed by and construed and enforced pursuant
to the substantive and procedural provisions of the Federal Arbitration Act, 9
U.S.C. § 1 (“FAA”), and not individual state substantive and procedural laws
regarding enforcement of arbitration agreements.”  (Spade Decl., Exh. A, § 10(e).)  


[3] Defendants cite Yost v.
Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 657 F. Supp.3d 563 for the proposition
that the Act does not operate to invalidate a binding arbitration agreement if the
plaintiff fails to plead a plausible sexual harassment
claim.  (Defendants’ Supp. Brief, p.
1:24-28.)  The court is not persuaded.  “The rules of pleading in federal court are
generally different from the rules of pleading in California state courts,
since the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure recognize a form of “notice
pleading,” usually designed simply to put a defendant on notice of the nature
of a claim, whereas California requires the pleading of facts pursuant to its
system of “code pleading” derived from the New York Code of 1848, known as the
“Field Code.”” (Bach v. County of Butte (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 554, 561.)   Further, “the general rule is that where
an action founded on a federal statute is properly brought in the state courts,
the law of the state, in the absence of any contrary provisions in the federal
statute, controls in matters of practice and
procedure. [Citation.]” (Id. at pp. 561-562, fn.
omitted.) Here, Defendants do not cite any portion of the Act that requires
that Plaintiff’s causes of action (which all arise under California law) must observe
federal pleading standards.  Moreover, Yost
does not stand for the proposition that any court examining a motion to
compel arbitration pursuant to an agreement to arbitrate governed by the FAA
must apply a plausibility standard to the plaintiff’s complaint. 


[4] Defendants alternatively request
that the court sever Plaintiff’s sexual harassment claims from her non-sexual
harassment claims.  Because of the
factual deficiencies in the Complaint, the court cannot address this request or
the case law purportedly supporting the request at this time.  The court defers its ruling.

