 Case Number:  24STCV09037    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
13, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Healthy California LLC v. Shan Foods PVT. LTD, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV09037
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Wal-Mart.Com USA, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Healthy
California LLC
 
 
I.         
BACKGROUND
 
           This
is a representative action seeking an injunction requiring a Proposition 65
warning, penalties under Health & Safety Code section 25249.7, subdivision
(b), and attorney fees and costs.  Plaintiff
Healthy California LLC (Plaintiff) alleges that Defendant Shan Foods PVT. LTD
(Shan Foods) manufactures and sells twenty-one food products (Subject Products)
that expose consumers to lead.  As
relevant here, Plaintiff alleges that Wal-Mart.Com USA, LLC (Walmart) imported,
sold, and/or distributed thirteen of the Subject Products. 
 
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Complaint alleging
five causes of action for civil penalties and injunctive relief. The fifth
cause of action is asserted against Walmart.
 
           
On June 3, 2024, Walmart filed this demurrer to the fifth cause of action. 
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Walmart replied.
           
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as
true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the
face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that
are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found.
Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.) 
III.      DISCUSSION 
 
A.       
Judicial
Notice
 
Walmart requests judicial notice of seven documents.  The unopposed requests are GRANTED.  (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (c), (d)(1), (h).)
 
B.  Meet and
Confer  
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Declaration of Gregory S. Berlin.)  
 
B.     Analysis 
 
           
Walmart advances three arguments: (1) Plaintiff’s certificate of merit does not
comply with Cal. Code Regs., tit. 11, § 3101; (2) the Complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to support the fifth cause of action; and (3) Plaintiff’s
claim is time-barred.  The court addresses each argument in turn. 
 
1.     
Certificate
of Merit
 
Proposition 65 prevents businesses for “knowingly and
intentionally expos[ing] an individual to a chemical known to the state to
cause cancer or reproductive toxicity without first giving clear and reasonable
warning to such individual . . .” (Health & Saf. Code § 25249.6.)  One of these requirements is the certificate
of merit.  
 
“‘Reasonable and meritorious case for the private action’
requires not only documentation of exposure to a listed chemical, but a
reasonable basis for concluding that the entire action has merit. The certifier
must have a basis to conclude that there is merit to each element of the action
on which the plaintiff will have the burden of proof.” (11 C.C.R. § 3103(a).)
The Certificate of Merit “shall contain all of the following
statements”:  
 
CERTIFICATE OF MERIT 
Health and Safety Code Section¿25249.7(d) 
 
I, (name of
certifier), hereby declare: 
 
1.¿This
Certificate of Merit accompanies the attached sixty-day notice(s) in which it
is alleged the parties identified in the notices have violated Health and
Safety Code section¿25249.6¿by failing to provide clear and reasonable
warnings. 
 
2.¿I
am the (noticing party/attorney for the noticing party). 
 
3.¿I have
consulted with one or more persons with relevant and appropriate experience or
expertise who has reviewed facts, studies, or other data regarding the alleged
exposure to the listed chemical that is the subject of the action. 
 
4.¿Based on
the information obtained through those consultations, and on all other
information in my possession, I believe there is a reasonable and meritorious
case for the private action. I understand that "reasonable and meritorious
case for the private action" means that the information provides a
credible basis that all elements of the plaintiffs' case can be established and
the information did not prove that the alleged violator will be able to
establish any of the affirmative defenses set forth in the statute. 
 
5.¿The copy
of this Certificate of Merit served on the Attorney General attaches to it
factual information sufficient to establish the basis for this certificate,
including the information identified in Health and Safety Code
section¿25249.7(h)(2), i.e., (1) the identity of the persons consulted with and
relied on by the certifier, and (2) the facts, studies, or other data reviewed
by those persons. 
 
Dated:
_____________________ 
____________________________ 
(Signature) 
 
(11 C.C.R. § 3103(b), emphasis added.) 
 
“Where a sixty-day notice does not attach a copy of the
Certificate of Merit meeting the requirements of subsection 3101(b), the
noticing party has no authority to commence an action pursuant to Health and
Safety Code section 25249.7(d).” (11 C.C.R. § 3103(a).) “No person shall
commence an action to enforce the provisions of the Act ‘in the public
interest’ pursuant to Section 25249.7(d) of the Act except in compliance with
all requirements of this section.” (27 C.C.R. § 25903(a).) 
 
Here, Walmart argues that Plaintiff failed to strictly
comply with Proposition 65’s certificate of merit requirement.  Walmart points to the omission of the term
“alleged” from the third statement of Plaintiff’s certificate of merit.   
 
In full, the offending statement reads:
 
3.     
I have consulted with one or more
persons with relevant and appropriate experience or expertise who has reviewed
facts, studies, or other data regarding the exposure to the Listed Chemical
that is the subject of this action;
 
(Certificate of Merit, RJN 1, p. 23.)
 
Walmart argues the omission is not trivial.  In support, Walmart points out that the original
draft of the regulation did not include the word “alleged” but was added by
Attorney General in response to a public comment requesting that the term be
included to clarify that an exposure, at the time the certificate of merit is
filed, is still an allegation.”  (RJN 3,
pp. 48. 49.)  
 
Because Plaintiff’s certificate of merit deviates from the
regulation, Walmart contends the defect is fatal to Plaintiff’s action.  Walmart cites several cases for this general
proposition.  (See Demurrer, p. 12.)  However, none of the cases address the
specific issue presented here: whether the omission of the term “alleged” from a
certificate of merit renders it non-compliant with the statute and regulation.[1]  Through judicial notice, Walmart has alerted
this court that at least one other trial court has found this very defect—the
omission of the term “alleged”—is fatal and a basis to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.  (See RJN 4,
Ruling on Submitted Matter filed by Kreassive, LLC in Consumer Advocacy
Group, Inc. v. Kreassive, Inc., a California Corporation et al, Case No.
22CV024552 (Kreassive).)  That
case is currently on appeal and pending before the First District Court of
Appeal.  
 
Given that an appellate court may resolve whether Plaintiff’s
claims in this case survive, the court is inclined to stay this case pending
resolution of the appeal.  The court has
“the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to
promote judicial efficiency.”¿ (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489; Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a).)¿   
 
For the sake of completeness, the court will address
Walmart’s remaining challenges to the Fifth Cause of Action.
 
2.     
Failure to State
a Claim
 
The Complaint alleges that Walmart sells thirteen Subject Products
in California without displaying Proposition 65 warnings.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 1, 14, 77, 78.)  Based on these allegations, Walmart argues
that Plaintiff must plead facts to show Walmart is responsible for displaying
Proposition 65 warnings as a “seller” of the products.  
 
California Code of Regulations, title 27, section 25600.2 enumerates
five circumstances where the “warning” obligation may be imposed on a seller.  They include:
 
(1) The
retail seller is selling the product under a brand or trademark that is owned
or licensed by the retail seller or an affiliated entity;
(2) The
retail seller has knowingly introduced a listed chemical into the product, or
knowingly caused a listed chemical to be created in the product;
(3) The
retail seller has covered, obscured or altered a warning label that has been
affixed to the product pursuant to subsection (b);
(4) The
retail seller has received a notice and warning materials for the exposure
pursuant to subsections (b) and (c) and the retail seller has sold the product
without conspicuously posting or displaying the warning; or
(5) The
retail seller has actual knowledge of the potential consumer product exposure
requiring the warning, and there is no manufacturer, producer, packager,
importer, supplier, or distributor of the product who:
(A) Is a "person in the course of doing
business" under Section 25249.11(b)[2] of
the Act, and
(B) Has designated an agent for service of process in
California, or has a place of business in California.
 
(Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 25600.2, subd. (e).)[3]
 
Here, the Complaint does not state facts showing any of the
five circumstances.  Plaintiff does not
allege that Walmart owned or licensed any of the Subject Products (subdivision
(e)(1)).  Plaintiff does not allege that
Walmart specifically introduced any Proposition 65-listed chemical into the
product (subdivision (e)(2)).  Plaintiff does
not allege that Walmart covered, obscured, or altered any warning labels
affixed to the Subject Products (subdivision (e)(3)).  Plaintiff does not allege that Walmart
received notice from any manufacturer, producer, packager, importer, supplier
or distributor of the Subject Products about the alleged exposures to lead (subdivision
(e)(4)). And finally, Plaintiff does not allege that Walmart has actual
knowledge of the alleged exposure and there is no manufacturer, producer,
packager, importer, supplier, or distributor of the Subject Products with less
than ten employees and who does not have a registered agent for service of
process or place of business in California (subdivision (e)(5)).  
 
Plaintiff contends otherwise.  Referring simply to the allegations at paragraphs
75-88 (the Fifth Cause of Action) and in particular paragraph 81, Plaintiff states
that Walmart is “on notice of what is being alleged against it.”  (Opp., p. 4:24.)  There is little argument and no citation to
authority.  However, as detailed above,
there are no allegations at paragraphs 75-88 which show any of the five
circumstances apply to Walmart.  The
Fifth Cause of Action is deficient and subject to demurrer.               
 
Leave to amend is granted. 
However, given the court’s inclination to stay this case, the court will
revisit the time for Plaintiff to file an amended pleading pending the appeal
in Kreassive.
 
3.     
Statute of
Limitations
 
The statute of limitations for an “action upon a statute for
a penalty or forfeiture” is one year.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340, subd. (a); Shamsian
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 967, 978 [Code of Civil
Procedure section 340, subd. (a) applies to Proposition 65 claims for civil
penalties because the claim is based upon a statute for a penalty which has been
given to individuals as well as to the state].) 
The statute of limitations for injunctive relief is three years.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (a).)
 
Walmart’s argues the Fifth Cause of Action is time-barred
because this action should have been filed no later than February 11,
2023.  To arrive at this date, Walmart
points purchase receipts and laboratory results for the Subject Products that
Plaintiff attached to the Complaint. 
Specifically, Plaintiff received the laboratory reports for the thirteen
Subject Products on February 4, 2022 and February 11, 2022.  (See Complaint, pp. 22, 36, 44, 52, 60,68,
75, 82, 90, 97, 104.)  In other words,
Plaintiff knew by February 11, 2022 whether it had a Proposition 65 claim
against Walmart but waited more than two years to file this action. 
 
Walmart is incorrect.[4]  For statute of limitations purposes, time is
measured from the time of the last alleged violation.  (Consumer Advocacy, Group, Inc. v.
Kintetsu Enterprises of America (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 953, 981.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges the Proposition 65 violations
are ongoing.  (See Complaint, ¶¶ 77,
84.)  The claim for civil penalties is
not time-barred.  The injunctive relief
claim, which Walmart does not address, likewise does not fail on this
ground.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Based on the foregoing, the court will stay this action
pending the Court of Appeal’s ruling in Kreassive.  
 
           
Clerk of the court to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   August 13, 2024                                          




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            


