 Case Number:  21NWCV00865    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  C SK ENTERPRISES TAX, LLC
v. MANAN K PATEL, et al.
CASE
NO.:  21NWCV00865
HEARING:  10/3/23
 
#6
TENTATIVE RULING
 
I.            
Defendants M. Patel, Gavini, R. Patel, Lee, and
PGP Consulting, LLC’s demurrer to the 5th – 6th, and 9th
– 10th causes of action is OVERRULED.  Defendant Lee’s demurrer to the 7th
– 8th causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  Defendants M. Patel, Gavini, R. Patel, and
PGP Consulting, LLC’s demurrer to the 7th – 8th causes of
action is OVERRULED.
 
II.           
Defendants M. Patel, Gavini, R. Patel, Lee,
and PGP Consulting, LLC’s motion to strike is GRANTED as to general, special
damages, punitive damages, and treble damages in the 6th cause of
action.  The Clerk is ORDERED to insert
the word “restitutionary” before the word “disgorgement” at ¶ 128.  As amended, the motion to strike disgorgement
allegations is DENIED.
 
Opposing Parties to
give NOTICE.
 
 
I.            
Demurrer
 
Defendants M. Patel, Gavini, R. Patel, Lee, and PGP
Consulting, LLC
demur to
the 5th – 10th causes of
action on
the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of
action. 
 
Plaintiff SK Enterprises Tax,
LLC’s operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleges that Defendants conspired to
take proprietary, confidential and
trade secret information while they were employed by
SK Enterprises for
the purposes of gaining a
business advantage for
their newly created competing business enterprise PGP Consulting. (SAC, ¶ 10-57).  The
SAC asserts causes of action for: 
 
1.       
Threatened Misappropriation of
Trade Secrets (CC § 3426)
2.       
Misappropriation of
Trade Secrets
3.       
Unauthorized Use
Of Computers, Computer Systems And Data (Pen. Code §
502)
4.       
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
5.       
Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith And Fair Dealing
6.       
Unfair Business Practices (Cal.
Bus & Prof § 17200) 
7.       
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
8.       
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Relations
9.       
Fraud (Concealment)
10.   
Fraud (Misrepresentation)
11.   
Violation of
Pen. Code § 496
 
5th CAUSE OF ACTION
 
BREACH OF IMPLIED COVENANT OF GOOD FAITH AND
FAIR DEALING:  The elements are:  1) existence of contractual relationship; 2)
implied duty; 3) breach; and 4) causation of damages.  (E.g., Smith v. San Francisco (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49; 1 Witkin Sum. Cal. Law (10th ed. 2005)
Contracts § 800.)


¶
100 alleges an employment contract implied by law.  ¶ 99
alleges Defendants’ implied duty.  ¶¶ 104
and 108 alleges that Defendants M. Patel and Gavini breached their implied duty
by reducing his work output while taking full pay.  ¶ 110 alleges that Defendant Lee breached her
duty by deleting numerous text messages from her cell phone.  ¶ 55 alleges resulting damages.
 
Demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
7th
– 8th CAUSES OF ACTION 
 
INTENTIONAL INTERFERENCE WITH CONTRACTUAL
RELATIONSHIP:  The elements are:  Plaintiff had a valid and existing contract
with a third party; defendant had knowledge of the contract; defendant
committed intentional and unjustified acts designed to interfere with or
disrupt the contract; actual interference with or disruption of the
relationship; and resulting damages. 
(Shamblin v. Berge (1985) 166 Cal. App. 3d 118, 123.)


INTENTIONAL INTERFERENCE
WITH PROSPECTIVE ECONOMIC ADVANTAGE:  To
prevail on a cause of action for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage in California, a plaintiff must plead and prove (1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of
the relationship; (3) the defendant's intentional acts designed to disrupt the
relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm
to the plaintiff proximately caused by the defendant's acts. (Reeves v.
Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1152 n. 6.) 
A plaintiff that chooses to bring a claim
for interference with prospective economic advantage has a more rigorous
pleading burden since it must show that the defendant's conduct was
independently wrongful other than the fact of interference itself.  (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134; Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales,
U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 393.)  
 
¶ 132 alleges that Plaintiff’s existing contractual
relationships with third parties - “[f]ollowing the creation of Defendant PGP
Consulting, various clients of SKE state that they had been approached by the
Defendants, including PGP Consulting, via their private personal information,
information that would only be available to PGP Consulting via SKE’s master
customer list. PGP Consulting knows that the information is trade secret
information that belongs to SKE and that it came from Defendants’ theft of
the Stolen Confidential information from SKE. With the information stolen
from SKE, Defendants contacted SKE customers and sought to acquire their
business.” ¶ 133 alleges actual disruption – “at least one of these clients
informed SK that it was moving its business over to PGP Consulting after it was
contacted by Defendants.”  ¶ 134 alleges
actual harm.
 
¶ 136 alleges that Defendant Manan Patel attempted to
resign and continue to work for another two weeks but was caught and
immediately terminated instead. Defendant Gavini was caught and terminated
before he could offer his resignation. Defendant Lee gave excuses and refuse to
come into work before she ultimately did resign.”  These are not acts constituting an
interference with third party contracts.
 
¶¶ 137-138 also allege that Defendants Manan Patel and
Gavini were intentionally delaying and deliberately performing inferior work on
behalf of SKE’s customers so as to weaken SKE’s relationships with those
customers.  These facts support
disruption of the third party contracts.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Lee’s demurrer to the 7th – 8th causes of
action is SUSTAINED.  The court has given
prior leave to amend, but Plaintiff failed to allege a proper interference
claim against Lee.  Therefore, further
leave to amend is denied.
 
Defendants M.
Patel and Gavini’s demurrer to the 7th – 8th causes of
action is OVERRULED.
 
9th CAUSE
OF ACTION
 
FRAUD (CONCEALMENT)
 
The
elements are:  1) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); 2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); 3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; 4) justifiable reliance;
and 5) damages.  (See CC § 1709.)  Fraud
actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading.  (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc.
v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal. 3d 197, 216.)  A plaintiff must allege what was said, by
whom, in what manner (i.e. oral or in writing), when, and, in the case of a corporate
defendant, under what authority to bind the corporation.  (See
Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
772, 782.)
 
¶¶
159-160 allege that Defendants M. Patel and Gavini concealed and used SKE’s
computers, computer systems, and software to prepare and edit documents to
benefit Defendants’ planned new business. 
¶¶ 161, 173 alleges that had SKE known, SKE would have terminated
Defendants sooner, and SKE would not have been induced to delay its
investigation.  ¶ 157 alleges a
conspiracy, which for which Lee may be held liable for M. Patel and Gavini’s
actions.
 
Demurrer
is OVERRULED.
 
10th
CAUSE OF ACTION
 
FRAUD (MISREPRESENTATION):  
 
The
elements are:  1) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); 2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); 3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; 4) justifiable reliance;
and 5) damages.  (See CC § 1709.)  Fraud
actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading.  (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc.
v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal. 3d 197, 216.)  A plaintiff must allege what was said, by
whom, in what manner (i.e. oral or in writing), when, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, under what authority to bind the corporation.  (See
Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
772, 782.)
 
The
10th cause of action is directed against Defendant Lee only.  ¶ 167 alleges that “Defendant Lee promised to
make her electronic devices available to SKE so that IT professionals could
retrieve the text messages exchanged with Defendants Manan Patel and Gavini
that Defendant Lee had deleted.”  ¶ 168
alleges that “the following day, Defendant Lee provided an excuse for not
coming in with the electronic devices and then broke her promise, refusing to
bring in the electronic devices. Defendant Lee then quit her job.”  ¶ 174 alleges that Defendant Lee’s delay
prevented SKE from obtaining all of the electronic communications,” and ¶ 175
alleges that SKE was forced “to undertake, at significant expense in work
hours, a review of its documents to determine what had been compromised.”  The damages against Lee is the cost for the
additional investigation, which is sufficient at this pleading stage.
 
As
alleged, the demurrer is OVERRULED.  
 
6th CAUSE OF ACTION
 
UNFAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES:  “Unfair competition shall mean and include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”  (Cal. Bus.
& Prof. § 17200).
 
The SAC has sufficiently alleged
fraud claims, which support a B&P Code § 17200 claim. Accordingly, the demurrer to the 6th cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
II.           
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants’ accompanying motion to strike is
GRANTED as to general, special damages, punitive damages and treble damages in
the 6th cause of action. 
Plaintiff has agreed to withdraw punitive damages and treble damages,
and general and special damages are not recoverable under the UCL.  Further, Plaintiff is not entitled to
nonrestitutionary disgorgement.  (Korea
Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134,
1152.)
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff contends that it is seeking only restitutionary disgorgement.  However, the SAC seeks unlimited
disgorgement.  (SAC, ¶ 128.)  Accordingly, the Clerk is ORDERED to insert
the word “restitutionary” before the word “disgorgement” at ¶ 128.  As amended, the motion to strike disgorgement
allegations is DENIED.
 
The request to
strike the duplicative fraud allegations against Lee at ¶ 170 is GRANTED.  This allegation does not add to the Fraud
claim against Lee, which is premised on the promise to make her laptop
available. 
 
 