 Case Number:  23STCV14371    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No.
Ross, et. al. vs.
Equity Residential Management, LLC, et. al., Case No. 23STCV14371
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Defendant’s Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint
 
Defendant Equity Residential
Management, LLC (“Defendant”), demurs to the second and third causes of action
in the FAC.   The demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.  Defendant is
ordered to answer within ten (10) days of today’s date.
In reviewing the legal sufficiency of a complaint against a
demurrer, a court will treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318 (Blank); C & H Foods Co.
v. Hartford Ins. Co. (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 1055, 1062.) It is well settled
that a “demurrer lies only for defects appearing on the face of the
complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594,
601.) “The rules by which the sufficiency of a complaint is tested against a
general demurrer are well settled. We not only treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Guclimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38 (internal quotes
omitted).) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint must be
construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Wilner
v. Sunset Life Ins. Co. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.) 
When ruling on a demurrer, the Court may only consider the
complaint’s allegations or matters which may be judicially noticed. (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic
evidence or judge the credibility of the allegations plead or the difficulty a
plaintiff may have in proving his allegations. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson
(1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.) A demurrer is properly sustained only when the
complaint, liberally construed, fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 574,
578.) 
Plaintiffs are various individuals
who applied for housing within the past two years at 
various apartment buildings operated by Defendant Equity.
(FAC, ¶ 30.) In processing Plaintiffs’ applications for tenancy, Defendant
Equity allegedly requested and obtained investigative consumer reports about
Plaintiffs. (FAC, ¶ 31.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Equity “required
Plaintiffs to complete an ‘Application’ and to consent to release of
information. The application documents stated that Equity Residential
Management, LLC may screen for criminal background and previous evictions.”
(FAC, ¶ 32.) Defendant Equity also requested that Plaintiffs pay an application
fee pursuant to their applications, and Defendant Equity used a portion of each
application fee to pay for investigative consumer reports about the Plaintiffs
from Defendant Transunion Rental Screening. (FAC, ¶¶ 35-36.) 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
Equity “concealed from Plaintiffs the nature and type of the investigative
consumer reports they would procure about the Plaintiffs, the date the reports
would be procured, the entity or entities which would provide the reports, and
Plaintiffs’ rights regarding the investigative consumer reports” and “did not
provide a means by which the Plaintiffs could indicate that he or she wished to
receive a copy of any report prepared in connection with the application.”
(FAC, ¶¶ 39-40.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Equity, in procuring the
reports, failed to comply with disclosure and authorization requirements under
the Investigative Consumer Reports Agency Act (ICRAA), Civ. Code §§ 1786, et
seq. 
 
Second Cause of Action—Invasion of Privacy
The FAC alleges that “[t]he conduct of
Defendants in requesting, preparing, furnishing, and receiving reports on
Plaintiffs’ character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of
living, in contrivance of the protections enshrined in the ICRAA, constituted a
serious invasion of Plaintiffs’ privacy.” (FAC, ¶ 75.) According to the FAC,
“[t]he Defendants have violated the ICRAA and invaded the Plaintiffs’ rights of
privacy by obtaining investigative consumer reports about the Plaintiffs
without complying with mandatory requirements under the ICRAA for getting
investigative reports about the Plaintiffs.” (FAC, ¶ 77.) 
To state a cause of action for invasion of
privacy, a plaintiff must allege the following: “(1) a legally protected
privacy interest; (2) a reasonable expectation privacy in the circumstances;
and (3) conduct by defendant constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 39-40.) “[E]xcept
in cases involving physical intrusion, the tort must be accompanied by
publicity in the sense of communication to the public in general or to a large
number of persons as distinguished from one individual or a few.” (Kinsey v.
Macur (1980) 107 Cal.App.3d 265, 270.) Also, “the facts disclosed must be private
facts, and not public ones.” (Sipple v. Chronicle Publishing Co. (1984)
154 Cal.App.3d 1040, 1045, emphasis in original.) The reasonableness of an
expectation of privacy depends on the circumstances. (Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn., supra, 7 Cal.4th 1, 36.) “[C]ustoms,
practices, and physical settings surrounding particular activities may create
or inhibit reasonable expectations of privacy.” (Ibid.) 
“A reasonable expectation of privacy is an
objective entitlement founded on broadly based and widely accepted community
norms.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th
443, 449.) “[T]he presence or absence of opportunities to consent voluntarily
to activities impacting privacy interests obviously affects the expectations of
the participant.” (Ibid.) “[I]n order to establish a reasonable
expectation of privacy, the plaintiff must have conducted himself or herself in
a manner consistent with an actual expectation of privacy, i.e., he or she must
not have manifested by his or her conduct a voluntary consent to the
invasive actions of [the] defendant.” (Sheehan v. San Francisco 49ers, Ltd. (2009)
45 Cal.4th 992, 1000, emphasis added.) “If voluntary consent is present, a
defendant’s conduct will rarely be deemed highly offensive to a reasonable
person so as to justify tort liability.” (Ibid.) The question of whether
there has been an invasion of privacy may be determined on demurrer. (Folgelstrom
v. Lamps Plus, Inc. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 986, 990.) 
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not
stated a valid cause of action for invasion of privacy. The FAC alleges that
investigative consumer reports “are commonly sought by landlords.” (FAC, ¶ 3.)
Thus, it is customary for a landlord to obtain an investigative consumer report.
Moreover, the FAC is devoid of any facts showing that Plaintiffs’ investigative
consumer reports communicated private facts to the public in general or to a
large number of persons as required by Kinsey v. Macur, supra,
107 Cal.App.3d 265, 270. 
The Court also finds that Plaintiffs did not
conduct themselves in a manner consistent with an actual expectation of
privacy. The FAC concedes that Plaintiffs consented to Defendant Equity
obtaining the investigative consumer reports at issue and that Plaintiffs consented
to a release of their information. (FAC, ¶¶ 31-33.)
Third Cause of Action—Declaratory Relief 
            A complaint for declaratory relief
must demonstrate: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief and (2) an actual
controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the rights or
obligations of a party. (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman Marina Hosp.
(1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) The fundamental basis of declaratory relief is
a present and actual controversy between the parties over a proper subject. (City
of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 80; see Code Civ. Proc., §1060.)
“The actual controversy requirement concerns the existence of a present controversy
relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties pursuant to
contract.” (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital, supra, 208
Cal.App.3d 405, 410, emphasis in original.) “Where the allegations of the
complaint reveal the controversy to be conjectural, anticipated to occur in the
future, or an attempt to obtain an advisory opinion from the court, the
fundamental basis for declaratory relief is lacking.” (Ibid.)
“[D]eclaratory relief operates to declare future rights, not to address past
wrongs.” (Monterey Coastkeeper v. Central Coast Regional Water Quality
Control Board (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 1, 13.) 
            Plaintiffs
allege that “[a]n actual controversy has arisen and now exists between
Plaintiffs and Equity Residential regarding whether Equity Residential’s
adopted practices of requesting and receiving investigative consumer reports
about its tenants, as outlined above, violate the ICRAA. Equity Residential’s
continuing insistence that it has not violated the ICRAA confirms the
controversy will continue until a judicial authority declares those adopted
practices unlawful.” (FAC, ¶ 80.) Plaintiffs further allege that “[a] judicial
determination that runs with the land is necessary and appropriate at this time
to prevent the Defendants’ continued violations of the ICRAA during the
re-certification of Plaintiffs’ tenancy. Further, a judicial declaration is
necessary in order that the parties ascertain their rights and obligations to
each other and to avoid the hardship caused on the parties by a protracted
dispute and further delay.” (FAC, ¶ 82.) 
            The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ claim for declaratory relief is
insufficient. Plaintiffs are not current tenants but are instead prospective
tenants. (FAC, ¶¶ 6-22.) Also, Plaintiffs’ allegations that they are entitled
to declaratory relief to prevent continued violations of the ICRAA during
re-certification also does state a cause of action for declaratory relief. Such
recertification is only prospective as they concede that they were only
prospective tenants of Defendant Equity. Thus, there is no current controversy
as to the investigative consumer reports. Declaratory relief cannot be used as
a mechanism to address past wrongs. 