 Case Number:  23STCP02746    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



FERDINAND U. DORIA,  
  
         vs.
 
DR. EMELOU C. SAGARAL, M.D.


 Case No.: 
  23STCP02746
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 15, 2024



 
Defendant Dr. Emelou C. Sagaral, M.D.’s
demurrer to Plaintiff Ferdinand U. Doria’s complaint is sustained with
leave to amend as to the 6th and 7th causes of action.
 
Defendant Dr. Emelou C. Sagaral, M.D. (“Sagaral”) (“Defendant”)
demurs to Plaintiff Ferdinand
U. Doria’s (“Doria”) (“Plaintiff”) complaint (“Complaint”) on the basis the 6th
and 7th causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to allege causes of
action against Defendant.  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his operative Complaint on July 31, 2023, alleging
eight causes of action: (1) specific performance or damages based upon breach
of express contract; (2) constructive trust based on breach of express contract;
(3) constructive trust or damages based on breach of implied in fact contract;
(4) declaratory relief; (5) fraud and deceit; (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; (7) negligent infliction of emotional distress; and (8)
partition.[1]
This Marvin action arises out of parties’ oral agreement on
or about August 26, 2008, to maintain their relationship as ostensible husband
and wife.  (See Complaint ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges they agreed Plaintiff
would render further services, which included but was not limited to companion,
confidante, homemaker, housekeeper, cook, social companion, and advisor to Defendant.  (Complaint ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges the parties further agreed
that in the event of the dissolution of their relationship by death, separation
or otherwise, that all Defendant’s property acquired during the period of time
the parties’ relationship as a result of her skills, efforts, labor and
earnings would be divided equally.  (Complaint
¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant would
then and thereafter provide for all Plaintiffs financial support and need for
the rest of his life in the same style and manner that was established during
the parties’ relationship consistent with Defendant’s annual earnings and
accumulations; Defendant would provide finances for the benefit of Plaintiff;
and Plaintiff and Defendant would be married. 
(Complaint ¶7.)
On October 27, 2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer.  On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
opposition.  Defendant filed her reply on
May 8, 2024.
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Defendant’s counsel declares that Plaintiff’s counsel failed to
respond to her request to meet and confer or otherwise failed to meet and
confer in good faith.  (See Decl.
of Newman ¶2b.)  Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3)(B).  Failure to sufficiently meet and confer is
not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4); Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355; Olson v.
Hornbrook Community Services District (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 502, 515.)  Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ 6th and 7th causes of action on
the basis the causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action against Defendant. 
(Demurrer, pgs. 5-9; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
          
          Failure to State
a Claim
          Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (6th COA)
“A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when
it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.’ And the defendant’s conduct must be ‘intended to inflict
injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.’”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1050-1051.)
Plaintiff alleges on or about August 4, 2021, Defendant repudiated
her agreement with Plaintiff.  (Complaint
¶52.)  Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief and based thereof alleges that Defendant willfully, maliciously, and
knowingly engaged in the aforementioned acts with a conscious design to deprive
Plaintiff of his rights.  (Complaint
¶53.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s
conduct was intentional, malicious, unprivileged, outrageous and done for the
purpose of causing Plaintiff to suffer humiliation, anguish and emotional and
physical distress.  (Complaint ¶54.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s conduct as
hereinabove set-forth, was done with knowledge that Plaintiff would suffer
mental anguish and emotional and physical distress and Defendant’s conduct was
with a wanton and reckless disregard for the consequences of said actions to
Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶54.)
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate result of the
aforementioned acts, Plaintiff has suffered humiliation, mental anguish, and
emotional and physical injuries, and Plaintiff has suffered loss of energy,
loss of sleep, severe tension, profound shock and anxiety, all to Plaintiff’s
damages in a sum within the jurisdictional requisites of this Court.   (Complaint ¶54.)  Plaintiff will ask leave of Court to amend
this Complaint at time of trial to insert the exact amount of said damages.  (Complaint ¶54.)
Plaintiff fails to allege a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress against Defendant because the conduct in
question—that she terminated her relationship with Plaintiff, denied that she
had any agreement with Plaintiff for future support and/or division of assets,
and refused to provide future support or divide her assets with Plaintiff—does
not constitute conduct that is “outrageous” or so “extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Complaint ¶¶8, 11, 12, 16; Hughes, 46
Cal.4th at pgs. 1050-1051.)
Further, it is well established that damages for mental suffering
as a general rule are not recoverable where the essential nature of the dispute
is breach of contract.  In such cases,
damages are limited to economic losses.  (Erlich v. Menzies (1999) 21 Cal.4th
543, 554-555.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges a
Marvin action, which sounds in contract and not in tort.  (See Marvin v. Marvin (1976) 18 Cal.3d
660, 670.)  Therefore, damages for mental
suffering is not recoverable. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (7th COA)
“‘[The] negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort but the tort of negligence . . ..’ ‘The traditional elements
of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes
a duty of care is a question of law. Its existence depends upon the
foreseeability of the risk and upon a weighing of policy considerations for and
against imposition of liability.’” (Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric
Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588, internal citations omitted.)
“In our view, this articulation of ‘serious
emotional distress’ is functionally the same as the articulation of ‘severe
emotional distress’ [as required for intentional infliction of emotional
distress]. Indeed, given the meaning of both phrases, we can perceive no
material distinction between them and can conceive of no reason why either
would, or should, describe a greater or lesser degree of emotional distress
than the other for purposes of establishing a tort claim seeking damages for
such an injury.”  (Wong v. Jing
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1378.)
Plaintiff alleges the aforesaid conduct of
Defendant, if not intentional, was negligent on part of Defendant, was reckless
and without due regard for the health and welfare of Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant had a duty to act
with due care towards Plaintiff in light of the parties’ confidential
relationship which existed between the parties in that Plaintiff reposed the
greatest confidence and trust in Defendant, and in light of their relationship,
and engagement to be married.  (Complaint
¶59.)  Plaintiff alleges said duty was
breached as a result of the conduct alleged herein, which has continued through
the filing of this Complaint.  (Complaint
¶59.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant acted negligently,
carelessly, wrongfully, and without justification in carrying out her scheme
designed to deprive Plaintiff of his rights and property interests.  (Complaint ¶60.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant knew or should
have known that Plaintiff would suffer emotional distress as a direct and
proximate result of Defendant’s conduct. 
(Complaint ¶60.)
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate
result of said negligence and carelessness by Defendant, Plaintiff has suffered
humiliation, mental anguish, and emotional and physical injuries including loss
of sleep, loss of energy, severe tension, profound shock, and anxiety, all to
Plaintiffs damage within the jurisdictional requisites of this Court.  (Complaint ¶61.)  Plaintiff will ask leave of Court to amend
this Complaint at time of trial to insert the exact amount of said damages.  (Complaint ¶61.)
Plaintiff fails to allege a cause of action
for negligent infliction of emotional distress because Plaintiff fails to
allege a cognizable legal duty owed by Defendant to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶59.)  In Maglica v. Maglica, the Court of
Appeal stated, 
[I]n family law matters involving dissolution of marriage,
punitive damages are not available to remedy breaches of fiduciary duty in the
management and control of community property (though there are, of course,
other remedies). Punitive damages, however, are sometimes available in other
breach of fiduciary duty cases. [Citation omitted.] It is unthinkable, given
California’s abolition of common law marriage, that an unmarried, cohabiting
partner should have a more powerful remedy than a spouse.
 
(Maglica v. Maglica (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 442, 448, emphasis added.)
Here, Plaintiff does not allege the formerly
cohabitating parties were married or allege a fiduciary duty Defendant owed to
Plaintiff that is recognized by California law. 
(See also Civ. Code §43.4 [“A fraudulent promise to marry or to
cohabit after marriage does not give rise to a cause of action for damages”.];
Civ. Code §43.5 [“No cause of action arises for: . . . (d) Breach of promise of
marriage.”].)  
Further, emotional distress damages are not
usually available in breach of contract cases or other cases where the claimed
injury is primarily economic.  (See
Ehrlich, 21 Cal.4th at pg. 552 [preexisting contractual relationship,
without more, will not support recovery for emotional distress where tortious
conduct has resulted only in economic loss]; Sutherland v. Barclays
American/Mortgage Corp. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 299, 316 [stating breach of
contract does not allow recovery of damages for negligent infliction of emotional
distress]; Butler-Rupp v. Lourdeaux (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1220, 1226 [stating
award of damages to commercial tenants in action against landlords was
predicated solely on economic injury to tenants, precluding recovery of damages
for negligent infliction of emotional distress in absence of physical injury or
intentional conduct].)
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 7th cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is sustained with
20 days leave to amend as to the 6th and 7th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  May _____, 2024
                                                                             





  