 Case Number:  23STCP00015    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GINADAN VENTURE 2, LLC,  
 
  
         vs.
 
702 SAINT ANDREWS, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCP00015 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 15, 2024



 
Petitioner
Ginadan Venture 2, LLC’s motion to amend the judgment to include Albert Bernal is
granted.  Petitioner is to submit a
proposed amended judgment within ten days.
 
          Petitioner
Ginadan Venture 2, LLC (“GV2”) (“Petitioner”) moves for this Court to amend the
judgment in this matter entered on February 1, 2024, against Respondents Manuel
Bernal (“Manuel”), Bernal Capital Group (“BCG”) and 702 Saint Andrews, LLC (“Seller”)
(collectively “Respondents”) to include Albert Bernal (“Albert”) as a judgment
debtor on the grounds Albert (i) is a general partner of Respondent and
judgment debtor BCG; (ii) is the alter ego of Respondent and judgment debtor BCG;
(iii) is the alter ego of respondent and judgment debtor Seller; (iv) actively
participated in the defense of Respondents and judgment debtors BCG and Seller
in the underlying arbitration; (v) actively participated in and was present in
the trial in the underlying arbitration; and (vi) was declared by the
arbitrator in the arbitration award, and as confirmed by and in the judgment, to
be the general partner and alter ego of Respondent and judgment debtor BCG.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §187.)
 
          Evidentiary
Objections
          Respondents’
5/2/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of David Taran (“Taran”) are
overruled as to Nos. 1 and 2.[1]
          Respondents’
5/2/24 evidentiary objection to the Declaration of Daniel Rudyak (“Rudyak”) is
overruled.
 
Background
On December 6, 2023, the court granted
Petitioner’s petition to confirm the December 2, 2022, arbitration award
(“Award”) by Gordon Eng (“Arbitrator”), and on February 1, 2024, entered
judgment (“Judgment”) against Respondents. The underlying issues relevant to
this motion were litigated in the arbitration, decided by the Arbitrator in the
Award and confirmed in the Judgment: Albert is a “general partner” and “an
alter ego of” BCG; Albert’s actions “cannot be separated into actions he has
taken on behalf of Seller and on behalf of [BCG] because the 2 companies are
intertwined”; and the “claims in this case include fraud and intentional
misrepresentations . . . [t]he distinction between [BCG] and Seller has been clouded
by the actions of Albert Bernal, Manuel Bernal, and [BCG] . . . the Arbitrator
finds that the liabilities of Seller are equally allocable to [BCG].”  (See Judgment; Decl. of Taran ¶3, Exh.
A at pg. 16, §§11-14.)
Petitioner filed the instant motion on April
19, 2024.  Respondents filed their
opposition on May 2, 2024.  Petitioner
filed its reply on May 8, 2024.
 
Motion to Amend Judgment
Legal Standard
“Section 187 grants every court the power
and authority to carry its jurisdiction into effect. [Citation.] This includes
the authority to amend a judgment to add an alter ego of an original judgment
debtor, and thereby make the additional judgment debtor liable on the judgment.
[Citation.]” (Highland Springs Conference & Training Center v. City of
Banning (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 267, 280, internal citations omitted.)
“Amending a judgment to add an alter ego of
an original judgment debtor ‘is an equitable procedure based on the theory that
the court is not amending the judgment to add a new defendant but is merely
inserting the correct name of the real defendant.’ [Citation.]”  (Id., internal citations omitted.)
“Section 187 contemplates amending a
judgment by noticed motion. [Citations.] 
The court is not required to hold an evidentiary hearing on a motion to
amend a judgment, but may rule on the motion based solely on declarations and
other written evidence. [Citation.]”  (Id.,
internal citations omitted.)
“To prevail on the motion, the judgment
creditor must show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that: ‘(1) the parties
to be added as judgment debtors had control of the underlying litigation and
were virtually represented in that proceeding; (2) there is such a unity of
interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the entity and the
owners no longer exist; and (3) an inequitable result will follow if the acts
are treated as those of the entity alone.’ [Citation.] The decision to grant or
deny the motion lies within the sound discretion of the trial court [citation]
and will not be disturbed on appeal if there is a legal basis for the decision
and substantial evidence supports it. [Citation.]”  (Id., internal citations omitted.)
“In determining whether there is a
sufficient unity of interest and ownership, the court considers many factors,
including ‘the commingling of funds and assets of the two entities, identical
equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same offices and employees,
disregard of corporate formalities, identical directors and officers, and use
of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other.’” [Citation.]  Inadequate capitalization of the original
judgment debtor is another factor. [Citation.] No single factor governs; courts
must consider all of the circumstances of the case in determining whether it
would be equitable to impose alter ego liability. [Citation.]”  (Id. at pgs. 280-281, internal
citations omitted.)
 
          Discussion
           Petitioner’s
motion to amend the judgment to include Albert is granted.  Here, Petitioner demonstrates, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that Albert is an alter ego of BCG based on the
Arbitrator’s findings:
Based on the evidence discussed above, the Arbitrator finds that there
is a sufficient basis to find that Manuel Bernal and Albert Bernal had a
general partnership relationship, operated under the [Bernal Capital] name, and
that the Property was an asset of [BCG]. They presented themselves on the BCG
website as co-owners, they used [BCG] emails indicating they were working on
the transaction which is the subject of this case as a [BCG] matter, [BCG] and
had a for profit purpose as represented on the [BCG] website as including real
estate investment.
 
(Judgment, Exh. A at pg. 15, §10.)
“With regard to Seller, the evidence in the
case shows that Seller was or is represented by [BCG] and its general partners
Manuel Bernal and Albert Bernal as an alter ego of [BCG]. Therefore, they can
be responsible under the attorneys’ fee provision of the PSA.”  (Judgment, Exh. A at pg. 21, §7.)
Arbitrator finds that the actions of Albert Bernal cannot be separated
into actions he has taken on behalf of Seller and on behalf of [BCG] because
the 2 companies are intertwined. The [BCG] business includes taking actions
with regard to its portfolio properties (which included the Property) and in
selling the Property Albert Bernal would have also been taking action for the
Seller with regard to the Property. By their own actions Albert Bernal and
Manuel Bernal have at a minimum been grossly negligent is allowing the public
to believe they operated together under [BCG] or alternatively they
intentionally intended to mislead the public with regard to their relationship
(and their relationship to the Property).


(Judgment, Exh. A at pg. 16, §12.)
“The claims in this case include fraud and
intentional misrepresentations. The distinction between [BCG] and Seller has
been clouded by the actions of Albert Bernal, Manuel Bernal, and [BCG].
Arbitrator finds that the liabilities of Seller are equally allocable to [BCG].”
 (Judgment, Exh. A at pg. 16, §14.)
Amendment of a judgment to add an alter ego
is an equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is not amending
the judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of
the real defendant . . . . Such a procedure is an appropriate and complete
method by which to bind new . . . defendants where it can be demonstrated that
in their capacity as alter ego of the corporation they in fact had control of
the previous litigation, and thus were virtually represented in the lawsuit.”  (Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 486, 508, citations omitted.)  “The greatest liberality is to be encouraged
in the allowance of such amendments in order to see that justice is done.”  (Id.) 
Here, all issues concerning Respondents’
entity form, members, and alter egos were at issue in the arbitration and were
pleaded in Petitioner’s Arbitration Demand.  (Decl. of Taran ¶4, Exh. B.)  The Arbitrator properly found that Albert is a
principal of Seller and BCG, was an alter ego of BCG, and that BCG is an alter
ego of Seller.  (Judgment, at pg. 4; pg.
16, §14.)
“Collateral estoppel precludes relitigation
of issues argued and decided in prior proceedings. [Citation.] Traditionally,
we have applied the doctrine only if several threshold requirements are fulfilled.
First, the issue sought to be precluded from relitigation must be identical to
that decided in a former proceeding. Second, this issue must have been actually
litigated in the former proceeding. Third, it must have been necessarily
decided in the former proceeding. Fourth, the decision in the former proceeding
must be final and on the merits. Finally, the party against whom preclusion is sought
must be the same as, or in privity with, the party to the former proceeding.”  (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 172, 191.)  
Here, the Arbitration Award meets all of the
foregoing criteria. First, the issues decided in the arbitration are identical
to those presented in this motion. Second, the issues were actually litigated
in the arbitration, as reflected in the Arbitration Award. Third, the issues
were necessarily decided in the arbitration. Fourth, the Arbitration Award, and
resulting judgment, is a final decision on the merits.  Therefore, collateral estoppel precludes relitigating
the issue of whether Albert is an alter ego of BCG, which has already been
decided by the Arbitrator.
Accordingly, Petitioner’s motion is granted.
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s motion to amend the
judgment to include Albert Bernal is granted.  Petitioner is to submit a proposed amended
judgment within ten days.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  May _____, 2024
                                                                                                                   
Hon. Daniel M. Crowley
Judge of the Superior Court
 


