 Case Number:  23STCV02252    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  14 Case Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
refused to pay the full amount owed for several shipping containers, then
started bad-mouthing Plaintiff to others in the industry when Plaintiff
insisted on full payment.
 
On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff
filed its Complaint for (1) Defamation, (2) Defamation Per Se, (3) Trade Libel,
(4) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (5) Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, and (6) Unfair Competition against
Defendants S&S Brokerage, Inc. (“Broker”) and DOES 1-30. 
 
On March 23, 2023, the default of
Defendant Broker was entered. 
 
Instant Motion
 
            Defendant Broker now moves
this court, per Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), for an order setting
aside their default and permitting them to file an Answer.
 
Decision
 
            Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections should be OVERRULED.
 
            The motion is
GRANTED. Defendant Broker is to file its Answer within one week.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for $4,950 in fees and costs is DENIED.
 
Governing Statute
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 473 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(b) The court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. …
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted
based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.
However, this section shall not lengthen the time within which an action shall
be brought to trial pursuant to Section 583.310.
(c)(1) Whenever the court grants
relief from a default, default judgment, or dismissal based on any of the
provisions of this section, the court may do any of the following:
(A) Impose a penalty of no greater
than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party.
(B) Direct that an offending
attorney pay an amount no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the
State Bar Client Security Fund.
(C) Grant other relief as is
appropriate.
(2) However, where the court grants
relief from a default or default judgment pursuant to this section based upon
the affidavit of the defaulting party's attorney attesting to the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, the relief shall not be made
conditional upon the attorney's payment of compensatory legal fees or costs or
monetary penalties imposed by the court or upon compliance with other sanctions
ordered by the court.
 
Discussion
 
            There is no
real dispute about what happened here. Defendant Broker was served on February
7, 2023. Because they are a New Jersey corporation, their first call was to a
New Jersey lawyer, one Mr. Tom Reardon. Plaintiff’s counsel and Mr. Reardon
exchanged a few emails, attempting to settle the case. Mr. Reardon told
Plaintiff’s counsel that his client would be retaining local counsel, but did
not say who that would be. Plaintiff’s counsel told Mr. Reardon, on March 22,
that he would be seeking entry of default.
 
            Mr. Reardon
then called current Defense counsel, Ms. Hillary Arrow Booth. He did not inform
her of the impending default. They did a conflicts check, and Ms. Booth was formally
retained on March 28. Unfortunately, default had already been entered on March
27. Ms. Booth discovered the default on March 30.
 
            Defense
counsel immediately emailed Plaintiff and asked for a stipulation to set aside
the default; in exchange, she would commit to filing a response within a week.
Plaintiff’s counsel refused, asserting that there was no basis to set aside the
default. Defense counsel explained the situation, but Plaintiff’s counsel
refused to budge.
 
            Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b) contains two provisions for relief: one mandatory, the
other discretionary. Minick v. City of Petaluma (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th
15, 25. The mandatory provision requires a sworn admission of fault from the
attorney who is responsible for the default. Bailey v. Citibank, N.A.
(2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 335, 348-349. The court may not grant relief
from default if the person who signed the affidavit was not the person who
caused the default to be entered. Id.
 
            Defendant
Broker previously filed a motion to be relieved under the mandatory provision,
with an affidavit of fault from Ms. Booth. There was no declaration of any kind
from Mr. Reardon. This court heard the motion on June 8, 2023. The motion was
denied because the court found that Mr. Reardon, not Ms. Booth, was the cause
of the default. 
 
            Mr. Reardon
had to know that, as a New Jersey lawyer, he could not defend a California case
without local counsel. It was his responsibility to find local counsel before
default loomed, and it was his responsibility to inform Ms. Booth that default
was in fact looming. Had Mr. Reardon filed an affidavit of fault in connection
with the prior motion, this court could have accepted it. See SJP Limited Partnership
v. City of Los Angeles (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 511, 517-518
(attorney signing the affidavit need be neither counsel of record, nor licensed
in California).
 
This court made the denial without
prejudice, a judicial invitation to correct the motion by either producing an
affidavit of fault from Mr. Reardon or making a motion under the discretionary
provision of the statute.
 
            Plaintiff
complains that this motion violates the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1008. It does not. Because Defendant made the original motion, this
would be a renewed motion under Section 1008(b). That subdivision contains no
time limit. All it requires is a declaration that shows what happened before.
The Declaration of Hilary Arrow Booth does that.
 
            The
affidavit of fault now submitted by Mr. Reardon is sufficiently straightforward
to entitle the Defendant to relief under the mandatory provision of Section
473(b).
 
            The final
sentence of Section 473(b) requires this court to award “compensatory” fees and
costs to the opposing party. Plaintiff takes that to mean that they recover
their costs for (unsuccessfully) opposing the motion. But the purpose of the
statute is not to reward parties for losing a motion. The purpose of this provision
is to let the opposing parties to recover for whatever work they did in pursuit
of the default, since that work is rendered moot when the default is set aside.
Plaintiff has produced no evidence of any costs and fees incurred pursuing the
default, and therefore has no compensatory costs to recover.
 
Conclusion
 
            This is a
simple mistake that could and should have been avoided. It also could and
should have been resolved between counsel without the need for two motions.
Defendant Broker is entitled to relief. Plaintiff has produced no evidence of proper
compensatory costs. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff’s request
for $4,950 in fees and costs is DENIED. Defendant Broker is to file its Answer
within one week.