 Case Number:  22STCV33411    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  14 Case Background
 
            The
original complaint in this action was filed on October 13, 2022. The body of
that document was headed “Notice of Trespass.” It names a single defendant: “The
man or woman whom [sic] acts as the head of Wells Fargo.” It alleged that Wells
Fargo took some property (it doesn’t say what) belonging to Plaintiff, and that
Plaintiff sent them a notice asking for the return of his property and imposing
a “fee” (it doesn’t say by what authority) of $100 billion for the offense,
plus $1 billion per month for each month they retained his property.
 
            Attached to
the original complaint was a “Notice” addressed to the clerk of this court. The
notice said that Plaintiff “now require[s] a court order of record to press
claims of trespass and to present i [sic] before a man or woman who is
confident of property and trespass law there to keep the peace and put forth
the orders of the curtis a. chism jr. court.” It also said that Plaintiff will appear
in court “simply as a man to present these claims,” that Plaintiff will require
no legal forms, and that “this is a claim not a complaint.” Plaintiff asked the
court to provide him a room, a “man or woman well versed at law” to serve as “magistrate,”
and not to charge him any fees.
 
            Also attached
to the original complaint was a document headed “Rules of the Court.” Among
other things, Rule 2 required the “judge or magistrate” to take an oath to
serve mankind. Rule 6 said that the court “will not accept any legal arguments,
codes, acts and or statues as this is a court of law.” Rule 8 said that the
court “is to be private.” Rule 9 said that the orders of the “curtis a. chism
court” would be presented to the clerk of the Superior Court and become
enforceable thereby.
 
            After three
hearings in this department, Plaintiff filed an Amended Complaint substituting
Wells Fargo in as the sole Defendant. The Amended Complaint alleged that Plaintiff
had a claim to $55,977.96 in cash, that he asked for the money from Wells Fargo
on January 13, 2020, but that Wells Fargo didn’t release the money to him until
February 18, 2020. The Amended Complaint did not identify the account in which
the money was allegedly held. It did not identify the nature of Plaintiff’s
claim to the funds (i.e. was it his own money previously deposited in his own
account with the bank, was it a check drawn on someone else’s account that
Wells Fargo refused to cash, etc.). It did not describe what damages Plaintiff
suffered from losing the use of the money for a month.
 
            On May 31,
2023, this court issued a written order sustaining Defendant Wells Fargo’s
demurrer with leave to amend.
 
            On June 20,
2023, Plaintiff filed an “Amendment of Claim with Evidence Attached.”
 
Instant Pleading
 
            Defendant
Wells Fargo now demurs to the “Amendment of Claim” on the grounds that it fails
to state any cause of action and is uncertain.
 
Decision
 
            The demurrer
is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend. Defendant Wells Fargo is to submit
a judgment of dismissal within 10 days.
 
Discussion
 
            The body of
the “Amendment of Claim” runs 5 pages, with 34 pages of exhibits attached. The
first three and a half pages contain various elaborate claims, disclaimers, and
reservations about Plaintiff’s status, rights, intentions, and beliefs. Not
until the second half of page 4 is Defendant Wells Fargo even mentioned. The
remainder of the document contains no new or different information than was
included in the two previous pleadings. It remains impossible for this court to
tell what Plaintiff’s legal theory is, and how any of his claimed facts would correspond
to that theory.
 
            Since the
filing of the demurrer, Plaintiff has filed five additional documents. The
first is entitled “Notice of Remedy” and takes the form of a public letter to
Wells Fargo’s counsel about revenge and forgiveness. That letter also expresses
Plaintiff’s willingness to dismiss the case. The second is captioned “Conflict
Resolution and Severability” and “directs” that the dispute go forward in
arbitration rather than in court. The third is called “Notice of Arbitration
and Rules of Court” and contains a list of eight rules Plaintiff wants followed
in this case. The fourth is styled a “Certificate of Ownership” and appears to
be a statement that Plaintiff owns his own name. The fifth bears the label “Equitable
Claim Requires Injunction” and seems to be a request that the court issue an
injunction.
 
            None of
these documents is properly an opposition to the demurrer, and none of them is
legally cognizable in any way. Since the Amendment of Claim retains the same
defects it previously had, and since Plaintiff has given this court no prospect
of an intelligible amendment, there is no reasonable probability that Plaintiff
can or will state a proper cause of action in this court.
 
Conclusion
 
            The second
Amendment of Claim contains all the defects present in the first. And while
Plaintiff has variously expressed wishes to dismiss the case, move it to
arbitration, or seek remedies from this court, Plaintiff has never filed a
proper opposition to the demurrer. The court has no reason to believe that
Plaintiff will ever be able to state a cause of action on which this court
could grant relief.
 
            Therefore,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend. Defendant Wells Fargo
is to submit a judgment of dismissal within 10 days.
 