  Case Number:  20STCV28702    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  14 Case Background
 
Lemon law involving Plaintiffs’ 2014
Kia Soul.
 
On July 29, 2020, Plaintiffs filed their
Complaint for (1) Violation of Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Section
1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Section
1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Section
1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty; (5) Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Merchantability; and (6) Fraud by Omission against Defendants Kia
Motors America, Inc. (hereinafter “Kia”) and DOES 1-10. 
 
On October 29, 2020, this court
sustained Defendant Kia’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action, without leave
to amend.
 
On January 11, 2021, this court
granted Defendant Kia’s motion to compel arbitration and ordered the case
stayed pending arbitration.
 
No trial date is currently set.
 
            Defendant
Kia now moves this court for an order dismissing this case for delay in
prosecution.
 
Decision
 
            Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED. The existence of other cases or
appellate proceedings in other cases is not relevant to this case. If a decision
rendered by the appellate court is citable on the points of law at issue here,
Plaintiffs should cite it in the ordinary course.
 
            The motion
is GRANTED. This action is DISMISSED, without prejudice to the
proceedings in arbitration.
 
Governing Rules
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1342 provides as follows:
 
            “(a)
Notice of motion
A party seeking dismissal of a
case under Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.410-583.430 must
serve and file a notice of motion at least 45 days before the date set for
hearing of the motion. The party may, with the memorandum, serve and file a
declaration stating facts in support of the motion. The filing of the notice of
motion must not preclude the opposing party from further prosecution of the
case to bring it to trial.
 
(b) Written opposition
 
Within 15 days after service of the
notice of motion, the opposing party may serve and file a written opposition.
The failure of the opposing party to serve and file a written opposition may be
construed by the court as an admission that the motion is meritorious, and the
court may grant the motion without a hearing on the merits.
 
(c) Response to opposition
 
Within 15 days after service of the
written opposition, if any, the moving party may serve and file a response.
 
(d) Reply
 
Within five days after service of
the response, if any, the opposing party may serve and file a reply.
 
(e) Relevant matters
 
In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all matters relevant to a proper determination of the motion,
including:
 
(1) The court's file in the case
and the declarations and supporting data submitted by the parties and, where
applicable, the availability of the moving party and other essential parties
for service of process;
(2) The diligence in seeking to
effect service of process;
(3) The extent to which the
parties engaged in any settlement negotiations or discussions;
(4) The diligence of the parties
in pursuing discovery or other pretrial proceedings, including any
extraordinary relief sought by either party;
(5) The nature and complexity of
the case;
(6) The law applicable to the
case, including the pendency of other litigation under a common set of facts or
determinative of the legal or factual issues in the case;
(7) The nature of any extensions
of time or other delay attributable to either party;
(8) The condition of the court's
calendar and the availability of an earlier trial date if the matter was ready
for trial;
(9) Whether the interests of
justice are best served by dismissal or trial of the case; and
(10) Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to a fair determination of the issue.
 
The court must be guided by the
policies set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 583.130.
 
(f) Court action
 
The court may grant or deny the
motion or, where the facts warrant, the court may continue or defer its ruling
on the matter pending performance by either party of any conditions relating to
trial or dismissal of the case that may be required by the court to effectuate
substantial justice.”
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 583.130 provides:
 
“It is the policy of the state that
a plaintiff shall proceed with reasonable diligence in the prosecution of an
action but that all parties shall cooperate in bringing the action to trial or
other disposition. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by rule of court
adopted pursuant to statute, the policy favoring the right of parties to make
stipulations in their own interests and the policy favoring trial or other
disposition of an action on the merits are generally to be preferred over the
policy that requires dismissal for failure to proceed with reasonable diligence
in the prosecution of an action in construing the provisions of this chapter.”
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 583.420 provides in relevant part:
 
“(a) The court may not dismiss an
action pursuant to this article for delay in prosecution except after one of
the following conditions has occurred:
…
(2) The action is not brought to trial within the following times:
(A) Three years after the action
is commenced against the defendant unless otherwise prescribed by rule under
subparagraph (B).
(B) Two years after the action is
commenced against the defendant if the Judicial Council by rule adopted
pursuant to Section 583.410 so prescribes for the court because of the
condition of the court calendar or for other reasons affecting the conduct of litigation
or the administration of justice.
            …
(b) The times provided in
subdivision (a) shall be computed in the manner provided for computation of the
comparable times under Articles 2 (commencing with Section 583.210) and 3
(commencing with Section 583.310).”
 
California Rules of Court Rule
3.1340 authorizes this court to dismiss cases for lack of prosecution after two
years, pursuant to Section 583.420(a)(2)(B).
 
Discussion
 
            A previous
motion of this type came on for hearing on August 9, 2023. Plaintiffs objected
that the motion was not timely filed, this court agreed, and the motion was
taken off-calendar without a ruling. Defense then filed the instant motion the
same day, reserving a hearing date of September 26, 2023. Per California Rules
of Court Rule 3.1342(b), Plaintiffs’ opposition was due on August 24, 2023, and
failure to comply with that rule may operate as a concession that the motion
was meritorious. 
 
Plaintiffs did not file an
opposition until September 12, 2023, disrupting the briefing schedule in precisely
the manner they complained of earlier. However, Defense has not objected to the
late filing. Given the policies at play here, the court will consider the opposition.
 
The sequence of events is
undisputed here. This case was filed on July 29, 2020. The court ordered it to
arbitration on January 11, 2021. Then nothing happened. There was a
post-arbitration status conference on July 28, 2021, attended only by
Plaintiff, who indicated that no arbitrator had yet been selected. 
 
There was another such conference
on January 26, 2022, this time attended by both sides, bearing the same news. That
same morning, though it is not clear whether it was before, after, or during
their hearing, Plaintiffs’ counsel emailed Defense asking which of two major
organizations they would like to use. Nothing came of this and there were no
further communications on the subject until the next year.
 
On February 27, 2023, there was
another post-arbitration status conference, at which Plaintiffs’ counsel indicated
plans to file a motion to establish Defense’s waiver of arbitration. That
motion never materialized. On June 6, 2023, a fourth post-arbitration status
conference was held, and Plaintiffs’ counsel indicated their intent to file a
motion for reconsideration of the January 11, 2021 decision to compel
arbitration.
 
That motion for reconsideration was
filed on June 12, 2023. Defense responded with their first motion to dismiss
for lack of prosecution on July 18, 2023. Only with that motion pending, on
July 27, 2023, did Plaintiffs make any further attempt to contact Defense about
choosing an arbitrator. The parties’ discussions have been ongoing since that
point, but they still have not selected an arbitrator.
 
Jurisdiction
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that this court has no jurisdiction to hear this motion. This improperly
conflates the court’s jurisdiction over its own case with the court’s
jurisdiction over the arbitration. 
 
Arbitration is a separate, private
proceeding administered by the arbitrator. The court has no power to set
hearings or impose deadlines in the arbitration, let alone to order the
arbitration dismissed. As Plaintiffs point out, the proceeding in the public
courts is abated while the arbitration proceeds. These are the propositions for
which Plaintiffs’ cited authorities stand.
 
But none of those authorities hold that
the court loses jurisdiction over its own proceedings. Abatement is not, and
cannot be, forever. The cases cited by Plaintiffs tell the courts that an
arbitrator is the person who should decide whether to dismiss a “pending
arbitration” for lack of prosecution. See e.g. Byerly v. Sale (1988) 204
Cal.App.3d 1312, 1316. But here there is neither an arbitrator nor any pending
arbitration.
 
One party cannot hold the other
party in court, pinned and immobile, by failing to proceed into arbitration. This
is especially true when arbitration was ordered by the court in the first
place. If the court orders a party to arbitration, and that party refuses to
either appeal or comply, the natural consequence is the loss of their position before
the court. And the court cannot hold stale cases open forever, depriving other,
active litigants of court time and space which could be used to resolve their
matters. 
 
A dismissal order may have few, if
any, practical consequences for the parties. It is not, and cannot be, an order
halting the arbitration process. See Byerly, supra, 204
Cal.App.3d at 1314-15. Plaintiffs retain the contractual right to select an
arbitrator and proceed in arbitration. Id. Either side retains the
statutory right to move for confirmation, correction, or vacation of any subsequent
award. Id. It simply means that this court will not carry this case open
on its books, using up valuable time and resources that more properly belong to
other litigants.
 
Propriety of Dismissal
 
            This is a
simple lemon law case. Once ordered to arbitration, it should have been a
simple matter for Plaintiffs to select an arbitrator and proceed. Instead, they
did nothing. For a year.
 
            Then, when
called into a hearing, Plaintiff sent a single email to Defense asking about
the selection of an arbitration organization. The email was almost simultaneous
with the hearing and there was no other follow-up. Instead, Plaintiff again
fell silent for another year and a half.
 
            It wasn’t
until June of 2023, 2 ½ years after arbitration was ordered and almost 3 years
after the case was filed, that Plaintiff took any significant action. 
 
            It is
unclear how the policy favoring resolution on the merits should affect this
case. While ordinarily the arbitrator would resolve the dispute, leaving
nothing for the court to do, arbitrability was one of the matters referred to arbitration
in the original order. Therefore, it is possible that the arbitrator could
determine that the matter is not subject to arbitration and refer it back to
the court.
 
            Plaintiffs
contend that the arbitrator will do exactly that. But the court has no idea
what the (as yet unselected) arbitrator will do. And this ambiguity is entirely
the creation of the Plaintiffs’ delay. If Plaintiffs had wanted an answer to
the arbitrability question, they could have had it long ago. They offer no
explanation for their neglect.
 
            Furthermore,
the Defense has been clearly prejudiced by this delay. The case has been stayed
for years. There has been no arbitration proceeding in which discovery could be
taken and facts developed. The vehicle at issue was already six years old when
the case was filed. It is nine years old now, with ten years not far away. Meaningful
inspection of the vehicle will be much more difficult. Witness memories will have
faded. Any number of accidents may have befallen relevant records in that time.

 
Conclusion
          At the end of the day, the basic facts are these. The court
ordered arbitration. Plaintiffs did virtually nothing to initiate arbitration
or otherwise advance this case for 2 ½ years. Only when faced with a motion to
dismiss did they put forth any meaningful effort. Plaintiffs do not even acknowledge
the delay, much less attempt any kind of reasonable explanation. They simply assert
that a single email, sent in the shadow of a court hearing, constitutes
diligence. It does not.
 
            All the
relevant factors weigh in favor of dismissal here. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED.
This action is DISMISSED, without prejudice to the proceedings in
arbitration.
            