 Case Number:  22STCV16106    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  73 05/24/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
HOMELAND INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK v. WESCO INSURANCE COMPANY and
WESTCHESTER SURPLUS LINES INSURANCE
COMPANY (22STCV16106)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant/opposing party: 
Christian Jones, Sara Menton (Intact US Coverage Litigation Group);
David Boren (Ritholz Levy Fields LLP)
 
Counsel
for Defendant/Cross-Complainant Wesco/moving party:  Christopher Hicks (Hirsch Closson APLC)
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT HOMELAND’S
Motion to amend complaint (filed 04/25/2024)
(2)   DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT WESCO’S
MOTION TO STAY (filed 05/01/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Homeland’s
motion to amend the first amended complaint is GRANTED. Homeland is ordered to file the proposed First Amended
Complaint in ten (10) days. 
 
Wesco’s
motion to stay is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
This is an insurance coverage dispute between insurance carriers
which issued commercial general liability policies to the same insured,
Permacity Construction Corp. (“Permacity”), during different time periods
between January 7, 2013, and June 19, 2017. A lawsuit was filed on January 26,
2018, Sherlock, et al. v. Permacity Construction Corp., et al., Case No.
BC 692058 pending in Los Angeles Superior Court (the “Sherlock Lawsuit”), against
Permacity and other contractors for purported construction defects and
resulting damages to the claimant’s property. 
 
On May 13, 2022, Plaintiff Homeland
Insurance Company of New York (“Homeland”) filed this action against Defendants
Wesco and Westchester Surplus Lines (“Westchester”) seeking declaratory relief
requiring them to defend Permacity in the underlying lawsuit and to contribute
equally to Permacity’s defense. 
 
On July 25,
2022, Wesco filed a cross-complaint against Homeland for declaratory relief and
alleging that Homeland is not entitled to recover any amounts from Wesco to be
paid towards the defense or indemnity of Permacity under Homeland’s insurance
policy. 
 
On April 24,
2024, Homeland filed a Motion to Amend the Complaint, arguing: 
·       The Court has
confirmed that Wesco is obligated to share equally in the cost of defending
Permacity. However, in its Order dated March 19, 2024, the Court ruled that it
could not grant monetary relief in favor of Homeland as the case was currently
pled due to the absence of a cause of action for contribution.
·       Homeland now
seeks to amend its Complaint to include a contribution cause of action as well
as an equitable indemnity claim so that the Court can adjudicate fully the
rights and obligations of the parties in this lawsuit without need for
additional, duplicative litigation.
·       Homeland’s
proposed First Amended Complaint also deletes references to, and claims
previously asserted against, former Defendant Westchester Surplus Lines
Insurance Company (“Westchester”), who was dismissed from this lawsuit as the
result of a settlement
·       Wesco will
not be prejudiced by the proposed amendment because it eventually will be
required to face an adjudication regarding its financial obligations, and
judicial economy favors that the adjudication occur in this lawsuit rather than
in a separate, duplicative action. See Lincoln Property Co., 137 Cal.App.4th
at 916 (a court’s “discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of
amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in
the same lawsuit” (quoting Kittredge Sports Co., 213 Cal.App.3d at 1047)
 
In opposition, Wesco argues that:
·       Homeland unjustifiably delayed in seeking leave to amend. Homeland waited
three months to file this motion after Wesco notified Homeland that it must
plead a cause of action for contribution to recover a specific sum in this
action. Homeland fails to specify why it didn’t seek amendment earlier. 
·       Leave to
amend may be denied if there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay
in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. Hirsa v.
Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 390. Here, it is the significant
increase in the costs of preparation based on the new issues that will
prejudice Wesco if the FAC is permitted.
·       If the FAC is
filed, Homeland will need to reopen discovery to allow Wesco to retain an
expert witness, propound discovery and take depositions stemming from the
claimed damages. 
·       Homeland
should file a new properly-pled lawsuit to seek contribution when the claims
are fully ripe, at the proper time.
In reply, Homeland argues that:
·       Homeland did
not unreasonably delay in seeking to amend its Complaint once the Court ruled
on March 19, 2024, that it agreed with Wesco’s position that an equitable
contribution claim should be pled expressly. The day after that ruling,
Homeland reserved the earliest available hearing date on the Court’s calendar
for its Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint, which was May 21,
2024.2 Given that the parties litigated this matter and conducted discovery
throughout the life of this case as if the issue of defense cost allocation
would be decided, there was no reason for Homeland to seek an earlier amendment
 
On May 1, 2024, Wesco filed a motion to stay, arguing:
·       The remaining
claim for declaratory relief concerning the duty to indemnify is not ripe.
Since the Court cannot rule further until the Underlying Action is fully
resolved, a stay of this case is warranted and necessary to promote judicial economy
and avoid duplicative litigation. the Court will not need to use its valuable
time and resources conducting periodic status conferences or hearings in this
action and can instead focus its attention on cases that are ready for trial.
·       Even if
Homeland’s motion to amend is granted, a stay is warranted. 
o   Homeland has
filed a motion for leave to file an amended complaint in this action to include
claims for contribution and equitable indemnity. If a stay is not imposed, any
monetary judgment Homeland might obtain cannot possibly address the full extent
of any claimed damages given the ongoing nature of the Underlying Action—i.e.,
there is no possibility for this Court to award complete relief until and
unless the Underlying Action is fully and finally resolved.
 
In opposition, Homeland argues that:
·       A stay of
this lawsuit would only be appropriate if Wesco could show that deciding the
amount Homeland is entitled to recover from Wesco could involve making fact
determinations that might conflict with fact issues that must be decided in the
Sherlock Lawsuit
·       Wesco’s
position that Homeland must wait for the conclusion of the Sherlock Lawsuit,
and only then can it pursue a full adjudication of Wesco’s defense cost
obligations, ignores that the very purpose of declaratory judgment actions is
to allow courts to efficiently disputes that involve ongoing wrongs.
In reply, Wesco argues that:
·       The parties agree that Wesco has a duty to defend Permacity in the Underlying Action
·       In order for
Homeland to recover a specific amount from Wesco relative to the defense
obligation, Homeland will have the burden of proving that the amounts it has
incurred to defend Permacity are both reasonable and necessary. (Aerojet-General
Corp. v. Transport Indem. Co. (1997) 17 Ca1.4th 38, 64.) Thus, the Court
cannot make a determination regarding the "reasonable and necessary"
issue with respect to those costs which have not yet been incurred
·       Even if
Homeland is permitted to belatedly amend its complaint to add the missing
claims for contribution and equitable indemnity, such claims would similarly
not be ripe until and unless the Underlying Action is fully and finally
resolved because the amount of defense costs at issue continues to accrue
·       If the
parties were to proceed to trial to adjudicate Homeland's presently unpled
cause of action for contribution before the Underlying Action is final, any
monetary judgment Homeland might obtain could not possibly address the full
extent of any claimed damages given the ongoing nature of the Underlying
Action. The need for a stay of this action is evident
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Homeland’s Motion to Amend
 
a.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Homeland requests that the court take judicial notice of Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Wesco Insurance Company’s Memorandum in Opposition to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Homeland Insurance Company of New York’s Motion for Summary Adjudication.
 
The
court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ The Court may
take judicial notice of its own file. (See Stepan
v. Garcia (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.)
 
Homeland’s Request for Judicial Notice
is GRANTED.  
 
b.     Discussion
 
“A
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)  Such amendment may occur “at any time before or after
commencement of trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)  The court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of the
pleadings.  (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,
939.)¿ “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and [s]tate what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)¿
The declaration must also specify the amendment’s effect, why it is necessary
and proper, when the facts supporting the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(b).)¿ 
 
If
the party seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has
prejudiced the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to
amend.¿ (See Hirsa v. Super. Ct. (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)¿
Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,
resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.¿ (Solit
v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿¿ ¿¿ 
 
Here, Homeland
seeks to amend its Complaint to include a contribution cause of action as well
as an equitable indemnity claim. Homeland also seeks to delete references to,
and claims previously asserted against, former Defendant Westchester who was
dismissed from this lawsuit as the result of a settlement. 
 
Preliminarily, the Court finds Homeland has sufficiently complied with the various procedural
requirements outlined within California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324 (“Rule
3.1324”).  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324.)  Initially, as
enumerated within subdivision (a) of Rule 3.1324, Homeland has properly included a copy of the proposed First Amended
Complaint with the present Motion, and has specified the allegations which Homeland proposes to be added to the previous Complaint.  (Id.,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1), (a)(2).)  Further, as required within
subdivision (b) of Rule 3.1324, Homeland has filed a Supporting
Declaration which specifies the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is
necessary and proper and the reason why amendment was not requested
earlier.  
 
Wesco argues
that Homeland unduly delayed in seeking to amend the Complaint and that Wesco
will be prejudiced by the amendment. However, the Court disagrees. Homeland
asserts that the day after the Court’s March 19, 2024 ruling stating that
Homeland’s equitable contribution claim should be clearly pled as a cause of
action, Homeland reserved the earliest available hearing date on the Court’s
calendar for its Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint. Wesco also argues
it will be prejudiced by the increase in the costs of preparation of the new
claims. However as Homeland contends, even though the contribution cause of
action was not expressly pled, the parties had already engaged in discovery as
to the defense costs they had incurred in defending the underlying case. Further,
Wesco will eventually be required to reach an adjudication as to its financial
obligations and judicial economy favors that the adjudication occur in this
lawsuit rather than in a separate, duplicative action. See Lincoln Property
Co., 137 Cal.App.4th at 916 (a court’s “discretion should be exercised
liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters in the same lawsuit” (quoting Kittredge Sports Co., 213
Cal.App.3d at 1047)
 
For the foregoing reasons, Homeland’s motion to amend the first
amended complaint is GRANTED.
 
B.    
Wesco’s Motion to Stay
 
a.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Wesco requests that the court take judicial notice of the March
20, 2024 Notice of Minute Order from March 12, 2024 Status Conference including
Minute Order.
 
The
court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ The Court may
take judicial notice of its own file. (See Stepan
v. Garcia (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.)
 
Wesco’s Request for Judicial Notice is
GRANTED.  
 
b.     Discussion
 
Courts have broad discretion to stay cases in the interest of
efficiency and justice. Every court has the “inherent power, in its discretion,
to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice.” (See
St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company v. AmerisourceBergen Corp.
(2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 1, 6-7.)  The Code of Civil Procedure further empowers
every court to “provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it.”
(C.C.P. §128(a)(3); see C.C.P. §187 [conferring on courts and judicial
officers “all the means necessary” to carry out their jurisdiction].) 
 
Wesco requests the Court stay this action until the
underlying case is fully resolved. On March 19, 2024, the Court stated in its Minute
Order “[b]oth
parties agree that indemnification cannot yet be adjudicated because the
underlying case is not final.” (Court’s 03/19/24 Minute Order.) Further, the
Court stated that “without the underlying case final and cause(s) of action for
equitable contribution, the court cannot grant further relief in this action.”
(Ibid.) 
 
Homeland
argues that
a stay of this lawsuit would only be appropriate if Wesco could show that
deciding the amount Homeland is entitled to recover from Wesco could involve
making fact determinations that might conflict with fact issues that must be
decided in the underlying case. However, defense costs continue to accrue in
the underlying case. Therefore, the Court cannot award a specific monetary sum
until the underlying case is resolved. Since Homeland’s claims for and
equitable indemnity and contribution are not yet ripe, a stay of the action is
warranted in the interests of justice and judicial economy and efficiency
Wesco’s
motion to stay is GRANTED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Homeland’s
motion to amend the first amended complaint is GRANTED. Homeland is ordered to file the proposed First Amended
Complaint in ten (10) days. 
 
Wesco’s
motion to stay is GRANTED.