 Case Number:  22STCV08019    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  73 05/24/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
NEUMAN, et al. v. RYLAND (22STCV08019)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Fred
Szkolnik (Law Offices of Fred Szkolnik); Vadim Frish (Frish Law Group, APLC)
 
Counsel
for Defendant/opposing party:  Michael
Tenenbaum (The Office of Michael Tenenbaum); Thomas Rickeman (Brown Neri Smith
& Khan LLP)
 
Motion to COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA FOR RECORDS OF THIRD PARTY
WITNESS (filed 12/21/2023)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
The
Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Records of Third Party Witness is
DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
This case arises out of a complaint for elder abuse filed by
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Claudia Neuman against Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Evie Ryland (“Ryland”). In the Complaint,  
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Claudia Neuman alleges, among other things, that
Ryland exerted undue influence on Marian Neuman (“Decedent”), Claudia Neuman’s
stepmother, by secretly videotaping Decedent while intoxicated in an attempt to
record the Decedent stating she would leave Ryland in Decedent’s will as a
beneficiary.  
 
On April 15, 2022, Ryland filed a Cross-Complaint against Claudia
Neuman, Victoria Talbot Neuman (collectively, the “Neumans”), and Roes 1 to 10,
alleging that she had served without pay as a caregiver to Decedent for over
four years based on an agreement that the Decedent would provide for Ryland in
Decedent’s will.  The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1)
Services Rendered; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (3)
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.¿ 
 
On December
12, 2023, the Neumans filed a Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for
Records to Third Party Witness, arguing: 
·      
Ryland claims emotional distress damages, and so the Neumans
subpoenaed records from the Kohan Foundation who allegedly provided
psychological care. 
·      
Ryland failed to use proper outlets to oppose the subpoena, but
during an informal meet and confer process, the Neumans’ attorneys agreed to
allow Ryland’s counsel to have a first look at the subpoenaed records and to
redact information which, in good faith, is deemed to be subject to protection,
constituting psychotherapy notes or other statements that are not discoverable
or relevant to the subject matter of the action.
·      
The Neumans argue that Ryland abused the process by making
pervasive redactions which prevent the use of the records at trial. Because
Ryland and her attorneys have acted in bad faith in this matter, the Neumans
have no choice but to seek to enforce their duly issued and duly served
subpoena against the Kohan Foundation itself.
 
In opposition, Ryland argues that:
·       Cross-Defendants'
motion for sanctions and compliance should be denied it is entirely on the
grounds that it is in conflict with the informal discovery conference agreement
on January 17, 2024 where the parties agreed to permit counsel for a first look
at the notes submitted by the Kohan Foundation. (Wolfe Decl., 2.)
·       Kohan
Foundation complied with the subpoena. As agreed by the parties, Ryland counsel
informed the Cross-Defendants that said records were subject to substantial
redaction and forwarded those redacted documents to opposing counsel on January
29, 2024. (Wolfe Decl., 4, Exhibit "C".) All of the redactions
pertained to either information protected by individuals' privacy rights or
unrelated to the claims in the litigation.
In reply, Neumans argue that:
·      
The Neumans recognize that the Kohan Foundation did provide
records pursuant to an agreement to Ryland’s attorneys. The Neumans therefore
withdraw their sanctions request against the Kohan Foundation. The Neumans
still maintain their efforts to enforce the subpoena.
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard
 
“[D]iscovery
from a nonparty may be obtained only by ‘deposition subpoena’ (§ 2020.010,
subd. (b)).” (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123,
130, italics removed.)  
 
“If
a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. 
(a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of Orange
County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1032 [explaining that objections by a
nonparty constitute “the record of the deposition” and, therefore, a party has
60 days after receiving the objections to file a motion to compel].) 
 
“A
business records subpoena directs the nonparty’s custodian of records (or other
qualified person) to deliver the requested documents (in person, by messenger,
or by mail) to the ‘deposition officer’ specified in the subpoena.  (§
2020.430, subd. (a).)”  (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader, supra,
156 Cal.App.4th at p. 131.)   
 
“A
provider of health care, health care service plan, or contractor shall not
disclose medical information regarding a patient of the provider of health care
or an enrollee or subscriber of a health care service plan without first
obtaining an authorization, except as provided in subdivision (b) or
(c).”  (Civ. Code, § 56.10, subd.  (a).)  A provider of health
care, a health care service plan, or a contractor shall disclose medical
information if the disclosure is compelled “by a party to a proceeding before a
court … pursuant to a … subpoena duces tecum, notice to appear served pursuant
to Section 1987 of the Code of Civil Procedure, or any provision authorizing
discovery in a proceeding before a court ….” (Civ. Code, § 56, subd. 
(b)(1).) 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides that if a subpoena
requires the production of documents, the Court may, upon motion reasonably
made by a party, make an order “directing compliance with it upon those terms
or conditions as the court shall declare.”  (See also Civ. Code Proc., §
2025.480, subd.  (a) [providing that if a deponent fails to produce any
document “that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that…
production”].)  
 
“A
deposition subpoena that commands only the production of business records for
copying shall designate the business records to be produced either by
specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing
each category of item, and shall specify the form in which any electronically
stored information is to be produced, if a particular form is desired.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd.  (a).) 
 
B.    
Meet and Confer
 
A
motion compelling compliance with a deposition subpoena “shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd.  (b).) 
 
Here,
counsel for the Neumans submitted a meet and confer declaration stating that
counsel met and conferred about the Kohan Foundation’s compliance with the subpoena,
before the Neumans received the redacted records. (Ames Decl., ¶¶ 6-16.)
Thus, it does not appear the parties met and conferred to solve the issues regarding
the redacted records before filing the motion as required. The Court does not
find the moving party satisfied its meet and confer obligations. However, the
Court proceeds on the merits. 
 
 
The Neumans request the Court to compel nonparty Kohar
Foundation (“Kohar”) to comply with the Neumans’ subpoena demanding the
production of Ryland’s records.  
 
The Neumans submit their counsel’s declaration in support of
their motion attesting to the following facts. On October
17, 2023, a process server personally served the subpoena on the Kohan
Foundation with a production date of November 3, 2023. (Ames Decl., ¶ 5.) The same day, the parties agreed that any
records produced pursuant to the subpoenas be subject to a stipulated
protective order. (Ames Decl., ¶ 6.) On
November 21, 2023, Ryland’s attorneys sent a letter to the Kohan Foundation
asking for voluntary compliance with the subpoena. (Ames Decl., ¶ 8.) The parties further met and conferred and
agreed to limit the records to September 3, 2018. (Ames Decl., ¶ 13.) On December 19, 2023, Ryland’s attorney
stated in an email that he left a message with the Kohan Foundation directing
the release of the records pursuant to the agreed upon limitation. (Ames Decl.,
¶ 14.) On December 20, 2023, the Neumans’
attorney called the Kohan Foundation to request compliance with the subpoena,
however, someone who claimed to be the director of Kohar stated they would not
comply with the subpoena. (Ames Decl., ¶ 17.)
 
In opposition, Ryland contends that Kohan already complied
with the subpoena. Ryland argues that the Neuman’s motion should be denied
because it is in conflict with the parties’ agreement. Ryland’s counsel submits
a declaration stating that on January 17, 2024, counsel attended an informal hearing with the
court where it was agreed by counsel to permit Ryland’s counsel to have a first
look at the notes of Kohan Foundation for the purpose of possible redaction.
(Wolfe Decl., ¶ 2.) On January 25, 2024,
Ryland's counsel received the treatment records from the Kohan Foundation.
(Wolfe Decl., ¶ 3.) On January 29, 2024, said
redacted treatment records were transmitted to the Neumans’ counsel. (Wolfe
Decl., ¶ 4.) Although the Neumans argue that
the redactions on the records were pervasive, Ryland asserts that all of the
redactions pertained to either information protected by individuals' privacy
rights or were unrelated to the claims in the litigation.
 
Thus, the Court finds that Kohar properly complied with the Neumans’
subpoena and the requested records were sent to the Neumans with redactions
pursuant to the parties agreement. 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, the Neumans’ motion to compel is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
The
Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Records of Third Party Witness is
DENIED.