  Case Number:  20STCV34229    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  73 05/24/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND RESCUE LEAGUE,
INC., et al. v. GINOR, et al. (20STCV34229)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Bryan Pease
(Pease Law, APC); David Tenenbaum (Law Offices of G. David Tenenbaum); John
Maher (Law Offices of John Maher)
 
Counsel
for Defendants/opposing party:  Michael
Tenenbaum (The Office of Michael Tenenbaum); Thomas Rickeman (Brown Neri Smith
& Khan LLP)
 
PLAINTIFF’s Motion to amend complaint (filed 03/28/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to amend Complaint is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September
4, 2020, Plaintiffs Animal Protection and Rescue League, Inc. (“APRL”), and
Dina Kourda (“Kourda”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint.  The
operative pleading is the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) which alleges causes
of action for (1) Consumer Legal Remedies Act, (2) unfair business practices,
and (3) declaratory relief against Defendants Michael Ginor, Izzy Yanay, HVFG
LLC, D’Artagnan, Inc., D’Artagnan, LLC, Ariane Daguin, Andy Wertheim, Bella
Bella Gourmet Foods LLC, La Belle Farm, Inc., Herman Lee, French Laundry
Partners, L.P., Thomas Keller, Michael’s Gourmet Pantry, Inc.,  MGP
Specialty Foods, J. Michael Stamm, and Cathy Stamm, Tyler Charman, Brian
Redzikowski, Matthew Spencer, Kettner House LP, SDCM Inc., and Petrossian, Inc. 
 
Plaintiffs
filed the instant lawsuit to enjoin the sale of foie gras, i.e., fattened duck
liver, which is obtained from forced fed duck and geese, and which violates
Health & Safety Code section 25982.  Plaintiffs also seek to enjoin
false and misleading statements made by Defendants regarding the foie
gras.  
 
On March 28,
2024, Plaintiff APRL filed a Motion to Amend the Complaint, arguing: 
·       APRL moves
for an order amending the operative complaint to substitute
successor-in-interest Laurie Ginor for deceased Defendant Michael Ginor
pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1324(d).
·       Laurie Ginor
is successor in interest to Michael Ginor, her deceased spouse. (Declaration of
Attorney Bryan Pease (“Pease Decl.”) ¶¶ 2-3.) 
·       There has
been an ongoing course of conduct which after the death of Michael Ginor in
2022 was carried on by Laurie Ginor. (Pease Decl., ¶4.) This is the conduct
that Plaintiff seeks to enjoin and the owners of HVFG, LLC must continue to be
named for complete relief to be granted. If the Court were only to grant relief
as to HVFG, LLC, relief against that entity would not prevent Laurie Ginor from
simply forming a new entity and carrying on the same unfair business practices.
(Ibid.)
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that:
·       APRL provides
no authority for its proclamation that a claim for injunctive relief somehow
survives the death of a defendant. A deceased party obviously cannot engage in
conduct that is “ongoing or likely to recur,” and thus the claim cannot survive
against him.
·       APRL has
provided no explanation as to how Laurie Ginor is Mr. Ginor’s
“successor-in-interest” with respect to APRL’s claim in this action. This is
not an action for damages. Ms. Ginor cannot be a successor-in-interest to the
conduct of her late husband.
·       APRL has no
evidence or even proposed allegations that Ms. Ginor could be liable under the
UCL as the “successor-in-interest” to Mr. Ginor.
·       APRL also
fails to explain why it waited nearly 17 months to seek to amend its already
twice-amended complaint. 
In reply, APRL argues that:
·       The amendment
is necessary for complete relief. 
·       Laurie Ginor
is the successor in interest to Michael Ginor and is continuing the business
practices at issue.
·       Plaintiff
does not seek to file a whole new amended complaint. Plaintiff merely seeks to
amend the current operative complaint by adding the words “LAURIE STRAW GINOR,
successor in interest to” before the words “MICHAEL GINOR” where it appears in
just two places. This would substitute Laurie Ginor for deceased Michael Ginor
and ensure that any relief ordered by the Court applies to both current owners
of HVFG, LLC (the other owner being coDefendant Izzy Yanay.) Plaintiff asserts
that the individual Defendants are directly and personally responsible for
engaging in the unfair business practices alleged and must be enjoined.
·       Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s motion should have been brought sooner. Had Plaintiff done
so, Defendants surely would have argued it was unseemly at such a time and
still accuse Plaintiff of “harassing the Ginor family,” this time while they
were grieving.
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard
 
A
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)  Such amendment may occur “at any time before or after
commencement of trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)  The court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of the
pleadings.  (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,
939.)¿ “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and [s]tate what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)¿
The declaration must also specify the amendment’s effect, why it is necessary
and proper, when the facts supporting the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(b).)¿ “An amendment to a pleading must not be made by alterations on the
face of a pleading except by permission of the court. All alterations must be
initialed by the court or the clerk.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(d).)
¿ 
If
the party seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has
prejudiced the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to
amend.¿ (See Hirsa v. Super. Ct. (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)¿
Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,
resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.¿ (Solit
v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿¿ ¿¿ 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Here, APRL moves to
amend the Second Amended Complaint to substitute the successor in interest to
Defendant Michael Ginor, who is now deceased. 
 
In support, APRL submits the declaration of its attorney,
Bryan Pease, who states “Defendant Michael Ginor was the spouse of Laurie Ginor” and that
Ms. Ginor’s Facebook page admitted “that she is the co-owner of Hudson Valley
Foie Gras, which is the trade name of Defendant HVFG, LLC.” (Pease Decl., ¶¶
2-3.) However, the Court notes that APRL provides no explanation as to how
Laurie Ginor is Mr. Ginor’s “successor-in-interest” with respect to APRL’s
claim in this action. 
 
In addition, APRL
also fails to comply with Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(b) which requires the declaration to provide when the facts supporting
the amended allegations were discovered and why the request was not made
earlier. APRL does not explain why it waited nearly 17 months to seek to
amend its Complaint, after the close of discovery and three months before
trial. 
Further, APRL does not cite to any authority to support its
contention that a claim for injunctive relief survives the death of a
defendant. APRL cites to Herring v. Peterson (1981) 116 Cal. App. 3d
608, 611-612, in support of the statement that “[w]here a defendant dies and no
personal representative is substituted, any judgment rendered is in excess of
the court's jurisdiction to try the case.” However, in Herring, the
court discussed that a cause of action for personal injuries survives the
death of the defendant. Here, the claim is for injunctive relief and APRL does
not provide any support that such a claim could survive against a
successor-in-interest. Thus, the Court does not find APRL has established that amending
the Second Amended Complaint is warranted. 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s motion to amend the second amended complaint
is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to amend the second amended complaint is DENIED.