 Case Number:  21STCV29664    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  73 05/24/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
THE MACHINE GROUP, INC. v. NC
DYNAMICS LLC (21STCV29644)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant:  Albro
Lundy III (Baker, Burton & Lundy PC)
 
Counsel
for Defendant/Cross-Complainant:  Jeffrey
Goodfried (Saul Ewin LLP)
 
(1)   DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT’S MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT (filed 02/29/2024)
 
(2)   PLAINTIFF’s Motion to COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION SET 4 (filed 04/02/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
motion for leave to file the Second
Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant/Cross-Complainant is
ordered to file the proposed Second Amended Cross-Complaint in ten (10) days. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
motion to compel is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
August 11, 2021, Plaintiff The Machine Group (“TMG”) filed this action against
Defendant NC Dynamics.
 
This
case concerns a contract dispute for the sale and underperformance of
specialized machinery.  NC Dynamics, the Defendant/Cross-Complainant, is a
full-service manufacturing facility that manufactures products for aerospace
companies.  (FACC ¶ 5.)  According to NC Dynamics, NC Dynamics took
steps to upgrade the manufacturing process in regard to an existing contract it
had with Bombardier Aerostructures (“Bombardier”).  (FACC ¶ 8.)  As
part of that process, NC Dynamics requested bids from three companies to sell
manufacturing equipment to NC Dynamics.  (FACC ¶ 9.)  NC Dynamics
also requested the companies to conduct time studies to establish the running
time for the construction of specific titanium parts for the Bombardier
contract.  (FACC ¶ 10.)   
 
 TMG, the Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant in this
case, was one of the three companies to submit a bid, but the only company that
offered to sell an upcoming machine from another company called OKK. 
(FACC ¶ 9.)  OKK conducted the time study. (FACC ¶ 11, 14.)  NC
Dynamics contend that TMG ultimately won the bid based on a guarantee made by
TMG President Richard Wackeen (“Wackeen”) that the parts would be manufactured
in ten hours with the OKK machine (FACC ¶ 11) and also upon the
misrepresentation that OKK was aware that Wackeen was guaranteeing a ten hour
running time (FACC ¶¶ 12, 16).   
 
NC
Dynamics and TMG entered into two contracts for the purchase of two OKK
machines.  (FACC ¶¶ 17, 18.)  The machines failed to construct the
parts in the contracted ten-hour running time, and multiple attempts were made
to reduce the running time.  (FACC ¶¶ 20-23.)  Because of the slow
running time, NC Dynamics contend that they were forced to purchase a third
machine from TMG to meet its production needs for the Bombardier
contract.  (FACC ¶ 26.)  NC Dynamics further allege that TMG
continued to guarantee that the OKK machines would achieve the ten-hour running
time despite knowing the OKK machine could do so.  (FACC ¶¶ 29-30.) 
NC Dynamics later learned that six weeks before the parties entered into the
third contract, a TMG manager named Jim McCulloch (“McCulloch”) admitted in an
email that the OKK machines would never achieve a running time.  (FACC ¶
29.)  McCulloch was present to witness the final run of the OKK machines,
which at the lowest point exceeded 24 hours.  (FACC ¶ 32.)  As a
result of the running time, NC Dynamics contend that they lost Bombardier, and
others, as a current and future customer.  (FACC ¶ 31.)  
 
On
August 1, 2022, NC Dynamics alleged the following causes of action in its First
Amended Cross Complaint: (1) breach of contract; (2) fraud in the inducement;
(3) negligence; (4) intentional interference with contractual relations; (5)
intentional interference with prospective economic relations; (6) negligent
interference with prospective economic relations; and (7) breach of warranty of
fitness for particular purpose.
 
On February 2,
2024, NC Dynamics filed a Motion for leave to file second amended Cross-Complaint,
arguing: 
·       Recently, in
January 2024, NC Dynamics conducted the deposition of the US subsidiary of the
manufacturer, Nidec OKK USA Corporation (“OKK”). OKK’s recent deposition
revealed that contrary to NC Dynamics’ initial understanding of the facts, OKK
became aware that its dealer, TMG, guaranteed the 10 hour run time under the
Guaranteed Time Provision, but knew that the guaranteed time could never be
achieved because TMG and its agent, 5th Axis, committed a crucial error in
setting up and programming the OKK Machine.
·       OKK
fraudulently concealed TMG’s gross negligence from NC Dynamics and instead
allowed NC Dynamics to purchase the Third OKK Machine and proceed down the
doomed path of expending more time, money, and labor in attempting to make the
vertical design work, all the while further damaging NC Dynamics’ contractual
relationship with its customer, Bombardier Belfast. Beyond that, OKK conspired
with TMG to attempt to blame NC Dynamics for the OKK Machines’ failure to meet
the guaranteed run time, all of which was done to force NC Dynamics to pay the
full price without giving NC Dynamics any of the promised discounts.
·       NC Dynamics
is seeking leave of Court to file its Second Amended Cross-Complaint, which
asserts claims against OKK in addition to TMG.
 
No opposition was filed.
 
On April 2, 2024, TMG filed a motion to compel further discovery
responses, arguing:
·       The discovery
at issue seeks programming, correspondence, and related items regarding the use
of the HMX-8000s by NC Dynamics, regarding the programming of part 7108,
programming of other parts on the machines, regarding plans to purchase
hard-metal manufacturing machines, regarding the capabilities of the machines,
and regarding fixturing of the machines at issue.
·       Initial
responses by the Defendant were boilerplate objections to each of 19 Requests
for Production.
·       Further
Responses were eventually provided, with a production on February 15, which
limited the scope of the production to documents that NC Dynamics believes are
relevant to Bombardier Belfast and to making part 7108 on the HMX-8000s. NC
Dynamics now refuses to provide documents concerning certain issues.
·       The discovery
is critical to learn relevant information concerning the Defendant’s statements
about the machines at issue, as well as how they manufactured other parts for
other customers on those machines.
·       TMG requests
sanctions.
 
In opposition, NC Dynamics argues that:
·       TMG’s motion
is time barred. The Court lacks jurisdiction to consider TMG’s late-filed
motion.
·       TMG’s motion
should also be denied for failing to meet and confer regarding all disputes
raised in its motion. 
·       Further, the
documents sought by TMG are irrelevant or have already been produced
In reply, TMG argues that:
·       The timing of a motion regarding deficient document production should be
calculated from the date of the deficient document production.  
·       TMG had satisfied its meet and confer obligations. 
·       TMG maintains the requested documents are relevant. 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
NC Dynamic’s Motion to Amend
 
a.     Discussion
 
“A
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)  Such amendment may occur “at any time before or after commencement
of trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)  The court’s discretion will
usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of the pleadings.  (Nestle
v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939.)¿ “A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and [s]tate what allegations
are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.”¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)¿ The declaration must also specify the
amendment’s effect, why it is necessary and proper, when the facts supporting
the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request was not made
earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)¿ 
 
If
the party seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has
prejudiced the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to
amend.¿ (See Hirsa v. Super. Ct. (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)¿
Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,
resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.¿ (Solit
v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿¿ ¿¿ 
 
Here, NC Dynamics
seeks to amend its First Amended Cross-Complaint to asserts claims against OKK
in addition to TMG.
 
Preliminarily, the Court finds NC Dynamics has sufficiently complied with the various procedural
requirements outlined within California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324 (“Rule
3.1324”).  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324.)  Initially, as
enumerated within subdivision (a) of Rule 3.1324, NC Dynamics has properly included a copy of the proposed Second Amended Cross-Complaint
with the present Motion, and has specified the allegations which NC Dynamics proposes to be added to the previous Complaint.  (Id.,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1), (a)(2).)  Further, as required within
subdivision (b) of Rule 3.1324, NC Dynamics has
filed a Supporting Declaration.
 
In NC Dyamics’ declaration, it asserts that in January 2024, NC Dynamics
conducted the deposition of the US subsidiary of OKK. OKK’s recent deposition
revealed that contrary to NC Dynamics’ initial understanding of the facts, OKK
in fact had actual knowledge that TMG agreed to the Guaranteed Time Provision
and guaranteed that the OKK Machines could machine the Specific Part within the
10 hour run time.
(Goodfried Decl., ¶ 9.) However, instead of promptly warning
NC Dynamics of the gross negligence being committed by TMG, OKK allowed NC
Dynamics to purchase the Third Machine causing NC Dynamics to suffer years of
delay, incur hundreds of thousands of dollars in employee time and costs, and
ultimately proximately causing NC Dynamics to lose its contract with Bombardier
Belfast. (Goodfried Decl.,
¶ 12.) Given these recent revelations, NC Dynamics seeks to assert claims
against OKK for conspiring with TMG to defraud NC Dynamics,
wrongfully depriving NC Dynamics of its contractual discounts, and tortiously
interfering with its business relationship with Bombardier Belfast. The Court
finds NC Dynamics has sufficiently specified
the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when
the facts supporting the amended allegations were discovered, and the reason why amendment was not requested
earlier.  
 
No opposition has been filed. The trial date in this matter
is set for February 10, 2025. The Court does not find the proposed amendment
would delay trial or prejudice the opposing party. 
 
For the foregoing reasons, NC Dynamic’s motion for leave to file
the Second Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
 
B.    
TMG’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses
 
a.    
Legal Standard

 
A party may make a demand for production of documents and propound
interrogatories without leave of court at any time. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (a).) The demand for
production of documents is not limited by number, but the request must comply
with the formatting requirements in Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.030. A party
may propound 35 specially prepared interrogatories that are relevant to the
subject matter of the pending action and any additional number of official form
interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a)(1) - (a)(2).) 
¿¿¿ 
The party whom the request is propounded upon is required to
respond within 30 days after service of a demand, but the parties are allowed
to informally agree to an extension and confirm any such agreement in writing.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd.
(a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.270, subd. (a) - (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.270,
subd. (a) - (b).)
 
b.     Timeliness
 
As an initial matter, NC Dynamics argues that TMG’s Motion to
Compel is time-barred and the Court lacks jurisdiction to consider TMG’s late
filed motion. 
 
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be served
within 45 days after verified responses were served (extended per the method of
service), unless the parties agree in writing to extend the time. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§¿2030.300(c), 2031.310(c).) Noncompliance with these requirements
waives the right to compel further responses. (Ibid.) The 45-day time limit is mandatory
and jurisdictional, and the court has no authority to grant a late-filed
motion. (Sexton v. Superior Ct. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1409–10.)
 
Here, NC
Dynamics served its Verified Supplemental Responses to TMG’s 4th Set of
Document Requests on January 31, 2024. Thus, NC Dynamics asserts that TMG had
45 days after to file its Motion to Compel, by March 19, 2024. However, TMG did
not file its motion until April 2, 2024. Thus, TMG’s motion is untimely.
In
opposition, TMG argues that the 45-day deadline should run from the date of
production, as opposed to the date of the verified written supplemental
responses. Here, NC Dynamics served its further production on February 15, 2024.
Therefore, TMG argues it had until April 2, 2024 to file its motion.
However, the
Court does not find TMG’s argument persuasive. Not only does TMG fail to cite
to any authority or case law in support of its contention, but California Civil
Procedure Code § 2031.310(c) specifies that motions to compel further responses
must be served within 45 days after verified responses were served. Here,
verified responses were served on January 31, 2024. Further, it is undisputed that the parties
did not extend the motion to compel further deadline. Thus, the Court
finds TMG’s motion is untimely. Since the Court finds TMG’s motion is
time-barred, the Court does not discuss the other arguments raised in the
motion.
Accordingly, the Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses is
DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
motion for leave to file the Second
Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant/Cross-Complainant is
ordered to file the proposed Second Amended Cross-Complaint in ten (10) days. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
motion to compel is DENIED.