 Case Number:  21STCV20240    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV20240




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reclassify




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Witeby Enterprises 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Chiquita Randle 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 28, 2021, Plaintiff Chiquita Randle (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Witeby Enterprises, 1661, Inc., and Does 1 to 50
for negligence and premises liability surrounding a trip and fall in a parking
lot. Plaintiff designated the case as unlimited. The complaint prays for
special and general damages and loss of earnings/earning capacity. (Complaint,
7.) 
 
On May 9, 2024, Defendant Witeby Enterprises (“Defendant”) filed the
instant motion to reclassify this case as one of limited jurisdiction. On May
13, 2024, co-defendant 1661, Inc. filed a joinder to the motion. Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
403.040 states:
“(a) The plaintiff,
cross-complainant, or petitioner may file a motion for reclassification within
the time allowed for that party to amend the initial pleading. The defendant or
cross-defendant may file a motion for reclassification within the time allowed
for that party to respond to the initial pleading. The court, on its own
motion, may reclassify a case at any time. A motion for reclassification does
not extend the moving party's time to amend or answer or otherwise respond. The
court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification,
regardless of any fault or lack of fault, if the case has been classified in an
incorrect jurisdictional classification.
(b) If a party files a motion for
reclassification after the time for that party to amend that party's initial
pleading or to respond to a complaint, cross-complaint, or other initial
pleading, the court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification
only if both of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The case is incorrectly
classified.
(2) The moving party shows good
cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.” 
 
For a limited civil case, “[t]he
amount in controversy does not exceed thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000).
As used in this section, ‘amount in controversy’ means the amount of the
demand, or the recovery sought, or the value of the property, or the amount of
the lien, that is in controversy in the action, exclusive of attorneys' fees,
interest, and costs.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 85(a).)[1] 
 
In Walker
v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, the California Supreme Court held
“a matter may be transferred when: (1) the absence of jurisdiction is apparent
before trial from the complaint, petition, or related documents, or (2) during
the course of pretrial litigation, it becomes clear that the matter will
necessarily result in a verdict below the superior court jurisdictional amount
and the court affords the parties an opportunity to contest the transfer.” (Walker,
supra, 53 Cal.3d at 262.) A matter may be reclassified from
unlimited to limited only if it appears to a legal certainty that the
plaintiff's damages will necessarily be less than $25,000. (Walker, supra,
53 Cal.3d at 262.) If there is a possibility that the damages will exceed
$25,000.00, the case cannot be transferred to limited. (Ibid.) This high
standard is appropriate in light of “the circumscribed procedures and recovery available
in the limited civil courts.” (Ytuarte v. Superior Court (2005) 129
Cal.App.4th 266, 278.)   
The test is
whether lack of jurisdiction is clear or virtually unattainable. (Walker, supra, 53 Cal.3d at 269.)
This standard involves an evaluation of the amount fairly in controversy, not
an adjudication of the merits of the claim, and requires a “high level of
certainty that [the] damage award will not exceed $25,000.” (Id.) The
trial court may believe it highly unlikely that plaintiff will recover the
amount demanded, but this is not enough to defeat jurisdiction, unless it
appears to a legal certainty that plaintiff cannot recover the amount of the
demand. (Id. at 270.)
In
deciding whether a matter should be transferred, a trial court must look beyond
the pleadings but not so far as to trespass into the province of the trier of
fact. Pain and suffering are not subject to precise measurement by any scale,
and their translation into money damages is peculiarly the function of the
trier of the fact. (Maldonado v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th
397, 401.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant argues this case should be reclassified as limited because
all of Plaintiff’s medical expenses have been paid by workers’ compensation and
Defendant purchased Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation lien of approximately
$8,500 on June 29, 2021. (Lorasbi Decl. ¶ 6.) As a result, Defendant appears to
argue that since Plaintiff is not responsible for the workers’ compensation
lien and all expenses have been paid for, she cannot reach the $35,000 limit. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to address Plaintiff’s
claims of $12,410.90 in past medical expenses, $16,800 in lost earnings, the
need for additional treatment for the remainder of her life, accommodations for
her job, and general damages for pain and suffering. (Opp., 4.)
 
Based on the information provided, Defendant fails to show that to a
legal certainty, Plaintiff cannot recover at least $35,000. “[A] personal
injury plaintiff may recover the lesser of (a) the amount paid or incurred for
medical services, and (b) the reasonable value of the services.” (Howell v.
Hamilton Meats & Provisions, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 541,
555–556.) Therefore, Defendant fails to show that Plaintiff cannot
recover for the expenses paid by workers’ compensation, or that the lien it
purchased represents all of her expenses. Defendant presents no evidence that
Plaintiff is fully recovered, especially considering she is alleging future
expenses and general damages. Defendant does not adequately address this in its
reply. 
 
Additionally, this motion was brought after the time to file
Defendant’s initial pleading. Defendant has not shown good cause for not
seeking reclassification sooner. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion to reclassify is DENIED.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


