 Case Number:  21STCV35189    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV35189




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Elia Rosa Mercado Leiva 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Red Bull
  North America, Inc., Red Bull Distribution Company, Inc., and Mickey Vasquez



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
September 24, 2021 Plaintiff Elia Rosa Mercado Leiva (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Mickey Vasquez (“Vasquez”), Red Bull North
America, Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for negligence resulting from a motor vehicle
accident that occurred on April 30, 2021. Vasquez was allegedly operating a
vehicle while in the scope of employment with Red Bull. Plaintiff also alleges
that Red Bull negligently “operated, owned, entrusted, managed, maintained,
and/or repaired the subject motor vehicle.” (Complaint, 6.) On August 16, 2022,
Plaintiff filed amendments to the complaint, substituting Red Bull Distribution
Company, Inc. as Does 1, 11, 21, and 31.  
 
Defendants Red Bull North America, Inc., Red Bull Distribution Company,
Inc., and Mickey Vasquez (“Defendants”) served a subpoena on non-party
California Department of Motor Vehicles (“DMV”), with a production date on May
6, 2024. 
 
 Plaintiff now moves to quash
the subpoena, arguing that it is irrelevant, overly board, and violates her
right of privacy. Defendants oppose and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a) states: 
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before
a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person. 
 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of
privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the
provision's central concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, [the
California Supreme Court] established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
[Citation omitted.] The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations. [citation
omitted].” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533 [citing
Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35].) 
 
“[Prior] cases correctly recognize that when a discovery request seeks
information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery
simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test
for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion. [Citation omitted.] But
they also stand for the proposition that whenever discovery of facially private
information is sought, the party seeking discovery must demonstrate a “
‘compelling state interest’ ” [citation omitted] or “compelling need” [citation
omitted]. Although in this they are not alone [citation omitted], they
nevertheless are incorrect.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556.) “To
the extent prior cases require a party seeking discovery of private information
to always establish a compelling interest or compelling need, without regard to
the other considerations articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn., [citation omitted], they are disapproved.” (Id. at 557.)
 
“Only obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy
must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th
at 556.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the
countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information
var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the
seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and
protective measures.” (Id.) “The trial courts in exercising their
discretion should keep in mind that the Legislature has suggested that, where
possible, the court should impose partial limitations rather than outright
denial of discovery.” (Id. at 559 [quotation omitted].)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the
court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees,
if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).)
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
Additionally,
“The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden,
expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood
that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
The court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order
by a party or other affected person. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.020(a).) 
 
The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.020(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
The subject subpoena seeks the following information: “Any and all
records, documents and reports with regard to the complete vehicle ownership
and registration history of the above vehicle from first date of sale to
present. This request also includes the names and addresses of all the current
and prior registered owners, pursuant to Vehicle Code §1808.22(d).” The
subpoena also seeks (among other things) all registration certificates,
renewals, photographs, documents pertaining to any motor vehicle accidents. 
 
Regarding Plaintiff specifically, the subpoena seeks “any and all
documents, records, and reports regarding the driving record of the above
referenced driver’s license number, including but not limited to: “1.
Applications for driver's license or identification card; 2. Citations; 3.
Suspension Orders; 4. Computer printouts regarding driving history for all
dates in your computer system; 5. Notice of Findings and Decision; 6.
Correspondence pursuant to Health and Safety Code § 103900 concerning this
driver; and 7. Any other documents pertaining in any way to the individual
identified above.” (Pl. Exh. A.) 
 
A. Relevance and Admissibility 
 
Plaintiff first argues the information requested is irrelevant to show
negligence on the day of the incident. However, Plaintiff only discusses cases
involving admissibility of such evidence, and not whether it is discoverable. (See
Davies v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301 [“It is settled that
admissibility is not prerequisite to discovery.”].) In opposition, Defendants
have set forth that the evidence of Plaintiff’s vehicle is necessary for its accident
reconstruction expert. They also assert the information regarding Plaintiff
will inform them whether Plaintiff’s driving practices have changed since the
accident (as she claims), and whether Plaintiff has a condition that could
reveal pre-existing conditions (such as loss of consciousness). However, the
Court finds that Defendant has failed to justify the reason for number 7 “Any
other documents pertaining in any way to the individual identified above.”
Seeing as the subpoena is already limited to documents regarding Plaintiff’s
driving record, this appears to be overbroad.
 
As a result, the subpoena must be modified by striking “7. Any other
documents pertaining in any way to the individual identified above.” 
 
Next, Plaintiff argues that the information could potentially be used
as character evidence. “Admissibility is not the test, and it is sufficient if
the information sought might reasonably lead to other, admissible evidence. (Irvington–Moore,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 733, 738–739, 18 Cal.Rptr.2d
49 [a party may use multiple methods to obtain discovery and the fact that
information was disclosed under one method is not, by itself, a proper basis to
refuse to provide discovery under another method].)” (TBG Ins. Services
Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 449.) Additionally, it
appears the records could provide information regarding Plaintiff’s medical
conditions that affect her driving, and information about her vehicle to aid
Defendants’ expert. Therefore, Plaintiff’s argument regarding admissibility is
unpersuasive since the information appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. Similarly, Plaintiff’s arguments that she has already
provided her medical information is unpersuasive, since Defendants may seek
discovery using multiple methods. 
 
B. Privacy 
 
Plaintiff
asserts multiple grounds for quashing the instant subpoena based on privacy. 
 
i. Health and Safety Code section
103900
 
Plaintiff argues that the request for information related to Health
and Safety Code section 103900 is improper and violates her privacy. (Motion,
10.) This section requires every physician and surgeon to “report immediately
to the local health officer in writing, the name, date of birth, and address of
every patient at least 14 years of age or older whom the physician and surgeon
has diagnosed as having a case of a disorder characterized by lapses of consciousness.”
(Health & Saf. Code § 103900(a).) The local health officer is then required
to report this information to the DMV. (Id. § 103900(b).) Pertinent to
this motion, “[t]hese reports shall be for the information of the Department of
Motor Vehicles in enforcing the Vehicle Code, and shall be kept confidential
and used solely for the purpose of determining the eligibility of any person to
operate a motor vehicle on the highways of this state.” (Id. §
103900(c).) 
 
Though the statute says this information will be kept “confidential”,
Plaintiff provides no authority that section 103900 prevents the information
from being disclosed as part of a valid subpoena in discovery. (See Los
Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Trustees of Southern California IBEW-NECA
Pension Plan (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 621, 630–31 [“[T]o qualify for absolute
privilege within the meaning of Evidence Code section 1040, a statute must do
more than merely make information confidential or limit its disclosure to the
public. Rather, the language or structure of the statute must evince a
legislative intent to bar disclosure even in the context of litigation. . . . Moreover,
the Legislature has demonstrated that when it intends to preclude information
from discovery, it is capable of saying so.”].) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff fails to show this section requires the subpoena
to be quashed. 
 
            ii. Information
Practices Act, Driver’s Privacy Protection Act
 
Plaintiff argues the subpoena violates the Information Practices Act
under Civil Code section 1798.24 and the federal Driver’s Privacy Protection
Act. However, Civil Code section 1798.24 states in relevant part, “An agency
shall not disclose any personal information in a manner that would link the
information disclosed to the individual to whom it pertains unless the
information is disclosed, as follows: . . . (k) To any person pursuant to a
subpoena, court order, or other compulsory legal process if, before the
disclosure, the agency reasonably attempts to notify the individual to whom the
record pertains, and if the notification is not prohibited by law.” 
 
Similarly, the Driver’s Privacy Protection Act provides for an
exception: “Personal information referred to in subsection (a) shall be
disclosed for use in connection with matters of motor vehicle or driver safety
and theft . . . and, subject to subsection (a)(2), may be disclosed as follows:
. . . For use in connection with any civil, criminal, administrative, or
arbitral proceeding in any Federal, State, or local court or agency or before
any self-regulatory body, including the service of process, investigation in
anticipation of litigation . . . .” (18 U.S.C. § 2721(b)(4).) 
 
Therefore, because the information here is sought by a subpoena in
connection with a lawsuit, Plaintiff fails to show that these provisions apply.

 
            iii. Vehicle
Code
 
As for Vehicle Code section 1808.5, Plaintiff fails to show that it
prevents disclosure of records in response to a properly served subpoena. (Department
of Motor Vehicles v. Superior Court (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 363, 366 [holding
section 1808.5 does not create a privilege, independent of Evidence Code
section 1040, to withhold information required to be produced by subpoena].)
 
iv. Constitutional Privacy Right  
 
To
the extent Plaintiff argues that the records contain health information, the
Court notes a party’s medical records are privileged under the
patient-physician privilege. (See Hale v. Superior Court (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1421, 1424.)¿ However, where the party filing an action has
arguably waived the privacy in their protected or privileged information by
filing a lawsuit, the waiver must be narrowly construed such that discovery is
only permitted of those matters directly relevant to the party’s claims. (Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 858-859.) Notwithstanding,
the party still has privacy rights as to physical and mental conditions
unrelated to the claimed injury.¿ (See id. at 864; Heller v. Norcal
Mutual Insurance Co. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 30, 44.)¿ 
 
Here,
Defendants appear to seek Plaintiff’s past medical information to see if she
has a history of experiencing loss of consciousness while driving. (Opp., 3.)
The subpoena does not seek all of Plaintiff’s medical information, but only
correspondences under section 103900. Therefore, it appears to be limited to
Plaintiff’s claimed injuries.[1] 
 
As the
party seeking to invoke the privacy right, Plaintiff has the burden to
establish the Hill factors. Plaintiff has not done so. Based on the
information above, the countervailing interests of disclosure outweigh the
privacy concerns.
 
The Court
denies the request for a blanket protective order, as Plaintiff has
not shown that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery outweighs the
likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Nonetheless, the Court would consider a protective order limiting
disclosure of information. The parties are ordered to meet and confer.
 
Plaintiff does not request monetary sanctions. Additionally, since the
motion is granted in part, the Court declines to award sanctions to either
party. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants
in part Plaintiff’s motion to quash the subpoena. The subpoena will be modified
by striking “7. Any other documents pertaining in any way to the
individual identified above.” The Court otherwise denies the motion.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 
 


