 Case Number:  21STCV25360    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV25360




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions, Set Three
(2)
  Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Lotus Property Services, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Marquise Gaines 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 9, 2021, Plaintiff Marquise Gaines (Plaintiff) filed this
action against Defendants Alice Chan, Lotus Property Services Inc., and Does 1
to 10 for negligence after a bathroom ceiling allegedly collapsed on his head. 
 
On January 8, 2024, Defendant Lotus Property Services, Inc.
(“Defendant”) propounded Requests for Admissions, Set Three and Special
Interrogatories, Set Two on Plaintiff. Plaintiff served responses on February
9, 2024. 
 
Defendant moves to compel further responses to Requests for
Admissions, Set Three numbers 13 to 17. Defendant also asserts that Plaintiff’s
“Introductory Statement” is improper. Defendant seeks sanctions against
Plaintiff and counsel. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies.
 
Defendant also separately moves to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two, numbers 24–32. Defendant also seeks monetary
sanctions. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Defendant scheduled an informal discovery conference (IDC) pursuant to
the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. On June 3, 2023, an IDC was called
and Plaintiff did not appear. Defendant has met the IDC requirement. (Min.
Order, 6/3/24.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.
Compel Further Requests for Admissions 
 
A. Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply: 
 
(1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete. 
(2) An objection to a particular request is without merit
or too general. 
 
The court shall
impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.290(d).)  
 
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.210,
“(a) The party to whom requests for
admission have been directed shall respond in writing under oath separately to
each request.
(b) Each response shall answer the
substance of the requested admission, or set forth an objection to the particular
request.” 
 
            B. Discussion
 
Here,
Request for Admissions, Set Three ask for admissions regarding photographs
discussed in Plaintiff’s deposition, including the identity of the
photographer, when they were taken, and whether Plaintiff was present. Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s objections are boilerplate and meritless. 
 
To
all the Requests, Plaintiff responded as follows: 
 
“Objection. Irrelevant. The
information sought in this discovery request is irrelevant to the subject
matter and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Objection. This discovery request
seeks attorney work product in violation of Code of Civil Procedure sections
2018.020 and 2018.030.” 
 
Additionally,
Plaintiff included an “Introductory Statement” asserting blanket objections to
all the responses, based on attorney client privilege, work product, and right
of privacy. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff provides no facts to support any of the objections stated. After
reviewing the discovery requests, the Court finds the objections to be too
general and without merit. Additionally, the “Introductory Statement” is
improper because all objections must be stated under the individual requests
and tailored to that particular request. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.210(a)–(b).) As a
result, the motion to compel further responses to Request for Admissions, Set
Three, is granted. 
 
Defendant seeks $935.00
in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and counsel, representing a $250 hourly
rate and the $60 filing fee. (Humphrey Decl. ¶ 9.) The Court finds sanctions
are warranted, and therefore grants $935 in monetary sanctions.
 
II. Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
 
            A. Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that “on
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: 
 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.” 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion is given
within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)  
 
            B. Discussion 
 
            Special Interrogatories, Set Two, numbers
24 to 29 pertain to photographs identified in Plaintiff’s deposition, and
request the identity of the photographers and people present while they were
taken. 
 
            Plaintiff responded as follows to
each request: “Objection. This discovery request seeks attorney work product in
violation of Code of Civil Procedure sections 2018.020 and 2018.030.” 
 
            Numbers 30 to 32 ask how far
Plaintiff was standing from the shower head at the time of the incident,
whether Plaintiff was nearly finished with the shower when the incident
occurred, and the duration of the shower. 
 
Plaintiff
responded:
 
“Objection. The discovery request
seeks premature disclosure of expert opinion in violation of Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2034.210, 2034.220, and 2034.270. The discovery request also
seeks attorney work product in violation of Code of Civil Procedure sections
2018.020 and 2018.030. Responding Party has not decided on which, if any expert
witnesses may be called at trial; insofar as this discovery request seeks to
ascertain the identity, writings, and opinions of responding party’s experts
who have been retained or utilized to date solely as an advisor or consultant,
it is violative of the work-product privilege. (See South Tahoe Public
Utilities District v. Superior Court (1979) 90 Cal.App.3d 135; Sheets v.
Superior Court (1967) 257 Cal.App.2d 1; and Sanders v. Superior Court (1973) 34
Cal.App.3d 270.)”
 
“Objection. This request seeks
information not relevant to the subject matter of this action. Objection. This
request seeks to oppress, harass, and burden the Responding party.”
 
Additionally,
Plaintiff included an “Introductory Statement” asserting blanket objections to
all the responses, including based on relevancy, scope, attorney client
privilege, work product, and right of privacy.            
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff provides no facts to support any of the objections
stated. After reviewing the discovery requests, the Court finds the objections
to be too general and without merit. Additionally, the “Introductory Statement”
is improper because all objections must be asserted against a particular
interrogatory. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.210(a).) As a result, the motion to
compel further responses to special interrogatories, set two is granted. 
 
Defendant
seeks $1,060 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and counsel representing
four hours of attorney time with a $250 hourly rate and the $60 filing fee. The
Court finds sanctions are warranted but the amount is excessive. Therefore, the
Court awards sanctions for $810 (3 hours of attorney time plus the filing fee).

 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel further
responses to Requests for Admissions, Set Three. Plaintiff shall serve further
responses within 10 days. 
 
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of
$935 against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally. Said
monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of
the date of this order.
 
Furthermore, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two. Plaintiff shall serve further
responses within 10 days. 
 
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced
amount of $810 against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and
severally. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant
within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
 
Moving party to give notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 
   