 Case Number:  21STCV46421    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV46421




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Terminating Sanctions   




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs David L. Yen and Rosa Yen




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 20, 2021, Plaintiffs David L. Yen and Rosa Yen (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Defendants V&V Hauling, Inc., Ernesto Ramos Esparza,
Maria Ramirez Villegas, Josue J. Valerio, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries
resulting from a motor vehicle accident.¿
 
Plaintiffs
now move for terminating sanctions against Defendant Josue Valerio
(“Defendant”) for failure to comply with an April 15, 2024 discovery order
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480. They ask the Court to
strike his answer and enter default. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2023.030.) The court may impose a
terminating sanction for misuse of the discovery process by any of the
following: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed; (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that
party; (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery, or
disobeying
a court order to provide discovery, constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).)

 
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse
‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th
377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225,
1246.)   
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly.  But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los
Defensores, supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)    
 
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.”
(Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 citing Lang, supra, 77
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating
sanctions imposed (by striking the defendant’s Answer and subsequently granting
default judgment) after defendants failed to comply with one court order to
produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen
(1997) 16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against the
plaintiff for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating
various discovery statutes].)  
 
“If a deponent fails to obey an order entered under this section, the
failure may be considered a contempt of court. In addition, if the disobedient
deponent is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, the court may make those orders that are just against the
disobedient party, or against the party with whom the disobedient deponent is
affiliated, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence
sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
that party deponent or against any party with whom the deponent is affiliated.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(k).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On April 15, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant
to provide the documents included in his second amended deposition notice. The
Court ordered Defendant to provide said documents within 20 days. However, the
Court declined to award monetary sanctions since Plaintiffs failed to meet and
confer.  (Min. Order, 4/15/24.)
Plaintiffs served notice of the ruling on April 16, 2024. 
 
Plaintiffs assert that no documents have been served. 
 
The Court finds that terminating sanctions are not appropriate at this
time. Plaintiffs fail to set forth additional facts that Defendant has
willfully declined to participate in discovery in this case. For instance, the
April 15, 2024 minute order states that Defendant attended his deposition, but
failed to produce documents. While Defendant apparently has not complied with
the Court’s order, Plaintiffs do not show that lesser sanctions are
insufficient to induce compliance. For instance, no monetary sanctions were
imposed against Defendant. Plaintiffs did not request monetary sanctions, or
any other lesser sanctions, in the instant motion. 
 
As a result, the motion for terminating sanctions is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED.  
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 
 
 
 