 Case Number:  24STCV01838    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Chinatown Community for
Equitable Development’s Motion for Attorney Fees and Costs
Defendant Chinatown Community for
Equitable Development (CCED) moves for attorney fees and costs under Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16(c).  
Background
            On
January 24, 2024, plaintiffs 920 Everett Street, LLC, Victoria Vu, and Jerome
Fink filed a complaint against CCED and many other defendants.  Some of the other defendants filed anti-SLAPP
motions on March 14 and April 15.  Plaintiff
requested dismissal of several defendants. 
On May 10, CCED filed an anti-SLAPP motion.  On May 15, plaintiffs requested dismissal of
the entire action without prejudice.  On
June 6, plaintiffs requested dismissal of the entire action with prejudice.   
Procedural Issues
            Plaintiffs
argue CCED’s anti-SLAPP motion was untimely because CCED filed it more than 60
days after plaintiff filed the complaint. 
The 60-day period begins upon serving the complaint on the defendant,
not simply filing it.  An anti-SLAPP
“motion may be filed within 60 days of the service of the complaint.”  (CCP § 425.16(f).)  Plaintiffs never filed proof of service of
the complaint on CCED.  Plaintiffs have
not shown CCED filed the anti-SLAPP motion more than 60 days after it was
served with the complaint.  
            Plaintiffs
also argue this motion for attorney fees is defective because it does not
include the arguments on the merits of its anti-SLAPP motion.  Plaintiffs contend, “If a defendant in such
situation wishes to recover its fees, it must do so in a subsequent motion
setting forth reasons, in that motion, why the anti-SLAPP motion should
have been granted.”  (Opp., p. 6.)  Plaintiffs rely on Catlin Ins. Co., Inc.
v. Danko Meredith Law Firm, Inc. (2022) 73 Cal.App.5th 764, 770 (Catlin),
which does not support that proposition. 
To the contrary, Catlin held defendants “were entitled to seek recovery
of their attorney fees” in multiple ways including by “filing cost memoranda” (id.
at p. 784)—a Judicial Council form that necessarily does not include any legal
arguments.
CCED already filed an anti-SLAPP motion
with arguments on the merits.  Requiring CCED
to repeat those arguments in this fee motion would serve no purpose.
Prevailing Party
            Plaintiffs
argue CCED cannot recover attorney fees because plaintiffs achieved their goals
in the litigation.  Plaintiffs rely on Coltrain
v. Shewalter (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 94, 107 (Coltrain) which held
that “where the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses an alleged SLAPP suit while a
special motion to strike is pending, the trial court has discretion to
determine whether the defendant is the prevailing party,” and “the critical
issue” in that ruling “is which party realized its objectives in the
litigation.”  
Numerous other decisions disagree with Coltrain.  “In contrast [with Coltrain], a
majority of the Courts of Appeal require that the trial court determine the
merits of the anti-SLAPP motion to strike notwithstanding the prior dismissal
of the underlying suit.  If the motion to
strike would have been granted absent the dismissal of the complaint, then the
court is required to award attorney’s fees and costs for the motion to
strike.”  (Roe v. Halbig (2018) 29
Cal.App.5th 286, 305; accord Catlin, supra, 73
Cal.App.5th at p. 775, fn. 5.)  The court
finds the authority rejecting Coltrain more persuasive.  The court therefore proceeds to consider the
merits of CCED’s anti-SLAPP motion.    
Merits of
Anti-SLAPP Motion
Courts
use a two-step process for resolving anti-SLAPP motions under section 425.16:
“First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold showing
that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity.”  (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 (Navellier).)  The defendant must show “the cause of action
is based on the defendant’s protected free speech or petitioning
activity.”  (Id. at p. 89.)  
Second,
once the defendant establishes the first element, courts “must then determine
whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the
claim.”  (Navellier, 29 Cal.4th at p. 88.) 
“[T]he plaintiff need only have stated and substantiated a legally
sufficient claim.”  (Ibid., internal quotes and citations omitted.)  “[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit
may proceed.”  (Id. at p.
94.)  “Put another way, the plaintiff
‘must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported
by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if
the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ ”  (Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002)
28 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
I. Protected
Activity 
With one exception,
CCED meets its burden of showing each cause of action arises from protected
activity.  “ ‘[A] claim is not subject to
a motion to strike simply because it contests an action or decision that was
arrived at following speech or petitioning activity, or that was thereafter
communicated by means of speech or petitioning activity.  Rather, a claim may be struck only if the
speech or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of, and
not just evidence of liability or a step leading to some different act for
which liability is asserted.’ 
[Citation.]  Thus, in evaluating
an anti-SLAPP motion, ‘courts should consider the elements of the challenged
claim and what actions by [the] defendant supply those elements and
consequently form the basis for liability.’ ” 
(Golden Gate Land Holdings LLC v. Direct Action Everywhere (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 82, 90 (Golden Gate).) 
“Courts must be careful to distinguish allegations of conduct on which
liability is based from allegations of motives for such conduct.  The court reviews the parties’ pleadings,
declarations, and other supporting documents to determine what conduct is
actually being challenged, not to determine whether the conduct is actionable.”  (San Diegans for Open Government v. San
Diego State University Research Foundation (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 76, 94.)
Summary of
Allegations
            Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges 10
causes of action arising from the same core factual allegations.  It alleges defendants “drove to Plaintiff Vu’s
personal residence …  and illegally
trespassed onto her private property then committed a breaking and entering by
forcibly dislodging the front door and walking into the Residence until they
were scared off by Plaintiff Vu’s dogs. 
…  They also vandalized the
Residence by applying heavy duty industrial electrical tape to the exterior
stained woodwork and stucco and taped offensive and profane words such as, but
not limited to, ‘Fuck Vu,’ ‘Shame on Vu,’ and ‘your neighbor, Victory Vu, is a
vulture landlord’ on the garage door and gate of the Residence.  …  The
woodwork and paint were damaged upon removal of the aforementioned.”  (Comp., ¶ 33.)
            The complaint further alleges that
at Vu’s house, “these individuals then videotaped themselves making loud,
racist, offensive, intentional and malicious statements and speeches, about
Plaintiff Vu, which included her comments about her race and appearance.”  (Comp., ¶ 34.)  Defendants allegedly posted the video on
Instagram.  (Ibid.) 
            The complaint also alleges “CCED has
a history of systematically posting racist, offensive, intentional and
malicious statements and speeches, about Plaintiffs Vu and Fink on its social
media account,” including posts calling them “ ‘Slumlord’ and calls to action
to ‘File Complaint to Department of Real Estate.’ ”  (Comp., ¶ 35.)  “Plaintiff Vu has suffered harmful and
dangerous, and illegal ‘campaign calling’ or ‘doxing’ … motivated by posting
her personal email address, home address, and phone number publicly on the
internet.”  (Id., ¶ 40.)
Claims
Other Than Trespass
            Except for the second cause of
action for trespass, each cause of action arises at least in part from
protected activity.  The facts that
supply their elements include literal speech, including social media posts
calling Vu a “Slumlord.”  (Comp., ¶ 35.)  The allegations regarding CCED’s social media
posts and statements about plaintiffs constitute protected activity.  The California Supreme Court has held that
protesting outside the home of an executive of a company that buys and “flips”
houses constituted protected activity under the anti-SLAPP statute.  (Geiser v. Kuhns (2022) 13 Cal.5th
1238, 1250-1256 (Geiser).)  The
Court held “the protest implicated public issues concerning unfair foreclosure
practices and residential displacement” (id. at p. 1251) and the
“sidewalk protest furthered public discussion of the public issues it
implicated.”  (Id. at p.
1255.)  At least some of the acts that
supply the elements of each claim other than trespass implicated the public
issue of residential displacement and furthered that public discussion.               
2nd Cause
of Action: Willful Trespass
Plaintiffs’
second cause of action for willful trespass does not arise from protected
activity.  “ ‘The elements of trespass
are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or control of the property; (2) the
defendant’s intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3)
lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and
(5) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm.’
”  (Golden Gate, supra, 81
Cal.App.5th at pp. 90-91.)
            Defendants’ alleged conduct that
supplies the elements of trespass is that they “illegally trespassed onto [Vu’s]
private property then committed a breaking and entering by forcibly dislodging
the front door and walking into the Residence until they were scared off by
Plaintiff Vu’s dogs.”  (Comp., ¶ 33.)  This cause of action does not seek to hold
defendants liable for their speech or other protected activity.  It alleges defendants entered Vu’s private
property without permission.  By
contrast, in Geiser, the protest occurred on “a public sidewalk.”  (Geiser, supra, 13 Cal.5th at p.
1251.)  
Finding this cause of action arises from
protected activity would conflate what defendants allegedly did with where they
did it.  The Court of Appeal has noted
that “[w]here the complaint includes allegations that the challenged conduct
occurred on private property, which would render the conduct unprotected for
anti-SLAPP purposes, we must consider those allegations as part of our first
prong analysis.”  (Ralphs Grocery Co.
v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 258.)  “Generally, landowners and tenants have a
right to exclude persons from trespassing on private property; the right to
exclude persons is a fundamental aspect of private property ownership.”  (Ibid.)  The First Amendment limits that right when
the property “ ‘is generally open to the public and functions as the equivalent
of a traditional public forum.’ ”  (Ibid.)  The court held, “Respondents have not carried
their burden of establishing that the petitioning activity engaged in at the
front of the two subject stores was protected for purposes of the first prong
of our anti-SLAPP analysis.”  (Id.
at p. 260.)  
The same reasoning applies here.  Why defendants allegedly trespassed on Vu’s
property or what they did and said while trespassing does not supply the
elements of trespass and does not make that cause of action subject to an
anti-SLAPP motion.  Vu’s home is private
property.  It is not a public forum.  
9th Cause
of Action: Injunctive Relief
            Though plaintiffs labeled this a
cause of action, “injunctive relief … is not a cause of action but instead a
request for a remedy not subject to the anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Golden Gate, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at
p. 91.)
II. Probability
of Prevailing
            Aside from claims arising from
Instagram posts on the “ccedla” account, plaintiffs do not meet their burden of
showing a probability of prevailing on their causes of action for a common
reason.  “An organizer of a political
protest cannot be held personally liable for acts committed by other protesters
unless he or she authorized, directed or ratified specific tortious activity,
incited lawless action, or gave specific instructions to carry out violent acts
or threats.”  (Lam v. Ngo (2001)
91 Cal.App.4th 832, 837.)  Plaintiffs
present no evidence showing CCED authorized, directed, ratified, or incited any
tortious activity.  
Other
causes of action also fail for other reasons. 
Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action for civil harassment.  As to the
seventh cause of action for tortious interference with business relations,
plaintiffs presented no evidence that defendant’s conduct caused “actual disruption of the
relationship” or “economic harm proximately caused by the defendant’s
negligence.”  (Redfearn v. Trader
Joe's Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 1005.) 
  
5th &
6th Causes of Action for Defamation
Plaintiffs
show some probability of prevailing only on their fifth and sixth causes of
action for defamation.  These claims are
not limited to actions that occurred at protests or actions taken that were
inspired by CCED’s publications.  These
causes of action arise in part from Instagram posts by CCED on the account “ccedla.”  
CCED
argues the posts do not publish actionable facts.  “To determine whether a statement is
actionable fact or nonactionable opinion, we apply a totality of the
circumstances test pursuant to which we consider both the language of the
statement itself and the context in which it is made.  …  ‘[W]here
potentially defamatory statements are published in a ... setting in which the
audience may anticipate efforts by the parties to persuade others to their
positions by use of epithets, fiery rhetoric or hyperbole, language which
generally might be considered as statements of fact may well assume the
character of statements of opinion.’ ”  (Summit
Bank v. Rogers (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 669, 696 (Summit Bank).)  
CCED’s
publications include statements of falsifiable fact, not just opinion.  CCED’s Instagram posts include one featuring
an image labeled “Slumlord Bingo.” 
(Comp., Ex. 4, pdf p. 48; Fink Decl., Ex. K, pdf p. 63.)  The “bingo” spaces include, among other
things, “Bribing city officials” and “Destroying/vandalizing property.”  (Ibid.)  The caption states, “We learned that
slumlords Vu and Fink are guilty of ALL OF THESE TACTICS!!!!”  (Ibid.)  Whether someone bribed government officials
or destroyed property is a provable fact.
CCED’s
reliance on Summit Bank is misplaced. 
There, the “alleged defamatory statements appeared in a section of the
Craigslist Web site entitled ‘Rants and Raves.’ ”  (Summit Bank, supra, 206 Cal.App.4th
at p. 696.)  The defendant was “a
disgruntled former employee.”  (Id.
at p. 694.)  The “messages were
anonymous, with the poster being identified by a pseudonym.”  (Id. at p. 680.)  The posts included, for example, “ ‘Whats [sic]
up at this problem Bank. The CEO provides a [sic] executive position to
her worthless, lazy fat ass son Steve Nelson’ ” (id. at p. 679) and “
‘This is a piss poor Bank’ ” (id. at p. 680).  
The court noted,
“ ‘[A]ny reader familiar with the culture of ... most electronic bulletin
boards ... would know that board culture encourages discussion participants to
play fast and loose with facts... .  Indeed,
the very fact that most of the posters remain anonymous, or pseudonymous, is a
cue to discount their statements accordingly.’ ”  (Summit Bank, supra, at p. 696, ellipses
in original.)  The court reasoned, “[I]t
is obvious Rogers’s messages are intended to be free-flowing diatribes (or ‘rants’)
in which he does not use proper spelling or grammar, and which strongly suggest
that these colloquial epithets are his own unsophisticated, florid opinions
about the Bank and its key personnel.  This context further undermines the reader’s
expectation that the posts are to be understood as assertions of fact.”  (Id. at p. 699.)
A
reasonable reader of CCED’s publications would believe they were more than
unsophisticated, florid opinions.  CCED’s
Instagram posts differ greatly from anonymous diatribes by one disgruntled
former employee in the “Rants and Raves” section of Craigslist.  Though CCED’s posts include epithets and
fiery rhetoric, “CCED is a community organization that advocates for Chinatown
tenants.”  (Memo ISO Motion for Attorney
Fees, p. 1.)  Being a community
organization purporting to advocate for justice on behalf of vulnerable people and
speaking about “public issues of residential displacement, inadequate housing,
and gentrification” (Memo ISO Anti-SLAPP, p. 6) and gives CCED an imprimatur of
legitimacy and credibility.  
Moreover, the
posts including epithets also have detailed, structured text with proper
spelling and (with some exceptions) grammar. 
For example, the post with an image including a photo of Victoria Vu and
the text “Beware [¶] Vulture Landlord on the Loose!” has a long caption that a
reasonable reader would take seriously. 
(Fink Decl., Ex. D, pdf p. 37.)  The
first two paragraphs state, “Victoria Vu, the landlord of 920 Everett St. has
turned to harassing tenants by graffitiing their home of 15 years.  This is a retaliation to 920 Everett tenants’
protest against her eviction of low income, elderly, and refugee tenants during
the pandemic.  The protest was another
attempt for tenants to have Victoria Vu accept their rent, which they have been
trying to pay for months.  [¶] Victoria’s
retaliation graffiti is the grandest and strangest gesture of her overall
character, a projection of how the community she takes advantage of perceives
her to be.  Her linkedin posts
historically depict a landlord that calls tenants entitled when they can’t
afford rent during covid-10, an avid collector of spray painted properties, and
a construction worker that doesn’t follow OSHA standards.”  (Ibid.)  
The text
accompanying the “Vulture Landlord” post would not be out of place in papers written
and filed by lawyers representing tenants in a lawsuit, like CCED’s own papers
in this action.  CCED’s publications are
categorically different from free-flowing “rants or raves” by an anonymous
individual about a bank.    
Similarly,
the caption accompanying the “slumlord bingo” card begins, “We’re preparing for
the Anti-Slumlord Summer Report Release Party this Tuesday… .”  (Fink Decl., Ex. K, pdf p. 63.)  Using the term “report” indicates it is
factual and meant to be taken seriously. 
A “report” could be considered the opposite of a “rant or rave.”
Calling
someone a “slumlord” is not like calling someone a “lazy fat ass” or calling a
bank “piss poor.”  “Slumlord” is an
epithet, but it is directly related to what many would characterize as a social
justice movement.  That is the purpose
for which CCED used it.  And CCED
included well-written, detailed text along with the epithets.  Using the epithets “slumlord” or “vulture
landlord” and other similar terms along with falsifiable statements of fact
about bribery or destroying property does not transform the latter into
statements of opinion.  
Plaintiffs,
meanwhile, present prima facie evidence that CCED’s statements of fact were
false.  (Fink Decl., ¶¶ 9, 12, 13, 15.)  That suffices to meet their burden of opposing
an anti-SLAPP motion.
CCED’s anti-SLAPP motion would have been granted in
part as to much of plaintiffs’ complaint. 
The court therefore must award CCED the reasonable attorney fees it
incurred.
Amount of
Attorney Fees
            In determining what constitutes
a reasonable fee, the court ordinarily begins with the lodestar, that is, “the
number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.”
(PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1084, 1095 (PLCM).)  The court may rely on its own experience and
knowledge in determining the reasonable value of attorney fees.  (Id. at p. 1096; accord Taylor v.
Nabors Drilling USA, LP (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1249.)
I. Hourly
Rates
CCED’s
counsel’s hourly rates are reasonable.  “The
reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar
work.”  (PLCM, supra, 22 Cal.4th at p. 1095.)  The court should consider many factors,
including the nature and difficulty of the litigation, the stakes involved, the
skill required and employed by the attorney in handling the case, the
attorney’s age, experience, and learning, the success or failure of the
litigation, and other relevant circumstances. 
(Id. at p. 1096; Contractors Labor Pool, Inc. v. Westway
Contractors, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 152, 168.)  
CCED claims hourly rates of $850 for Lynn
Ta and $770 for Shakeer Rahman.  CCED
substantially justifies those rates.  Though
CCED’s anti-SLAPP motion would not have fully succeeded on the merits, Ta and
Rahman demonstrated noteworthy skill and expertise in representing CCED.  Both also have impressive credentials and
work experience.
Ta “graduated from UC Berkeley School of
Law in 2011.”  (Ta Decl., ¶ 4.)    After graduation, she worked for the ACLU,
then California’s Department of Industrial Relations.  (Ibid.)  She now works as “a labor lawyer with the
National Labor Relations Board.”  (Id.,
¶ 3.)  She has “been the lead trial
attorney” in complex cases against prominent corporations, such as Starbucks
and SpaceX.  (Ibid.)  
Rahman, meanwhile, “graduated from Harvard
Law School in 2015.”  (Rahman Decl., ¶
4.)  He then “worked as a law clerk to
Justice Mariano-Florentino Cuéllar on the Supreme Court of California and to
Judge Beverly Martin on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.”  (Ibid.)  He then “worked as an Impact Litigation
Attorney at The Bronx Defenders and as a Senior Staff Attorney at The Bail
Project, a national nonprofit.”  (Ibid.)  Rahman currently teaches a clinical seminar
at UCLA’s School of Law “about representing community organizations and
community organizers” (id., ¶ 5), which is what he did in this
action.  
II. Number of Hours
            CCED’s
lodestar represents a reasonable number of hours of work.  In
calculating the lodestar, the court must determine whether the tasks performed
by an attorney were necessary and whether the amount of time billed for each
task was reasonable.  (Baxter v. Bock (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th
775, 793.)  
            CCED claims a total of 51.9 hours of
attorney fees on the anti-SLAPP motion and 22.4 hours on this fee motion.  The motions reasonably required those hours.  The anti-SLAPP motion required substantial
legal research, briefing, and some factual investigation and supporting
evidence.  The motion for attorney fees was
more complex than a typical fee motion because it involved issues peculiar to
anti-SLAPP litigation where the plaintiff dismisses the action before the
hearing on the motion.  
III. Multiplier
            CCED
seeks a 1.25 enhancement to the lodestar for time spent on the anti-SLAPP
motion (but not this fee motion).  Multipliers
may be awarded based on factors including “(1) the novelty and difficulty of
the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the
extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the
attorneys, (4) the contingent nature of the fee award.”  (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24
Cal.4th 1122, 1132.)  
After considering all relevant factors,
the court will exercise its discretion to award a 1.25 enhancement to the fees
incurred on the anti-SLAPP motion.  The
contingent nature of the award justifies an enhancement.  “[T]he purpose of a fee enhancement is
primarily to compensate the attorney for the prevailing party at a rate
reflecting the risk of nonpayment in contingency cases as a class.”  (Ketchum v. Moses, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
p. 1138.)  “In cases involving
enforcement of constitutional rights, but little or no damages, such fee
enhancements may make such cases economically feasible to competent private
attorneys.”  (Id. at p.
1133.)  
Rahman and Ta’s only way to recover any
fees was to succeed on CCED’s anti-SLAPP motion, the purpose of which is to enforce
the constitutional right to freedom of speech. 
Rahman and Ta each filed a notice of limited scope representation indicating
they represent defendant CCED only for the purpose of bringing an anti-SLAPP
motion.  Rahman states, “Given my
client’s limited financial means, my co-counsel and I took this case on a
completely contingent basis, and we advanced all costs.  Without the possibility of recovering
attorneys’ fees from the plaintiffs, I would not have taken this case and I
believe that the likelihood that other qualified lawyers would have taken the
case is low.”  (Rahman Decl., ¶ 8.)  Ta’s declaration includes a similar
statement.  (Ta Decl., ¶ 6.)  The possibility of recovering attorney fees was
the only way to make this case economically feasible for attorneys like Rahman
and Ta.  
IV. Reduction for Limited Success
The court must consider whether to reduce
the lodestar on the anti-SLAPP motion for limited success.  Defendants
who achieve “partial success” are only “entitled to recover attorney fees and
costs incurred in moving to strike the claims on which they prevailed.”  (ComputerXpress, Inc. v. Jackson (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1020.)  But where the “successful
and unsuccessful claims involve a common core of facts or related legal
theories, the court should determine ‘the significance of the overall relief
obtained by the plaintiff in relation to the hours reasonably expended on the
litigation.’ ”  (Id. at p. 1019.)
CCED’s
anti-SLAPP motion would not have succeeded as to plaintiffs’ second, fifth, or
sixth causes of action.  It also would
not have succeeded as to the purported ninth cause of action for injunctive
relief which, as discussed above, is a remedy instead of a cause of action.  But almost all the work on the anti-SLAPP
motion concerned a common core of facts and legal theories.  Of the unsuccessful portions of the anti-SLAPP
motion, only the trespass claim presented unique issues.  The anti-SLAPP motion includes about two
thirds of a page arguing that (a) all three plaintiffs brought the trespass
claim, but only Vu owned the property, and (b) the intrusion on the property
was permitted via an implicit license.  (Memo.
ISO Anti-SLAPP, p. 11.)  This short
segment of the memorandum did not take much time.  
CCED’s
counsel already exercised billing judgment by reducing the lodestar on the
anti-SLAPP motion by 10%.  (Memo. ISO Fee
Motion, pp. 6-7.)  That reduction
adequately accounts for the portions of the anti-SLAPP motion that would not
have succeeded and were not intertwined with the successful portions.  Though the motion would not have defeated the
entire action against CCED, it would have greatly reduced the scope of the case
and CCED’s potential liability.
V. Other Costs
            CCED
is also entitled to recover the $490.52 in other costs it incurred.  (Ta Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. A.)
Disposition
Defendant Chinatown Community for Equitable
Development’s motion for attorney fees and costs is granted.  Defendant Chinatown Community for Equitable
Development shall recover $66,479.90 in attorney fees and other expenses from
plaintiffs 920 Everett Street, LLC, Victoria Vu, and Jerome Fink.