 Case Number:  23STCV23071    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff The
People of the State of California’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission
Admitted as to (1) Defendant Metro Investments Group, Inc. and (2) Defendant
Anthony Nowaid
Plaintiff The
People of the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation, moves for an order deeming matters and genuineness of documents
admitted as against defendants Metro Investments Group, Inc. (Metro) and
Anthony Nowaid.
When a party fails
to respond to requests for admissions, the requesting party may move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. 
(CCP § 2033.280(b).)  Failure to
timely respond to requests for admissions also waives any objections.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)
Plaintiff served requests for admission, set one, on
Metro on February 23, 2024.  (Choi Decl.,
¶ 6, Ex. 1.)  Metro had not served any
responses as of April 24, 2024, when plaintiff executed the declaration in
support of this motion.  (Id., ¶ 10.)
 Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order deeming admitted the
truth of the matters and genuineness of the documents specified in the requests
to Metro.
Plaintiff also served requests for admission, set
one, on Anthony Nowaid on February 23, 2024. 
(Choi Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1.)  Nowaid
had not served any responses as of April 24, 2024, when plaintiff executed the
declaration in support of this motion.  (Id.,
¶ 10.)  Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order deeming admitted the
truth of the matters and genuineness of the documents specified in the requests
to Nowaid.
Sanctions
            In
each motion, plaintiff moves for sanctions against defendants and their counsel
of record.  “It is mandatory that the
court impose a monetary sanction … on the party or attorney, or both, whose
failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated [a]
motion” to deem matters admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(c).)  Metro and Nowaid did not
timely respond to requests for admission. 
Their failure to do so necessitated plaintiff’s motions.  Plaintiff reasonably incurred $750 in
expenses for the motion as to Metro and $625 for the motion as to Nowaid.
Disposition
Plaintiff The
People of the State of California, acting
by and through the Department of Transportation’s motion to deem the truth of
specified matters and the genuineness of documents admitted as to defendant
Metro Investments Group, Inc. is granted.
The genuineness of
the documents and the truth of matters specified in plaintiff’s request for
admissions, set one, to defendant Metro Investments Group, Inc. are hereby deemed
admitted.  Defendant Metro Investment Group, Inc. and its
counsel Mainak D’Attaray are ordered to pay plaintiff The People of the State of California $750
in sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant
and its counsel are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.
Plaintiff The
People of the State of California, acting
by and through the Department of Transportation’s motion to deem the truth of
specified matters and the genuineness of documents admitted as to defendant Anthony
Nowaid is granted.
The genuineness of the documents and the truth of
matters specified in plaintiff’s request for admissions, set one, to defendant Anthony
Nowaid are hereby deemed admitted. 
Defendant Anthony
Nowaid and his counsel Mainak D’Attaray are ordered to pay plaintiff The People of the State of California $625 in
sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant and
his counsel are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.