  Case Number:  22STCV16593    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Jonathan Botach’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production and Requests for AdmissionRequests for ProductionPlaintiff Jonathan Botach moves to compel defendant Ateret DiVeroli to further respond to requests for production Nos. 1-52.  A party demanding documents may move to compel further responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a).)Defendant properly objected to all requests as overly broad, argumentative, and vague.  A demand for inspection must “[d]esignate the documents, tangible things, land or other property, or electronically stored information to be inspected …  either by specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item.”  (CCP § 2031.030(c)(1).)  Categories are not reasonably particularized when “[t]here is no indication the ‘categories’ bear any relationship to the manner in which” the responding party “maintains its records” such that the responding party must search “to see what it can find to fit [the demanding party’s] definitions, instructions and categories.”  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 222.) All 52 requests demand documents “which prove” various contentions.  Plaintiff demanded, for example, “All Documents and Communications which prove that Plaintiff did not negotiate for Yoav the purchase of the Jerusalem Apartments” (No. 27) instead of demanding “All documents about negotiating the purchase of the Jerusalem apartments.”  There is no indication these categories bear any relationship to how defendant maintains records.  People generally do not maintain records based on which legal contentions they may support.  Plaintiff’s requests constitute arguments more than valid demands to inspect intelligible categories of documents.  In contrast with requests for production, “interrogator[ies] may relate to whether another party is making a certain contention, or to the facts, witnesses, and writings on which a contention is based.”  (CCP § 2030.010(b). Defendant’s objections to requests for production Nos. 1-52 are sustained.In her opposition, defendant moves for $2,600 in sanctions against plaintiff.  Courts must impose monetary sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2031.310(h).)  Plaintiff unsuccessfully moved to compel further responses to demands for inspection.  He did not act with substantial justification.  Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  Defendant reasonably incurred $2,600 opposing this motion. Requests for AdmissionPlaintiff Jonathan Botach moves to compel defendant Ateret DiVeroli to further respond to requests for admission Nos. 1-48.  A party requesting admissions may move to compel further responses if “[a]n answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete” or “[a]n objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.”  (CCP § 2033.290(a).) Defendant gave evasive responses to requests for admission Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7-9, 13, 28, and 29.  “If a responding party gives lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a request for admission, that party shall state in the answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been made, and that the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.”  (CCP § 2033.220(c).)  For these requests, defendant answered by objecting, followed by stating, “Responding Party lacks sufficient information to admit or deny this request.”  She did not state under oath that she made a reasonable inquiry concerning each matter. Defendant gave valid responses to request Nos. 10, 11, 27, and 30.  After objecting, she denied them.  Plaintiff’s separate statement agues defendant “should be ordered to explain, in the form rogs, why she is denying” Nos. 10 and 11.  But plaintiff did not move to compel further responses to form interrogatories.  Even if defendant’s denials are false or unreasonable, that does not mean they violate the Civil Discovery Act.  (See Saxena v. Goffney (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316, 333 [“serving a willfully false answer to an interrogatory” is “not specifically covered by the Civil Discovery Act”].)Defendant provided valid responses to Nos. 3 and 6.  For No. 3, after objecting, she stated she “admits that Propounding Party did provide some assistance to Yoav.”  For No. 6, after objecting, defendant responded, “[A]ssuming this request relates to claims that Jonathan had pending against Yoav that lead to the 2012 agreement attached as Exhibit 3 to the Amended Complaint, admit.”  To the extent these are not unqualified admissions, plaintiff may demand further information via form interrogatory No. 17.1. Defendant made meritless objections in response to each request.  Defendant objected that several are “Argumentative.”  Requests for admission may concern “opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact.”  (CCP § 2033.010.)  Argumentative requests for admission are not per se improper. Defendant also objected that the requests are overbroad, vague, and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  When read in conjunction with the definitions, these requests are sufficiently intelligible to respond.  They adequately request admission of “the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact” that “relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”  (CCP § 2033.010.)Defendant’s objections to requests for admission Nos. 1-30 are overruled.  Disposition            Plaintiff Jonathan Botach’s motion to compel further responses to requests for production is denied.  Plaintiff Jonathan Botach is ordered to pay defendant Ateret DiVeroli $2,600 in sanctions within 30 days.            Plaintiff Jonathan Botach’s motion to compel further responses to requests for admission is granted in part as to Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7-9, 12-26, 28, and 29.  The motion is denied in part as to Nos. 3, 6, 10, 11, 27, and 30.  Defendant Ateret DiVeroli is ordered to serve further verified responses without objections to requests for admission Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7-9, 12-26, 28, and 29 within 30 days.