 Case Number:  24TRCV02401    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ on Continued Hearing
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 31, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV02401
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        8731 Belford Fee Owner LLC v. Be
Meticulous, LLC, et al.
¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendants, Be Meticulous, LLC and
Meticulous Services, LLC’s  Motion for Protective Order
                                                (2) Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (3) Plaintiff’s
Request for Monetary Sanctions 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1) Defendants,
Be Meticulous, LLC and Meticulous Services, LLC’s  Motion for Protective Order is tentatively
DENIED.
                                                (2) Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories, Set One is tentatively GRANTED in part and requires oral
argument in part. 
                                                (3) Plaintiff’s
Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in part, with the total amount to be
based on oral argument provided at the hearing. 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiff, 8731 Belford Fee Owner LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Be Meticulous, LLC, Meticulous
Services, LLC, and DOES 1 through 25. On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Unlawful
Detainer (Code Civ. Proc. § 1161(1) – No Possessory Interest); (2) Unlawful
Detainer (Code Civ. Proc. § 1161(1) – Lawful Termination of Tenancy at Will);
(3) Unlawful Detainer (Code Civ. Proc. § 1161(4) – Use of Premises for Unlawful
Purpose). Defendants filed a motion for protective order to limit the discovery
requested by Plaintiff which was previously heard and continued to this hearing
date.  Additionally, Plaintiff has
brought a Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendants regarding Form and
Special Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 14, 2024, Toyota filed this
Motion for Protective Order. On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition
brief. On August 28, 2024, Toyota filed a reply brief. This motion was
previously heard on October 28, 2024, and subsequently continued to December 4  where the Court’s tentative ruling was to
deny.   The court had ordered the parties to submit a
joint statement “…of what documents categories at issue in this
UD Action have not already h[a]d responsive documents produced in the Civil
Action, and what RFPs remain at issue as to which of the 15 subject properties
in this UD Action where none or insufficient documents have been produced
already in the Civil Action.” On November 27, 2024, Defendants filed the joint
statement.  Also, on November 14, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Further Responses
from Defendants regarding Form and Special Interrogatories, Set One.  The night before the December 4 hearing on the
motions to compel, defense counsel filed opposition papers which had not been
scanned for review before the hearing the next morning so the Court could not
have considered them.  Among other
things, Defendants argued in those opposing papers that there were 4 motions to
compel rather than one, that Defendants had produced voluminous documents in a
separate Civil Lawsuit pending in the Mosk courthouse Department 56 concerning many
of the same rental properties as are at issue in this unlawful detainer action,
and that the pending protective order motion militated against the requested
substantial monetary sanctions Plaintiff sought.  
 
The Court conducted oral argument on December in the nature
of an IDC, indicated where the Court believed amended responses would be appropriate,
and continued the hearing to December 31 at 11 a.m., which is the time the
Court typically conducts IDCs.  The Court
sought narrowing of the issues covered by the motions to compel form and
special interrogatories, discussed the proper and improper use of the Discovery
Act’s provisions for reliance on a production of documents to respond to
interrogatories, and ordered counsel to submit a further joint statement as to
the issues remaining in dispute on the discovery motion after Defendants
further amended their initial responses to identify by Bates number the documents
produced in this or the other litigation to respond to the pending form and
special interrogatories.  
 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks
Defendants’ further responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 70.13, 71.3, and
72.3, and special interrogatories 7 and 8 as to the two defendants respectively.  On December 17, 2024, Defendants provided
further amended responses to the form and special interrogatories, which
Plaintiffs assert in the updated Joint Statement are still inadequate in part
because of redaction of certain of the documents produced.  It appears to the Court that the Third
Amended Responses to the special interrogatories purport to identify each payment
one of the defendants made toward rent for the 15 subject rental properties by
date and by amount.  The Court will
conduct oral argument on December 31 as to why the third amended response if
deemed inadequate or incomplete by Plaintiff, other than the continued
assertion of voluminous objections that the Court is inclined to overrule.  As to the subject form interrogatories as to
each defendant, Defendants served an amended verified written response to FROG 70.13
again asserting numerous objections and then stating that neither defendant
knows who occupies (i.e., as of the date of the discovery requests by
Plaintiff) the 15 subject properties currently because of an allegedly illegal
self-help lockout.  As to FROG 71.3 the
amended written responses state the amounts of money paid in the preceding 12-month
period and to who it was paid, for the 15
subject rental properties by date and by amount.  The Court will conduct oral argument on
December 31 as to why the third amended response if deemed inadequate or
incomplete by Plaintiff, other than the continued assertion of voluminous
objections that the Court is inclined to overrule. 
 
Form Interrogatory 72.3 requests
the “name of the person who received” the Notice to Quit. The original response
failed to do so, but an amended response after voluminous objections stated
yes, that an occupant or representative of Defendants received the notices to
quit but those occupants or representatives were not identified by name.   The
Court tentative granted the motion as to this FROG but Defendants’ amended
December 17, 2024 response still fails to name a single individual.  The Court’s December 31 tentative ruling is
to GRANT the motion to compel, overrule every objection to this straightforward
Judicial-Counsel approved form interrogatory, and give Defendants 3 weeks to identify
the occupant and representative who received the notice to quit as to each of
the 15 subject properties.  The December
17 amended response asserts that Defendants do not know who the person or representative
was, “if anyone,” but that amended response is inconsistent with the early “Yes”
response.  The Court will hear argument from
Defendants’ counsel as to the inconsistent responses.  