  Case Number:  22TRCV01128    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    December 31, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      22TRCV01128
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Maurice Stephenson v. Leo Ramsey, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Plaintiff,
Maurice Stephenson
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Defendant, Leo Ramsey
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       February 24, 2025
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Deem Requests for Admission, Set Two as Admitted.
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) Motion to Deem Requests
for Admission, Set Two as Admitted is GRANTED. 
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿
On November 3, 2022,
Plaintiff, Maurice Stephenson (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Leo Ramsey, Federal and State Income Tax Services, LLC, and DOES 1
through 50. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach
of Oral Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Intentional Misrepresentation; (5)
Intentional Misrepresentation; (6) Unjust Enrichment; (7) Negligence; (8)
Declaratory Relief; and (9) Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business
and Professions Code § 17200, et seq.
 
On
September 5, 2024, Plaintiff propounded the second set of Requests for Admission
on Defendant, Leo Ramsey (“Ramsey”) and his company and Federal State Income
Tax LLC. Defendants’ responses were due on October 11, 2024. However, Plaintiff
states that Defendants have failed to provide any responses by the deadline and
did not request an extension. Plaintiff also informs the Court that Defendants
have not communicated at all since Defendants’ counsel withdrew from
representing them. 
 
Based
on Defendants’ failure to respond, Plaintiff has brought this Motion to Deem
Requests for Admission as Admitted, as well as requesting Monetary Sanctions be
imposed on Defendants for their failure to provide timely responses. 
¿ 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On November 12, 2024, Plaintiff brought
this Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions, Set Two Deemed Admitted. To date,
no opposition brief has been filed. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2033.280(c), the court shall make the order deeming the truth of the matters
admitted unless the responding party serves before the hearing a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Code Civ. Proc § 2033.220. Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.220 requires that
each answer either admits, denies or specifies that the responding party lacks
sufficient information or knowledge. As stated in Demyer v. Costa Mesa
Mobile Home Estates, the moving party is not required to meet and confer
before bringing this action. (Demyer v. Costa Mesa Mobile Home Estates,
36 Cal.App.4th 393, 395.)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may
impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿ 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
notes that on September 5, 2024, he served its Requests for Admission, Set Two,
on Defendants. However, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants have failed to
respond to his discovery requests and has also failed to ask for any extension
of time to respond to said discovery. Because of this, the Court’s tentative
ruling is to GRANT Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission, Set Two
as Admitted. 
 
C.   
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030(a) provides, in
pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone because of that conduct. 
Misuse of discovery includes “failing to respond or submit to an authorized
method of discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2023.010(d)). 
 
Along with Plaintiff’s Motion
to Deem Requests for Admission, Set Two as admitted. Plaintiff also included a
Request for Monetary Sanctions in the amount of $1,225. This amount is based on
Plaintiff’s counsel, Graham G. Lambert declaration (“Lambert Decl.”). Lambert
declares that his associate, Tia Gonzalez’s hourly rate is $350, and that she spent
a minimum of 3.5 hours analyzing the issues raised by the Motion, reviewing the
Requests for Admission regarding same, and drafting the Motion and declaration
offered in connection with it. This Court notes that the granting of this motion
is devastating to Defendants’ potential defenses. The Requests for Admission
that this Court is tentatively inclined to deem as admitted are nearly
tantamount to a motion admitting Defendants’ breach of contract, and thus this
Court denies this request for monetary sanctions, without prejudice to be
reasserted if and when Defendants seeks relief from the deemed admissions.    
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion is GRANTED, and the
Requests for Admission are deemed Admitted. 
Further, the Request for Sanctions are DENIED without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 