 Case Number:  23STCV28538    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Magdalena Lopez’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena 
Plaintiff
Magdalena Lopez moves to compel non-party Los Angeles Department of Water and
Power (DWP) to comply with a deposition subpoena for production of business
records.  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.480(a) provides, “If a deponent fails to answer
any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.”  
Plaintiff
properly served DWP with a deposition subpoena for production of business
records.  “[I]f a deposition subpoena
commands only the production of business records for copying, the custodian of
the records or other qualified person shall, in person, by messenger, or by
mail, deliver both of the following only to the deposition officer specified in
the subpoena: (1) A true, legible, and durable copy of the records.  (2) An affidavit in compliance with
Section 1561 of the Evidence Code.”  (CCP
§ 2020.430(a).)  Evidence Code section
1561(b) provides, “If the business has none of the records described, or
only part thereof, the custodian or other qualified witness shall so state
in the affidavit, and deliver the affidavit and those records that are
available.”
Plaintiff’s
deposition subpoena sought three categories of business records.  DWP did not produce any documents in the
third category: “All DOCUMENTS RELATED to interconnection agreements for 20609
Cantlay St., Winnetka, CA 91306.”  DWP
responded to the subpoena with an affidavit stating: “1. I am an employee of
the DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER, and one of the persons duly authorized to
have custody of the original records hereinafter described.  2. I have authority to certify and do hereby
certify that the attached copies of the original records are true and correct
copies of the original business records kept in the regular course of business
by the DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER, ACCOUNT SERVICES UNIT and were prepared
by the personnel of the DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER ACCOUNTS SERVICES UNIT,
in the ordinary course of business near or at the time of the facts as
conditions or events recorded.  3. The
attached copies are copies or summaries of the original records of the
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER ACCOUNT SERVICES UNIT.  4. The attached certified copies of the
records are submitted in response to the demand received by the CUSTODIAN OF
RECORDS, DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER.” 
(Separate statement, p. 4.)
Because
DWP did not produce documents in response to the third category, this affidavit
does not comply with Evidence Code section 1561(b).  The custodian of records did not state that
DWP has no records in response to the third category.  DWP must either produce responsive documents
or present an affidavit stating it has no such documents.
Sanctions
            Plaintiff also moves for $2,775 in
sanctions against DWP.  Plaintiff cites
no authority permitting sanctions against the non-party deponent.  Assuming such authority exists, the court
finds monetary sanctions are not just under the circumstances.          
Disposition
            Plaintiff
Magdalena Lopez’s motion to compel compliance with deposition subpoena for production of
business records is granted.  
Los
Angeles Department of Water and Power is ordered to either (a) produce
documents responsive to category three of plaintiff’s subpoena, along with an affidavit
authenticating the documents under Evidence Code section 1561(a); or (b)
provide an affidavit under Evidence Code section 1561(b) stating it has no such
documents, within 20 days.