  Case Number:  20STCV49245    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  5, 2023




CASE NUMBER


20STCV49245




MOTIONS



 Demurrers
Motion to Strike 





MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Richard Ellenbogen, M.D. and Sunflower Surgical Corp.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Gabriella Plattner



 
MOTIONS
 
Defendants Richard Ellenbogen, M.D. (“Ellenbogen”) and Sunflower
Surgical Corporation (“Sunflower”) (collectively, “Defendants”) have each filed
identical demurrers to the Second, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth causes of
action for uncertainty and failure to state a cause of action, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f).  Defendants also demur to the Second cause of
action as duplicative.  Ellenbogen
additionally demurs to the Ninth cause of action (which was not asserted as to
Sunflower) for uncertainty and for failure to state a cause of action, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f).  Defendants also jointly move to strike
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages from the complaint.
 
Plaintiff has opposed both demurrers and the motion to strike, and
Defendants have replied.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRERS
 
Defendants demur to the Second, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth
causes of action on the bases that they are uncertain and fail to state a cause
of action.  Defendants also demur to the
Second cause of action as duplicative. 
Ellenbogen additionally demurs to the ninth cause of action on the bases
that it is uncertain and fails to state a cause of action.  
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v.
Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Here, the allegations in the complaint are not so vague or uncertain
that Defendants cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or
denied, or what claims are directed against them.  
 
Therefore, the court overrules the demurrers regarding the Second, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, and
Ninth causes of action on the ground of uncertainty.  
  
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
In the alternative, Defendants
argue that the Second, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth causes of
action fail to state a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure,
section 430.10, subdivision (e).
 
1.      Second Cause of Action – Medical Battery
 
Defendants first contend that
Plaintiff fails to state her second cause of action for medical battery,
because she “consented to a breast augmentation procedure and Dr. Ellenbogen
performed a breast augmentation procedure.” 
(Demurrer at p. 5:3-4.) 
Therefore, Defendants contend, (1) Plaintiff has failed to state a cause
of action for medical battery; and (2) to the extend Plaintiff is unsatisfied
with the breast augmentation that was performed, she has a medical negligence
cause of action only, and therefore the second cause of action is duplicative
of the first cause of action.
 
“As a general rule, one who
consents to a touching cannot recover in an action for battery.”  (Piedra v. Dugan (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 1483, 1497.)  “Thus, one who
gives informed consent to a surgery cannot recover for resulting harm under a
theory of battery.”  (Ibid.)  “However, it is well recognized a person may
place conditions on the consent. If the actor exceeds the terms or conditions
of the consent, the consent does not protect the actor from liability for the
excessive act.”  (Ibid.)
 
“There are three elements to a
claim for medical battery under a violation of conditional consent: the patient
must show his consent was conditional; the doctor intentionally violated the
condition while providing treatment; and the patient suffered harm as a result
of the doctor's violation of the condition.” 
(Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges she
“consented to a bilateral, surgical breast augmentation using subpectoral
placement of silicone ‘gummy bear’ implants of uniform consistency throughout”
and that “[a]t no time prior to the surgery” did she “or any person authorized
to act on her behalf, consent to any substitution of either the material or
placement of the implants” or “to surgically lowering her inframammary fold to
below its natural position[.]” 
(Complaint ¶ 66.)  Plaintiff
further alleges that during the surgery, Defendants “surgically implanted
liquid silicone implants in Plaintiff, placing one of the implants in the
subglandular position” and “intentionally deviated from Plaintiff’s consented
treatment plan by using a different material and placement of implants and by
lowering Plaintiff’s inframammary fold to below its natural position.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 67-68.)  
 
Moreover, Plaintiff alleges
Ellenbogen “assured Plaintiff that her labia were beautiful, as he ‘had checked
while [she] was under anesthesia’ during the June 19, 2019 surgery” and at no
point prior to the surgery “had she discussed any potential interest in genital
surgery or authorized Dr. Ellenbogen to touch or examine her genetalia[.]”  (Complaint ¶ 69.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has alleged
that Defendants exceeded the scope of Plaintiff’s consent during the surgery.
 
With respect to damages,
Plaintiff alleges “[a]s a direct and proximate result” Plaintiff “was injured
in her health, strength and activity, sustaining emotional and psychological
distress, injuries to her body, and shock and injury to her nervous system and
person” resulting in “general damages greater than $25,000.”  (Complaint ¶ 70.)  Plaintiff further alleges she “was compelled
to and did employ the services of physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals,
and the like, to care for, diagnose, and to treat her, and did incur hospital,
medical, and incidental expenses” and “will necessarily incur additional like
expenses for a period of time in the future [.]”  (Complaint ¶71.)  Plaintiff also alleges she “was prevented
from attending to her usual occupation[.]” 
(Complaint ¶ 72.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has adequately alleged a cause of action for medical
battery, and that is not duplicative of the first cause of action for medical
negligence.
 
2.      Fourth Cause of Action – Misrepresentation
– Concealment
 
Defendants contend the Fourth
cause of action for “Misrepresentation – Concealment” fails to state a cause of
action because (1) it is unclear whether Plaintiff pleads a cause of action for
misrepresentation or concealment; (2) Plaintiff fails to plead either cause of
action with the requisite particularity; and (3) Plaintiff bases her fraud
claim on “non-actionable statements of opinion[.]”  (Opp. at p. 7:5-6.)
 
“The required elements for
fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact;
(2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” 
(Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)   
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
Plaintiff alleges that Dr.
Ellenbogen “knew that implants of a different type than that specified in the
surgical plan had been used” and “that one implant had been placed below the
pectoralis major muscle while the other was placed below it.”  (Complaint ¶ 88.)  Despite this, Plaintiff alleges that
immediately upon waking up from the surgery, she heard Dr. Ellenbogen say,
“This is not how things were supposed to go, I am used to a higher quality of
surgical support in the OR.”  (Complaint
¶ 87.)  Moreover, at the June 27, 2019
post-operative appointment, “Dr. Ellenbogen assured [Plaintiff] that she was
healing appropriately, and the surgery had gone well” despite knowing and
previously stating that it had not. 
(Complaint ¶ 88.)  
 
Plaintiff further alleges that
Dr. Ellenbogen still did not disclose to her that the surgery had not been
performed improperly at the July 8, 2019 and July 22, 2019 post-operative
follow-up appointments, advising Plaintiff instead that “it could take several
months for the swelling to subside and the results of the surgery to become
apparent.”  (Complaint ¶ 89.)  Plaintiff also alleges Dr. Ellenbogen “made
false ‘observations’ in his file/chart notes about [Plaintiff]” for the purpose
of “discourage[ing] other surgeons from examining or performing surgery on her,
which examinations or surgery would have revealed the significant and serious
problems with Plaintiff’s breast implants” and Dr. Ellenbogen “also attempted
to dissuade Plaintiff from seeking an MRI […] to prevent Plaintiff from
discovering the true nature and causes of the problems she perceived with her
breast implants.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 91-92.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that as a result of Defendants’ concealment of and
misrepresentations about her condition, she “sustained serious injuries which
may have been avoided had corrective surgery been performed immediately.”  (Complaint ¶ 94.)  
 
Thus, Plaintiff has pleaded a cause of action for misrepresentation –
concealment with the requisite particularity. 
She has alleged the who, what, when, where, and how of all material
misrepresentations and concealments alleged.
 
Moreover, these allegations are not “based on non-actionable
opinion.”  Plaintiff alleges that her
surgery was performed improperly, and not in conformance with the treatment
plan to which she consented; she alleges Defendants knew this to be the case,
and that Dr. Ellenbogen even stated to the surgery staff, “This is not how
things were supposed to go,” yet repeatedly told Plaintiff that the surgery had
gone well.
 
Thus, Plaintiff has adequately pleaded a cause of action for fraud
based on misrepresentation/concealment. 
 
3.      Sixth Cause of Action – Constructive Fraud
 
Defendants contend that
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for constructive fraud fails because the
allegations are too conclusory.
 
“[C]onstructive fraud
comprises all acts, omissions and concealments involving a breach of legal or
equitable duty, trust, or confidence, and resulting in damages to another.  Constructive fraud exists in cases in which
conduct, although not actually fraudulent, ought to be so treated—that is, in
which such conduct is a constructive or quasi fraud, having all the actual
consequences and all the legal effects of actual fraud.”  (Barrett v. Bank of America (1986) 183
Cal.App.3d 1362, 1368–1369.)  Regardless
of fraudulent intent, constructive fraud also exists when the person breaching
the duty “gains an advantage,” through the breach.  (Civ. Code, § 1573; Byrum v. Brand
(1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 926, 938, fn. 7.)
 
The elements of a constructive
fraud cause of action are “(1) a fiduciary or confidential relationship; (2)
nondisclosure (breach of fiduciary duty); (3) intent to deceive, and (4)
reliance and resulting injury (causation).” 
(Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1105, 113, as modified on denial of reh'g (Feb. 27, 2014).)
 
            In
addition to the specific allegations outlined above, Plaintiff alleges “By
virtue of their ‘healthcare provider/patient relationship’ with Plaintiff,
Defendants […] owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff to disclose all material
facts […] concerning the results of the June 19, 2019 surgery” including that
Defendants “had not followed Plaintiff’s treatment plan and had inserted the
implant of a different material than that specified and that one of the
implants had been placed above the pectoralis major muscle, instead of below
it.”  (Complaint ¶ 110.)  Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants’
failure to disclose Plaintiff’s true condition “was financially motived and
intentional” and caused her “serious injuries.” 
(Complaint ¶ 111.)
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff has adequately pleaded a cause of action for constructive fraud.
 
4.      Seventh Cause of Action – Breach of
Contract
 
Defendants contend that even
though Plaintiff alleges all the necessary elements of a breach of contract
cause of action – namely that Defendants breached the pre-surgery agreement by
surgically implanting a different material using a different technique and
placement than the parties agreed to, resulting in Plaintiff’s damages – Plaintiff’s
Seventh Cause of Action for Breach of Contract nonetheless fails because
Plaintiff also alleges medical negligence based upon the same set of facts, and
therefore, she cannot plead what is essentially a tort claim as a breach of
contract.
 
A Plaintiff may plead
alternative theories of liability at the pleadings stage.  (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388, as modified on denial of reh'g (Feb. 24, 2012).)
 
Thus, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of action.
 
5.      Eighth Cause of Action – Breach of Warranty
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s
Eighth Cause of Action for Breach of Warranty fails, because inherent in a
breach of warranty cause of action is the sale of a good, whereas healthcare
providers are “providers of services—not sellers of goods—even when the services
provided incidentally include the use of medical devices, such as implantation
of a pacemaker or administration of medications or blood products.”  (Demurrer at p. 10:18-22.)  In support of their argument, Defendants cite
to the strict liability cases Hector v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (1986)
180 Cal.App.3d 493, 506-07 and Fogo v. Cutter Laboratories, Inc. (1977)
68 Cal. App. 3d 744, 752.
 
“The essential elements of a
cause of action under the California Uniform Commercial Code for breach of an
express warranty to repair defects are (1) an express warranty to repair
defects given in connection with the sale of goods; (2) the existence of a defect
covered by the warranty; (3) the buyer's notice to the seller of such a defect
within a reasonable time after its discovery; (4) the seller's failure to
repair the defect in compliance with the warranty; and (5) resulting damages[.]”
(Orichian v. BMW of North America, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1322,
1333–1334, as modified (July 1, 2014) [cleaned up].)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants’ website promises “that if a patient experienced any problems with
her surgery, or was not satisfied with the result, within a year after the
original surgery, they would perform a revision surgery without charging a
surgeon’s fee.” (Complaint ¶ 119.)  Yet,
when Plaintiff requested that Defendants honor the policy and perform a
revision surgery in May 2020, Defendants refused.  (Complaint ¶¶ 121-124.)  As a result, Plaintiff alleges she had to pay
another surgeon perform the corrective surgery. 
(Complaint ¶ 125.)
 
Defendants’ cases are inapposite. 
Specifically, those cases held in the specific context of strict
liability, that “those who sell their services for the guidance of others ...
are not liable in the absence of negligence or intentional misconduct.”  (Hector v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 493, 502.)  Here,
Plaintiff does not seek to hold Defendant medical providers strictly liable for
product defects in her implants.  Rather,
Plaintiff has alleged both negligence and intentional misconduct, and seeks to
recover damages she incurred by paying another doctor to perform the revision
surgery Defendants expressly warranted they would perform.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the Eighth
cause of action.
 
6.      Ninth Cause of Action – Invasion of Privacy
 
The ninth cause of action for
invasion of privacy was brought against only Defendant Ellenbogen, and not
against Sunflower.  
 
Dr. Ellenbogen demurs to the
ninth cause of action on the basis that Plaintiff’s allegations that Dr.
Ellenbogen revealed Plaintiff’s personal medical information to another patient
are too conclusory, because there is no HIPAA or CMIA violation in a doctor
disclosing to a patient another patient’s medical issue, unless that patient’s
personally identifying information is also disclosed.  Defendants illustrate this point by
explaining that doctors commonly tell prospective patients that they have
another patient with the same medical issue, or they have seen this particular
medical issue before, etc.
 
In opposition to Ellenbogen’s demurrer, Plaintiff seeks leave to amend
the ninth cause of action “to conform to the pleading requirements asserted in
the demurrer.”   
 
Plaintiff alleges “In or about
November 2020, Plaintiff learned that Dr. Ellenbogen intruded on Plaintiff’s
medical records and intentionally or negligently disclosed details of her
surgery and other private and personal details about her via text messages to
another of his patients, in violation of her privacy.”  (Complaint ¶ 130.)  
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied her pleading burden, by
alleging that Dr. Ellenbogen disclosed both her medical records “and other
private and personal details about her.” 
Because the Court overrules Dr. Ellenbogen’s demurrer to the ninth cause
of action, it need not grant Plaintiff leave to amend the Complaint.  However, Plaintiff and Defendants may
stipulate to amendments to the ninth cause of action, or Plaintiff may move the
court for leave to amend the ninth cause of action.
 
2.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Motions to Strike Punitive Damages Generally
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Defendants move to strike from the
complaint, references to and claims for punitive damages.    
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
 
Medical Malpractice Punitive Damages Requirements
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.13, “[i]n any action for damages arising out of professional
negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be
included in a complaint or other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing
an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed.  The court may allow the filing of an amended
pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended
pleading and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented
that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that
the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil
Code.”
 
            Section 3294 of the Civil Code,
subsection (a) provides: “In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.”
 
“Section 425.13 was enacted because the Legislature was concerned that
unsubstantiated claims for punitive damages were being included in complaints
against health care providers. The Legislature therefore sought to provide
additional protection by establishing a pretrial hearing mechanism by which the
court would determine whether an action for punitive damages could proceed.
This pretrial hearing mechanism must be used if plaintiff's claim is for
damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care provider.
An action for damages arises out of the professional negligence of a health
care provider if the injury for which damages are sought is directly related to
the professional services provided by the health care provider. Thus if a claim
is directly related to the professional services rendered by a health care
provider, section 425.13 applies.”  (Cooper
v. Superior Court (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 744, 748 [cleaned up].)
 
In the seminal case of Central Pathology Service Medical Clinic,
Inc. v. Superior Court, the California Supreme Court, in reversing a trial
court, held that “[w]henever an injured party seeks punitive damages for an
injury that is directly related to the professional services provided by a
health care provider acting in its capacity as such, then the action is one
“arising out of the  professional
negligence of a health care provider,” and the party must comply with section
425.13(a).”  (Central Pathology
Service Medical Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 181,
191–192 (hereafter, Central Pathology [cleaned up].)  The Central Pathology court further
stated:
 
[I]dentifying a cause of
action as an “intentional tort” as opposed to “negligence” does not itself
remove the claim from the requirements of section 425.13(a). The allegations
that identify the nature and cause of a plaintiff's injury must be examined to
determine whether each is directly related to the manner in which professional
services were provided. Thus, a cause of action against a health care provider
for battery predicated on treatment exceeding or different from that to which a
plaintiff consented is governed by section 425.13 because the injury arose out
of the manner in which professional services are provided. By contrast, a cause
of action against a health care provider for sexual battery would not, in most
instances, fall within the statute because the defendant's conduct would not be
directly related to the manner in which professional services were
rendered.  And, contrary to plaintiffs'
argument, section 425.13(a) applies regardless of whether the complaint
purports to state a single cause of action for an intentional tort or also
states a cause of action for professional negligence. The clear intent of
the Legislature is that any claim for punitive damages in an action against a
health care provider be subject to the statute if the injury that is the basis
for the claim was caused by conduct that was directly related to the rendition
of professional services.
 
(Central
Pathology, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 192, emphasis added [cleaned up].) “Thus
a claim of battery predicated on treatment exceeding or different from that to
which a plaintiff consented is governed by section 425.13, a claim of fraud in
communication of test results is covered, a claim of intentional infliction of
emotional distress arising from the rendition of professional services is
covered, a claim of falsification of medical findings and conspiracy to deprive
a patient of workers' compensation benefits is covered, and a claim that a
hospital allowed two hospital employees to rape a patient is covered.”  (Cooper v. Superior Court, supra, 56
Cal.App.4th at p.  749 [cleaned
up].)  
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff contends that her punitive damages claim should not be
stricken because she seeks punitive damages pursuant to her fraud claims
stemming from Defendants’ misrepresentations and concealments during her
post-operative appointments, not from Defendants’ alleged medical
negligence.  
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s claims fundamentally arise from
Defendant’s provision of medical treatment, and as such, Plaintiff’s punitive
damages claim is subject to the requirements of section 425.13, subdivision
(a).  As such, the court grants
Defendant’s motion to strike.
 
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of
showing in what manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment
would change the legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action.
(See The Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27
Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal
basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a
cause of action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven
Int'l, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff
does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a
demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint
deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major
Clients Agency v Diemer (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank
of America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to
amend does not satisfy the burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff must satisfy the requirements of section 425.13, by
moving for leave to add a claim for punitive damages, supported by evidence,
before the Court may enter an order granting Plaintiff leave to amend.
 
As such, the Court denies leave to amend at this time.  Plaintiff may, however, file a motion for
leave to amend, in conformance with the requirements of section 425.13.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The Court overrules Defendants’ demurrers to the complaint in their
entirety.
 
The Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike and strikes from the
Complaint all references to and claims for punitive damages.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s rulings and file a
proof of service of such._
 
 
 
DATED: 
October 5, 2023                            ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
                        __