  Case Number:  22STCV33580    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  50 THERE ARE TWO TENTATIVES: 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 



CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE,
  individually and as trustee for Trashawn Tillet,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
LOS ANGELES COUNTY,
  DEPARTMENT OF THE CORONER, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV33580




Hearing Date:


May 1, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ DEMURRERS TO PLAINTIFF’S THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANT CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
 



            
Background
Plaintiff
Carolyn Tracie Love, individually and as trustee for Trashawn
Tillett (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on October 14, 2022 against Defendants
Los Angeles County, Department of the Coroner; Los Angeles City; Los Angeles
Police Department; and Los Angeles Fire Department. 
On May 23, 2023, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed a notice of
removal of the action to federal court. 
On November 15, 2023, the United States District Court, Central
District of California issued an “Order Granting in Part Defendants’ Motions to
Dismiss [DKT Nos. 70, 71] And Remanding Case” in the matter Carolyn Tracie
Love v. Los Angeles County, et al., Case No. 2:23-cv-03851-SB-PVC
(herein, the “Federal Action”). The November 15, 2023 Order in the Federal
Action provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“After
Defendants moved to dismiss her Second Amended Complaint (SAC), Plaintiff, now
proceeding pro se, filed an untimely Third Amended Complaint (TAC) nearly two
weeks after her opposition deadline had passed. Dkt. No. 65. The TAC
significantly expands on her earlier pleadings, spanning 68 pages and alleging
24 causes of action…including 13 federal claims. Id. The Court
allowed the filing of the TAC and denied as moot the motions to dismiss the
SAC. Dkt. No. 67. The City and County now move to dismiss Plaintiff’s TAC for
failure to state a claim. Dkt. Nos. 70, 71. The Court finds this
matter suitable for decision without oral argument and vacates the December 1,
2023 motion hearing. Fed. R. Civ. P. 78;
L.R. 7-15. Because Plaintiff has not alleged any plausible federal
claims, the Court dismisses her federal causes of action and remands the
remaining claims to state court.” (November 15, 2023 Order, p. 2.) 
The November 15, 2023 Order in the Federal Action concludes that
“[a]ccordingly, the Court GRANTS IN PART Defendants’ motions to dismiss, and
Plaintiff’s federal claims in Counts 7, 11, 14, and 16-25 are DISMISSED on the
merits with prejudice. The Court does not reach the rest of Defendants’
arguments, but instead declines to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over
Plaintiff’s remaining state-law claims. The case is therefore REMANDED to the
state court from which it was removed.” (November 15, 2023 Order, p. 8.)
On November 20, 2023, a notice from the United States District Court,
Central District of California was filed in this action indicating, inter
alia, that “[p]ursuant to this Court’s ORDER OF REMAND issued on
11/15/2023, the above-referenced case is hereby remanded to your jurisdiction.”

Defendants County of Los Angeles (the “County”) and City of Los
Angeles (the “City”) indicate that Plaintiff filed the subject Third Amended
Complaint for Damages (“TAC”) in the Federal Action on September 28, 2023.
(County’s RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A; Hunter Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) The TAC alleges twenty-five
causes of action. (Ibid.) 
The County now demurs to the third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, and
tenth causes of action of the TAC. In addition, the City now demurs to the
first, second, third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, tenth, twelfth, thirteenth,
and fifteenth causes of action of the TAC. 
On March 1, 2024, the Court issued a minute order continuing the
hearings on the instant demurrers. The Court’s March 1, 2024 minute order
provides, inter alia, that “[p]ursuant to the request of plaintiff, the
Hearing on Demurrer - without Motion to Strike scheduled for 03/01/2024,
Hearing on Demurrer - without Motion to Strike scheduled for 03/01/2024, and
Case Management Conference scheduled for 03/01/2024 are continued to 05/01/24
at 10:00 AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. The hearings are
continued so that Plaintiff can obtain counsel to represent her as trustee and
so she can file an opposition to the Demurrers both as an individual and as
trustee…The opposition and reply will be due per code.” 
The Court notes that on April 25, 2024, Plaintiff untimely filed, inter
alia, documents captioned “Plaintiff’s Opposition to Los Angeles City
Demurrers to Plaintiff Third Amended Complaint,” and “Plaintiff’s Opposition to
Los Angeles County Demurrers to Plaintiff Third Amended Complaint.” 
Procedural Issues
As an initial matter, the caption page of Plaintiff’s oppositions
reference Carolyn Love, 
“IN
PRO SE for CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE. Individually and as trustee for Trashawn
Tillett.” 
As discussed
above, on March 1, 2024, the Court issued a minute order in this action
providing, inter alia, that “[p]ursuant to the request of
plaintiff, the Hearing on Demurrer - without Motion to Strike scheduled for
03/01/2024, Hearing on Demurrer - without Motion to Strike scheduled for
03/01/2024, and Case Management Conference scheduled for 03/01/2024 are
continued to 05/01/24 at 10:00 AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
The hearings are continued so that Plaintiff can obtain counsel to represent
her as trustee and so she can file an opposition to the Demurrers both as an
individual and as trustee.” However, Plaintiff does not demonstrate that she
obtained counsel to represent her as trustee. 

The Court notes that “[a] nonattorney
trustee who represents the trust in court is representing and affecting the
interests of the beneficiary and is thus engaged in the unauthorized practice
of law.” (Ziegler v.
Nickel (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 545,
549.) In Aulisio v. Bancroft (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1516,
1524, the Court of Appeal noted as follows: 
 
“Ziegler explained, however, that “‘a trustee’s duties in connection
with his or her office do not include the right to present argument [in propria
persona] in courts of the state, because in this capacity such trustee would be
representing interests
of others and would therefore be engaged in the unauthorized practice
of law…Stated
otherwise, ‘[a] trustee must always act solely in…the beneficiaries’ interest…(Ziegler, supra, 64 Cal.App.4th at pp.
548–549, original italics, some brackets added.) Consequently, Ziegler held: “A nonattorney
trustee who represents the trust in court is representing and affecting
the interests of the beneficiary and is thus engaged in the unauthorized
practice of law.” (Id. at p. 549.) Ziegler therefore affirmed on
appeal the trial court’s order directing the nonlawyer trustee to withdraw as
the trust’s attorney in a lawsuit involving the trust’s purchase of a
mobilehome, and to instead retain a lawyer to appear for the trust. (Id. at pp. 547, 549.) Like Hansen and City of Downey, Ziegler articulates a general rule that
nonattorneys who purport to conduct litigation on behalf of others violate the
prohibition against the unauthorized practice of law.” (Emphasis in original.) 
In light of
the fact that Plaintiff did not obtain counsel to represent her
as trustee, the Court treats the instant demurrers as unopposed by Carolyn Tracie Love, as
trustee for Trashawn Tillet. The Court refers to Carolyn Tracie
Love, individually as “Love” herein. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court grants the County’s request for judicial notice filed in
support of the County’s demurrer.    
Allegations of the
TAC 
In the TAC, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that on October 20, 2021, Plaintiff arrived at the
home of her son, Trashawn Alton Tillet (herein, the “Decedent”). (See County’s
RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A, TAC, ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff alleges that the Decedent’s eyes were closed and that he did not
respond to his name. (TAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges the Decedent had contusions
on “the right-side temple above his ear…” (TAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[m]ultiple bottles of alcohol were everywhere in his living room as if there had
been a party,” and that “Plaintiff believes that the alcohol bottles were
staged and planted by a violent perpetrator to district attention from a crime
and crime scene.” (Compl., ¶¶ 5, 14.) 
Plaintiff alleges that paramedics
arrived at the apartment. (TAC, p. 11:5.) Plaintiff alleges that she “never
observed either paramedic deploy life saving measures.” (TAC, ¶ 48.) Plaintiff
further alleges that one paramedic said, “sorry he been dead for maybe a few
days.” (TAC, ¶ 56.) Plaintiff further alleges, inter alia, that “LAPD
officers…never thoroughly investigated…whether [the Decedent] was the victim of
a homicide[].” (TAC, ¶ 185.) 
In addition, Plaintiff
alleges that “there is substantial evidence that the coroner mixed up the
findings of a different deceased.” (TAC, ¶ 322.) Plaintiff further alleges that
“[it] appears that [the Decedent’s] body may have been cremated. Upon
information and belief, the coroner gave the funeral possession of the wrong
body.” (TAC, ¶ 386.)
The County’s
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)
B.    Uncertainty 
As an initial matter,
the County asserts that the TAC is subject to demurrer on the ground that it is
uncertain. A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible.
(¿Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f)¿.) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (¿Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2¿.) However, “¿[a] demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.¿” (Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616¿.)¿¿ 
The County asserts that
“[h]ere, it is not clear exactly from the TAC which of the remaining
eleven causes of action are being asserted against which defendants… while some
of the causes of action identify in their heading certain specific defendants,
several of the other causes of action do not provide this basic information.”
(Demurrer at pp. 13:28-14:4.) 
However, as set forth above, the County demurs to the third, fifth,
sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action of the TAC.[1] The TAC alleges that the third and
fifth causes of action are alleged against, inter alia, “County of Los
Angeles.” (TAC, pp. 51:10-11; 52:7.) In addition, the TAC alleges that the
sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action are alleged against “all
Defendants.” (TAC, pp. 53:10; 55:12-13; 56:16; 57:3-4.) Thus, the Court does not
find that the causes of action that are the subject of the County’s demurrer
are so ambiguous that the County cannot determine whether such causes of action
are being asserted against it.  
In addition, the County
asserts that “the TAC also refers both to the County and the ‘Department
of Coroner,’ but does not specify clearly whether the Department of Medical
Examiner-Coroner is being separately sued.” (Demurrer at p. 14:7-8.) The Court
agrees, as the caption page of the TAC lists, inter alia, “Los Angeles
County, Department of the Coroner.” (County’s RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A, p. 5.) Accordingly, the Court
sustains the County’s demurrer on the grounds of uncertainty as to the
third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action of the TAC
against the “Department of the Coroner,” to the extent these causes of action
are alleged against any purported separate entity named “Department of the
Coroner.” 
 
 
C.   
Third, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Causes
of Action as to Plaintiff’s Claims on Behalf of the Decedent 
Next, the County asserts that “the claims that Plaintiff is asserting
(presumably) on behalf of Decedent fail because there are no allegations
against the County relating to conduct occurring before Decedent’s death, and
Plaintiff, proceeding in pro se, cannot represent the Decedent.” (Demurrer at
p. 15:5-8.)
In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, an
individual, and on behalf of TRASHAWN ALTON TILLETT, her deceased son by and
her [sic] attorney alleges as follows against Defendants Los Angeles County
Coroner’s, Los Angeles City Fire Dept, Los Angeles City Police Dept does 1 to
10.” (TAC, p. 5.) In addition, the caption page of the TAC states that the
Plaintiff is “CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, individually and [a]s trustee for Trashawn
Tillett.” (Ibid.) 
The County cites to People v. Runyan (2012) 54 Cal.4th 849, 861-862, where the California
Supreme Court noted that “[n]o civil
claim can be asserted, on a decedent’s personal behalf, for injury or damage to
the decedent that occurs, or accrues, after the decedent has died. The
governing statutes recognize two, and only two, mutually exclusive types of
actions that may be brought, or maintained, in consequence of a person’s death.
First, a cause of action in favor of a person survives the person’s death, and
may be commenced, or continued, by the decedent’s personal representative, or,
if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest. However, the damages recoverable
in such an action are limited to the loss or damage that the decedent sustained
or incurred before death…”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
The County asserts that “[h]ere, the
factual basis of the County’s wrongdoing, as alleged in the TAC, relates solely
to conduct occurring after Decedent’s death – namely, the
purported negligent investigation of Decedent’s cause of death and the
mishandling of his remains…” (Demurrer at p. 15:13-17, emphasis omitted, citing
County’s RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A, ¶¶ 196-208.) The County asserts that “[b]ecause there
are no allegations against the County relating to conduct occurring before
Decedent’s death, no claim accrued as to Decedent against the County
before his death and each of the claims asserted on his behalf as to the County
are properly dismissed.” (Demurrer at p. 15:21-24, emphasis omitted.) In the
opposition, Love appears to concede this point, stating, “Plaintiff never
implied in her TAC that any violations by the County of Los Angeles happened
before Trashawn A. Tillett was deceased. In fact, the plaintiff explained quite
clearly that the violations happened after he was declared deceased.” (Opp’n at
p. 5.)[2] 
The County also asserts that “Plaintiff, who is not an attorney,
cannot represent the interests of Decedent’s estate proceeding pro se.”
(Demurrer at p. 16:3-4.) The caption page of the TAC lists “Carolyn Tracie
Love” above “Attorneys for CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE (pro per) Individually
and as trustee for Trashawn Tillet.” (County’s RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A, p. 5, emphasis
added.) In addition, the “Plaintiff” named on the caption page of the TAC is
“CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, individually and [a]s trustee for Trashawn Tillet.” (Ibid.) 
The County cites to Hansen v. Hansen (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th
618, 621, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[a] person
who is unlicensed to practice law and who represents a decedent’s estate cannot
appear in propria persona on behalf of the estate in matters outside the
probate proceedings. Since the passage of the State
Bar Act in 1927, persons may represent their own interests in legal
proceedings, but may not represent the interests of another unless they are
active members of the State Bar.” (Internal citations omitted.) Accordingly, in
light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the County’s demurrer to the third,
fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action of the TAC, to the
extent these causes of action are alleged by Plaintiff on behalf of the
Decedent. 
D.    Third,
Fifth, and Eighth Causes of Action 
Next, the County asserts that “Plaintiff’s
third, fifth, and eighth causes of action fail to plead the requisite statutory
provision imposing a mandatory duty on the County for liability under Government Code § 815.6.” (Demurrer at p. 16:6-8.)
Plaintiff’s third cause of action is for “negligent investigation and failure
to render aid,” the fifth cause of action is for “negligent hiring,” and the
eighth cause of action is for “intentional and negligent infliction of emotional
distress.” 
The County notes that “‘[a] public entity is not liable for an injury,’ ‘[e]xcept
as otherwise provided by statute.’ (Gov. Code, § 815.)…In other words, direct tort
liability of public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them
to be liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care…” (Eastburn v.
Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003)
31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.) In Plaintiff’s third and fifth causes of
action, she alleges that “Defendants owed her a duty pursuant to Government Code section 815.6…” (TAC, ¶¶ 398, 401.) In
the eighth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant Los Angeles
Coroner’s Department owed her a duty pursuant to Government
Code section 815.6…” (TAC, ¶ 419.) 
Government Code section 815.6 provides that “[w]here a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed
by an enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a particular
kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that kind
proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the public
entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the
duty.” The County notes that “[a] plaintiff
seeking to hold a public entity liable under Government
Code section 815.6 must specifically identify the statute or regulation
alleged to create a mandatory duty.” (In re Groundwater Cases (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 659, 689.) As noted by the County, Plaintiff’s
third, fifth, and eighth causes of action do not appear to identify any
specific statute, enactment, or provision that Plaintiff claims imposed a
mandatory duty on the County.
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the County’s demurrer to
the third, fifth, and eighth causes of action of the TAC. 
E.    Sixth Cause of Action 
The sixth cause of action of
the TAC is for “violation of California Constitutional rights.”
This cause of action alleges that “Defendants’
actions violated, and continue to violate, Plaintiff’s rights under Article I, Sections 1, 2, 3, 7, 13 and 15 of the
California Constitution.” (TAC, ¶ 408.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
“violate[d] her due process right to a governmental investigation,” “violate[d]
her due process right to an unbiased governmental investigation,” and
“violate[d] her equal protection and/or due process right not to be singled out
for irrational and/or arbitrary discriminatory treatment.” (TAC, ¶ 407.) 
            First,
the County cites to authority supporting its assertion that Sections 1, 2, and 7 of Article I of the California
Constitution do not provide for a private right of action for damages. The
County cites to Clausing v. San
Francisco Unified School Dist. (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1224, 1237, footnote
6, where the Court of Appeal noted that “article I, section 1, of the California
Constitution…states: ‘All people are by nature free and independent and
have inalienable rights. Among these are enjoying and defending life and liberty,
acquiring, possessing, and protecting property, and pursuing and obtaining
safety, happiness, and privacy.’ Clearly, although safety and happiness are
inalienable rights, this provision of the Constitution does not establish the
means whereby they may be enjoyed. No case has ever held that this provision
enunciating the inalienable right to obtain safety and happiness is
self-executing in the sense that it gives rise, in and of itself, to a private
right of action for damages or an affirmative duty on the part of the state to
take particular steps to guarantee the enjoyment of safety or happiness by all
citizens.” The County also cites to Degrassi v. Cook (2002) 29 Cal.4th 333, 342, where the California Supreme Court “conclude[d]
that there is no indication in the language of article
I, section 2(a), nor any evidence in the history of that provision, from
which we may find, within that provision, an implied right to seek damages for
a violation of the free speech right set out therein.” In addition,
the County cites to Katzberg v.
Regents of University of California (2002)
29 Cal.4th 300, 324, where the California
Supreme Court “conclude[d] that there is no indication in the
language of article I, section 7(a), nor any
evidence in the history of that section, from which we may find, within that
provision, an implied right to seek damages for a violation of the due process
liberty interest.” The Court notes that Love’s opposition to the
County’s demurrer does not appear to address this legal authority. 
            As
to Article I, Sections 3, 13 and 15, the County
asserts that “[n]one of these provisions of the California Constitution
provide Plaintiff a ‘due process’ right to a ‘governmental investigation’ by
the County’s DMEC as to the cause of Decedent’s death.” (Demurrer at p.
18:17-19.) Indeed, as noted by the County, Section 3
concerns “[a]ssembly, petition, open meetings,” Section
13 concerns “search and seizure,” and Section 15
concerns “safeguards in criminal prosecutions.” 
(Cal. Const., art. I, § 3; Cal. Const., art. I, §
13; Cal. Const., art. I, § 15.) Thus, the Court
does not see how these provisions are relevant to Plaintiff’s claims in the
TAC. 
The County also asserts that
“[n]or has Plaintiff alleged any facts to support her allegation that
she was ‘singled out for irrational and/or arbitrary discriminatory treatment’
by the County.” (Demurrer at p. 18:19-21; see TAC, ¶ 407.) Love’s opposition
to the County’s demurrer does not appear to address this point. 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
sustains the County’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action of the TAC. 
F.     Ninth Cause of Action 
As noted by the County, the
ninth cause of action of the TAC is untitled, but alleges that “Plaintiff, as
DECEDENT’S successor in interest, seek [sic] all damages accruing to DECEDENT
in a survival action, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.34.” (TAC, ¶ 425.) The County asserts that “there
are no recoverable damages on behalf of Decedent against the County given that
he was already deceased when the County’s DMEC responded.” (Demurrer at p. 20:26-17.) 
As noted by the County, Code of Civil Procedure section 377.34, subdivision
(a) provides that “[i]n an action or proceeding by a decedent’s personal
representative or successor in interest on the decedent’s cause of action, the
damages recoverable are limited to the loss or damage that the decedent
sustained or incurred before death, including any penalties or punitive or
exemplary damages that the decedent would have been entitled to recover had the
decedent lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering, or
disfigurement.” As set forth
above, in the opposition, Love acknowledges that “Plaintiff never
implied in her TAC that any violations by the County of Los Angeles happened
before Trashawn A. Tillett was deceased. In fact, the plaintiff explained quite
clearly that the violations happened after he was declared deceased.” (Opp’n at
p. 5.) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court sustains the County’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action of the TAC. 
G.    Tenth Cause of Action 
Plaintiff’s tenth cause of
action is for “constructive fraud – intentional misrepresentation –
concealment.” In the tenth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “Defendants…intentionally misrepresented the status of decedents medical
exam and the location of his remains…” (TAC, ¶ 427.) The County asserts that
the tenth cause of action fails because “Plaintiff fails to identify any
statutory basis for imposing direct liability as to the County for this claim.”
(Demurrer at p. 20:26-27.) As discussed, pursuant to Government
Code section 815, “[e]xcept as otherwise provided
by statute: (a) A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury
arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or
any other person…” Indeed, the tenth cause of action does not allege
any statutory basis for imposing liability on the County as to this cause of
action.  
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the County’s demurrer to
the tenth cause of action of the TAC. 
The City’s
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal.3d
at p. 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist., supra,
53 Cal.4th at p. 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist., supra, 2 Cal.4th at pp. 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co., supra, 67 Cal.2d at p. 713.)
 
B.   
First, Second, Third,
Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Twelfth, Thirteenth, and Fifteenth Causes
of Action as
to Plaintiff’s Claims on Behalf of the Decedent
As set forth above, the
City demurs to the first, second, third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth,
tenth, twelfth, thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of Plaintiff’s TAC.
The City asserts that Plaintiff cannot assert any claims or seek any
damages on behalf of the Decedent, as Plaintiff’s “alleged status as a trustee
does not alter the fact that Plaintiff is prohibited from bringing these claims
as a pro per.” (Demurrer at p. 7:9-10.) In addition, as to the ninth
cause of action specifically, the City asserts that “[t]he Ninth Cause of
Action is untitled and appears to allege a variety of damages to [the
Decedent]. This cause of action is essentially a survival action, which is a
claim personal to [the Decedent] and not to Plaintiff.” (Demurrer at p.
6:13-15.)[3] As
discussed, “[a] person who is unlicensed to practice law and who
represents a decedent’s estate cannot appear in propria persona on behalf of
the estate in matters outside the probate proceedings. Since the passage of the State Bar Act in
1927, persons may represent their own interests in legal proceedings, but may
not represent the interests of another unless they are active members of the
State Bar.” (Hansen v. Hansen, supra, 114
Cal.App.4th at p. 621 [internal citations omitted].)  
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to
the first, second, third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, tenth, twelfth,
thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the TAC, to the extent these
causes of action are alleged by Plaintiff on behalf of the Decedent. The Court
also sustains the City’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action to the
extent this cause of action is purportedly brought in Plaintiff’s individual
capacity. 
 
C.   
First, Second, Third,
Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Tenth, Twelfth, Thirteenth, and Fifteenth Causes of
Action
Next, the City asserts that “[t]he TAC does not allege any statutory
authority on which to bring any state law claims against the City, any of its
departments or any of its employees.” (Demurrer at p. 8:18-19.) As discussed, “‘[a] public entity is not liable
for an injury,’ ‘[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute.’ (Gov. Code, § 815.)…In other words, direct tort liability of public entities must be
based on a specific statute declaring them to be liable, or at least creating
some specific duty of care…” (Eastburn v. Regional
Fire Protection Authority, supra,
31 Cal.4th at p. 1183.)
Plaintiff’s
tenth cause of action for “constructive fraud-intentional
misrepresentation-concealment” alleges that “Defendants…intentionally misrepresented the
status of decedents medical exam and the location of his remains…” (TAC, ¶
427.) However, the tenth cause of action does not appear to allege any
statutory basis for imposing liability on the City. 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for failure to conduct a homicide
investigation and wellness check, second cause of action for negligent
investigation, third cause of action for negligent investigation and failure to
render aid, and fifth cause of action for negligent hiring allege that “Plaintiff…contends
that Defendants owed her a duty pursuant to Government
Code section 815.6…” (TAC, ¶¶ 388, 392, 398, 401.) In addition, Plaintiff’s
eighth cause of action for intentional and negligent infliction of emotional
distress alleges that “Plaintiff contends that the Defendant Los Angeles
Coroner’s Department owed her a duty pursuant to Government
Code section 815.6…” (TAC, ¶ 419.) As set forth above, “[a] plaintiff
seeking to hold a public entity liable under Government
Code section 815.6 must specifically identify the statute or regulation
alleged to create a mandatory duty.” (In re Groundwater Cases,
supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at p. 689.) Plaintiff’s first, second,
third, fifth, and eighth causes of action do not appear to identify
any specific statute or regulation purportedly imposing a mandatory duty on the
City. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the
first, second, third, fifth, eighth, and tenth causes of action of the TAC. 
The Court
notes that Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for “violation of California
constitution rights” alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants’ actions
violated, and continue to violate, Plaintiff’s rights under Article I, Sections 1, 2, 3, 7, 13 and 15 of the
California Constitution.” (TAC, ¶ 408.) In addition, Plaintiff’s twelfth
cause of action for violation of California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act alleges
that “Plaintiffs sought appropriate medical care for [the Decedent], a service
Defendants provides to the public,” and that “Defendants conduct [sic] denied,
aided, incited a denial of, discriminated, or made a distinction that denied
full and equal advantages, privileges, and services to [the Decedent] based
upon his sex, and therefore constituted a violation of California
Civil Code Section 51(b)…” (TAC, ¶¶ 436, 437.) Plaintiff’s thirteenth cause
of action for violation of California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act also alleges that
“Defendant’s conduct violated the Unruh Civil Rights Act…” (TAC, ¶ 445.) In
addition, Plaintiff’s fifteenth cause of action for violation of Government Code section 11135 alleges that
“Defendant’s conduct also denied Carolyn, who is ‘associated with’ [the
Decedent] under the meaning of the statute…full and equal access to the
services, programs, and activities offered by Defendant in violation of Section 11135.” (TAC, ¶ 457.) 
Thus, the
Court does not find that the City has shown that the sixth, twelfth,
thirteenth, or fifteenth causes of action should be dismissed for failure to
allege the statutory authority on which the causes of action are based, to the
extent that is what the City is arguing here. In addition, the City does not
appear to argue that the fifteenth cause of action should be dismissed on any
other basis.[4] Thus, the Court overrules
the City’s demurrer to the fifteenth cause of action. Plaintiff’s sixth,
twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action are addressed below. 
D.    Sixth Cause of Action 
As set forth above,
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action alleges that “Defendants’ actions violated,
and continue to violate, Plaintiff’s rights under Article
I, Sections 1, 2, 3, 7, 13 and 15 of the California Constitution.” (TAC, ¶
408.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “violate[d] her due process right to a
governmental investigation,” “violate[d] her due process right to an unbiased
governmental investigation,” and “violate[d] her equal protection and/or due
process right not to be singled out for irrational and/or arbitrary
discriminatory treatment.” (TAC, ¶ 407)
Article I,
Section 1 of the
California Constitution provides that “[a]ll
people are by nature free and independent and have inalienable rights. Among
these are enjoying and defending life and liberty, acquiring, possessing, and
protecting property, and pursuing and obtaining safety, happiness, and privacy.” (Cal. Const, art. I § 1.) The City asserts that “Plaintiff
has not pled sufficient facts to support her claim for violation of her state
constitutional right to privacy.” (Demurrer at p. 11:15-16.) Love does not
appear to specifically address this point in her opposition to the City’s
demurrer.  
The City also cites to Julian v. Mission Community
Hospital (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th
360, 391, where the Court of Appeal found
that “[t]here is no cause of action for
damages for alleged violations of California
Constitution, article I, section 2, subdivision (a) (freedom of speech), article I, section 3, subdivision (a) (right to
petition the government)…or article I, section 7,
subdivision (a) (due process and equal protection), when such an action is
not tied to an established common law or statutory action, and Julian alleges no such cause of action.” Here, Love’s opposition to the City’s demurrer
does not appear to demonstrate how she may allege a cause of action for damages
for a violation of Article I, Sections 2, 3, or 7 of the California
Constitution. 
            As
to Article I, Sections 13 and 15 of the California
Constitution, the City asserts that these sections are not applicable to the
facts of this case. Indeed, as discussed, Section
13 concerns “search and seizure,” and Section 15
concerns “safeguards in criminal prosecutions.” 
(Cal. Const., art. I, § 13; Cal. Const., art. I, §
15.)
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
sustains the City’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action of the TAC. 
E.    Twelfth and Thirteenth Causes of Action 
The City also asserts
that Plaintiff’s “claims based on an alleged violation of California’s
Unruh Civil Rights Act, Civil Code §51 et seq…fail
as well.” (Demurrer at p. 10:17-18.) As set forth above, Plaintiff’s twelfth cause of action for violation
of California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act alleges that “Plaintiffs sought
appropriate medical care for [the Decedent], a service Defendants provides
[sic] to the public,” and that “Defendants [sic] conduct denied, aided, incited
a denial of, discriminated, or made a distinction that denied full and equal
advantages, privileges, and services to [the Decedent] based upon his sex, and
therefore constituted a violation of California Civil
Code Section 51(b)…” (TAC, ¶¶ 436, 437.) 
Plaintiff’s
thirteenth cause of action for violation of California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act
alleges that the Decedent “is a gay black man with HIV which constitutes a
disability that limits a major life activity…This disability falls within the
purview of the Unruh Civil Rights Act…[sic] sought appropriate medical care, a
service Defendants provide[] to the public.” (TAC, ¶ 444.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “Defendant’s conduct violated the Unruh Civil Rights Act by
denying…[the Decedent’s] rights to full and equal use of the accommodations,
advantages, facilities, privileges, or services Defendant’s offers [sic] to
patients by denying [the Decedent] adequate care based on his disability.”
(TAC, ¶ 445.) 
The City asserts that “first responders are afforded immunity under
California law.” (Demurrer at p. 10:4-5.) The City cites to Health and Safety Code section 1799.106, subdivision
(a), which
provides that “[i]n addition to the
provisions of Section 1799.104 of this code, Section 2727.5 of the Business and Professions Code,
and Section 1714.2 of the Civil Code, and in order
to encourage the provision of emergency medical services by firefighters,
police officers or other law enforcement officers, EMT-I, EMT-II, EMT-P, or
registered nurses, a firefighter, police officer or other law enforcement
officer, EMT-I, EMT-II, EMT-P, or registered nurse who renders emergency
medical services at the scene of an emergency or during an emergency air or
ground ambulance transport shall only be liable in civil damages for acts or
omissions performed in a grossly negligent manner or acts or omissions not
performed in good faith. A public agency employing such a firefighter, police
officer or other law enforcement officer, EMT-I, EMT-II, EMT-P, or registered
nurse shall not be liable for civil damages if the firefighter, police officer
or other law enforcement officer, EMT-I, EMT-II, EMT-P, or registered nurse is
not liable.” 
Here, Plaintiff’s twelfth and thirteenth causes of action do not
appear to allege that any acts or omissions of the
City were performed in a grossly negligent manner or that any acts or omissions
of the City were not performed in good faith. In addition, in the
opposition, Love does not appear to address the foregoing legal authority cited
by the City. 
In light of the
foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the twelfth and thirteenth
causes of action of the TAC. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court sustains the County’s demurrer to the third, fifth, sixth, eighth,
ninth, and tenth causes of action of the TAC as to the County and the
“Department of the Coroner,” with leave to amend.
            In addition, based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the first, second, third, fifth,
sixth, eighth, ninth, tenth, twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action of the
TAC, with leave to amend. The Court overrules the City’s demurrer to the
fifteenth cause of action of the TAC. 
The
Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within
20 days of the date of this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20
days of this Order, the Court orders the County to file
and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal as to the County within 30 days of
the date of this order. In addition, if no amended complaint is filed within 20
days of this Order, the City is ordered to file and serve its answer
to the TAC within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿¿
The County is ordered to
give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  May 1, 2024                                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
   Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment
50  


CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE,
  individually and as trustee for Trashawn Tillet,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
LOS ANGELES COUNTY,
  DEPARTMENT OF THE CORONER, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV33580




Hearing Date:


May 1, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF
  DOCUMENTS, SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF
  CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE;
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF
  DOCUMENTS, SET TWO, AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF
  CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE;
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET
  ONE, AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF CAROLYN TRACIE
  LOVE;
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET
  TWO, AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF CAROLYN TRACIE
  LOVE;
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES – GENERAL,
  SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF CAROLYN TRACIE
  LOVE;
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE, ADMITTED,
  AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE
 


            BackgroundPlaintiff
Carolyn Tracie Love, individually and as trustee for Trashawn
Tillett (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on October 14, 2022 against Defendants
Los Angeles County, Department of the Coroner, Los Angeles City, Los Angeles
Police Department, and Los Angeles Fire Department. On May 23, 2023, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed a notice of
removal of the action to federal court. On November 15, 2023, the United States District Court, Central
District of California issued an “Order Granting in Part Defendants’ Motions to
Dismiss [DKT Nos. 70, 71] And Remanding Case” in the matter Carolyn Tracie
Love v. Los Angeles County, et al., Case No. 2:23-cv-03851-SB-PVC
(herein, the “Federal Action”). The November 15, 2023 Order in the Federal
Action provides, inter alia, as follows:  “After
Defendants moved to dismiss her Second Amended Complaint (SAC), Plaintiff, now
proceeding pro se, filed an untimely Third Amended Complaint (TAC) nearly two
weeks after her opposition deadline had passed. Dkt. No. 65. The TAC
significantly expands on her earlier pleadings, spanning 68 pages and alleging
24 causes of action…including 13 federal claims. Id.
The Court allowed the filing of the TAC and denied as moot the motions to
dismiss the SAC. Dkt. No. 67. The City and County now move to dismiss Plaintiff’s
TAC for failure to state a claim. Dkt. Nos. 70, 71. The Court
finds this matter suitable for decision without oral argument and vacates the
December 1, 2023 motion hearing. Fed. R. Civ. P. 78;
L.R. 7-15. Because Plaintiff has not alleged any plausible federal
claims, the Court dismisses her federal causes of action and remands the
remaining claims to state court.” (November 15, 2023 Order, p. 2.) The November 15, 2023 Order in the Federal Action concludes that
“[a]ccordingly, the Court GRANTS IN PART Defendants’ motions to dismiss, and
Plaintiff’s federal claims in Counts 7, 11, 14, and 16-25 are DISMISSED on the
merits with prejudice. The Court does not reach the rest of Defendants’
arguments, but instead declines to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over
Plaintiff’s remaining state-law claims. The case is therefore REMANDED to the
state court from which it was removed.” (November 15, 2023 Order, p. 8.)On November 20, 2023, a notice from the United States District Court,
Central District of California was filed in this action indicating, inter
alia, that “[p]ursuant to this Court’s ORDER OF REMAND issued on
11/15/2023, the above-referenced case is hereby remanded to your jurisdiction.”
On March 15, 2024, an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was held
in this matter. The Court’s March 15, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia,
that “Defendant fulfilled its obligation to attend an Informal Discovery
Conference and may now proceed with a motion to compel. Defendant may move the
motions to compel reserved on April 15, 2024 and April 16, 2024 to May 1, 2024
as follows: On the Court’s own motion, the Hearing on Motion to Deem Request
for Admissions Admitted scheduled for 04/15/2024, Hearing on Motion to Compel
Discovery (not ‘Further Discovery’) scheduled for 04/15/2024, Hearing on Motion
to Compel Discovery (not ‘Further Discovery’) scheduled for 04/15/2024, Hearing
on Motion to Compel Discovery (not ‘Further Discovery’) scheduled for 04/16/2024,
Hearing on Motion to Compel Discovery (not ‘Further Discovery’) scheduled for
04/16/2024, and Hearing on Motion to Compel Discovery (not ‘Further Discovery’)
scheduled for 04/16/2024 are continued to 05/01/24…” Defendant County of Los Angeles (the “County”) now moves for orders
compelling Plaintiff to produce responses, without objections, to the County’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One; Requests for Production of
Documents, Set Two; Special Interrogatories, Set One; Special Interrogatories,
Set Two; and Form Interrogatories – General, Set One. In addition, the County
moves for an order deeming the County’s Requests for Admissions, Set One, to
Plaintiff admitted. The County also moves for an order “requiring Plaintiff to
pay a monetary sanction to the County in the sum of $6,900 for the costs
reasonably incurred by the County in bringing its six discovery motions,
combined.” Plaintiff filed an “Opposition to Defendants Motion to Compel
Production of Documents and Sanctions Pursuant to Rule
37.” Procedural IssuesAs an initial matter, the caption page of Plaintiff’s opposition references
Carolyn Tracie Love, “Attorneys for CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, (pro per) Individually
and as trustee for Trashawn Tillet.” On March 1,
2024, the Court issued a minute order in this action providing, inter alia,
that “[p]ursuant to the request of plaintiff, the Hearing on
Demurrer - without Motion to Strike scheduled for 03/01/2024, Hearing on
Demurrer - without Motion to Strike scheduled for 03/01/2024, and Case
Management Conference scheduled for 03/01/2024 are continued to 05/01/24 at
10:00 AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. The hearings are
continued so that Plaintiff can obtain counsel to represent her as trustee and
so she can file an opposition to the Demurrers both as an individual and as
trustee.” However, Plaintiff does not demonstrate that she obtained counsel to
represent her as trustee.  The Court notes that “[a] nonattorney
trustee who represents the trust in court is representing and affecting the
interests of the beneficiary and is thus engaged in the unauthorized practice
of law.” ((Ziegler v. Nickel (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 545, 549.) In Aulisio v. Bancroft (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1516, 1524, the Court of Appeal noted
as follows:  “Ziegler explained, however, that “‘a trustee’s duties in connection
with his or her office do not include the right to present argument [in propria
persona] in courts of the state, because in this capacity such trustee would be
representing interests
of others and would therefore be engaged in the unauthorized practice
of law…Stated
otherwise, ‘[a] trustee must always act solely in…the beneficiaries’ interest…(Ziegler, supra, 64 Cal.App.4th at pp. 548–549, original italics, some
brackets added.) Consequently, Ziegler held: “A nonattorney trustee who represents the trust
in court is representing and affecting the interests of the beneficiary and is
thus engaged in the unauthorized practice of law.” (Id. at p. 549.) Ziegler therefore affirmed on
appeal the trial court’s order directing the nonlawyer trustee to withdraw as
the trust’s attorney in a lawsuit involving the trust’s purchase of a
mobilehome, and to instead retain a lawyer to appear for the trust. (Id. at pp. 547, 549.) Like Hansen and City of Downey, Ziegler articulates a general rule that
nonattorneys who purport to conduct litigation on behalf of others violate the
prohibition against the unauthorized practice of law.” (Emphasis in original.) In light of
the fact that Plaintiff did not obtain counsel to represent her
as trustee, the Court treats the instant motions as unopposed by Carolyn Tracie Love, as
trustee for Trashawn Tillet. The Court refers to Carolyn Tracie
Love, individually as “Love” herein. Discussion A.   
Legal Standard Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (a), “[i]f a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the following rules apply: (a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010).” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (b), “[t]he party propounding
the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision
(a), “[i]f a party to whom a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve
a timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: (a) The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 2018.010)…” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300,
subdivision (b), “[t]he party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (a), “[i]f a party to whom requests for admission are directed
fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: (a) The party to whom the requests for admission are directed waives
any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010).” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), “[t]he requesting party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010).” Pursuant to Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c), “[t]he court shall make this order, unless it finds that the
party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before
the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission
that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”
B.   
Motions to Compel and Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions
AdmittedIn his supporting declaration, the County’s counsel
indicates that “[o]n December 28, 2023, the County served Plaintiff with
its Requests for Admissions, Set One; Form Interrogatories, Set One; Special
Interrogatories, Set Two; and Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two.
Since this matter had been remanded, out of an abundance of caution, the County
also re-served Plaintiff with its Special Interrogatories, Set One, and
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, which were originally served on
Plaintiff on June 23, 2023.” (Bustos Decl., ¶ 14.) A copy of the County’s Requests for Admissions, Set One; Form
Interrogatories, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set One; Special
Interrogatories, Set Two; Requests for Production of Documents, Set One; and
Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two (collectively, the “Discovery
Requests”) are attached as Exhibits A-F to the County’s counsel’s declaration.
(Bustos Decl., ¶¶ 15-20, Exs. A-F.) The County’s counsel indicates that
Plaintiff’s deadline to respond to the Discovery Requests was January 30, 2024,
but Plaintiff failed to provide any responses. (Bustos Decl., ¶ 21.) The County’s counsel further states that “[o]n March 1, 2024, I sent
Plaintiff a meet and confer letter regarding Plaintiff’s failure to respond to
the County’s discovery and advised Plaintiff that the County had reserved an
IDC with this Court for March 15, 2024. Plaintiff failed to attend the IDC, and
this Court ruled that the County could proceed forward with the filing of its
motions to compel.” (Bustos Decl., ¶ 22.) The County’s counsel states that
“[t]o date, Plaintiff has still not provided responses to any of the County’s
written discovery.” (Bustos Decl., ¶ 23, emphasis omitted.) As set forth above, Love filed a document captioned “Opposition to
Defendants Motion to Compel Production of Documents and Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 37.” In the opposition, Love asserts, inter alia, that
she “has already informed the defendant several times that she was not in
possession of Documents prior to August 18, 2023.” (Opp’n at p. 1:25-26.) The
Court notes that it is unclear what documents Love is referring to.  In the opposition, Love does not appear to provide any evidence
demonstrating that Plaintiff served responses to the subject Discovery Requests.
The Court finds that
the evidence demonstrates that Plaintiff did
not timely serve responses to the Discovery Requests
at issue. Therefore, the Court finds that the County is entitled to an order
compelling a response to the Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One; Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two; Special Interrogatories,
Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set Two; and Form Interrogatories – General,
Set One. In addition, the Court finds that the County is entitled to an order deeming the matters in
the Requests for
Admissions, Set One admitted.C.    Request for Sanctions The County
also seeks monetary sanctions. The County’s counsel states that he has “spent
at least 30 hours totaling $6,900 in costs reasonably incurred to bring these
motions.” (Bustos Decl., ¶ 24.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Emphasis added.)[1] In addition, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.300, subdivision (c), “[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Emphasis added.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c), “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Emphasis
added.) In the opposition, Love asserts that “Defendants
are not entitled to any award of expenses and attorney fees.” (Opp’n at p.
3:11.) In support of this assertion, Love cites to Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure, rule 37. The Court notes that pursuant to Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, rule 1, “[t]hese
rules govern the procedure in all civil actions and proceedings in the United
States district courts, except as stated in Rule 81…”
The instant motion (and action) was not filed in a United States district court. Thus, the Court does not
find that Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, rule 37 is applicable
here.             The Court does not find that Love has shown that
she “acted with substantial
justification” in filing the opposition “or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (c); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) In addition, as set forth above, “[i]t
is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction…on the party or
attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for
admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) The Court finds that the
requested sanctions in the total amount of $6,900 for the six motions is reasonable. (Bustos
Decl., ¶ 24.) ConclusionBased on the foregoing, the
County’s motions are granted. The Court orders that
the matters in the County’s Requests for Admissions, Set One to Plaintiff are deemed admitted. The Court orders Plaintiff to serve complete verified responses,
without objections, to the County’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One; Requests for Production of Documents, Set
Two; Special Interrogatories, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set Two; and
Form Interrogatories – General, Set One, within 30 days of notice of this order. The Court further orders
Love to pay $6,900 to the County within 30 days of notice
of this order.The County is ordered to give notice of this order. DATED:  May 1, 2024                                   ________________________________Hon. Teresa A.
BeaudetJudge, Los
Angeles Superior Court 


