 Case Number:  23STCV21542    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  49 Benjamin Warwas, et al. v. Shahriar Rad, et al.DEFENDANT’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE THE COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant Shahriar Rad RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Benjamin Warwas, Molly Schulman, Hesper Colohan, Jessica Norman and Daniel TierneySTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:Plaintiffs are former residents of a rental property owned or managed by Defendants Shahriar Rad, Olivia Awadalla, Steve Awadalla, and Mazal Trinity Holdings, LLC. Plainiffs initially rented the units from Defendants’ predecessors. Upon purchasing the property, Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to remedy dangerous or defective conditions at the property, and harassed Plaintiffs to force them to vacate, resulting in Plaintiffs’ constructive evictions. Defendant Shahriar Rad now moves to strike the Complaint under the anti-SLAPP statute. Plaintiffs opposed.  [FN 1]  The matter first came for hearing on June 18, 2024. Following argument, the court ordered the parties to meet and confer in efforts to agree to striking certain portions of the Complaint. The court also invited supplemental briefing and continued the hearing to this date. The court has read and considered Defendants supplemental filing of July 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s supplemental filing of August 2, 2024, and Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s supplemental filing of August 8, 2024. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike is GRANTED in PART and DENIED in PART, as expressly stated herein. Moving party is ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:Special Motion to StrikeI. Objections to EvidenceDefendant’s objections to the declarations of Benjamin Warwas, Molly Schulman, Hesper Colohan, Jessica Norman, and Daniel Tierney are OVERRULED.II. Legal StandardCCP section 425.16 permits the Court to strike causes of action arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of free speech or petition, unless the plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.    “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous litigation.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.) “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.” (Id. at 384.)  “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. First, the defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16. If the defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.” (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at 384, citation omitted.) The California Supreme Court has “described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id. at 384-385 [citations omitted].) The anti-SLAPP motion need not address what the complaint alleges is an entire cause of action, and may seek to strike only those portions which describe protected activity. (Id. at 395-396.) III. Analysis A. Prior ProceedingsThe matter initially came for hearing on June 18, 2024. Following argument, the court ordered counsel to “meet and confer within the next three weeks on what can be stricken.” (June 18, 2024.) The court also set a supplemental briefing schedule in the event the parties could not come to a resolution, with the first brief due approximately one week after the period set to meet and confer.  (Id.)Defendant filed his supplemental brief on July 24, 2024.  [FN 2]  Based on the supplemental filings, it appears that the parties failed to meet and confer before this date. Moreover, its questionable whether any subsequent meet and confers were meaningful or engaged in good faith. (See, e.g., Plaintiff’s Further Briefing and Opposition, 2: 16-27; Declaration of Stanley D. Bowman Re: Status of Meet and Confer, ¶ 10, 11, 12.)Be that as it may, the court will proceed to address the motion on its merits, including consideration of the parties’ supplemental briefings. B. Prong 1:  Defendant’s BurdenTo satisfy the first prong of the two-prong test, a movant defendant must demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken ‘in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public as defined in the statute.  (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67; see City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78 [“[i]n the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the plaintiff's cause of action itself was based on an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of petition or free speech”].)  Section 425.16 expressly “defines the types of claims that are subject to the anti-SLAPP procedures…as these terms are defined in subdivision (e)(1)-(4) of the statute.” (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 69, 75–76.) Defendant argues the conduct here is protected under each of the First, Second, and Fourth categories in subdivision (e), as “(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law,” ((e)(1)), “(2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law” ((e)(2)), or “(4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.” ((e)(4).)In a so-called “mixed cause of action”—one containing allegations of both protected and unprotected activities—a court must focus its analysis on the protected conduct. (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health Sys. (2021) 11 Cal. 5th 995, 1010.) It follows that courts may strike improper allegations under the statute even though doing so might not completely dispose of a cause of action.For his burden, Defendant argues: The challenged claims arise out of Defendants’ protected acts as a landlord: Posting notes on Plaintiffs’ cars which were blocking the single-lane driveway (Only point of access for vehicular ingress and egress) and/or which were parked in unauthorized parking spaces, sending text messages to Plaintiffs regarding rent, serving Plaintiffs with a notice to “pay or quit”, notice to perform or quit, accusing PLAINTIFFS of inappropriate behavior, notice terminating tenancy, etc., all of which are protected acts which led to the actual filing of various unlawful detainer actions against each of the Plaintiffs respectively.(Mtn. 8: 16-17.) Defendant continues that “[p]relitigation communications such as these are privileged when it relates to litigation that is contemplated and/or pursued.” (Id. 5: 8-9.) The “contemplated or pursued litigation” was apparently unlawful detainer actions against one or more of the Plaintiffs here.The court now turns to the following portions of the Complaint Defendant identifies as those that can be deemed challenging protected activity.  [FN 3] 1. Notes on Cars; Text MessagesComplaint ¶ 26: “PLAINTIFFS were subjected to continuous harassment and hostile behavior from DEFENDANTS. These harassing acts included, inter alia, (1) placing aggressive notes on PLAINTIFFS’ car,…(4) sending aggressive text messages about rent payments…(6) accusing PLAINTIFFS of inappropriate behavior.” (See Compl. ¶ 26; see also D’s Mtn. at 9:23-26.)Leaving “aggressive notes” on Plaintiffs’ cars is not protected activity. There is no indication from the Complaint what purpose these notes served. Defendant’s declaration states that Plaintiffs cars were “blocking the single-lane driveway” or were “parked in unauthorized parking spaces.” (Shahriar Rad Decl. ¶ 5.) Presumably, then, Defendant placed the notes to warn against that behavior. But Defendant provides no authority suggesting that leaving notes on the cars to enforce vehicle restrictions is protected by the anti-SLAPP statute. Defendant appears to assert that these notes were anticipation of litigation. However, the court sees no rational evidence in the moving papers to support that contention. The same is true of sending text messages to Plaintiffs about rent payments. Defendant Rad states in declaration that “sending text messages to Plaintiffs regarding rent” was “due to litigation conduct.” (Rad Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant has not provided the text messages or any indication of when they were sent. Standing alone, the assertion that the text messages related to anticipated litigation is insufficient to meet Defendant’s burden. The California Supreme Court has explained that, “[i]n deciding whether the initial ‘arising from’ requirement is met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ ” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89 [quoting § 425.16, subd. (b)(2), italics added].) This court does not mean to suggest that a moving defendant must always submit evidence in support of prong one. (See Bel Air Internet, LLC v. Morales (2018) 20 Cal. App. 5th 924, 935 [stating “if the complaint itself shows that a claim arises from protected conduct…a moving party may rely on the plaintiff's allegations alone in making the showing necessary under prong one without submitting supporting evidence”].) But here, the protected conduct is not apparent on the face of the Complaint, and therefore, further context is necessary. Without it, Defendant cannot meet his burden.Because Defendant has not met his burden as to these claims under prong one, they need not be addressed under prong two, and are not subject to be stricken.2. Pay or Quit Notices; Termination of TenancyComplaint ¶ 29: “DEFENDANTS posted numerous “pay or quit” notices, despite PLAINTIFFS having paid their rent on time.” (See Compl. ¶ 29; see also D’s Mtn. at 10: 2-4.)Courts have adopted an “expansive view of what constitutes litigation-related activities within the scope of section 425.16.” (Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1255, 1268 (2008). Statements made in preparation for litigation or in anticipation of bringing an action fall within the protected categories.  (RGC Gaslamp, LLC v. Ehmcke Sheet Metal Co. (2020) 56 Cal. App. 5th 413, 425) “[S]tatements, writings and pleadings in connection with civil litigation are covered by the anti-SLAPP statute, and that statute does not require any showing that the litigated matter concerns a matter of public interest. [Citations.]” (Rohde v. Wolf (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 28, 35.) The filing of an unlawful detainer action is protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16. (Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Assocs. (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1467, 1479; Clark v. Mazgani (2009) 170 Cal. App. 4th 1281, 1286 [“There is no question that the prosecution of an unlawful detainer action is indisputably protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16.”].) In addition, service of a three-day notice to quit¬––a prerequisite to the filing of an unlawful detainer––is also a protected activity.  (Id. at 1480). Stretching even further, alleged “threats” by a Defendant in connection with an anticipated unlawful detainer action are within the scope of the anti-SLAPP statute.  (Id. at 1481 [threats were covered by statute because they “were communications in connection with an ongoing dispute and in anticipation of litigation”].).On the other hand, “[t]erminating a tenancy or removing a property from the rental market are not activities taken in furtherance of the constitutional rights of petition or free speech.” (Clark, supra, 170 Cal. App. 4th at 1286-87.) “ ‘[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity took place does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.’ ” [Citation]. The pivotal question “ ‘is whether the cause of action is based on the defendant's protected free speech or petitioning activity.’ ” (Id.)Here, based on the allegations and supporting evidence, Defendant has demonstrated that the numerous pay or quit notices were made in preparation to an actual or anticipated unlawful detainer action against various Plaintiffs. Defendant has therefore met his burden under prong one on these claims. This switches the burden to Plaintiffs.3. Complaints to PoliceComplaint ¶ 29: “DEFENDANTS falsely accused PLAINTIFFS of attacking them, leading to MS. SCHULMAN’S arrest and being charged with a misdemeanor.” (See Compl. ¶ 29; see also D’s Mtn. at 10: 6-8.)Defendant argues that reporting Plaintiff Schulman to the police was protected activity. In Defendant Shahriar Rad’s declaration, he states that Molly Schulman’s “criminal acts” were reported “to the Los Angeles Police Department, resulting in her arrest.” (Rad Decl. ¶ 7.) By implication of the allegation, it appears that the conduct giving rise to this claim was, in fact, based on Defendants’ complaints to police.Generally, statements to law enforcement invoke the right to petition the government, and thus have been deemed protected activity under the anti-SLAPP law. (See Chabak v. Monroy (2007) 154 Cal. App. 4th 1502, 1512; Walker v. Kiousis (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 1432, 1439 [complaint to police is “made in connection with an official proceeding authorized by law”]; Comstock v. Aber (2012) 212 Cal. App. 4th 931, 941–42 [“The law is that communications to the police are within SLAPP”].)Here then, to the extent any cause of action is based on complaints to police relating to the arrest of Plaintiff Schulman, those are allegations protected by the SLAPP. Defendant has met his burden under prong 1 as to these claims. This switches the burden to Plaintiffs.C. Prong 2: Plaintiff’s Burden“To establish a probability of prevailing, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.  For purposes of this inquiry, the trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and the defendant; though the court does not weigh the credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence, it should grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant’s evidence supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff’s attempt to establish evidentiary support for the claim.  In making this assessment it is the court’s responsibility…to accept as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff […].  The plaintiff need only establish that his or her claim has minimal merit to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.”  (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)  As to the second step inquiry, a plaintiff seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may not rely solely on its complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence.”  (Sweetwater Union High Sch. Dist. v. Gilbane Bldg. Co. (2019) 6 Cal. 5th 931, 940.) Defendant argues that Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their claims because they are barred by the litigation privilege. “The litigation privilege, codified at Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b), provides that a ‘publication or broadcast’ made as part of a ‘judicial proceeding’ is privileged. This privilege is absolute in nature, applying ‘to all publications, irrespective of their maliciousness.’ [Citation.] ‘The usual formulation is that the privilege applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that [has] some connection or logical relation to the action.’”  (Kenne v. Stennis (2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 953, 964.)  “[T]he privilege is ‘an “absolute” privilege, and it bars all tort causes of action except a claim of malicious prosecution.’ (Hagberg v. California Federal Bank (2004) 32 Cal.4th 350, 360; Kashian v. Harriman (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 892, 926–927 [plaintiff must overcome litigation privilege to demonstrate a probability of prevailing under anti-SLAPP prong two].)  “[T]he principal purpose of [Civil Code] section 47 [, subdivision (b) ] is to afford litigants and witnesses [citation] the utmost freedom of access to the courts without fear of being harassed subsequently by derivative tort actions.”  (Id.) “The breadth of the litigation privilege cannot be understated.”  (Finton Constr., Inc. v. Bidna & Keys, APLC (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 200, 212.)  “Any doubt about whether the privilege applies is resolved in favor of applying it. [Citation.]”  (Id.) While the litigation privilege and anti-SLAPP statute “are not necessarily coextensive,” the privilege is a “defense that may be considered at prong two.” (See RGC Gaslamp, LLC v. Ehmcke Sheet Metal Co. (2020) 56 Cal. App. 5th 413, 444-45 [“Because this tort claim was barred by the litigation privilege, RGC could not establish the minimal merit of its action at prong two of the anti-SLAPP inquiry”].)Based on the above, and considering the evidence presented, this court finds that Plaintiffs have not made a prima facie showing to defeat the litigation privilege defense. First, the posting of numerous “pay or quit” notices were made in preparation to an actual or anticipated unlawful detainer action against all or some Plaintiffs. (See Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Assocs. (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1467, 1488 [“notice to quit was clearly connected to and logically related to the unlawful detainer action,” and therefore protected by litigation privilege].) This is evident by the fact that Defendants filed unlawful detainer actions against the Plaintiffs. Therefore, these communications are absolutely privileged. As to the police reports, it appears that on or about August 25, 2022, Defendants accused Plaintiff Schulman of “hitting her in the head with a cabinet,” resulting in Plaintiff’s Schulman’s arrest. (Schulman Decl. ¶ 28.) In Defendant’s declaration, he states that the complaints to police regarding Plaintiff Schulman was one of multiple acts “which led to the actual filing of various unlawful detainer actions filed against each of the Plaintiffs respectively.” (Rad Decl. ¶ 7.)Based on the evidence presented, the court can only conclude that the call to police was made in connection with a pending or anticipated unlawful detainer action against Plaintiff Schulman. (See Kenne v. Stennis (2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 953, 971 [because police reports “had some logical relationship to the various lawsuits between the parties, that conduct is privileged under Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b)”].) In other words, Plaintiffs have failed to present evidence that the call to police (and underlying dispute provoking it) were not connected to the legal proceedings. The court comes to this conclusion on the backdrop that “[t]he breadth of the litigation privilege cannot be understated, and that “[a]ny doubt about whether the privilege applies is resolved in favor of applying it. [Citation.]”  (Finton Constr., Inc. v. Bidna & Keys, APLC (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 200, 212.)  Because the litigation privilege is a total bar to these claims, they are ordered stricken. Accordingly, Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike is GRANTED in PART and DENIED in PART, as expressly stated herein. IV. Attorney’s FeesA prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike “shall” be entitled to recover its attorney’s fees and costs.  (CCP 425.16(c)(1).) Defendant may file a motion for attorney’s fees if it elects to do so.  The court will address any potential award at such a hearing.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   August 13, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - Under Rule 3.1113(d), a responding memorandum may not exceed 15 pages. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113(d).) Not including the cover page, Plaintiff’s opposition runs 22-pages. Plaintiffs did not seek leave to file an opposition exceeding the page limits. For sake of completeness and given that a special motion to strike is an extreme remedy, the court will consider the opposition in full. The parties are admonished to comply with all page limitations going forward.FN 2 - By minute order of June 18, 2024, Defendant’s supplemental brief was due on Friday, July 19, 2024. On or about this date, a ransomware attack severely impacted the Los Angeles Superior Court’s network, including the ability of litigants to file documents electronically. The network remained down in the following days, with only limited or intermittent access to certain applications available. On these facts, and without any undue prejudice to Plaintiff, the court will read and consider Defendant’s filing to the extent it might be considered untimely.FN 3 - Defendant also raised Paragraph 35 of the Complaint. This paragraph, however, is only a general prayer for punitive damages. It does not identify or allege any specific conduct, much less any protected under prong 1 of the anti-SLAPP statute. The court therefore disregards this paragraph in its analysis. Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.