  Case Number:  22STCV38301    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




forex express corp., d/b/a
   wirecash

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
inter & co. payments,
   inc., f/k/a pronto money transfer, inc., d/b/a pontual

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV38301




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   21, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
 
order to show cause re preliminary
  injunction



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Forex Express Corp.,
d/b/a WireCash
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    (1) Defendant Eliran Grushkowsky, (2)
Defendants Inter & Co. Payments, Inc., and Inter & Co., Inc., and (3)
Defendant Fernando Fayzano
Order to Show Cause re Preliminary Injunction
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this Order to Show Cause. 
DISCUSSION
On February 14, 2024, the court issued an order granting in part the
ex parte application filed by plaintiff Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash
(“Plaintiff”) and ordering defendants Eliran Grushkowsky (“Grushkowsky”), Inter
& Co., Inc., Inter & Co. Payments, Inc., f/k/a Pronto Money Transfer,
Inc., d/b/a Pontual (“Inter & Co. Defendants”), and Fernando Fayzano
(“Fayzano”) (collectively, “Defendants”) to appear for an order to show cause
why a preliminary injunction should not be issued against them, their agents,
servants, employees, and those acting in concert with any of them, that (1)
orders Grushkowsky (i) not to access, alter, delete, destroy or otherwise
dispose of the MacBook Pro laptop with serial number C02X433WJG5K (the “Second
Laptop”), (ii) to return the Second Laptop to Plaintiff within one day of the
issuance of the injunction, (iii) to provide to counsel for Plaintiff all
information, documents, files, or data on the Second Laptop, and (iv) to
provide to counsel for Plaintiff all information, documents, files, or data
transferred to or off of the Second Laptop, and (2) orders Defendants to
preserve and cease accessing, tampering with, purging, deleting, removing,
concealing, spoliating, secreting, altering, or destroying throughout the
pendency of this dispute all sources of potentially relevant evidence (both
hard copy and electronic, including all documents, data, USB drives, external
drives or devices, or cloud-based systems) related to the use of the Second
Laptop or the use of any information from that device.  (Feb. 14, 2024 Order re Ex Parte Application,
p. 2:9-27.)
A
preliminary injunction may be granted “[w]hen it appears, during the
litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or threatens, or is about to
do . . . some act in violation of the rights of another party to the action
respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment
ineffectual.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(3).)  Code of Civil
Procedure section 527, subdivision (a) provides:  “A preliminary
injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a verified complaint,
or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the affidavits in the
other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefor.  No
preliminary injunction shall be granted without notice to the opposing party.” 
“To
obtain a preliminary injunction, a plaintiff ordinarily is required to present
evidence of irreparable injury or interim harm that it will suffer if an
injunction is not issued pending an adjudication of the merits.”  (White
v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554.)  “A trial court must weigh two
interrelated factors when deciding whether to grant a plaintiff’s motion for a
preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail on
the merits at trial, and (2) the relative interim harm to the parties from the
issuance or nonissuance of the injunction, that is, the interim harm the
plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the
harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the preliminary injunction is issued.
[Citations.]”  (SB Liberty, LLC v. Isla Verde Assn., Inc. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 272, 280.)  The burden is on the party seeking injunctive
relief to show all the elements necessary to support the issuance of a
preliminary injunction.  (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)  
First, the court
finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show that there is a likelihood
that it will prevail on the merits of its claims against Inter Defendants and
Fayzano at trial and therefore denies Plaintiff’s request for a preliminary
injunction against those defendants.  (SB
Liberty, LLC, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at p. 280.)
In its
moving papers, Plaintiff has argued that it is likely to prevail on the merits of
its claim that Grushkowsky breached the parties’ employment agreement.  (Ex Parte App., pp. 15:7-9, 16:5-11 [stating
that Plaintiff “is likely to prevail on the merits of this claim at
trial”] [emphasis added].)  However,
Plaintiff neither identified nor showed that it is likely to prevail on the
merits of any of its claims against Inter Defendants and Fayzano.  (Ibid.)  The second cause of action for breach of
contract is alleged only against defendant Grushkowsky and does not name as
defendants Inter Defendants or Fayzano. 
(SAC p. 27:15-17.)  Moreover,
although Plaintiff asserts, in reply, that the threat of further destruction of
evidence extends to Inter Defendants because Grushkowsky currently holds
executive positions at Pontual, Plaintiff did not (1) establish, in its moving
papers, that this shows that Plaintiff will prevail on any of its claims
against Inter Defendants at trial, and (2) explain how Grushkowsky’s employment
with Inter Defendants shows that Plaintiff will prevail on any of its claims
against Fayzano.  (Reply, p. 5:15-19.) 
Thus, the
court denies Plaintiff’s request that the court issue a preliminary injunction
against Inter Defendants and Fayzano that they “preserve and
cease accessing, tampering with, purging, deleting, removing, concealing,
spoliating, secreting, altering, or destroying throughout the pendency of this
dispute all sources of potentially relevant evidence (both hard copy and
electronic, including all documents, data, USB drives, external drives or
devices, or cloud-based systems) related to the use of the Second Laptop or the
use of any information from that device.” 
(SB Liberty, LLC, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at p. 280; Anderson
v. County of Santa Barbara (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 554, 570 [“‘A trial court
may not grant a preliminary injunction, regardless of the balance of interim
harm, unless there is some possibility that the plaintiff would ultimately
prevail on the merits of the claim’”] [internal citation omitted].)
Second, the
court finds that Plaintiff has met its burden to show that there is a
likelihood that it will prevail on the merits of its second cause of action for
breach of contract against Grushkowsky at trial.  (SB Liberty, LLC, supra,
217 Cal.App.4th at p. 280.) 
Plaintiff has alleged, in its Second Amended Complaint, that
Grushkowsky breached the parties’ employment agreement by, inter alia,
transferring Plaintiff’s confidential information to non-WireCash devices and
failing to return confidential information to Plaintiff upon the termination of
Grushkowsky’s employment on December 13, 2019. 
(SAC ¶ 151.)  In support of its request for a
preliminary injunction, Plaintiff has presented evidence showing that (1) it
and defendant Grushkowsky entered into an employment agreement in 2016 that
required Grushkowsky to return all property of Plaintiff’s upon termination of
his employment with Plaintiff; (2) Grushkowsky purchased the Second Laptop from
Apple using Plaintiff’s Chase credit card; (3) Grushkowsky transferred files
from the first laptop issued to him by Plaintiff to conduct its business (the
“First Laptop”) to the Second Laptop, including (i) a folder saved as
“workspace,” which contained approximately 11,800 source code and
development-related files and (ii) a file saved as “MSB-recommendations.dox[,]”
which contains Plaintiff’s proprietary and confidential information; (4) in his
resignation letter, Grushkowsky stated that he had “a WireCash laptop” that he
would not access again but did not reference the Second Laptop; and (5)
Grushkowsky has not returned the Second Laptop to Plaintiff as required by
their employment agreement.  (Cooper
Decl., Ex. 2, Employment Agreement, p. 2, § 4; Cooper Decl., ¶¶ 16, 21, 24,
39-40, 43, 48-49; Cooper Decl., Exs. 5-7 [documents showing purchase of Second
Laptop], 8, p. 2 [Grushkowsky’s resignation letter], 11 [January 9, 2020 email
from Grushkowsky stating that he was “no longer in possession of any WireCash
intellectual property”]; Hammerquist Decl., ¶¶ 9, 15-19; Hammerquist Decl., Ex.
3 [list of AirDrop transfers from First Laptop to Second Laptop]; Ancone Decl.,
¶¶ 5, 7.)
Thus, the
court finds that Plaintiff has shown that it has a likelihood of prevailing on
the merits of its second cause of action by submitting evidence showing (1) that
there existed a contract between Plaintiff and Grushkowsky (i.e., the
employment agreement) (Cooper Decl., Ex. 2); (2) Plaintiff’s performance under
the agreement (i.e., by making Grushkowsky Plaintiff’s Chief Executive Officer)
(Cooper Decl., ¶ 13)); (3) Grushkowsky’s breach of the employment
agreement (i) by transferring Plaintiff’s confidential information to the
Second Laptop (Hammerquist Decl., ¶¶ 15, 19; Cooper Decl., ¶¶ 47-49) and
(ii) by failing to deliver the Second Laptop to Plaintiff upon the termination
of his employment and when demanded to do so by Plaintiff’s counsel (Ancone
Decl., ¶¶ 6-7); and (4) Plaintiff was damaged by the breach.  (Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402 [elements of cause of action for breach of
contract].) 
The court
notes that, in support of his opposition, Grushkowsky has submitted his
declaration, in which he (1) denies that he used his personal laptop to code
for Plaintiff or to store its trade secrets and source code, and (2) asserts
that he paid for the Second Laptop with his own personal funds because (i) the company
credit card used to purchase the Second Laptop was personally guaranteed by him
and (ii) he personally resolved the balance on that credit card for Plaintiff’s
benefit “by paying an amount that was less than the balance due, but more than
the price of the” Second Laptop. 
(Grushkowsky Decl., ¶¶ 28-29 [stating that, if he did purchase the
Second Laptop, “it would have been for [his] personal use only” because he only
used the First Laptop to conduct business for Plaintiff], 32-33.)  The court finds that Grushkowsky’s
declaration purporting to establish that the Second Laptop is not Plaintiff’s
property, alone, does not show that Plaintiff does not have a likelihood of
prevailing on the merits of the second cause of action against him.  Moreover, the court finds that Grushkowsky’s
assertion of his belief that the “workspace” folders identified in Plaintiff’s
expert’s chart “are projects unrelated to” Plaintiff, purporting to show that
he did not transfer confidential information belonging to Plaintiff, is
insufficient to show that Plaintiff does not have a likelihood of prevailing on
the merits of the second cause of action against him when considered and
weighed against the declaration of Plaintiff’s expert, who has stated that the
workspace folder “contained approximately 11,800 source code and
development-related files.”  (Grushkowsky
Decl., ¶ 30; Hammerquist Decl., ¶ 19.) 
Third, the
court finds that Plaintiff has met its burden to show that Plaintiff is likely
to suffer harm if the court does not issue an injunction (1) prohibiting
Grushkowsky from accessing, altering, or disposing of the Second Laptop, (2)
prohibiting Grushkowsky from altering, deleting, or destroying files or other
data on the Second Laptop, and (3) ordering Grushkowsky to preserve and
enjoining him from deleting, concealing, altering, or destroying evidence
(including hard copy and electronic evidence) related to the use of the Second
Laptop or the use of any information from that device because Plaintiff will
otherwise be unable to preserve evidence associated with Grushkowsky’s use of
and transfer of confidential documents to the Second Laptop.  (SB Liberty, LLC, supra,
217 Cal.App.4th at p. 280; Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 148-1419.)
Fourth, the
court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show that it is likely to
suffer harm if the court does not issue an injunction directing Grushkowsky to
return the Second Laptop and to provide to counsel for Plaintiff all
information, documents, files, or data on, transferred to, or transferred from
the Second Laptop because Grushkowsky has established that he is no longer in possession
of the Second Laptop.  (SB
Liberty, LLC, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at p. 280.)  Specifically, Grushkowsky states that, after conducting
a search of his possessions, he has concluded that the Second Laptop “is no
longer in [his] possession (assuming that it was in [his] possession at
all).”  (Grushkowsky Decl., ¶ 38.)  Grushkowsky believes that the Second Laptop
was lost during his move from Los Angeles to Las Vegas in approximately June
2021.  (Grushkowsky Decl., ¶ 39.)  Grushkowsky has also asserted that he does
not have possession of any backups of the Second Laptop.  (Grushkowsky Decl., ¶ 40.)  The court finds that Grushkowsky’s testimony
is credible on these points.  Thus, the
court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that it is likely to suffer harm if
the court does not issue an injunction ordering Grushkowsky to return the
Second Laptop and to provide all the information transferred to or from it. 
Finally,
the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that Grushkowsky, by entering into the
employment agreement with Plaintiff, has waived the bond requirement set forth
in Code of Civil Procedure section 529. 
(Cooper Decl., Ex. 2, Employment Agreement, p. 3, § 6 [“in the
event of a breach or threatened breach of this Agreement by Employee, Company .
. . may . . . apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for . . . injunctive
or other relief . . . (without posting a bond or other security)”]; Smith v.
Adventist Health System/West (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 729, 744 [“the
injunction bond requirement of section 529 can be waived or forfeited by the
party to be enjoined”].)  Moreover,
Grushkowsky did not present evidence or argument (1) disputing his waiver of
the bond requirement or, (2) establishing what would be an appropriate amount
for a bond.  Thus, the court will not
require Plaintiff to provide an undertaking.  

ORDER
            The court grants in part and denies
in part plaintiff Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash’s request for a
preliminary injunction as follows.
            The court denies plaintiff Forex
Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash’s request for a preliminary injunction against
defendants Inter & Co., Inc., Inter & Co. Payments, Inc., f/k/a Pronto
Money Transfer, Inc., d/b/a Pontual, and Fernando Fayzano.
            The court grants in part plaintiff
Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash’s request for a preliminary injunction
against defendant Eliran Grushkowsky.
            The court orders that, during the
pendency of this action, defendant Eliran Grushkowsky and each of his agents,
employees, servants, aiders, abettors, volunteers, successors or assigns, or
anyone acting in concert with him or acting on his behalf (1) are enjoined from
accessing or disposing of the MacBook Pro laptop with the serial number
C02X433WJG5K, or accessing, altering, deleting, or destroying files or other
data on that device, and (2) shall preserve and are enjoined from deleting,
concealing, altering, or destroying evidence (including hard copy and
electronic evidence, including any documents, data, USB drives, external drives
or devices, or cloud-based systems) related to the use of the MacBook Pro
laptop with the serial number C02X433WJG5K or the use of any information from
that device.
 
 
 
            The court orders plaintiff Forex
Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 21, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court