  Case Number:  20STCV46671    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




annette turner

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
aids healthcare foundation

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV46671




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   4, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  motion to bifurcate request for punitive damages
(2)  
  plaintiffs’
  motion to bifurcate and order separate trials of the plaintiffs
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant AIDS Healthcare
Foundation
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy Davis
(1)  
Motion
to Bifurcate Punitive Damages 
MOVING PARTIES:              Plaintiffs Annette Turner and
Tammy Davis 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation
(2)  
Motion
to Bifurcate and Order Separate Trials of Plaintiffs 
The court
considered the moving, non-opposition, and reply papers filed in connection
with the motion to bifurcate punitive damages. 
The court
considered the amended moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection
with the motion to bifurcate and order separate trials of the plaintiffs. 
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO BIFURCATE PUNITIVE
DAMAGES
Defendant AIDS Healthcare
Foundation (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order bifurcating trial in this
action, filed by plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy Davis (“Plaintiffs”), to
separate the issue of punitive damages from the issues of liability and
compensatory damages.  Plaintiffs filed a
non-opposition to this motion.
“The
court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of
evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the
trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds
that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with
Section 3294.¿ Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible
only as to the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and
to be guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.¿ Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.”¿¿(Civ. Code, §¿3295, subd. (d).)  “While the statute refers only
to evidence of the defendant’s financial condition, in practice bifurcation
under this section means that all evidence relating to the amount of
punitive damages is to be offered in the second phase, while the determination
whether plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages (i.e., whether the
defendant is guilty of malice, fraud or oppression) is decided in the first
phase along with compensatory damages.”¿ (Holdgrafer v. Unocal Corp.
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 907, 919.)¿¿¿¿ 
The court finds that Defendant
is entitled to an order bifurcating trial pursuant to Civil Code section 3295,
and therefore grants Defendant’s motion and makes the orders set forth
below.  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (d).) 
The court denies Plaintiffs’
request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $850, made in their
non-opposition to Defendant’s motion.
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO BIFURCATE AND
ORDER SEPARATE TRIALS OF THE PLAINTIFFS
Plaintiffs move the court for
an order bifurcating trial and, specifically, ordering separate jury trials for
each of the Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs
request that the court order separate trials on the ground that there is now
only one common claim alleged by Plaintiffs (the ninth cause of action for willful
or negligent failure to exercise ordinary care of property) and that Plaintiffs
would be prejudiced if they were required to present their claims at one trial.

“[T]rial
courts have broad discretion to determine the order of proof in the interests
of judicial economy.”¿ (Grappo v. Country Financial Corp. (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 496, 504.)¿ Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, “[t]he
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice . . . may order a
separate trial . . . of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)¿
The court finds that bifurcation of the trial of this matter in the
manner suggested by Plaintiffs is not in furtherance of convenience. 
First, as conceded by Plaintiffs, both Plaintiffs have alleged the
ninth cause of action against Defendant. 
The court acknowledges that Plaintiffs assert that they have filed a
motion for leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint, which proposes dismissing
that cause of action as alleged by plaintiff Davis.  (Mot., p. 6:26-28.)  However, the court has not yet ruled on that
motion and plaintiff Davis did not file a request for dismissal as to that
cause of action.  Thus, that cause of
action remains pending against Defendant by both Plaintiffs. 
Second, Defendant has presented evidence showing that Plaintiffs’
discovery responses establish that they intend to rely on evidence presented by
each other.  For example, in response to
a special interrogatory requesting that plaintiff Turner describe each criminal
act that she contends caused her harm, Turner stated that “Rositas sexually
harassed Tammy Davis,” which “did not happen to Ms. Turner but created unsafe
living conditions.”  (Stern Decl., Ex. 3,
pp. 2, Ex. A to Ex. 3, p. 3.)  Similarly,
in response to a special interrogatory requesting that plaintiff Davis state
each action that she contends that Defendant had a legal duty to take to ensure
the safety of the premises, Davis stated that (1) Defendant’s “[d]eletion of
security footage reflecting a crime . . . reflects [Defendant’s] failure and/or
refusal to maintain, exercise care or review, or undertake any measure to
correct crime, flooding, or other significant habitability problems[,]” and (2)
Defendant “destroyed footage which would have reflected [plaintiff] Annette
Turner being physically assaulted, [plaintiff] Tammy Davis being sexually and
physically assaulted, and someone stealing [plaintiff] Annette Turner’s
belongings out of her room.”  (Stern Decl.,
Ex. 2, PDF p. 25:7-14, 29:3-8.)  Thus, it
appears that Plaintiffs intend to rely on much of the same evidence and the
claims made by each other at trial. 
The court also finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that bifurcation in this manner is necessary to avoid prejudice to Plaintiffs
or any other party.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1048, subd. (b).) 
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that bifurcating
trial in the manner suggested by Plaintiffs is not in furtherance of convenience,
judicial economy, or efficiency, and is not necessary to avoid prejudice to any
of the parties involved in this action, and therefore denies Plaintiffs’
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(b).) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation’s motion to bifurcate plaintiffs’ request for punitive
damages. 
            The court orders that trial of this
action will be bifurcated as follows: (1) the jury will first decide the issues
of whether to impose liability for compensatory damages and, if so, the amount
of compensatory damages, and whether defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation is
guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud, and (2) only after making findings in
plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy Davis’s favor on all those issues, the jury
will then decide the issue of whether to impose punitive damages against defendant
AIDS Healthcare Foundation. 
            The court denies plaintiffs Annette
Turner and Tammy Davis’s motion to bifurcate and order separate trials of
plaintiffs. 
            The court orders defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 4, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court