 Case Number:  23STCV06762    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




italia arteaga

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
adventist health white memorial

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV06762




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   4, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Cinna Toy Wohlmuth,
M.D., and Sarah Simko, M.D.   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition or reply papers were filed. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants Cinna Toy Wohlmuth, M.D., and
Sarah Simko, M.D. (“Defendants”) move the court for an order granting summary
judgment in their favor and against plaintiffs Italia Arteaga (“Arteaga”) and
Henry Ron (“Ron”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) or, alternatively, summary
adjudication. 
The court finds that Defendants have not
shown that they served plaintiff Ron with the papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that,
on November 29, 2023, the court issued an order (1) granting Brenden Leib’s
motion to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiffs, and (2) ordering
that Brenden Leib will be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs effective upon the
filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” on the clients.  (Nov. 29, 2023 Order,
p. 2:21-25.)  On December 7, 2023, Brenden Leib filed a proof of service
with the court establishing that, on that date, Plaintiffs were served by mail
with the “Signed . . . Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel” and the related November 29, 2023 minute order.  (Dec. 7, 2023
POS-040, ¶¶ 4-5, 6, subd. (b)(2).)  Thus,
Brenden Leib was relieved as Plaintiffs’ counsel of record as of December 7,
2023, such that Defendants were required to serve the pending motion on
Plaintiffs directly. 
Defendants attached proofs of service to the
moving papers filed in connection with this motion, all of which state that (1)
Plaintiffs were served by messenger service after the declarant enclosed the
subject documents in a sealed envelope and provided them to the professional
messenger service Signal Attorney Service, and (2) “[a]n original proof of
service by [the] messenger will be filed pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1300(c).”  (Mot., pp. 14-15; Compendium of Evidence, pp.
107-108; Elliot Decl., pp. 9-10; Friedlich Decl., pp. 9-; Valoff Decl., pp. 4-5
[emphasis in original].)  Although the documents list Plaintiffs’ names
under the title “Proof of Personal Service List[,]” those papers do not attach
proofs of service signed by the messenger establishing that Plaintiffs were
personally served with the moving papers. 
In addition to the proofs of service
attached to the moving papers, Defendants separately filed two proofs of
service of this motion.  First, on March 21, 2024, Defendants filed a
document entitled “Proof of Electronic Service re Motion for Summary Judgment
and Documents in Support Thereof,” stating that the moving papers were served
on nonmoving defendant White Memorial Medical Center d/b/a Adventist Health
White Memorial by email on March 21, 2024.  (Mar. 21, 2024 Proof of
Electronic Service, pp. 2-3.)  This proof of service does not state that
Plaintiffs were served with this motion by electronic service on that date. Second,
on April 2, 2024, Defendants filed a proof of service signed by Signal Attorney
Service, Inc., in which the registered process server states that plaintiff
Arteaga was personally served with the moving papers filed in connection with
this motion on March 21, 2024, “by constructive service pursuant to [Code of
Civil Procedure section] (b)” “by leaving [the documents] with: Ariana Cabrera[,]”
who is identified as Arteaga’s “Sister/Co-Occupant[.]”  (April 2, 2024
Proof of Service, pp. 1-2.)  Plaintiff
Ron is not identified as a served party in this proof of service.  (Id., at p. 2 [stating “To: Italia
Arteaga”].) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendants have
shown that they personally served plaintiff Arteaga with the moving papers
filed in connection with this motion on March 21, 2024.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1011, subd. (b) [“If,
upon a party, service shall be made in the manner specifically provided in
particular cases, or, if no specific provision is made, service may be made by
leaving the notice or other paper at the party’s residence with some person 18
years of age or older”].) 
However, Defendants did not file a proof of
service as to plaintiff Ron.  As set forth above, each of the moving
papers filed with the court states that both Plaintiffs were served by
messenger service, and that the “proof of service by messenger will be filed”
by Defendants.  (Mot., pp. 14-15; Compendium of Evidence, pp. 107-108;
Elliot Decl., pp. 9-10; Friedlich Decl., pp. 9-; Valoff Decl., pp. 4-5.) 
Defendants did not file the “original proof of service by messenger” of the
moving papers on plaintiff Ron.
Thus, because (1) the proofs of service
attached to the moving papers do not establish service on plaintiff Ron, since
they merely state that the declarant provided the documents to the messenger
and that subsequent proofs of service by the messenger would be filed by
Defendants, and (2) Defendants did not file the “original proof of service by
messenger” as to Ron, the court finds that Defendants have not established that
plaintiff Ron was served with the pending motion for summary judgment or,
alternatively, summary adjudication. 
The court therefore finds it appropriate,
and exercises its discretion, to continue the hearing on Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication to ensure that
plaintiff Ron is served with the papers filed in connection with this motion. 
ORDER
The court orders that the hearing on defendants Cinna Toy Wohlmuth,
M.D., and Sarah Simko, M.D.’s motion for summary judgment or, alternatively,
summary adjudication is continued to September 12, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., in
Department 53. 
The court orders defendants Cinna Toy Wohlmuth, M.D., and Sarah Simko,
M.D. (1) to give notice of this ruling to plaintiffs Italia Arteaga and Henry
Ron, and to all other parties who have appeared in this action, and to file a
proof of service of the notice of ruling with the court no later than June 20,
2024, and (2) to serve plaintiff Henry Ron with the moving papers filed in
connection with this motion, and to file a proof of service of that service
with the court no later than June 20, 2024. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 4, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court