 Case Number:  23SMCV04856    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 7, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04856




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’
  First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants LA Solar Group, Inc and Ara Petrosyan




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Daniel Eisenberg and Martha Bailey



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiffs Daniel Eisenberg and
Martha Bailey (“Plaintiffs”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants LA Solar Group, Inc., dba AP Electrical System (“LA Solar”); Ara
Petrosyan (“Petrosyan”); and Merchants Bonding Company (Mutual) (“Merchants”);
alleging five causes of action for (1) breach of express warranty; (2)
negligence; (3) breach of contract; (4) fraud; and (5) breach of contract
against surety.  The first four causes of
action are brought against all Defendants except Merchants, and the fifth cause
of action is brought only against Merchants.
 
Defendants LA Solar Group, Inc. and
Ara Petrosyan (“Defendants”) demur to the four causes of action alleged against
them for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and
uncertainty, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions
(e) and (f), respectively.  Defendants
also move to strike Plaintiffs’ allegations of, and the request for, punitive
damages.
 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer and
Defendants reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     
DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”
 (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In
testing the sufficiency of a cause of action, a court accepts “[a]s true all
material facts properly pled and matters which may be judicially noticed but
disregard contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  [A court also gives] the complaint a
reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their
context.”  (290 Division (EAT), LLC v.
City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned
up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280
[“in considering the merits of a demurrer, however, “the facts alleged in the
pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a
court must “liberally construe” the allegations of the complaint “with a view
to substantial justice between the parties.” 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether
the complaint is sufficient as against the demurrer on the ground that it does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if
one consideration of all the facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled
to any relief at the hands of the court against the defendants the complaint
will be held good although the facts may not be clearly stated, or may be
intermingled with a statement of other facts irrelevant to the cause of action
shown, or although the plaintiff may demand relief to which he is not entitled
under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.    UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot
reasonably respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or
her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Defendants argue that each cause of
action alleged in the FAC is uncertain because the allegations conflate Defendant
Petrosyan and Defendant LA Solar.  Petrosyan
is alleged to be the Responsible Managing Officer, Chief Executive Officer,
President, and alter ego of Defendant LA Solar (FAC ¶¶ 4, 9.)  Thus, Defendants do not demonstrate that any
portions of the FAC are so bad that they cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against them.  The Court thus declines to sustain Defendants’
demurrer on the basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.     FAILURE
TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Express Warranty
 
“[T]o prevail on a breach of express warranty claim, the plaintiff must
prove (1) the seller's statements constitute an affirmation of fact or promise
or a description of the goods; (2) the statement was part of the basis of the
bargain; and (3) the warranty was breached. 
(Weinstat v. Dentsply Internat., Inc. (2010) 180 Cal.App.4th
1213, 1227.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege (1) Section II(C)(4) of the Contract provides a
“Roof Penetrations Warranty” warranting roof leaks for 10 years related to
solar installation (FAC ¶ 14); (2) “In executing the Contract, Plaintiffs
relied on the express and Defendants breached this warranty by failing to
repair the roof leak caused by improper solar installation (FAC ¶ 15); and (3) Defendants
repeatedly attempted but ultimately failed to repair the damage and water leaks
caused by the improper solar installation (FAC ¶¶ 21-37.)
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action against Petrosyan.  However, as discussed above, Plaintiffs
allege Petrosyan and Defendant LA Solar are alter egos.  Therefore, Plaintiff has adequately alleged a
cause of action for breach of express warranty against Defendant Petrosyan.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Second Cause
of Action – Negligence
 
“The elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty,
proximate cause, and damages.”  (Peredia
v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Here, with regard to duty, the FAC alleges:
 
The contractual
obligation with Plaintiffs created a legal duty the breach of which support
this negligence claim.
 
51.  The contract between Plaintiffs and Defendant
Solar gave rise to a duty of care that required that such services be performed
in a competent and reasonable manner. Defendants’ failure to do so is both a
breach of contract and a tort.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 50-51.)
 
            As for breach and causation, the FAC
alleges:
 
49. Defendants
negligently designed, constructed, installed and maintained the Project and
such negligence proximately caused water leaks in the roof and resulted in
water damage to Plaintiffs.
 
(FAC ¶ 49.)
 
            And as for
Damages, the FAC alleges:
 
53. As a proximate
result of the negligence of Defendant Solar, Plaintiffs have been damaged in an
amount no less than $90,000.
 
(FAC ¶ 53.)
 
            Defendants again argue that
Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against
Petrosyan, but as discussed above, Plaintiffs adequately allege that Defendant
LA Solar is the alter ego of Petrosyan.
 
            Therefore, Plaintiffs adequately
state a breach of contract claim against Petrosyan.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Third Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff
must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting
damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v.
Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) 

 
Here, the FAC alleges that Plaintiffs and Defendants entered into a
contract for solar installation, which Defendants breached by failing to honor
the warranty provision in the contract.
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Petrosyan, because Plaintiffs only allege
conclusory allegations that Petrosyan is the alter ego of LA Solar.  As discussed above, Plaintiff’s alter ego
allegations suffice at this stage of the litigation.
 
                                                               
iv.           
Fourth Cause
of Action – Fraud
 
“In a promissory fraud action, to sufficiently alleges [sic] defendant
made a misrepresentation, the complaint must allege (1) the defendant made a
representation of intent to perform some future action, i.e., the defendant
made a promise, and (2) the defendant did not really have that intent at the
time that the promise was made, i.e., the promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)   
 
“In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the specificity requirement is notice to the
defendant, to furnish the defendant with certain definite charges which can be
intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less
specificity is required “when it appears from the nature of the allegations
that the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the
facts of the controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs fail to plead fraud with requisite
specificity.  Plaintiffs’ allegations of
fraud are as follows:
 
60. The aforesaid
representations and warranties were in fact false at the time they were made.
Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and based on such information and belief
allege, that in actuality Defendants never had any intention of performing the
terms of the Warranty and that Defendants’ written statements to Plaintiffs
were all false and intended to induce Plaintiffs to enter into the Contract. 
 
61. Plaintiffs are
informed and believe, and based on such information and belief allege, that
other claims have been made against Defendants and Defendants do not honor the
terms of its Warranty. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that the California
State Contractors License Board has commenced proceedings against Defendant
Solar relating to its defective work. The CSLB has filed an Accusation (Case
No. N2021-152) against Defendants that alleges claims similar to those here, in
part that: 
 
“LA Solar failed to
properly install the flashings, racking, and solar panels on multiple occasions
resulting in a large number of penetrations to the roofing system and excessive
wear and tear on the roof due to foot traffic.” 
 
62. The CSLB
Accusation against Defendants arises out of a contract executed on or about
October 29, 2019, before the Contract executed by Plaintiffs. The CSLB accused
Defendants of willfully departing from accepted trade standards for good and
workmanlike construction. 
 
63. The CSLB had
also previously issued Citation No. 2-2019-1537 against Defendants and had
ordered Defendants to pay restitution to the homeowner. 
 
64. Plaintiffs are
informed and believe, and based on such information and belief allege, that
when Defendants made the aforesaid Warranty, they knew they had no intention of
performing the Warranty and that Defendants had a history of violations of applicable
standards. 
 
65. Plaintiffs were
ignorant of the falsity of Defendants’ promises and representations and did not
discover the falsity until the roof began to leak 
 
66. Had Plaintiffs
known the true facts, they would not have agreed to enter into the Contract
with Defendant Solar. 
 
67. As a proximate
result of the above-described conduct of Defendants, Plaintiffs have been
damaged in the sum of at least $90,000 in accordance with their proof. 
 
68. Plaintiffs are informed
and believe, and based on such information and belief allege, that the
aforesaid conduct of Defendants occurred deliberately and intentionally, with
fraud, oppression and malice, and with a conscious and callous disregard of the
rights of Plaintiffs, so that Plaintiffs are entitled to recover punitive
damages from Defendants.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 60-68.)  
 
With regard to the allegations made
“on information and belief,” allegations made “on information and belief” are
insufficient to satisfy the heightened pleading requirement “unless the facts
upon which the belief is founded are stated in the pleading.”  (Dowling v. Spring Val. Water Co.
(1917) 174 Cal.218, 221.)
 
The Court agrees that Plaintiffs
fail to allege facts to support the fraud cause of action with requisite
specificity.  The only specific facts
alleged pertain to Defendants’ improper solar installation, not Defendants’
knowledge or intent not to perform at the time the promise was made.
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action for fraud.
 
2.     
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike the whole
pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d 767, 782.)  Here, Chan moves
to strike from the complaint, references to and claims for punitive
damages.    
 
In ruling on a motion to strike
punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to
strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages
statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil
Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth
in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful
and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means
an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert
facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a defendant acted with
oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit,
there is a heightened pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive
damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.) 
“When nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s
conduct was wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a
claim for exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of
punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own fault.  It is
not imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.”  (City
Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) 
“Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds capable of
recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive.  An award of
punitive damages against a corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the
corporation’s employees.  But the law does not impute every employee’s malice
to the corporation.  Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof
of malice among corporate leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing
agents.”  (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167
[cleaned up].)  
            
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiffs
have not alleged facts with requisite specificity to state a cause of action
for fraud against Defendants.  As such,
the Court finds that the allegations similarly do not adequately support a
claim for punitive damages.    
 
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has
the burden of showing in what manner the complaint could be amended and how the
amendment would change the legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause
of action. (See The Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino
(2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven
Int'l, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only
state the legal basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations
sufficient to state a cause of action or claim. (See PGA West Residential
Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.)
Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the
opposition to a demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the
operative complaint deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.”
(See Major Clients Agency v Diemer (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham
v Bank of America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract
right to amend does not satisfy the burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have
failed to meet their burden as the opposition does not specify any additional
specific facts Plaintiffs could add to cure these deficiencies.    
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules
Defendants’ Demurrers to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action, and
sustains without leave to amend Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of
Action.  
 
Further, the Court grants Defendants’
Motion to Strike in its entirety, and orders the following stricken from the
FAC:
 
·        
Paragraph 68, at page 12, lines 17 to 20, which
reads as follows: “Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and based on such
information and belief allege, that the aforesaid conduct of Defendants
occurred deliberately and intentionally, with fraud, oppression and malice, and
with a conscious and callous disregard of the rights of Plaintiffs. So that
Plaintiffs are intitled to recover punitive damages from Defendants.”
·        
The portion of Plaintiffs' prayer for damages,
set forth at page 13, line 16, which reads as follows: "4. For punitive
damages;”
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants
to file an Answer to the FAC on or before March 29, 2024.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED: 
March 7, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court