 Case Number:  23SMCV01691    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
 RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March
  7, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01691




MOTION


Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
  Production of Documents, Set 1 




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Faith Strongheart




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Nonfiction Unlimited Inc.



 
Plaintiff Faith Strongheart (“Plaintiff”) asserts in the First Amended
Complaint against Defendants Nonfiction Unlimited, Inc., Michael Degan and Patrick
Degan claims of violations of the Labor Code. including failing to pay overtime
and reimburse Plaintiff for certain business expenses.    
 
Plaintiff moves the Court for an order compelling Defendant Nonfiction
Unlimited Inc. (“Defendant”) to serve further responses to the following
discovery requests:  
 
1.      Requests
For Production of Documents (“RFP”), Set 1, Propounded to Defendant
·        
Propounded: 
                                            July
6 2023
·        
Responses Served:                                  Unknown 
·        
Motion Filed: 
                                          January
18, 2024
 
Defendant
opposes the motion; Plaintiff replies to the opposition.  
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
1.     
Timeliness
of Motion 
 
            A notice of motion to compel further
responses must be “given within 45 days of the service of the verified response,
or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date
to which” the parties have agreed in writing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)  Failure to file such a motion within this time
period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses to demands
for production of documents.  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff filed the motion on the date set forth above.  Defendant has not objected to the timeliness
of the motion.  
 
2.     
Meet and
Confer
 
            A motion to compel must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2).)  A meet and confer
declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
 
            “The Discovery Act requires that,
prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he
or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each
issue. This rule is designed ‘to encourage the parties to work out their
differences informally so as to avoid the necessity of a formal order.  . . . 
This, in turn, will lessen the burden on the court and reduce the
unnecessary expenditure of resources by litigants through promotion of
informal, extrajudicial resolution of discovery disputes.”  (Townsend
v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1434-1435, citations omitted
[cleaned  up].)  To comply, “A reasonable and good-faith
attempt at informal resolution entails something more than bickering with
[opposing counsel].  Rather, the law
requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views,
consult, and deliberate.”  (Townsend, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p.
1439; see also Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294 [to
satisfy the attempt at informal resolution required in section 2016.040
opposing parties must do more than try to persuade each other of their
errors].)  In short, the Discovery Act
“requires that there be a serious effort at negotiation and informal
resolution.”  (Townsend, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.)
 
            To that end, trial courts are
entrusted with discretion and judgment to determine the necessary effort
required to satisfy the requirement of an informal resolution. (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 433.)  In determining if parties have satisfied Section
2016.040, judges may consider “the history of the litigation, the nature of the
interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of
discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be
relevant.” (Id. at pp. 431-432 [holding that the trial court was correct
in determining that sending a letter with oppositions was an insufficient
attempt at an informal resolution].)  In
sum, meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters to each
other stating each party’s respective positions. 
 
            Here, as set forth in the
Declaration Nina Montoya (“Montoya”), counsel for Plaintiff, Plaintiff asserts she
has engaged in a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
the issues presented in the motion as follows: 

 
·        
On September 26, 2023, Plaintiff sent a meet and
confer letter in response to Defendant’s discovery responses.  (See Declaration of Nina Montoya, Exhibit
B.)  
 
·        
Emails from November 19, 2023 through November
22, 2023 between Plaintiff and Defendant regarding the scheduling of, and
participation in, an Informal Discovery Conference.  (See Declaration of Nina Montoya, Exhibit C.)  
 
·        
Emails from December 18, 2023 and January 3,
2024 between Plaintiff and Defendant addressing Defendant’s discovery responses.  (See Declaration of Nina Montoya, Exhibit D.)  
            
Although the Court finds Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts to be
wanting, those efforts do meet the minimal requirements under the Discovery Act
especially when Defendant does not object to the motion based upon Plaintiff’s
failure to meet and confer in a meaningful manner in an effort to resolve the
underlying discovery issues informally.  
            
3.     
Separate
Statement 
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1345 requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a
separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement
of factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
 
            Here, Plaintiff has filed a separate
statements related to the motion which complies with Rule 3.1345.
 
Analysis
            
1.     
DISCOVERY – GENERAL PRINCIPLES
 
            “Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  
 
            “The purpose of the discovery rules
is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and
eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is
designed to make a trial less a game of blindman's bluff and more a fair
contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable
extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389
[cleaned up].)   
 
            Where a party objects, or responds
inadequately, to discovery requests, a motion lies to compel further responses,
and that party has the burden to justify the objections or inadequate responses.
(Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a) [motion to
compel further responses lies “[o]n receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection”].)  “A trial court's
determination of a motion to compel discovery is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.  However, when the facts
asserted in support of and in opposition to the motion are in conflict, the
trial court's factual findings will be upheld if they are supported by
substantial evidence.” (Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 [cleaned up].) 
 
            With
respect to demands for inspection of documents or other items, the Discovery
Act provides as follows:
 
The party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed shall respond separately to
each item or category of item by any of the following:  (1) A statement that the party will comply
with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling by the
date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any related
activities.  (2) A representation that
the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling of a particular item or category of item.  (3) An objection to the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).)  “A
representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because
the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.230.)
 
2.      RULINGS
 
a.       Request
for Production No. 1
 
            Defendant agrees to either produce
the privilege log as requested or to produce the subject documents unredacted.  (See Declaration of Michael J. Khouri, ¶
16.)  As such, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion, in part, as moot.  
 
b.      Requests
for Production Nos. 2 and 3  
 
                                                                         
i.     
Verification  

 
 
(a)   The
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed shall sign the response under oath unless the response contains only
objections.
 
(b)   If
that party is a public or private corporation or a partnership or association
or governmental agency, one of its officers or agents shall sign the response
under oath on behalf of that party. If the officer or agent signing the
response on behalf of that party is an attorney acting in that capacity for a
party, that party waives any lawyer-client privilege and any protection for
work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010) during any
subsequent discovery from that attorney concerning the identity of the sources
of the information contained in the response.
 
(c) The attorney for the responding party shall sign any responses
that contain an objection.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.250, subds. (a)-(c); see generally Steele v. Totah
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 545, 550 [“attorney verification of requests for
admissions under section 2033 is insufficient”].)   
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s responses are unverified.  (See Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Support.)  “Unsworn responses are tantamount to no
responses at all.” (Appleton v. Superior Court (1998) 206 Cal.App.3d
632, 636.)  
 
In response, Defendant tacitly concedes that it did not verify its responses
but instead its counsel of record, Michael J. Khouri, signed the verification.  (See Defendant’s Separate Statement in
Opposition.)   Yet, Defendant contends that under California Rules
of Court, rule 7.103, the verification signed by counsel is sufficient.  The Court disagrees.  
 
First, Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.250 is the controlling
authority regarding verifying responses to requests for production of
documents.  Second, Rule 7.103 applies to
the execution of pleadings in probate and mental health cases, not in civil cases.  
 
                                                                       
ii.     
Code Compliant Responses  
 
In response to both requests, Defendant states:  “I will allow this request in whole and will
provide the documents or things as requested.” 
Although the responses are not couched in legalese, the Court finds the responses
to be compliant under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210.  There is no ambiguity that Defendant intends
to produce responsive documents or things as requested.  
 
Yet Plaintiff contends that under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.280 that the actual production of the responsive documents or things by
Defendant is faulty.  Section 2031.280 in
relevant part states:  “Any documents or
category of documents produced in response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall be identified with the specific request number to
which the documents respond.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.280, subd. (a).)  
 
Defendant identified in response to the underlying Form
Interrogatories two documents:  (1) Letter
from Edward Kerns with attachments (43 pages) and (2) Internal Audit of Company
Credit Card.  Plaintiff does not contend
that Defendant failed to produce the responsive documents, but Plaintiff quarrels
with the lack of identification (“bates stamping”) and contends that the copies
produced are largely illegible.  
 
With respect to the lack of identification, the Court finds that
Plaintiff is correct.  The documents
should have been identified by “bate stamping” them as they relate to specific
requests to which Defendant is producing such documents.  
 
With respect to the illegible copies, Defendant should permit Plaintiff
to inspect the “original” versions of the responsive documents in its possession,
custody and control and allow for Plaintiff to make copies of such documents
which are readable.  
 
As such, the Court grants in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further
production and/or inspection of documents or things responsive to Requests for
Production Nos. 2-3.  
 
Sanctions
            
A trial court may sanction a party for engaging in the misuse of
discovery, which includes:  failure to
respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery; and making or opposing, unsuccessfully
and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit
discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) 
 
            In addition, Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.310, subdivision (h) provides: “”Except as provided in subdivision
(j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (See also Code.
Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b).) 
            Here,
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions in connection with the motion based upon Defendant’s
failure to produce responsive documents or things under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.280.  The Court finds Defendant’s
failure, in part, to comply with Section 2031.280 to be an abuse of the
discovery process, warranting monetary sanctions.  Accordingly, the Court will impose monetary
sanctions against Defendant, in the amount of $2774.00 which represents four hours
of attorney time to prepare the moving and reply papers, and attend the hearing,
at $675 per hour, plus the motion filing fee of $74.[1]
CONCLUSION AND ORDERS
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses per Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.310,
2031.280 and 2031.320, and orders Defendant to serve verified and code
compliant responses to the Requests for Production of Documents, Set 1, as noted above, within 30 days of notice of
the Court’s orders.  In addition, the
Court orders Defendant to identify all responsive documents or things, and/or
permit Plaintiff to inspect such responsive documents or things, as noted
above, within 30 days of notice of the Court’s orders.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant
to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2774.00 to Plaintiff, by and
through counsel for Plaintiff, within 30 days of notice of the Court’s
orders.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice
of the Court’s orders and file a proof of service regarding the same.
 
 
DATED:
 March 7, 2024                                            ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 


