  Case Number:  22VECV02514    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  W BRYAN GUINO v.
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.
 
motion to
compel arbitration and stay action
 
Date of Hearing:        October
31, 2023                              Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV02514
 
Moving Party:            Defendant American Honda Motor Co.
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Bryan Guino 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action which arises
from Plaintiff’s lease of a 2020 Honda Accord. On December 21, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendant American Honda Motor Co. asserting causes
of action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act and Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment. Plaintiff alleges their vehicle had a sensing defect, which
Defendant knew about and concealed. 
 
Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint on April 17, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
American Honda Motor, Co., Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Case is
DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. (“AHM”) moves the court for an Order to compel arbitration and stay the instant
action pursuant to the arbitration notice and provisions set forth in the Honda
Leadership Leasing Closed-End Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement-California entered
into between the parties. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2
permits a party to file a petition to request that the court order the parties
to arbitrate a controversy.  The trial court first determines whether an
enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties and then whether
the plaintiff’s claims are covered by the agreement.  (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) “California has a
strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.”  (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of Cal. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,
686.) 
 
The party seeking to enforce the
arbitration agreement bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.  (Giuliano
v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.) The
party opposing the petition to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense.  (Id.) 
 
While the parties do not dispute the
existence of the arbitration clause in the Lease Agreement, the parties dispute
whether AHM can compel arbitration. Plaintiff contends AHM waive their rights
to compel, equitable estoppel does not apply nor is AHM a third-party
beneficiary of the Lease Agreement and, finally, the Lease Agreement is
unconscionable.  
 
Waiver
 
Plaintiff first argues AHM waived its
right to compel arbitration. “California courts have found a waiver of the
right to demand arbitration in a variety of contexts, ranging from situations
in which the party seeking to compel arbitration has previously taken steps
inconsistent with an intent to invoke arbitration [citations] to instances in
which the petitioning party has unreasonably delayed in undertaking the
procedure. [Citations.] The decisions likewise hold that the ‘bad faith’ or
‘wilful misconduct’ of a party may constitute a waiver and thus justify a
refusal to compel arbitration. [Citations.]” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical
Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 983, quoting Davis v. Blue Cross of
Northern California (1979) 25 Cal.3d 418.) 
 
Plaintiff contends AHM waived their
right to compel arbitration by waiting almost a year to compel arbitration.
During that time, AHM served written discovery on Plaintiff and filed two
demurrers with motions to strike to Plaintiff’s initial complaint and first
amended complaint. While AHM has been litigating the matter, Plaintiff contends
they have also been diligent in preparing this matter for trial and conducting
discovery.
 
AHM argues they have not waived their
right to compel arbitration because the only discovery done was a single
request to produce served January 30, 2023, requesting the lease documents so
it could be determined if arbitration was mandated. Once AHM verified the Lease
Agreement was signed, AHM moved quickly to file the instant motion. 
 
The court agrees AHM has waived its
right to arbitration. “’[A] demand for arbitration must not be unreasonably
delayed. When an arbitration agreement does not specify the time within which
arbitration must be demanded, a reasonable time is allowed; a party who does
not demand arbitration within a reasonable time is deemed to have waived the
right to arbitration. [Citations.]’” (Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 980, 992.) Even though AHM had informally requested the parties
resolve this dispute by arbitration since March 2023, AHM did not file the
instant motion until 10 months after Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit. “If a
party wishes to compel arbitration, he must take active and decided steps to
secure that right, and is required to go to the court where plaintiff's action
lies. (Citations.)’” (Bodine v. United Aircraft Corp. (1975) 52
Cal.App.3d 940, 945.) Rather than take active steps towards arbitration, AHM filed
two demurrers with motions to strike and responded to discovery. And although
AHM contends the only discovery propounded by them was to confirm whether the
Lease Agreement mandated arbitration, the Lease Agreement was provided 7 months
before AHM brought this instant motion. The court further notes the demurrers
did challenge arbitrable issues.  
 
Accordingly, the court denies AHM’s motion.
This motion falls squarely in the class of circumstances where waiver has
occurred.   Because the court finds AHM
has waived the right to bring a motion to compel arbitration, the court need
not address the other arguments against arbitration raised by plaintiff.  
 
. 