 Case Number:  22STCV16127    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



NATIONAL ROBERTSON
  CAR WASH CARE INC.,  
  
         vs.
 
FLORENTINO
  APELES.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV16127
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 5, 2023



 
Defendant
Florentino Apeles’s demurrer
to Plaintiff National Robertson Car Wash Care Inc.’s second amended complaint
is sustained without leave to amend.
 
           Defendant Florentino Apeles (“Apeles”) (“Defendant”) demurs
to Plaintiff National Robertson Carwash Care Inc.’s (“NRCCI”) (“Plaintiff”) second
amended complaint (“SAC”) in its entirety. 
(Notice of Demurrer, pg. 1.)  
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant’s 9/28/23 request
for judicial notice of the printout of the entity information obtained for Car
Consultants, Inc. from the Nevada Secretary of State Business Entity Search
Website, located at https://esos.nv.gov/EntitySearch/OnlineEntitySearch/
(D-RJN, Exh. 1), is granted.
 
Background
 
On May 13, 2022, Plaintiff
filed its complaint against Defendant in the instant action.  On August 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed its first
amended complaint (“FAC”).  On March 15,
2023, this Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st through 8th
causes of action in its FAC with 20 days leave to amend.  (3/15/23 Minute Order.)
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the operative SAC, alleging eight causes of action: (1) intentional
interference with contractual relationship, (2) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (3) negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage, (4) breach of contract, (5) breach of good faith and fair
dealing, (6) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (7) constructive eviction,
and (8) declaratory relief arising from alleged Defendant landlord and
Plaintiff tenant’s car wash lease agreement for the car wash portion of real
property at 3071 S. Robertson Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90034 (“Subject Property”).   (See SAC.)   
Defendant filed the instant
demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC on May 4, 2023. 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition.  Defendant filed his reply on September 28,
2023.
 
           Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges on or about
November 21, 2014, Car Consultant Inc. entered into a car wash lease agreement (“Lease
Agreement”) with Defendant for the car wash portion of the Subject Property.  (SAC ¶7, Exh. 1.)[1]  Plaintiff alleges Car Consultant Inc. was
entitled to use the entire car wash portion of the Subject Property, which
include the vacuum area, the car wash tunnel, including entrance and exit
areas, office, two storage rooms, electric room, employee restroom, drying,
parking and detail area adjacent to the tunnel exit; the parking space directly
east of the air and water area; and one parking space adjacent to the trash
area before the car wash tunnel.  (SAC ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges the parties agreed to
transfer Car Consultant Inc.’s rights under the Lease Agreement to Plaintiff,
that the actions were ratified by Defendants, and since then, Plaintiff has
been in possession of the Subject Property and paid any rent previously owned
[sic].  (SAC ¶9.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant, without notice,
substantially reduced Plaintiff’s use of the Subject Property by eliminating a
lane for ingress to the car wash tunnel and the drying, parking, and detailing
areas, and notwithstanding this reduction in services, Defendant continued to
charge Plaintiff rent which exceeded the terms of the Lease Agreement.  (SAC ¶10.) 
Plaintiff alleges when it invoked its rights under the Los Angeles
Commercial Eviction Moratorium, Defendant retaliated by filing an unlawful
detainer for nonpayment of rent, and Plaintiff was left with no choice but to
vacate the Subject Property.  (SAC ¶10.)  
Plaintiff
alleges in October 2020, Defendant found a buyer for the car wash business,
Armen Takayan (“Takayan”) and/or assignee.  (SAC
¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant
represented that Takayan was a bona fide purchaser, and that Defendant would meet
any and all obligations necessary to proceed forward with the sale.  (SAC ¶12.) 
Plaintiff alleges that based on Defendant’s representation, in or about
October 2020, Plaintiff and Takayan executed a written purchase agreement,
wherein Plaintiff would sell the car wash business subject to the Lease
Agreement to Takayan for $500,000.00.  (SAC
¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges that shortly
thereafter, Defendant unreasonably refused to perform his obligations necessary
to close the sale.  (SAC ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges it and Takayan were left
with no choice but to cancel the sale.  (SAC
¶15.)    
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s SAC
fails because (1) the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against Defendant; (2) the allegations in the SAC are uncertain; and
(3) in an action founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the
pleading whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.  (Demurrer, pg. 1; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f),
(g).)
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer is a pleading used
to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings, i.e., it raises issues
of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s
pleading (complaint, petition, answer, or cross-complaint).  (C.C.P. §§422.10, 589; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [citing text]; Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388 [citing text].)
A demurrer can be used only
to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or
from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318; Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at pg. 994 [citing text].)
 
Failure to State a Claim
           Entire FAC
“A written contract may be pleaded either by its
terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to
the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect.
[Citation.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must
‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it
requires a careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement,
and avoidance of legal conclusions.”  (Heritage
Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 993, citations
omitted.)
Plaintiff’s SAC fails to allege the
alleged assignment or plead its terms verbatim. 
(C.C.P. §430.10(g).)  Plaintiff’s
argument that it sufficiently alleged the lease transferred by the acts of the
parties by the course of performance in SAC ¶¶7-9 is unavailing.  Plaintiff merely alleges the following
conclusory legal assertion: “The parties agreed to transfer Car Consultant
Inc.’s rights under the Lease Agreement to [Plaintiff]. These actions were
ratified by [Defendant]. Since then, [Plaintiff] has been in possession of the
Subject Property and had paid any rent previously owned [sic].”  (SAC ¶9.) 
Plaintiff does not allege how Defendant’s ratification took place, fails
to recite the terms of the modification, and fails to allege whether the
modification of the least was written, oral, or implied.
Further,
Car Care Consultant, Inc. (“CCI”), a former Nevada Corporation, lacked the
ability to assign the Lease Agreement to Plaintiff.  CCI, possessing Nevada business identification
number NV20141199795 and entity number E0150412014-0 is identified as being
“permanently revoked” no later than December 1, 2014, well prior to the date
Plaintiff contends that CCI assigned the Lease Agreement to it and CCI has not
been reinstated to a good standing status. (See D-RJN, Exh. 1.)  Moreover, there are no apparent records
maintained with the California Secretary of State that CCI was authorized to
carry out business in California.
CCI
had no ability whatsoever to carry out any operations in California, include
the transfer and/or assignment of any Lease Agreement to Plaintiff. It is
well-settled that if a corporation has been suspended, forfeited or revoked, it
is not in good standing and loses its rights, powers, and privileges to do
business in California. (See Cal-Western Business Services, Inc. v. Corning
Capital Group (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 304; see also Nevada Revised Statutes
(“N.R.S.”) §78-175.)
In
addition to the inability to prosecute or defend itself in a lawsuit, a
corporation that is either suspended or, as here, permanently revoked, forfeits
its corporate powers, cannot function as a corporation and is incapable under
the state statute of exercising corporate powers for any business purpose.  (McLaughlin Land & Livestock Co v.
Bank of America, National Trust & Savings Ass’n (9th Cir. 1938) 94 F.2d
491, 493 [applying state law].)  A
revoked corporation cannot carry out any operations available to a corporation
in good standing, including that it “cannot prevent another from adopting its
corporate name,” (Center for Self-Improvement & Community Development v.
Lennar Corp. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1543, 1552) and “cannot borrow money,
execute notes, or sell stock.”
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
           Conclusion
           Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC
is sustained without leave to amend.
 
 
Dated:  October ____, 2023
                                                                                     





  