 Case Number:  24STCV08540    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  82 Rafael Raz, et al.
v. Beith David Education Center, et al.
Case No.
24STCV08540
Ex Parte
Application for Writ of Possession and Temporary Restraining Order
 
            On April 4,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a verified petition for an order voiding the election of
the directors of the Beith David Education Center (“Beith David”), a non-profit
religious corporation which operates as an Orthodox Jewish synagogue.  Plaintiffs named Beith David and Fahim Farivar,
who was elected Chairman, as defendants. 
Then, on April 22, 2024, Beith David and Fahim Farivar filed a
cross-complaint against Rafi Raz (President), Shlomo Sherif (Inspector #1),
Hooman Moshe Gideon (the former caterer) and Ken Pezeshki (Vice Chairman #1).  The cross-complaint asserts 21 causes of
action.  Now, the cross-complainants seek
a writ of possession and temporary restraining order.  Essentially, the cross-complainants seek: (1)
A writ of possession to return access to Beith David’s bank account to Beith
David and Farim Farivar; (2) A writ of possession to return “donations/funds
collected on behalf of BDEC” to Beith David; and (3) A temporary restraining
order return control of Beith David’s facilities, books and records, security
and surveillance equipment, and utility and service accounts to Beith
David.  
 
Previously, Plaintiffs filed an ex
parte application for a temporary restraining order and an order to show cause
why a preliminary injunction shall not issue. 
Plaintiffs sought an order enjoining Defendant Fahim Farivar from: (1)
Interfering with a new membership meeting and election, (2) Attempting to
intimidate or threaten any member of the congregation from requesting a new
membership meeting and election, (3) Attempting to intimidate or threaten
anyone in connection with voting in the election, and (4) “Holding a Board of
Directors meeting and attempting to exercise any of the powers normally
exercised by a Board of Directors, including collecting money in the name of
Beith David.”  The court cannot intervene
in religious matters relating to the management and operation of a religious
institution.  (See New v. Kroeger
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 800, 815-816, citations omitted.)  “The prohibition against civil court
participation in sectarian disputes extends to issues involving membership, clergy
credentials and discipline, as well as religious entity governance and
administration.”  (Id., p. 815, citing Jones
v. Wolf, 443 U.S. 595, 602 (1975).)  The
court previously denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application for a temporary
restraining order on this basis.  
 
This application implicates a
different issue because it effectively seeks to return control of Beith David’s
facilities and accounts to the temple’s own leadership.  In that sense, the court would not be intervening
in the substance of religious matters. 
To the contrary, the court would be placing control of the temple in the
hands of the religious leaders.  The
court notes that the religious leader of Beith David—Rabbi Darzan Levihim—supports
this application and requests that the court issue the proposed order.  (Declaration of Rabbi Darzan Levihim, ¶¶ 3-4.)  The court notes that Rabbi Darzan Levihim and
the Chief Financial Officer, Behroouz Natanzi, are not parties to this
case.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court
grants the cross-defendants’ ex parte application in part and denies the ex
parte application in part as follows:
 
1.         Access
and Control of Facilities – GRANTED.  It
is undisputed that these facilities belong to Beith David.  The court orders all parties in this case to
immediately grant full access, possession, and control over all kitchen areas,
storage facilities, refrigerators, offices, phone number(s), donation boxes,
and related keys and locks to Rabbi Darzan Levihim and/or his designee(s).
 
2.         Donations/Funds
Collected but not Deposited – DENIED.  These
amounts are not readily ascertainable and the moving parties have not satisfied
their burden of proof.  
 
3.         Financial
Accounts – GRANTED.  It is undisputed
that these financial accounts belong to Beith David.  The court orders all parties in this case to
immediately grant full access to Beith David’s bank accounts, including those
held at First Citizen Bank and Chase Bank, to the Chief Financial Officer, Behroouz
Natanzi, and/or his designee(s).
 
4.         Financial
Records – GRANTED.  It is undisputed that
these financial records belong to Beith David. 
The court orders all parties in this case to immediately surrender all
financial records of Beith David to the Chief Financial Officer, Behroouz
Natanzi, and/or his designee(s).
 
5.         Security
and Surveillance Equipment – GRANTED.  It
is undisputed that this equipment belongs to Beith David.  The court orders all parties in this case to
immediately provide access to Beith David’s security and surveillance
equipment, as well as any recordings, to Rabbi Darzan Levihim and/or his
designee(s).
 
6.         Utilities
and Security Accounts – GRANTED.  It is
undisputed that these accounts belong to Beith David.  The court orders all parties in this case to immediately
grant full access to Beith David’s utility and security accounts, including waste
management, gas, and water/power, to the Chief Financial Officer, Behroouz
Natanzi, and/or his designee(s). 
 
The court issues no orders concerning
how Rabbi Darzan Levihim and Chief Financial Officer Behroouz Natanzi shall or
shall not proceed with respect to the authority granted by this order.  To do otherwise would risk interfering in the
management and operation of a religious institution.  The court assumes that Rabbi Levihim and Mr.
Natanzi, as well as their designees, will proceed in a manner consistent with Beith
David’s policies and procedures, as well as the law.    
 
The court further orders as
follows:
 
1.         Counsel
for the cross-complainants shall prepare a proposed order for the court’s signature
that is consistent with this order.
 
2.         The
parties shall meet-and-confer whether they will stipulate to the following: (a)
Entry of a preliminary injunction on these or other terms, and (b) A mediation
or arbitration before Beith Din of America or a similar ADR provider.
 
3.         The
court issues an order to show cause why a preliminary injunction shall not
issue on these terms for _______, 2024, at ______.  The moving parties may file supplemental
moving papers on or before _________, 2024. 
Plaintiffs may file a supplemental opposition on or before _________,
2024.  The moving parties may file a
reply brief on or before _________, 2024. 
 
4.         Counsel
for the moving parties shall provide notice and file proof of service with the
court.  
 