  Case Number:  23AHCV02228    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JULIA SARABI, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02228
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 9,
  2024




 


)


 



 
Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. (“Defendant”) moves for an order to compel the deposition of plaintiff
Julia Sarabi (“Plaintiff”) pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450.
On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a “limited opposition brief” which specified
that no substantive opposition would be filed. Therefore, Plaintiff does not
dispute that in December 2023, Defendant noticed her deposition for February
14, 2024, and that she served objections stating she would not attend. It is
also undisputed that Plaintiff has not provided any dates for a deposition.
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff is ordered to appear for her
deposition within 20 days of the date of this Order. Sanctions are also imposed
against Plaintiff in the total amount of $260, consisting of 1 hour at defense
counsel’s hourly rate of $200 and a $60 filing fee, to be paid no later than 20
days after the date of this order.  
 
Dated
this 9th
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative
as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 