 Case Number:  23TRCV04205    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  B    Superior    Court of California County    of Los Angeles Southwest    District Torrance    Dept. B       ALMA    SAVOY,          Plaintiff,     Case No.: 23TRCV04205               vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         WEST    COAST POST ACUTE, et al.,         Defendants.                                Hearing  Date:                          March 13, 2024   Moving  Parties:                      Plaintiff Alma Savoy  Responding  Party:                  None Motion  for Trial Setting Preference                 The court considered the moving  papers.  No opposition papers were filed.   RULING             The motion is DENIED WITHOUT  PREJUDICE. (But  the Court shall ask at the hearing that the parties be prepared to discuss  setting the matter for an early trial date without the need to file a new  motion.) BACKGROUND             On December 15, 2023, plaintiff Alma  Savoy filed a complaint against defendants West Gardena Post Acute and DOES 1  through 100, alleging a cause of action for medical negligence.               The complaint alleges that, in or around November 2023, plaintiff fell  while in the care of defendants’ nursing facility staff. Complaint, ¶ 3. The  staff negligently dropped plaintiff and she suffered severe injuries to her  body and head. Complaint, ¶ 3. Due to defendants’ actions, plaintiff alleges  that she suffered a subdural hematoma and bleeding on the brain. Complaint, ¶  5.              Plaintiff filed and served the  instant unopposed Motion for Trial Setting Preference.     LEGAL AUTHORITY “On petition of any party over 70,  section 36, subdivision (a), provides that the granting of calendar preference  is mandatory in some circumstances.” Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21  Cal.App.5th 529, 533. A court must grant a trial preference under CCP § 36(a)  where the following two factors are present: (1) the party has a substantial  interest in the action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party is such that  a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the  litigation. Ibid. Where a motion for trial preference is granted, the  clerk shall set the case for trial not more than 120 days from that date. Koch-Ash  v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 694. The purpose of CCP § 36  is “to avoid an irrevocable loss of a qualifying plaintiff’s substantive right  to a trial during his or her lifetime and to potential recovery of damages that  would not survive plaintiff’s pretrial death. Ibid. A motion for trial  preference does not require a doctor’s declaration and “may be supported by  nothing more than an attorney’s declaration based upon the information and  belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” Fox v.  Superior Court, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 533. “A party may file and serve a  motion for preference supported by a declaration of the moving party that all  essential parties have been served with process or have appeared.” CCP §  36(c)(1). “At any time during the pendency of the action, a party who reaches  70 years of age may file and serve a motion for preference.” CCP § 36(c)(2). “Notwithstanding  any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for  preference that is supported by a showing that the interests of justice will be  served by granting this preference.” CCP § 36(e). “[T]he decision to grant or  deny a preferential trial setting rests at all times in the sound discretion of  the trial court in light of the totality of the circumstances.” Salas v.  Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 342, 344.  DISCUSSION             Plaintiff  requests that the court give this matter preference in setting a trial date.  Plaintiff  contends that this matter is entitled to preference in trial setting because  she is 77 years old and her health is such that a preference is necessary to  avoid prejudicing her substantial interest in this litigation.              In  support of the motion, plaintiff’s counsel, Douglas D. Shaffer, declares that  all essential parties have been served or have appeared in this action. Shaffer  Decl., ¶ 2. According to counsel, plaintiff seeks damages for personal injuries  suffered in the accident and, as such, plaintiff has substantial interest in  this litigation. Shaffer Decl., ¶ 3. Counsel declares that plaintiff is 77  years old and has developed Alzheimer’s, which has caused verbal and memory  problems. Shaffer Decl. ¶ 4. Counsel states that plaintiff’s life expectancy is  uncertain. Shaffer Decl., ¶ 4.              The  court finds that while plaintiff has a substantial interest in this action as a whole,  plaintiff has not shown that her health is such that a preference is necessary to  avoid prejudicing her interest in the litigation. While counsel does indicate  that plaintiff has developed Alzheimer’s and is 77 years old, the mere  statement that plaintiff’s life expectancy is uncertain is not sufficient.  Counsel has not stated plaintiff’s prognosis or given any indication as to the possible  duration of plaintiff’s lifespan. The conclusory statement that plaintiff’s  life expectancy is uncertain is not sufficient to warrant a trial preference  under CCP § 36(a). It follows that plaintiff has not made a showing that the  interests of justice will be served by granting a trial preference pursuant to  CCP § 36(e).              Nonetheless,  the Court suggests that in light of the fact that Defendant did not oppose the  request for preference, the parties be prepared to discuss setting the matter  for trial at the hearing of this motion and that the trial date selected be on  an expedited basis. ORDER             The  motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.             Moving  party is ordered to give notice of ruling.