 Case Number:  23TRCV02132    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
OSTRALIA
  J. MATHEWS, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.: 23TRCV02132
 


 
 




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
COASTLINE
  REAL ESTATE ADVISORS, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 13, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Ostralia J. Mathews and A’Myah Jackson, a
minor, 
by and through her Guardian ad
Litem Ostralia J. Mathews 
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for Order Authorizing Substituted Service on Defendant Realty Holdings PSJC LLC
by Serving the California Secretary of State 
 
            The court considered the moving
papers. No opposition papers were filed. 
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  
BACKGROUND
            On June 30, 2023, plaintiffs
Ostralia J. Mathews and A’Myah Jackson, a minor, by and through her guardian ad
litem, Ostralia J. Mathews filed a complaint against defendants Coastline Real
Estate Advisors, Inc., South Bay Estates, Realty Holdings PSJC LLC, 4006
Emerald Owner LLC, and DOES 1 to 25, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) breach
of the warranty of habitability, (4) negligence, (5) nuisance, (6) wrongful
eviction, and (7) violation of COVID-19 eviction moratorium. 
            Plaintiffs allege that they are tenants at a property located at 4006
Emerald. St, #108, which is owned by defendants. Complaint, ¶ 7. Throughout
their tenancy, plaintiffs allege that they encountered unsafe, unsanitary,
unhealthy, uninhabitable, and untenantable conditions. Complaint, ¶ 14. The
complaint alleges that such conditions were in gross violation of building,
health, and safety laws. Complaint, ¶ 14. The complaint alleges that, despite
repeated requests, defendants failed to effectuate the necessary repairs or
take measures to render the property in a habitable condition. Complaint, ¶ 17.
Plaintiffs allege that instead of repairing the conditions, defendants began to
serve serial notices to quit in an effort to force plaintiff from the locale. Complaint,
¶ 18.
            On July 10, 2023, the court granted
plaintiffs’ application to appoint plaintiff Ostralia J. Mathews as guardian ad
litem for plaintiff A’Myah Jackson. 
            Plaintiffs filed and served the
instant unopposed Motion for Order Authorizing Substituted Service on defendant
Realty Holdings PSJC LLC by serving the California Secretary of State. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Corp. Code § 17701.16 sets forth
how to serve process on a limited liability company. Corp. Code § 17701.16(a). “Personal
service of a copy of any process against the limited liability company or the
foreign limited liability company” may be effectuated “by delivery (1) to any
individual designated by it as agent, or (2) if the designated agent is a
corporation, to any person named in the latest certificate of the corporate
agent filed pursuant to Section 1505 at the office of the corporate agent.”
Corp. Code § 17701.16(b). Corp. Code § 17701.16(c) states the following:
“If an agent for service of process
has resigned and has not been replaced or if the designated agent cannot with
reasonable diligence be found at the address designated for personal delivery
of the process, and it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court
that process against a limited liability company or foreign limited liability
company cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by
hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section
415.20, or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
the court may make an order that the service shall be made upon a domestic
limited liability company or upon a registered foreign limited liability
company by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person
employed in the Secretary of State’s office in the capacity of assistant or
deputy, one copy of the process for each defendant to be served, together with
a copy of the order authorizing the service. Service in this manner shall be
deemed complete on the 10th day after delivery of the process to the Secretary
of State.”
CCP § 415.10 provides that “[a]
summons may be served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the
complaint to the person to be served. Service of a summons in this manner is
complete at the time of such delivery.” CCP § 415.10. “In lieu of personal
delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be served . .
. a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and compliant during
usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is known, at
his or her usual mailing address . . . with the person who is apparently in
charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint
by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place
where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.” CCP § 415.20(a). A
summons and complaint may also be served by mail which requires that the
summons and complaint be mailed by first-class mail or airmail, postage prepaid
to the person to be served together with two copies of a notice and
acknowledgement of receipt. CCP § 415.30(a).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs
request that the court authorize substitute service on defendant Realty
Holdings PSJC LLC, a California limited liability company, pursuant to
Corporations Code § 17701.16(c), by delivery of process on the Secretary of
State.  
            In
support of the motion, plaintiffs present the declaration of their counsel,
David K. Dorenfeld, who presents evidence that the agent of service of process
for defendant Realty Holdings PSJC LLC is Shikha Vidjearadji, whose address is
1711 W. 253rd Stret, Lomita, CA 90717 (the “Lomita Address”). Dorenfeld Decl.,
¶ 4 and Exhibit B. Plaintiffs present evidence of attempting to personally serve
Defendant Realty Holdings PSJC, LLC through Shikha Vidjearadji a total of 12
times from August 24, 2023 through December 22, 2023 at the Lomita Address. Dorenfeld
Decl., ¶ 3 and Exhibit A. Plaintiffs have unsuccessfully attempted to serve
Defendant Realty Holdings PSJC, LLC a total of 19 times. Id. 
            Here,
plaintiffs have shown that they have attempted to personally serve Defendant
Realty Holdings PSJC, LLC through its designated agent for service of process.
The court finds that plaintiffs have shown reasonable diligence as they have
shown numerous attempts to effectuate service on Defendant Realty Holdings PSJC
LLC. Plaintiffs have therefore satisfied the requirements of Corporations Code
§ 17701.16(c). 
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.