  Case Number:  23TRCV01598    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MOHAMMED
  AMINUR RASHID, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.: 23TRCV01598
 


 
 




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BABUAL
  MIAH, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 13, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Babul Miah, Abul
Miah, South Five, LLC and Jupiter West, LLC 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Mohammed Aminur Rashid 
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike 
            The court considered the moving, opposition
and reply papers. 
RULING
            The demurer is OVERRULED as to the
first and second causes of action.
            The motion to strike is GRANTED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            On November 9, 2023, plaintiff
Mohammed Aminur Rashid filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against defendants Babul Miah, Abul Miah, South Five, LLC (“South Five”),
Jupiter West, LLC (“Jupiter West”) and DOES 1 to 30, inclusive, alleging causes
of action for: (1) involuntary dissolution of limited liability company, (2)
breach of fiduciary duty, (3) accounting, and (4) declaratory and injunctive
relief. 
            Defendants filed a demurrer to the
first and second causes of action in the FAC, as well as a motion to strike
portions of the FAC. Initially, the Court notes that the meet and confer
requirement has been met as to the demurrer and motion to strike. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The party against whom a complaint has been filed
may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several grounds, including the
ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action and it cannot be determined how, or in what manner, defendants
committed or can be liable for such cause of action. CCP §§ 430.10(e) and
430.10(f).
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as
a matter of law.” Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
1350, 1358. “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and
treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded.” Ibid.
A demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts and those facts of which the
court can take judicial notice but not deductions, contentions, or conclusions
of law or fact. Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068,
1078. Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be
alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. Rakestraw v.
California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.  
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must
be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349. The
burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. Ibid. “If there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245.  
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for involuntary dissolution of limited
liability company on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. Defendants demur to the second cause of action in
the FAC on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action because it is derivative in nature and plaintiff does not
allege compliance with Corp. Code § 11709.02. 
 
Pertinent Allegations of the FAC 
            The
FAC alleges that plaintiff and defendants Babul Miah and Abul Miah are
siblings. FAC, ¶ 9. On or about September 10, 2007, plaintiff and defendants
formed Jupiter West, Inc. and on or about September 12, 2007, plaintiff and
defendants formed South Five, Inc., both of which were converted into limited
liability companies in October 2007. FAC, ¶ 10. Plaintiff and defendants are
all one third owners of Jupiter West and South Five and plaintiff was a member
of both entities. FAC, ¶ 11. Jupiter West and South Five own respective
residential apartment buildings (the “Properties”). FAC, ¶ 12. Plaintiff and
defendants jointly own the Properties and plaintiff was to obtain full ownership
for one of the Properties. FAC, ¶¶ 13-14. Plaintiff offered to pay the
difference to obtain full ownership of one of the Properties but defendants
have refused to cooperate and have refused to provide bank records to allow
plaintiff to perform an adequate accounting to determine the amounts owed to
plaintiff. FAC, ¶ 14. Plaintiff is unable to determine the amount owed to him
in the event that defendants wanted to buy plaintiff’s interest. FAC, ¶ 14. 
            Plaintiff
further alleges that, on July 26, 2022, he sent a demand letter to defendants
to request all bank statements for Jupiter West and South Five and demanded
that defendants buy out his interest in the Properties, Jupiter West, and South
Five; however, defendants did not adequately respond. FAC, ¶ 15. On April 12,
2023, after informal settlement discussions between the parties’ counsel,
defendants’ counsel did not provide all requested bank statements which
inhibited plaintiff from being able to determine the amounts of money owed to
him. FAC, ¶ 16. Plaintiff alleges that he and defendants have been unable to
come to an agreement regarding a buyout or sale of the Properties. FAC, ¶ 17.
As such, there is a dispute between the parties and plaintiff seeks a
dissolution of Jupiter West and South Five. FAC, ¶ 18. Due to defendants’
actions, plaintiff alleges that he has experienced emotional distress in the
form of mental distress, anguish, and loss of sleep. FAC, ¶ 20. On October 17,
2023, plaintiff’s counsel provided a copy of the FAC to defendants pursuant to
Corp. Code § 17709(A)(2). FAC, ¶ 21.
 
First Cause of Action for Involuntary Dissolution 
            Defendants
assert that the first cause of action in the FAC fails to state a claim for
involuntary dissolution as it is not alleged with the required specificity as
it is grounded in allegations of fraud. Plaintiff asserts that the first cause
of action is sufficiently pleaded. 
            “Pursuant
to an action filed by any manager or by any member of a limited liability
company, a court of competent jurisdiction may decree the dissolution of a
limited liability company whenever any of the events specified in subdivision
(b) occurs.” Corp. Code § 17707.03(a). Judicial dissolution is appropriate
where: (1) it is not reasonably practicable to carry on the business in
conformity with the articles of organization or operating agreement; (2)
dissolution is reasonably necessary for the protection of the rights or
interests of the complaining members; (3) the business of the limited liability
company has been abandoned; (4) the management of the limited liability company
is deadlocked or subject to internal dissention; or (5) those in control of the
limited liability company have been guilty of, or have knowingly countenanced,
persistent and pervasive fraud, mismanagement, or abuse of authority. Corp.
Code § 17707.03(b)(1)-(5). 
            Pursuant
to the first cause of action, plaintiff alleges that defendants have withheld
amounts of money owed to him which are estimated to exceed $45,000, and that
defendants have been mismanaging the Properties, Jupiter West, and South Five
without paying all amounts owed to plaintiff. FAC, ¶ 24. Plaintiff alleges that
it is not reasonably practicable to carry on the businesses and dissolution is
reasonable and necessary to protect his rights and interests against defendants
Babul and Abul Miah. FAC, ¶ 24. Plaintiff alleges that defendants Babul and
Abul Miah are in control of Jupiter West and South Five and “have acted in
knowing persistent and pervasive abuse of authority or persistent unfairness
towards [p]laintiff or his property such that it is being misapplied or wasted
by its members because they have failed to pay the amount owing to [p]laintiff
which are estimated to exceed $45,000, and have failed to provide adequate
accounting records to [p]laintiff to enable him to verify amounts owing to
him.” FAC, ¶ 26. Plaintiff further alleges that “[p]laintiffs and [d]efendants,
as members of [Jupiter West and South Five] have been subject to internal
dissention by inability to agree on the subject of sale or transfer of
[p]laintiff’s membership interest such that [Jupiter West and South Five] can
no longer be conducted with advantage to its members.” FAC, ¶ 27. 
            Initially,
the Court finds that defendants’ citations to Stansfield v. Starkey (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 59 and Nagy v. Nagy (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1262 are
inapposite to support defendants’ contention that the first cause of action
must be pleaded with specificity because it is grounded in allegations of
fraud. Neither Stansfield nor Nagy addressed the sufficiency of
an involuntary dissolution cause of action but instead addressed the pleading
requirements for a cause of action for fraud. 
            The
Court finds that the first cause of action is sufficiently alleged. The FAC
clearly alleges that “dissolution is reasonable and necessary for [P]laintiff
to protect his rights and interests” and plaintiff is alleged to be a member of
Jupiter West and South Five. FAC, ¶ 11 and 24. Thus, plaintiff has alleged a
ground for dissolution pursuant to Corp. Code § 17707.03(a)(2). 
            The
Court also finds defendants’ reliance on Corp. Code § 17001 is unpersuasive to
support their argument that because plaintiff has an equal membership interest,
“he has the right to participate in the management of the LLCs and therefore
cannot seek dissolution based on actions of management.” Demurrer, p. 8:6-8. Membership
interest is defined as “a member’s rights in the limited liability company,
collectively, including the member’s economic interest, any right to vote or
participate in management, and any right to information concerning the business
and affairs of the limited liability company.” Corp. Code § 17001(z). The FAC
alleges that defendants have committed wrongs against plaintiff as a member. FAC,
¶ 11. Thus, the Court finds that plaintiff can proceed with an involuntary
dissolution cause of action. 
            The
Court OVERRULES the demurrer of defendants to the first cause of action in the
FAC.
 
Second Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty 
            Defendants
contend that the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty is
derivative in nature as the gravamen of the FAC is that Jupiter West and South
Five were mismanaged and, as such, the alleged injuries are to Jupiter West and
South Five. Demurrer, pp. 4-5. Based on their argument that this action is
derivative, defendants contend that plaintiff failed to allege that he made a
written demand on Jupiter West and South Five prior to filing suit or that such
demand would have been futile. Demurrer, pp. 5-8. Plaintiff argues that the
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty is his claim as an individual and it
is not derivative in nature. Opp’n, pp. 3-4.
            “The
elements of a claim for breach of a fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by
that breach.” O’Neal v. Stanislaus County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2017)
8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215. “A minority shareholder may bring a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty against majority shareholders as an individual
claim or as a derivative claim, depending on the circumstances.” Schrage v.
Schrage (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 126, 149. “[W]here a cause of action seeks to
recover for harms to the corporation, the shareholders have no direct cause of
action [b]ecause the corporation exists as a separate legal entity.” Ibid.
“The shareholders may, however, bring a derivative suit to enforce the
corporation’s rights and redress its injuries when the board of directors fails
or refuses to do so.” Ibid. An action is a derivative action “if the
gravamen of the complaint is injury to the corporation . . . or it seeks to
recover assets for the corporation or to prevent the dissipation of assets. Id.
at p. 150, citation omitted. 
            However,
“[i]f the injury is one to the plaintiff as a stockholder and to him
individually, and not to the corporation, as where the action is based on a
contract to which he is a party, or on a right belonging severally to him, or a
fraud affecting him differently, it is an individual action.” Ibid. Where
a claimed injury is not incidental to that of an injury to the corporation,
then an individual cause of action will be deemed proper. Ibid. “A
direct (as opposed to a derivative) action is maintainable only if the damages
[are] not incidental to an injury to the corporation.” Bader v.
Anderson (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 775, 793, citation omitted. “The principles
governing derivative actions in the context of corporations apply to limited
liability companies.” Schrage v. Schrage, supra, 69 Cal.App.5th
126, 150. 
            Here,
the FAC is brought by plaintiff in his individual capacity. Pursuant to the
second cause of action, plaintiff alleges that defendants have breached their
fiduciary duties of loyalty and care owed to Jupiter West and South Five and
all partners and co-owners. FAC, ¶ 32. Plaintiff alleges that defendants
breached their duties of loyalty by withholding amounts of money from
plaintiff, which are estimated to exceed $45,000, and also failed to account to
plaintiff by providing adequate financial records to determine the amount of
money owed to plaintiff. FAC, ¶ 33. The second cause of action is premised on
defendants’ purported failure of withholding money owed to plaintiff in his
individual capacity and failing to allow plaintiff an opportunity to verify the
amount of money owed to him. FAC, ¶¶ 34-35. As for damages, the FAC alleges
that “[p]laintiff has suffered and continues to suffer substantial damages . .
. in excess of $45,000.” FAC, ¶ 38. The FAC alleges that plaintiff has
experienced emotional distress in the form of mental distress, anguish, and
loss of sleep. FAC, ¶ 37.
            The
Court finds that the gravamen of the second cause of action is defendants’
failure to pay monies owed to plaintiff in his individual capacity. The second
cause of action does not allege any damage to either Jupiter West or South
Five. The gravamen of the second cause of action is the alleged injury that
plaintiff suffered due to defendants’ actions. In fact, neither the first nor
second causes of action allege any injury to Jupiter West or South Five. 
Thus, the
Court fails to see how the second cause of action is derivative where there are
no allegations of injury to either Jupiter West or South Five. The FAC does not
show that plaintiff’s injuries are incidental to that of Jupiter West or South
Five. The crux of the FAC is defendants’ failure to pay monies owed to
plaintiff in his individual capacity. The Court finds that plaintiff has stated
a valid cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and that such claim is not
derivative in nature. As such, plaintiff is not subjected to the pre-suit demand
requirement as defendants contend. 
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action in the FAC is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike 
            Defendants
request that the court strike punitive damages allegations from the FAC on the
grounds that plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages lack factual and legal
support. In opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations are sufficient. 
            Upon
a party’s motion or the court’s own motion, the court may strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. CCP § 436(a). The
court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” CCP § 436(b). 
            “In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.
Civil Code § 3294 authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice, fraud,
or oppression. Malice is defined as either “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” Civil Code § 3294(c)(1). “Despicable conduct is
conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome
that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” Mock
v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331. Fraud
under Civil Code § 3294(c)(3) “means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit,
or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on
the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal
rights or otherwise causing injury.” Civil Code § 3294(c)(2) defines oppression
as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” Specific facts must be pled in
support of punitive damages. Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148
Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392. Facts must be pled to show that a defendant “act[ed]
with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the
plaintiff’s rights.” Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 452, 462. Conduct that is merely negligent will not support a claim for
punitive damages. Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.
            The
court finds that the allegations of the FAC are insufficient to support a claim
for punitive damages as they are conclusory. The FAC only makes a single
conclusory reference to punitive damages. FAC, ¶ 39. The FAC does not allege
specific facts showing malice, fraud, or oppression. 
            The
motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
ORDER
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first and second causes of action.
            The
motion to strike is GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.