  Case Number:  21STCV41498    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles
Department 50
 







ELM TERRACE HOLDINGS LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
SNATCH MEDIA, INC., et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV41498




Hearing Date:


June 28, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:  
MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT &
  DEFAULT JUDGMENT



 
Background
Plaintiff Elm Terrace Holdings, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on November 10, 2021 against Defendants Snatch
Media, Inc. dba Dealer Preroll and Truman Hedding (“Hedding”).  
Plaintiff moved for an order for terminating sanctions against
Hedding, and on August 9, 2023, the Court issued an Order granting the motion. The
August 9, 2023 Order provides, inter alia, that “Plaintiff’s motion for
terminating sanctions is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to submit a default
judgment package within 20 days of the date of service of this Order.” 
On December 15, 2023, the Court issued a default judgment for
Plaintiff and against Hedding in the total amount of $69,159.47. 
Hedding moves for an order “to set aside a Default and Default
Judgment under Code Of Civil Procedure section 473(b)
and on the equitable grounds of extrinsic fraud.” Plaintiff opposes.
On April 19, 2024, the Court issued a minute order in this action continuing
the hearing on the instant motion to June 28, 2024. The Court’s April 19, 2024
minute order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Court requires the
parties to brief the following issues: 1. What versions of C.R.C. 2.251 and C.C.P 1010.6(c)(3) applied to the use
of electronic service on Defendant, Hedding during the relevant time period? 2.
Can waiver of compliance with the requirements [of] C.R.C.
2.251 and C.C.P 1010.6(c)(3) be used to establish that Defendant Hedding
was properly served (e.g. Defendant Hedding served documents on Plaintiff via
email). 3. What impact does number 1 and number 2 have on the motion to set
aside default and default judgment. Moving party’s supplemental brief regarding
these issues is to be filed and served by May 10, 2024. Responding parties
supplemental [sic] is to be filed and served by May 31, 2024. Any reply brief
is to be filed and served by June 14, 2024.” 
On May 10, 2024, Hedding filed a supplemental brief; on May 31, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a further response in opposition to the motion; and on June 14,
2024, Hedding filed a reply. 
Discussion
As set forth above, Hedding moves for an order
“to set aside a Default and Default Judgment under Code Of Civil Procedure section 473(b) and on the
equitable grounds of extrinsic fraud.” (See Notice of Motion.) Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
provides in pertinent part as follows: 
“The
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative
from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall
not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.”
 “[T]he moving party has the burden of showing
that the neglect leading to default was excusable.” (Jackson v. Bank of Am. (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 55, 58.) “[B]ecause the law strongly favors
trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party
seeking relief from default.” (Elston v. City
of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227,
233 [negative treatment on other grounds].) Where the
party in default moves promptly to seek relief, and no prejudice to the opposing
party will result from setting aside the default, “very slight evidence will be required to justify a court in
setting aside the default.” (Ibid.)
In his declaration in
support of the motion, Hedding states that he told Plaintiff’s counsel not to
serve Hedding via email. (Hedding Decl., ¶ 3.) Hedding also states he “did
not file a notice on any parties nor did [he] file a notice with the court that
[he] was expressly consenting to email service.” (Hedding Decl., ¶ 4, emphasis
omitted.) Hedding states that he “never received any pleadings from
[Plaintiff’s counsel] in the mail nor personally.” (Hedding Decl., ¶ 6.)
Hedding also states that
he was “under the mistaken belief there were no filings in progress
because Plaintiff was prohibited from enforcing a Personal Guarantee for
commercial rent during the Protected Time Period of the Covid-19 Protections…”
(Hedding Decl., ¶ 7.) Hedding states that “[i]n January 2024, after receiving a
notice from the county clerk that a lien was recorded on [his] property, [he]
learned, unbeknownst to [him], there had been dozens of filings by Plaintiff,
including discovery demands, sanctions, and a motion to strike [his] answer.” 
(Hedding
Decl., ¶ 9.) 
            In the motion, Hedding appears to cite
to California
Rules of Court, rule 2.251, subdivision (c)(3), which provides that “[e]xcept when personal service is otherwise required by
statute or rule, a party or other person that is required to file documents
electronically in an action must also serve documents and accept service of
documents electronically from all other parties or persons, unless: (A) The court orders otherwise, or (B) The action includes parties or persons
that are not required to file or serve documents electronically, including
self-represented parties or other self-represented persons; those parties or
other persons are to be served by non-electronic methods unless they
affirmatively consent to electronic service.”  
Hedding also cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6,
subdivision (c), which
provides, inter alia, that “[t]his
subdivision applies to electronic service by consent of an unrepresented person
in a civil action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (c)(1).) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (c)(3), “[e]xpress consent to
electronic service may be given by either of the following: (i) Serving
a notice on all parties and filing the notice with the court. (ii) Manifesting
affirmative consent through electronic means with the court or the court’s
electronic filing service provider, and concurrently providing the party’s
electronic address with that consent for the purpose of receiving electronic
service. The act of electronic filing shall not be construed as express
consent.” 
In his supporting declaration, Hedding
states that he “was self represented until February 12, 2024.” (Hedding
Decl., ¶ 1.) As discussed, Hedding states that he “did not file a notice on any
parties nor did [he] file a notice with the court that [he] was expressly
consenting to email service.” (Hedding Decl., ¶ 4, emphasis omitted.) Hedding
argues that “[s]ince Defendant did not in fact do any of the required acts to
affirmatively manifest consent to email service, and Plaintiff proceeded with
email service anyway, Plaintiff’s use of email service has no meaning in law
and violates due process protections afforded to Defendant - i.e., notice. A
default and default judgment should be set aside on due process grounds alone.”
(Mot. at p. 6:26-7:2.) The Court notes that Hedding does not cite any legal
authority in support of this argument. 
As set forth above, the Court’s April 19, 2024 minute order
provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Court requires the parties to
brief the following issues: 1. What versions of C.R.C.
2.251 and C.C.P 1010.6(c)(3) applied to the use of electronic service on
Defendant, Hedding during the relevant time period? 2. Can waiver of compliance
with the requirements C.R.C. 2.251 and C.C.P
1010.6(c)(3) be used to establish that Defendant Hedding was properly served
(e.g. Defendant Hedding served documents on Plaintiff via email). 3. What
impact does number 1 and number 2 have on the motion to set aside default and
default judgment.” 
In his supplemental brief, Hedding appears to list two versions of Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, effective
January 1, 2021 and January 1, 2023. Hedding also appears to list multiple
versions of California Rules of Court, rule 2.251. (Hedding’s Supp’l Brief at pp. 4:15-6:5.) In its further opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that several versions of Code
of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (c)(3) and California Rules of Court, rule 2.251 applied during
the relevant time period. 
As to the question of waiver,
Hedding notes that “[n]either CCP 1010.6(c)
nor CRC 2.251 expressly articulates what constitutes a ‘waiver’.” (Hedding’s
Supp’l Brief at p. 6:10.) Hedding asserts that “[i]nstead, the statute/CRC
articulates actions of a party that have the resulting effect of waiving the
general rule that non-represented parties are exempt from electronic service.
For example, serving a Notice on parties and filing the Notice with the court
has the effect of waiving the general rule of exemption.” (Id. at p. 6:11-14.) 
Hedding emphasizes that Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (c)(3)(ii) provides that “[e]xpress consent to electronic service may be given by
either of the following: (i) Serving a notice on all parties and filing the notice with
the court. (ii) Manifesting affirmative consent through electronic means
with the court or the court’s electronic filing service provider, and
concurrently providing the party’s electronic address with that consent for the
purpose of receiving electronic service. The act of electronic filing shall
not be construed as express consent.” (Emphasis added.) Hedding argues that
based on this underlined provision, “Hedding’s service of documents on
the Plaintiff via email is not a manifestation of affirmative consent to
receive documents via email.” (Hedding’s Supp’l Brief at p. 6:18-19.) In
addition, in his declaration in support of the supplemental brief, Hedding states
that “I expressly told Mr[.] Rothman on April 22, 2022, ‘..... do not serve me
by email.’” (Hedding Decl., ¶ 5.) 
In his declaration in support of the further opposition, Plaintiff’s
counsel states that “[i]n the first conversation with Mr. Hedding on April 22,
2022 which was right after a hearing, I asked about email service to Mr.
Hedding, which he said to me was best, and Mr. Hedding told me the email
address which I wrote down, Truman.hedding@gmail.com.” (Rothman Decl., ¶ 4.)
In addition, in Plaintiff’s further opposition, Plaintiff asserts that
“Hedding agreed to use service by email. He not only consented, but waived the
requirements.” (Plaintiff’s Further Opp’n at p. 7:5-6.) The Court notes that
Plaintiff does not appear to cite any legal authority demonstrating that
Hedding’s service of documents on Plaintiff via email shows that Hedding waived
the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (c)(3) and California Rules of
Court, rule 2.251. 
However, as discussed, Plaintiff asserts that “the evidence manifestly
shows consent…” (Plaintiff’s Further Opp’n at p. 7:14.) Exhibit “B” to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration in support of the further opposition is a
document entitled “Proof of Electronic Service,” which was filed by Hedding on
May 20, 2022. (Rothman Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.) The Proof of Electronic Service
indicates that Hedding electronically served certain documents on Plaintiff’s
counsel. (Ibid.) This May 20, 2022 “Proof of
Electronic Service” also lists Hedding’s email address as “Truman.Hedding@gmail.com.”
(Ibid.) 
As set forth above, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1010.6, subdivision
(c)(3)(ii) provides that
“[e]xpress consent to electronic service may
be given by either of the following:…(ii) Manifesting affirmative consent through electronic means
with the court or the court’s electronic filing service provider, and
concurrently providing the party’s electronic address with that consent for the
purpose of receiving electronic service. The act of electronic filing shall not
be construed as express consent.” As discussed above, Hedding’s May 20,
2022 “Proof of Electronic Service” filed with the Court lists Hedding’s email
address as “Truman.Hedding@gmail.com.” (Rothman Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.) Hedding
does not appear to demonstrate that this filing would not constitute “affirmative consent” for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (c)(3)(ii). In the further reply, Hedding asserts that “Form
EFS-005-CV is consent to receive email service - not Form POS-050/EFS-050 as in
Mr[.] Rothman’s Exhibit B.” (Reply at p. 3:7-8.) However, Hedding does not appear to cite any legal
authority demonstrating that a party must utilize Judicial Council Form
EFS-005-CV in order to demonstrate “affirmative
consent” for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1010.6, subdivision
(c)(3)(ii).
Further, Plaintiff asserts that “[t]here is no evidence submitted by
Hedding that he didn’t receive service, just the method he asserts was
invalid.” (Opp’n at p. 3:15-16.) Indeed, Hedding does not appear to provide
evidence that he did not receive service of Plaintiff’s motion for terminating
sanctions or Plaintiff’s request(s) for default judgment. It is unclear how the December 15, 2023 default judgment
was purportedly taken against Hedding “through his…mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect,” to the extent that is what Hedding is arguing.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).)[1]
Hedding also contends that his “mistaken belief that no pleadings were
being filed was reasonable under the circumstances and justifies this court in
setting aside a default and default judgment.” (Mot. at p. 7:10-11.) Hedding
does not appear to specify what “pleadings” he is referring to. As discussed, Hedding does not appear to provide
evidence demonstrating that he was not served with any relevant documents.
            Hedding
also appears to note that on January 4, 2022, default was previously entered
against Hedding.[2] The
Court notes that on June 15, 2022, the Court issued an Order setting aside the
default entered against Hedding on January 4, 2022. Hedding cites to California Rules of Court, rule 3.110,
subdivision (h), which provides, inter
alia, that “[w]hen a default is entered, the party who
requested the entry of default must obtain a default judgment against the
defaulting party within 45 days after the default was entered, unless the court
has granted an extension of time.” Although it is unclear from the
motion, Hedding appears to argue that the December 15, 2023 default judgment
against Hedding was untimely because it was not entered within 45 days after
the January 4, 2022 default was entered against Hedding. 
But as set forth above, on June 15, 2022,
the Court issued an Order setting aside the default entered against Hedding on
January 4, 2022. Moreover, as discussed, the Court issued an Order on August
9, 2023 providing, inter alia, that “Plaintiff’s motion for terminating
sanctions is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to submit a default judgment package
within 20 days of the date of service of this Order.” The Court does not find
that Hedding has shown that the December 15, 2023 default judgment is untimely.
In addition, in light of the foregoing, it is unclear
what “default” Hedding moves to set aside via the instant motion. 
Hedding also appears to argue in the motion
that the December 15, 2023 default judgment awards attorney’s fees to Plaintiff
in excess of the schedule set forth in Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule 3.214.
Hedding asserts that “the Default Judgment should be vacated as excessive.”
(Mot. at p. 7:23-24.) However, Hedding does not appear to cite any legal
authority in support of such request. As discussed, Hedding cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
in support of the motion, which provides, inter alia, that “[t]he court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” It is unclear how this provision
supports Hedding’s request to vacate the default judgment “as excessive.” (Mot.
at p. 7:24.) 
Lastly, Hedding asserts that “the Los
Angeles County Tenant Protections Resolution prohibits Plaintiff from charging
interest for unpaid rents from March 1, 2020, though March 31, 2023. In this
case, Plaintiff is trying to collect interest monies that he is not allowed to
collect.” (Mot. at p. 9:1-4.) The Court notes that it is unclear what specific
legal authority Hedding is relying on in support of the foregoing argument. In
addition, it is unclear how such argument is relevant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). As discussed, Hedding
moves to set aside the December 15, 2023 default judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).[3]
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Hedding has demonstrated
grounds for the requested relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). 
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Hedding’s motion
is denied. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  June 28, 2024         
             ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


