 Case Number:  23STCV27529    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



KEVIN IP, an individual and as trustee of the Ip Residence
  Trust (A), 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
YUNA CHEN, et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 
  23STCV27529




Hearing Date:


June 28, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
PLAINTIFFS AND
  CROSS-DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
Background
Plaintiff Kevin Ip, an individual and as trustee of
the Ip Residence Trust (A), filed this action on November 7, 2023 against, inter
alia, defendants Yuna Chen (“Chen”) and Wendy Trinh Tran (“Tran”). The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) quiet title, (2) elder abuse, (3)
conversion in violation of Penal Code section 496, and
(4) breach of contract.
The Complaint alleges, inter
alia, that Ip took title to the property located at 412 N. San Marino Ave.,
San Gabriel, California (the “Property”) pursuant to a grant deed dated
December 13, 1997. (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 14.) “Ip
transferred title to the Kevin Ip Family Trust dated July 19, 2007, by grant
deed dated July 19, 2007…Ip transferred title again from the Kevin Ip Family
Trust dated July 19, 2007, to the Ip Residence Trust (A), by quitclaim deed
dated August 9, 2023…” (Compl., ¶ 14.) The Complaint alleges that “[a]round
2014, Chen and Ip became romantically involved. Chen asked Ip if he could help
her find a place to rent. Ip agreed to rent the Property to Chen for $2,000 per
month.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) “On October 15, 2014, Ip and Chen entered into a
California Association of Realtors…Residential Lease or Month-to-Month Rental
Agreement for the Property, whereby Chen agreed to lease the Property from Ip
for $2,000 per month (the ‘First Lease’).” (Compl., ¶ 17.) “Ip never agreed to
sell the Property to Chen and the two never entered any agreement whereby Chen
would obtain any ownership interest in the Property.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) “When the First Lease terminated on October 31,
2019, Chen stayed in the Property with her daughter, Tran. On February 25,
2021, Chen signed a second CAR Residential Lease or Month-to-Month Rental
Agreement that raised her rent for the Property to $2,800 per month (the
‘Second Lease’).” (Compl., ¶ 22.) 
The Complaint alleges
that “[a]s Ip grew older, Chen and her daughter, Tran, took advantage of Ip
through the use of affection and coercion and wanted Ip to treat them more as
his family than his tenants. Chen and Tran stopped paying rent, and has not paid
Ip for more than 24 months of back rent since she has lived in the Property,
convinced Ip to pay their debts and expenses, and exerted undue influence over
Ip to convince him to give Tran and Chen cash, gifts, and property for their
personal benefit.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) “In or
around January 2023, Ip and Chen’s romantic relationship began to end. At that
time, Tran and Chen began to tell Ip that he was no longer allowed to come to
the house and that Chen somehow owns the Property, not Ip. Chen now seeks to
exclude Ip from possession of the house, claims to own the Property, and has
demanded that Ip transfer title of the house to Chen.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) The
Complaint alleges that “Ip now seeks a determination of his interests to the
Property and to stop Chen and Ip from continuing to abuse Ip and take financial
advantage of him.” (Ibid.) 
On February 9, 2024, Chen and Tran (jointly,
“Cross-Complainants”) filed a Cross-Complaint against Kevin Ip, an individual;
Kevin Ip, as trustee of Kevin Ip Family Trust; and Kevin Ip, as trustee of Ip Residence
Trust (A). The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) quiet title,
(2) breach of contract and specific performance, (3) fraud, (4) declaratory
relief, (5) trespass, (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (7)
breach of contract and specific performance. 
Kevin Ip, as an
individual and as trustee of the Ip Residence Trust (A) (“Ip”) now demurs to
each of the causes of action of the Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainants oppose.

Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Cross-Complainants’ request
for judicial notice. 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the Cross-Complaint 
In the Cross-Complaint,
Cross-Complainants allege that “[i]n 2014, YUNA CHEN was getting a
divorce after a 23-year marriage. As an immigrant with limited English ability
and with little knowledge of business matters, YUNA CHEN was striking out on
her own…” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 10.) “Her former husband agreed to pay her $560,000
as their divorce settlement only if she used such funds to buy a home as a stable
base and shelter for herself and her two children.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 10.) 
“As YUNA CHEN was
looking for her next house, her friend KEVIN IP offered to help. She understood
KEVIN IP was a well-regarded attorney and businessperson in the local Chinese
and Buddhist community in the San Gabriel Valley – this was his reputation
according to her knowledge at the time.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 11.) Chen and Ip
“were not a couple.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 15.) Ip represented to Chen “that he was
the trustee for a wealthy man from Singapore, who owned several properties in
the area, including in desirable areas such as San Marino. According to Kevin,
one such property was a single family home at 412 N. San Marino Avenue, San
Gabriel, CA (‘Property’), which he said could be vacated for Yuna to buy and
live in.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 14.) 
“Yuna lacked sufficient credit history and stable income record to
qualify for a traditional bank loan. Kevin Ip told her the Singapore owner
accepted her proposal and would sell her the Property for $680,000, under the
following terms – Yuna would pay a down payment of $560,000 and the rest of the
purchase price in monthly installments until she paid a total of $680,000, plus
she would pay the property taxes during the purchasing period (‘Purchase
Agreement’). He also said the owner wanted her to rent for 2 years and pay
$2,000 per month, as a trial period, all the while holding her $560,000. He
claimed it would take some time to arrange the paperwork for the purchase and
to transfer the title, which he would handle. He told YUNA CHEN she would
receive title to the Property after the initial 2-year rental period, then the
sale would become final after she paid the full purchase price of $680,000.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 18.)
“In September 2014, before she moved into the Property, Kevin Ip asked
Yuna to put the terms of the Purchase Agreement in an email for him to confirm
with the ‘Singapore owner’ that they had agreed on. He dictated the language
she should write…In the wording he directed, Yuna emailed to Kevin her message
to the owner in Chinese, setting forth the deal terms to Kevin’s email address
-- JusticeKIp@foxmail.com.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 21.) On the basis of the
agreement, “YUNA CHEN took the following actions, to her detriment: a. Yuna
paid him the $560,000 down payment on or about November 6, 2014; b. moved into
the Property as her home, and later her children moved in; c. she made several
improvements to the Property; and, d. she paid $2,000 per month during the rental
period, from 2015 – 2017.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 22.) In addition, “Yuna paid Kevin
Ip monthly installments of $2,800 toward the agreed purchase price of $680,000,
starting on August 25, 2017, and continuing for almost six years, with some
gaps during COVID-19. In total, she has paid him more than $810,000 for the
Property.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 23(b).) “Kevin Ip…never characterized these
payments as rent, or demanded past due rent, including during the COVID-19
pandemic. YUNA CHEN has never signed any lease or rental agreement for the
Property.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 24.) “YUNA also paid $3,000 to $3,500 for property
taxes twice a year at his direction, from October 2017 to the present.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 25.) 
            Chen “began to make demands that the
Property be completely transferred to her name.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 26.) “[W]hen
she began urging him to transfer title, because she had fully paid, Kevin Ip
became violent, irrational, threatening and his statements started to lose
credibility.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 27.) “By a letter dated September 1, 2023, YUNA
CHEN’s attorneys demanded performance by Kevin Ip, who refuses to convey title
to her. Instead, he has filed a lawsuit against her for Unlawful Detainer.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 28.)
C.    First, Second,
Third, and Fourth Causes of Action as to Tran
In the demurrer, Ip asserts that “the first, second, third, and fourth
causes of action for quiet title, breach of contract, fraud, and declaratory
relief as brought by Wendy Tran fail to state a claim because Tran lacks
standing to bring an ownership claim for the property.” (Demurrer at p. 4:6-8.)

Ip notes that “standing to sue…is the right to relief in court.” (The Rossdale Group, LLC v. Walton (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 936, 944-945 [internal
emphasis omitted].) Ip asserts that the Cross-Complaint alleges that Chen, not
Tran, allegedly entered into the purchase agreement for the subject property. Indeed,
in the second cause of action for breach of contract and specific
performance, Cross-Complainants allege that “Cross-Defendants agreed to sell
the Property to YUNA CHEN upon payment of the purchase price of $680,000, which
is fair and adequate consideration. YUNA CHEN has fully
performed…Cross-Defendants breached the contract by failing and refusing…to
convey title to Cross-Complainants, despite demand.” (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 37-38.) 
In the opposition to the demurrer, Cross-Complainants state that “the
quiet title claim will be amended to state only Yuna Chen is seeking to quiet
title…not Wendy Trinh Tran…” (Opp’n at p. 2:18-19.) In addition, as noted by
Ip, Cross-Complainants do not appear to address Ip’s argument that Tran also
lacks standing as to the second, third, and fourth causes of action of the
Cross-Complaint. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains Ip’s demurrer to the
first, second, third, and fourth causes of action as to Tran, with leave to
amend. 
D.    First and Second
Causes of Action as to Chen 
Next, Ip asserts that the “first cause of action for quiet title and
second cause of action for breach of contract each fail to state a claim
because Chen’s purported oral agreement with Ip to purchase the Property is
barred by the statute of frauds…” (Demurrer at p. 4:23-25.) 
The first cause of action for quiet title alleges, inter alia,
that “[a] judicial determination of the rights and title to the Property
between Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendant KEVIN IP and any party claiming
an adverse interest is necessary.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 35.)
In the second cause of action for breach of contract and specific performance,
Cross-Complainants allege that “Cross-Defendants agreed to sell the Property to
YUNA CHEN upon payment of the purchase price of $680,000, which is fair and
adequate consideration. YUNA CHEN has fully performed. Indeed, she has paid
Kevin Ip over $810,000…Cross-Defendants breached the contract by failing and
refusing…to convey title to Cross-Complainants, despite demand.” (Cross-Compl.,
¶¶ 37-38.) 
Pursuant to Civil Code section 1624,
subdivision (a)(3), “[t]he
following contracts are invalid, unless they, or some note or memorandum
thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged or by the
party’s agent:…(3) An agreement for the leasing for a longer period than one year, or
for the sale of real property, or of an interest therein; such an agreement, if
made by an agent of the party sought to be charged, is invalid, unless the
authority of the agent is in writing, subscribed by the party sought to be
charged.” Ip asserts that here, Cross-Complainants “did not, and
cannot, allege the existence of any written agreement that she [sic] entered
with Ip to purchase the Property.” (Demurrer at p. 5:19-21.) 
In the opposition, Cross-Complainants assert that “the statute of
frauds is not applicable as the agreement is fully performed and Ip is estopped
by his own fraud.” (Opp’n at p. 4:1-2.) Cross-Complainants cite to Monarco v. Lo
Greco (1950) 35 Cal.2d 621, 623-624, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[t]he doctrine of estoppel to assert the statute of frauds
has been consistently applied by the courts of this state to prevent fraud that
would result from refusal to enforce oral contracts in certain circumstances.
Such fraud may inhere in the unconscionable injury that would result from
denying enforcement of the contract after one party has been induced by the
other seriously to change his position in reliance on the contract, or in the
unjust enrichment that would result if a party who has received
the benefits of the other’s performance were allowed to rely upon the
statute.” (Internal citations omitted.) 
Cross-Complainants assert that here, “the exceptions to the Statute of
Frauds and the reasoning of the California Supreme Court have been met. Yuna
Chen moved in, seriously and detrimentally changed her position, and she paid
over $800,000 towards Property purchase and paid the property taxes. Kevin
Ip…demanded and received this benefit (while concealing that he was the owner,
not merely a trustee) – her full performance is pled…” (Opp’n at p. 5:22-27.)
Cross-Complainants assert that Ip “would be unjustly enriched if he were
allowed to avoid the contract based upon it being verbal…” (Opp’n at p. 6:5-6.)

Indeed, as set forth above, Cross-Complainants allege that “[o]n the
basis of the foregoing agreement, and in reliance thereon, YUNA CHEN took the
following actions, to her detriment: a. Yuna paid him the $560,000 down payment
on or about November 6, 2014; b. moved into the Property as her home, and later
her children moved in; c. she made several improvements to the Property; and,
d. she paid $2,000 per month during the rental period, from 2015 – 2017.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 22.) Cross-Complainants further allege that “Yuna paid Kevin
Ip monthly installments of $2,800 toward the agreed purchase price of $680,000,
starting on August 25, 2017, and continuing for almost six years, with some
gaps during COVID-19. In total, she has paid him more than $810,000 for the
Property.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 23(b).) As set forth above, the Monarco
Court noted that “[t]he doctrine of estoppel to
assert the statute of frauds has been consistently applied by the courts of
this state to prevent fraud that would result from refusal to enforce oral
contracts in certain circumstances. Such fraud may inhere,” inter alia,
“in the unjust enrichment that would result if a party who has received the
benefits of the other’s performance were allowed to rely upon the statute.”
(Monarco v.
Lo Greco,
supra, 35 Cal.2d at p. 623-624.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Cross-Complainants have
adequately alleged facts to support their assertion that “plaintiff is estopped from relying upon the statute of
frauds.” (Monarco v.
Lo Greco,
supra, 35 Cal.2d at p. 623.) 
Ip also
asserts that the “second cause of action…fails to state a claim
because it is barred by California’s two-year statute of limitations.”
(Demurrer at p. 6:16-18.) Ip cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 339, which provides in pertinent part, “[w]ithin two years: 1. An action upon a contract, obligation or
liability not founded upon an instrument of writing…” 
Ip notes that Cross-Complainants allege that “[h]e told YUNA CHEN she
would receive title to the Property after the initial 2-year rental period,
then the sale would become final after she paid the full purchase price of
$680,000.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 18.) Ip asserts that given the allegations of the
Cross-Complaint, “Ip should have transferred title to Chen in June 2019…That is
when Chen’s breach of contract claim should have accrued. Chen’s deadline to
bring any breach of contract claim against Ip was June 1, 2022…Thus, Chen’s
breach of contract claim is time barred.” (Demurrer at p. 7:7-10.) 
In support of his assertion that the breach of contract claim accrued
in June 2019, Ip notes that the Cross-Complaint alleges that Chen “paid him the
$560,000 down payment on or about November 6, 2014.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 22(a).) Cross-Complainants
allege that Chen “paid $2,000 per month during the rental period, from 2015 - 2017.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 22(d).) The Cross-Complaint further alleges that Chen “paid
Kevin Ip monthly installments of $2,800 toward the agreed purchase price of
$680,000, starting on August 25, 2017, and continuing for almost six years…”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 23(b).) 
Ip asserts that accordingly, “Chen paid Ip thirty months of rent from
January 2015 to August 2017…in addition to the $560,000 down payment, for a
total of $620,000 towards the purchase price by August 2017.” (Demurrer at p.
6:20-23.) Next, Ip asserts that Chen “would have only needed to may [sic] 22
monthly payments of $2,800 from August 2017 to have paid Ip another $61,600 by
June 1, 2019. Thus, taking Chen’s verified allegations as true, Chen would have
paid Ip $681,600 by June l, 2019.” (Demurrer at p. 7:1-3.) As discussed,
Cross-Complainants allege that the purchase price was “$680,000.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 18.) 
In the opposition, Cross-Complainants assert that “Chen filed suit
within two years of discovering fraud.” (Opp’n at p. 7:1.) Cross-Complainants
cite to Love v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d
1136, 1143, where the Court of Appeal noted that “the statute of limitations commences when a party knows or
should know the facts essential
to his claim.” (Internal emphasis omitted.) But Cross-Complainants do
not appear to address Ip’s argument that the second cause of action for breach
of contract and specific performance is time-barred. Cross-Complainants do not
appear to dispute that such cause of action accrued on June 1, 2019. In
addition, Cross-Complainants do not appear to point to any allegations in the
Cross-Complaint demonstrating any purported later date when they knew the facts
essential to the second cause of action for breach of contract. (Love v. Fire Ins. Exchange, supra,
221 Cal.App.3d at p. 1143.)  
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains Ip’s demurrer to the
second cause of action as to Chen, with leave to amend. The Court overrules
Ip’s demurrer to the first cause of action as to Chen.  
E.    Third Cause of
Action for Fraud 
Next, Ip asserts that the third cause of action for fraud does not
allege facts with sufficient particularity. “The elements of fraud or deceit
are: a representation, usually of fact, which is false, knowledge of its
falsity, intent to defraud, justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation,
and damage resulting from that justifiable reliance. Every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner and the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow
defendant to understand fully the nature of the charge made.” ((Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d
59, 72-73 [internal citations omitted].) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.” ((Id.
at p. 73 [internal quotations
omitted, emphasis in original].) In the demurrer, Ip asserts,
inter alia, that “Chen does not allege the who, what, when, and where of
her claims that Ip led her to believe that she was purchasing the house.”
(Demurrer at p. 8:13-15.) 
The fraud cause of action alleges that “Cross-Complainants were the
victims of false promises by Kevin Ip, who promised to sell Yuna Chen the
Property if she paid the price of $680,000. He misrepresented that he was an
attorney and uniquely qualified and trustworthy to handle the Purchase
Agreement on behalf of the owner, and he would perform as promised without the
need for a formal contract. He claimed to be a person of integrity and
trustworthiness, as he did many acts of charity at the Buddhist temple and
through his nonprofit organization...” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 40.) Cross-Complainants
allege that “YUNA CHEN relied on Mr. Ip’s representations and promises, as a
person with superior knowledge, acumen and bargaining power, which caused her
to pay him the down payment, monthly installment payments, plus property taxes
for the Property, totaling over $810,000, and to move into the home and make
improvements…After she fully paid him for the purchase, YUNA CHEN discovered
the deceit and wrongs by Kevin Ip, including that he does not appear to be a
licensed attorney, he was the record owner of the Property and there was never
any Singapore owner…” (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 42-43.) However, Cross-Complainants do
not appear to allege “how, when, where…and by what
means” the alleged representations were tendered. (Stansfield v. Starkey, supra, 220 Cal.App.3d at p. 73.)

Based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains Ip’s demurrer to the third cause of action, with leave to
amend. 
F.     Fourth Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief 
In the fourth cause of action for declaratory relief,
Cross-Complainants allege that “[a] judicial declaration is necessary to
determine the rightful ownership and possession of the Property as between
Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendants.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 51.) Ip asserts that
the fourth cause of action fails to state a claim because “the purported
purchase agreement is barred by the statute[] of frauds.” (Demurrer at p.
9:1-2.) As set forth above, the Court finds that Cross-Complainants have
adequately alleged facts to support their assertion that “plaintiff is estopped from relying upon the statute of
frauds.” ((Monarco v. Lo Greco, supra, 35 Cal.2d at p. 623.) Thus, the Court
overrules Ip’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action as to Chen. 
G.    Fifth Cause of
Action for Trespass 
In the fifth cause of action for trespass, Cross-Complainants allege, inter
alia, that “[o]n July 2, 2023, Kevin Ip entered the Property around 6:00
a.m. without notice and without permission. He started yelling, threatening,
and harassing YUNA CHEN and WENDY TRAN who also lives in the home. He demanded
that they move out immediately and forced them to physically leave the home.
This was an intentional trespass and invasion of privacy.” (Cross-Compl., ¶
54.) “Trespass is an unlawful
interference with possession of property. The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or control
of the property; (2) the defendant’s intentional, reckless, or negligent entry
onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of
permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor
in causing the harm.” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17
Cal.App.5th 245, 261-262 (internal quotations and citations omitted).)

Ip asserts
that the “claim for trespass is devoid of any substantive facts
that show either Chen or Tran suffered any harm as the result of any purported
trespass.” (Demurrer at p. 9:23-24.) But Cross-Complainants allege that “Kevin
Ip’s entry and violent threats were intentionally aimed at terrorizing
Cross-Complainants to leave the Property, with terror, harassment and [sic] causing
great mental anguish and emotional distress to YUNA CHEN and WENDY TRAN in an
amount to be proven at trial.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 59.) Ip asserts that “Chen’s
claim that she suffered ‘mental anguish’ is conclusory…” (Demurrer at p.
9:24-25.) Ip does not cite any legal authority to support this assertion. The
Court finds that Cross-Complainants’ allegation of harm is adequate.
///
/// 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Ip’s demurrer to the fifth
cause of action.[1] 
H.    Sixth Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the defendant’s conduct
must be intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that
injury will result.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 (internal quotations and citations
omitted).) 
Ip asserts
that here, Cross-Complainants “have not alleged sufficient facts
to show either: (1) any conduct that is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community, nor (2) that she suffered any
harm.” (Demurrer at p. 10:13-15.) The Court disagrees. The sixth cause of
action alleges that “Kevin Ip’s entry and violent threats were intentionally
aimed at terrorizing cross complainants to leave the Property, with terror,
harassment and causing great mental anguish and emotional distress to YUNA CHEN
and WENDY TRAN in an amount to be proven at trial.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 62.) As
set forth above, Cross-Complainants allege that “[o]n July 2, 2023, Kevin Ip
entered the Property around 6:00 a.m. without notice and without permission. He
started yelling, threatening, and harassing YUNA CHEN and WENDY TRAN who also
lives in the home. He demanded that they move out immediately and forced them
to physically leave the home...” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 54.) Cross-Complainants
further allege that “[h]e forcefully pounded on YUNA CHEN’s locked bedroom
door, yelling for her to get out and claiming he had to use the room. He was
violent, threatening and forceful in his pounding and yelling. She fearfully
opened the door and a verbal altercation ensued. He ousted her from the
bedroom, and locked the door so she could not re-enter, even as he demanded
they move out.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 55.) In addition, Cross-Complainants allege
that “[t]his was a premeditated attack, as Kevin Ip parked his car to block the
driveway so that YUNA CHEN could not remove her car or use it to move any
belongings or get away quickly.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 56.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Ip’s demurrer to the sixth
cause of action. 
I.      Seventh Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract and Specific Performance
In the seventh cause of action for breach of
contract and specific performance, Cross-Complainants allege that “[o]n
August 30, 2023, Kevin Ip, Yuna Chen and Wendy Tran signed a Joint
Stipulation,” which “was a settlement of Civil Harassment Case No.23PDR001009,
in Los Angeles County Superior Court…” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 65.) Cross-Complainants
allege that “[u]nder the Stipulation, Kevin Ip promised to stay away from the
Property and the Defendants, and to stop driving by the Property…On February 2,
2024, Kevin Ip drove passed the Property and watched Wendy Tran as she was
driving on the street after exiting the home…Under the Stipulation, Kevin Ip
promised to remove his boxes and personal property from the Property within 4
weeks…Despite multiple demands, Kevin Ip has refused to cause these boxes to be
removed, thus breaching the Stipulation…By these actions, Kevin Ip has breached
the Joint Stipulation, and caused damages to Cross-Complainants in an amount
according to proof.” (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 66-69, 71.)
“The essential elements of a breach of
contract claim are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.” (HaHamilton v. Greenwich Investors XXVI, LLC (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 1602, 1614 [internal quotations omitted].) In the
demurrer, Ip asserts that “neither Chen nor Tran have alleged
that they suffered any harm as the result of the alleged breach…Because
defendants cannot allege any facts to show that by driving down a street Ip has
somehow caused them harm, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action should be
sustained.” (Demurrer at pp. 10:27-11:2.) Cross-Complainants do not appear to
dispute or respond to this point in the opposition. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Ip’s demurrer to the
seventh cause of action, with leave to amend. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Ip’s demurrer to the second,
third, and seventh causes of action of the Cross-Complaint as to both
Cross-Complainants, with leave to amend. The Court sustains Ip’s demurrer to
the first and fourth causes of action of the Cross-Complaint as to Tran only,
with leave to amend. The Court overrules Ip’s demurrer to the first cause and
fourth causes as to Chen. The Court overrules Ip’s demurrer to the fifth and
sixth causes of action as to both Cross-Complainants. 
The Court orders Cross-Complainants to file
and serve an amended cross-complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of
this Order. If no amended cross-complaint is filed within 20 days of this
Order, Ip is ordered to file and serve his answer within 30 days of the date of
this Order.¿ 
Ip is ordered to give
notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  June 28, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


