  Case Number:  23STCV24271    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  40 

23STCV24271 Dupont Clinic, People’s Choice, et al v. City of
 Beverly Hills, et al. 
Wednesday,
 December 4, 2024, at 10:00 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’
 SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant, City of Beverly Hills, interfered with Plaintiffs’ attempt
to open a clinic specializing in reproductive healthcare because of political
pressure of extremist, anti-abortion protesters. Plaintiffs allege seven causes
of action for tortious interference with contractual relations and related
claims and for negligent and intentional misrepresentation. 
       This
matter was originally set for hearing on November 14, 2024, at which time the
court continued the hearing to December 4, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. (M.O.
11/13/24.) 
       On
November 18, 2024, the court related 24STCV28644 People v. City of Beverly
Hills (the “Injunction Action”) to this case (the “Lead Case”) pursuant to the
State of California’s Notice of Related Cases. The Hon. Daniel Murphy signed a
stipulated judgment in the Injunction Action on November 6, 2024, requiring the
City to cease its discriminatory conduct against any reproductive healthcare
provider and requiring the City to refrain from using City resources to
interfere with or discriminate against such providers as more specifically described
in the stipulated judgment. (Stip.
Judgment 11/6/24.)       
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Defendants,
City of Beverly Hills and its employee managers (collectively, “City”), move to
strike portions of the complaint in the Lead Case, alleging that statements
made in official proceedings constitute protected activity and are subject to a
motion to strike. Defendants contend that Plaintiffs will not be able to show a
probability of prevailing on the merits of any of their claims, since the
alleged statements were true, and Defendants are immune from liability for alleged
misrepresentations made by City employees. 
       In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the motion is frivolous. Defendants focus
only on certain statements alleged in the complaint without considering the
conduct Plaintiffs have alleged. Defendants have not established that the
alleged statements concerned an issue of public interest. The allegations of
Defendants’ misconduct fall outside the scope of the anti-SLAPP statute. Regardless,
Plaintiffs can meet its burden of showing probability of prevailing on the
merits. None of the immunities cited by Defendants apply. 
       In
reply, re-filed on November 13, 2024, pursuant to the court’s order, Defendants
argue that “mixed” cases, involving both protected and unprotected speech, are
subject to a motion to strike. Unprotected speech is disregarded. 
       Plaintiffs
did not meet their burden on the second prong to show the probability of
prevailing on the merits. While an official investigation may not have been
pending at the time the Tenant Letter was prepared, written or oral statements
made in connection with an issue under consideration (security at the DuPont
clinic) by an executive body, such as the City’s police department, remains
protected speech.  
       Defendants
also argue that Plaintiffs “flooded” the court with voluminous and mostly
irrelevant evidence that remain unlinked to Plaintiffs’ burden of proof. It is
not the court’s job to search for evidence to support Plaintiff’s claims. The
evidence must be admissible to support Plaintiffs’ burden of proof. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The
anti-SLAPP statute[1]
codified at Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 provides that any act of a
person “in furtherance of the person's right of petition or free speech under
the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection
with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the
court determines that the plaintiff has established a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim." (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(b).)
The statute provides a procedure for "weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected
activity."(Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376,
384.)        
       The
type of conduct that falls within the scope of protected activity is
statutorily defined: 
" (1) any written or oral statement or writing made
before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made
in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of
public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of
the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech
in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16 subd. (e).)      
 
 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
A.   Alleged facts. 
       Plaintiffs allege they intended to open a
clinic for reproductive health care in a building located at 8920 Wilshire
Boulevard in Beverly Hills (“Building.”) (Complaint, ¶ 3.) The landlords of the
building were Douglass Emmett Management, Inc., and Douglas Emmet, Inc.
(collectively, “Landlords”). (Complaint, ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs allege that the City
publicly gave its support for equality and freedom of choice by issuing a press
release. (Complaint, ¶25.) Plaintiffs allege that in reliance on the City’s
statement of support, Plaintiffs entered into a lease agreement for the
premises with Landlord and commenced their permit applications in early
February 2022. (Complaint, ¶¶  28, 32.)
       In the wake of anti-abortion protest
activities in the Building in late 2022 and early 2023, Plaintiffs allege that DuPont
met with the Landlord, the City, and local and federal law enforcement to
discuss the protesters and how best to protect DuPont’s staff, patients, and
all other employees in the building. (Complaint, ¶ 33.) Plaintiffs allege that
protestors began appearing at City Council meetings to urge the City to stop
DuPont from opening the Beverly Hills clinic and organized a petition to stop
it. (Complaint, ¶35-36.) 
       Plaintiffs allege that in April 2023, the
City “actively and intentionally acted to withhold DuPont’s permits for the
Premises which had been internally approved by the City and were ready to be
issued to DuPont. Yet as of April 24, 2023, they [the permits] had not yet been
issued. When DuPont’s representatives telephoned the City to ask about the
delay, the City allegedly informed Plaintiffs that City Attorney, Laurence
Weiner, Esq., had placed a ‘hold’ on the permits. (Id.) Later that same day, Brandon Alfaro, a Customer Service Representative
in the City’s building department, sent an email to DuPont’s contractors and
architects explaining the ‘hold.’” (Complaint, ¶37.) 
       Ultimately, on June 12, 2023, Landlord
allegedly “bowed to pressure from the City and sent Plaintiffs a letter
purporting to rescind the lease” (“Rescission Letter”), a copy of which was
sent to City officials. (Complaint, ¶47.) At this point, Plaintiffs had begun
construction on the clinic and purchased furniture, HVAC systems, and other
equipment. (Complaint, ¶ 46.)
 
B.     
First prong: Defendants’ threshold burden is to
show that the claims arise from protected activity.
 
       As the
moving party, Defendants bear the initial burden of establishing that the
challenged allegations or claims “arise from protected activity in which the
defendant has engaged." (Bonni
v. St. Joseph Health System (2021)
11 Cal.5th 995, 1009.) To that end, courts are to “consider the
elements of the challenged claim and Defendants’ actions that supply those
elements and consequently form the basis for liability.” (Id.)

       The
defendant's burden is to identify what acts each challenged claim rests upon on
and demonstrate how those acts are protected under a statutorily defined
category of protected activity. (Id.)
 The court must identify the alleged wrongful and injury-producing
conduct that provides the foundation for the claim. (Finton
Construction, Inc. v. Bidna & Keys, APLC (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 200, 209.) The action must be based on the defendant’s protected free speech or
petitioning activity. (Finton
at 209-210.)
       While a claim may depend on both
protected and unprotected speech (“mixed action”), Plaintiffs’ burden in
proving a probability of prevailing on the merits must focus on claims that are
supported by protected speech. If Plaintiffs’ burden is not met, the claim and
its corresponding allegations must be stricken. (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376,
395.)
       The court must determine whether the
claims arise from protected speech or protected acts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16 subd. (b) ["In making its
determination, the court shall consider the pleadings and supporting and
opposing affidavits stating the facts
upon which the liability or defense is based"] [emphasis added].)
1)     
The
first through fourth causes of action (inducing breach of contract, intentional
interference with contractual relations, intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage) arise from the same alleged misconduct:
 
(a)   
Obstructing
Plaintiff’s efforts to obtain permits. 
              The
City Attorney said the City placed a hold on the permits. (Complaint, ¶37). A
customer service representative in the City’s building department sent an email
to DuPont advising that the City Attorney was “looking into the matter and
determining whether the proposed use is allowed or not.” (Id.) 
 
(b)  
The
5/31/23 Tenant Draft Letter. 
              Plaintiffs
allege that the City colluded with the Landlord to put pressure on DuPont by
rallying other tenants in the Building against Plaintiffs. (Complaint, ¶ 64.) On
May 31, 2023, the Chief of Police sent Plaintiffs and Landlord a draft letter.  The Chief intended to send  the letter to all building tenants and a set
of “Safety Tips.” The letter warned tenants of protestors who may attempt to
disrupt the building. Plaintiffs allege that the letter was intended to terrify
the tenants and to pressure Plaintiffs to leave the building. (Complaint, ¶
44.)
 
(c)   
The
June 12 Rescission letter.
       Plaintiffs
allege that the Landlord “bowed to pressure” from the City by sending Plaintiffs
a letter purporting to rescind the lease, with a copy sent to the City Mayor
and City Manager. (Complaint, ¶ 47.)
 
(d)  
“Colluding”
with anti-abortion protestors. 
       Plaintiffs
allege the City decided to align itself with the anti-abortion protesters, held
secret meetings and telephone conferences with them, and promised that it would
stop DuPont from opening, all of which was allegedly confirmed at a protest
rally by the director of “Outreach of Survivors LA.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 52-54.)  
 
2)     
Defendants
have met their burden of establishing that the first through fourth causes of
action arise from protected activity. 
       Other than the alleged
conduct to delay Plaintiffs’ permits, Defendants argue that the remaining alleged
misconduct (subparts 1(a) – 1(d) constitutes protected speech. Therefore, Defendants
contend the first through fourth causes of action arise from protected activity
and are subject to the motion to strike. 
       Plaintiffs argue that since
one of the bases for the claim is not protected speech (the delay in
Plaintiffs’ permit applications), the analysis should end since the claim
survives, based on at least one allegation of unprotected speech. (Opp.
18:167-19.) Plaintiff’s contention is contrary to the California Supreme
Court’s opinion in Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376. Baral held that
"courts may rule on plaintiffs' specific claims of protected activity,
rather than reward artful pleading by ignoring such claims if they are mixed
with assertions of unprotected activity." (Baral at 393.) 
       Defendants
have established that the Tenant Letter was prepared in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by an executive body, namely that City
police were investigating harassment at the Building, reviewing security
concerns, warning of potential violence, and offering “safety tips” to the
tenants. (Complaint, ¶ 44.) While Plaintiffs regard the Tenant Letter as
harassment, the Tenant Letter was made in furtherance of the right of free
speech in connection with an issue of public interest, given the alleged
enhanced need for security that might involve violence or vandalism by
protesters requiring law enforcement involvement. (Complaint, ¶ 44.)
       A
police investigation has been held to be an official proceeding authorized by
law, "and there can be no doubt that such an investigation is similarly a
‘public official proceeding‘ under subdivision 4 [of Civil Code § 47, which
recognizes that a privileged publication or broadcast is one made in the proper
discharge of an official duty.] (Green
v. Cortez (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d
1068, 1073.)
       Contrary
to Plaintiffs’ argument, an “official” police investigation need not be
occurring in order for the Tenant Letter to fall within the scope of “an issue
under consideration or review by an executive body.” (Opp. 19:17-18.) “Under
consideration” requires “’attentive thought, reflection, [or] meditation.’ [citation
omitted] There is no talismanic significance to ‘official or formal
proceedings.’ (Ibid., italics added.) Something more than ministerial
action is required, but any form of deliberative executive decision making will
suffice.” (Area
51 Productions, Inc. v. City of Alameda (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 581, 600–601.)
       The
first four causes of action also arise from the Rescission Letter, which
Plaintiffs contend was a result of a pressure campaign to induce the Landlord
to break its lease with Plaintiffs. (Complaint, ¶ 47.) Defendants have not
established how the Rescission Letter standing alone is protected speech,
however, to the extent Plaintiffs contend that the Tenant Letter was a part of
alleged “pressure campaign” to “scare” the tenants in the Building influenced
the Landlord’s decision to send the Rescission Letter, the Letter is the direct
result of protected speech; namely, the Chief of Police’s draft letter to
tenants to warn of public safety issues given the anti-abortion protests. 
       Defendants
have established that the City’s alleged “alignment” with protestors by holding
meetings and telephone conferences culminating in a “long speech at the protest
of July 29, by Tim Clement, Director of Outreach of Survivors L.A,” that
described the group’s efforts to ask for a meeting with the City’s mayor until Mr.
Clement obtained an appointment with City officials falls within the scope of
the statute that protects “any written or oral statement or writing made in a
place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of
public interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., §425.16.)
       Additionally,
the right to petition the government for redress of grievances is protected by
the California Constitution. (Wolfgram
v. Wells Fargo Bank (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 43, 52, citing United
States v. Cruikshank (1875) 92 U.S. 542, 552, [“The very idea of a
government, republican in form, implies a right on the part of its citizens to
meet peaceably for consultation in respect to public affairs and to petition
for a redress of grievances’.”].)
       As Defendants observe, what
Plaintiffs describe as “collusion” between protest leaders and City officials
is conduct that falls within the statute’s protections: 
(2) any written or oral statement or
writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place
open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(e).)
 
       Accordingly, Defendants have met their
burden of establishing that the first through fourth causes of action arise
from protected activity. 
3)     
The fifth cause of action for false promise, the
sixth cause of action for intentional misrepresentation, and the seventh cause
of action for negligent misrepresentation also arise from protected activity 
These claims are
premised on the identical alleged misrepresentations: Defendants allegedly made
promises to Plaintiffs that the City was supportive of DuPont’s mission and
that it would permit Plaintiffs to open a clinic at the premises. (Complaint, ¶¶
94, 102, 110.)
Defendants argue
that these alleged statements are protected speech because the City had adopted
a resolution supporting abortion rights. The complaint alleges that the City
publicly claimed to protect reproductive freedom, issued a strongly worded
press release, and claimed the City had a long history of supporting everyone’s
right to equality and freedom of choice. (Complaint, ¶ ¶ 2.) The complaint
alleges that “crucially”, the City unanimously adopted a resolution in support
of abortion rights. (Complaint, ¶ 25.)
The resolution
falls within the statute’s protections as it is a statement made in a
legislative proceeding as well as a written or oral statement made in a place
open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(e)(1), (3).) 
       Plaintiffs’
allegation that the City promised to permit Plaintiffs to open a clinic at the
premises was made in response to Plaintiffs’ inquiry about the necessity of
obtaining a conditional use permit for the premises as well as the zoning of
the premises and the building. (Complaint, ¶29.) Plaintiffs allege that the City
expressly confirmed to Plaintiffs that the City approved of DuPont’s intended
use of the premises. (Complaint, ¶ 29.) 
       Defendants
argue that land use regulation is a function of local government under the
grant of police power, and therefore, the alleged misrepresentations fall
within the protections of Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16 (e) (2). (Big
Creek Lumber Co. v. County of Santa Cruz (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1139, 1151
[“any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue
under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body.”].)
       Plaintiffs
contend that the complaint’s use of the word “permit” refers to allowing DuPont
to open its clinic and not the issuance of permits. (Opp. 23:19-22.) However,
this argument is undermined by Plaintiffs’ allegations that Plaintiffs inquired
about obtaining conditional use permits and about zoning issues. (Complaint, ¶ 29).

       Defendants
have established the fraud-based claims arise from protected activity. As
Defendants have met their initial burden described in section 425.16, the
burden now shifts to Plaintiffs. 
 
 
 
C.      The
second prong of anti-SLAPP analysis requires Plaintiffs to demonstrate a
probability of prevailing on the merits. 
       The
standard is met if Plaintiffs make a prima facie showing that would support
judgment “if proven at trial.” (Siam
v. Kizilbash (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1563, 1570.) Plaintiffs must submit
admissible evidence that would be sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment if
credited. (McGarry
v. University of San Diego (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 108.) The court
considers the pleadings and the evidence submitted by the parties, however,
“the court cannot weigh the evidence.” (McGarry
at 108.) The court must accept as true the evidence favorable to the
plaintiff. (Soukup
v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.) Plaintiffs
need only establish that their claims have “minimal merit.” (Soukup
at 291.)
       Plaintiffs
fail to meet that burden. Plaintiffs’ burden is to submit admissible evidence
to support a prima facie case. While Plaintiffs acknowledge that their burden
is only to establish that their claims have “minimal merit,” Plaintiffs have
not demonstrated any merit with admissible evidence. Plaintiffs appear to have
set forth the necessary elements to make a prima facie case for the first two
causes of action. However, the elements for the remaining five causes of action
are not discussed. 
       The
opposition fails to cite any evidence in the section discussing Plaintiffs’
burden of showing a probability of prevailing. That section is a narrative of alleged
facts, arguments, and criticisms unsupported by any evidence. While Plaintiffs
have submitted the declarations of Jessica R. Corpuz and Jennifer Russo, Plaintiffs
do not provide any explanation for how the statements or exhibits attached to the
declarations are relevant or probative of any element of any of the seven
claims alleged in the complaint. As Defendants observe in their reply, “there
is not a shred of admissible evidence” for any of the allegations asserted by
Plaintiffs and none is cited. (Reply, 14:9-10.)
       In
meeting their burden, Plaintiffs cannot rely on their complaint. Plaintiffs’
proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence. (Monster
Energy Co. v. Schechter (2019) 7 Cal.5th 781, 788.) 
       Plaintiffs
submit the declaration of Dr. Russo, the Chief Medical Officer of Dupont
Clinic. The declaration attaches 85 pages of exhibits, none of which are cited
in the part of the opposition relevant to Plaintiffs’ burden. Plaintiffs also submitted
the declaration of Jessica Corpuz, Plaintiffs’ attorneys of record. Her 15-page
declaration includes 670 pages of documents apparently cited in Plaintiffs’ nearly
11-page statement of facts, but there is no explanation for how these facts
relate to Plaintiffs’ prima facie case. As Defendants aptly point out, simply
submitting a “jumble of documents” without an “argument to tie the materials
together and explain how they support the claims arising out of the allegations
of protected conduct” does not satisfy Plaintiffs’ burden. (Newport
Harbor Offices & Marina, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018)
23 Cal.App.5th 28, 50; MMM
Holdings, Inc. v. Reich (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 167, 185 ["plaintiffs
made no effort to recite the required elements of any cause of action
pleaded in the complaint, and instead concluded with amorphous phrases such as ‘[t]he
evidence of [i]mproper [u]se here is almost entirely undisputed.’”].)[2]
       The second-prong analysis is described as a
“summary-judgment-like procedure.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376, 384.) In MMM
Holdings, the court criticized the plaintiff’s failure to analyze
declarants’ statements or their exhibits and did not tie the evidence to any
element of any cause of action alleged in the complaint which the court
regarded as a requirement for an anti-SLAPP motion. (MMM Holdings at 186.) 
       While Defendants submitted a number of
evidentiary objections, Plaintiffs have not provided any context to demonstrate
their relevance to any cause of action alleged in the complaint. Plaintiffs
have not cited any evidence in the first instance that is germane to the
specific elements of their claims.
 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       As Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden
required under Code Civ. Proc., §425.16, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED. The
court strikes the protected speech and conduct from which each of Plaintiffs’
seven causes of action arise, as more specifically described in Defendants’
motion. (Mot. 2:18 – 3:25.) 

 
 
 
[1]
Strategic litigation against public
participation.


[2]
For comparison purposes, Plaintiffs assert similar amorphous phrases: “[t]his
argument is laughably weak.” (Opp. 22:18); “It is clear that the City did
harbor actual malice towards abortion generally…” (Opp.24:7-9.)
 

