 Case Number:  24STCV04710    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SARA VAN HORN, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
THE WOMAN’S CLUB OF HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA,
  et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV01565
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 19, 2024



 
Defendant The Woman’s Club of Hollywood, California’s
motion for summary judgment is denied.  
Defendant The Woman’s Club of Hollywood, California’s
motion in the alternative for summary adjudication is denied.  
 
Defendant The Woman’s
Club of Hollywood, California (“TWCOH”) (“Moving Defendant”) moves for summary
judgment against Plaintiffs Patrick Van Horn’s (“Patrick”) and Sara Van Horn’s
(“Sara”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) Complaint.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §437c.)  Defendant moves on the grounds there does not
exist a triable issue of material fact.  (Notice
of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §473c(a).)  
Defendant moves in the
alternative for summary adjudication on the grounds there does not exist a
triable issue of material fact.  (Notice
of Motion, pg. 2.)
 
CRC Violation
CRC Rule 3.1350(d) provides:
(1)      The Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts in support of a motion must separately identify: 
(A)       
Each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative
defense that is the subject of the motion; and 
(B)       
Each supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute with
respect to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or
affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion. 
(2)      The separate statement should
include only material facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the
disposition of the motion. 
(3)      The separate statement must be
in the two-column format specified in (h). The statement must state in
numerical sequence the undisputed material facts in the first column followed
by the evidence that establishes those undisputed facts in that same column.
Citation to the evidence in support of each material fact must include
reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers. 
 
(CRC, Rule 3.1350(d).)
Defendant’s separate statement is in violation of CRC, Rule 3.1350(d).  Defendant’s separate statement fails to separately
set out each cause of action that is the subject of the motion. (CRC, Rule
3.1350(d)(1)(A).)  Defendant’s separate
statement does not cite to the evidence in support of each material fact with
reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.  (CRC, Rule 3.1350(d)(3).)  
Further, Defendant’s separate statement is in violation of CRC, Rule
3.1350(h) because it does not follow the format required for motions for
summary adjudication.
C.C.P. §437(b)(1) provides that a motion for summary judgment “shall be
supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken. The
supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a
reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this
requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a
sufficient ground for denial of the motion.”  (C.C.P. §437c(b)(1), emphasis added.)
“Courts are entitled to assistance from counsel, and an invitation to
search without guidance is no more useful than a litigant’s request to a
district court at the summary judgment stage to paw through the assembled
discovery material.  ‘Judges are not like
pigs, hunting for truffles buried in’ the record. [Citation].”  (Albrechtsen v.
Board of Regents of University of Wisconsin Systems (2002) 309 F.3d 433, 436.)
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary judgement is denied.  Defendant’s motion in the alternative for
summary adjudication is denied.
 
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is denied.
Defendant’s motion in the alternative for summary
adjudication is denied.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  September _____, 2024
                                                                             





  