 Case Number:  23STCV14660    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, January 16, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV14660
CASE NAME:                        Patrick Muh-En Lu v. Lootably, Inc. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Patrick Muh-En Lu
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Lootably, Inc. 
TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to
Cross-Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        29 November 2023
REPLY:                                  6
December 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         The hearing on Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint is continued to February 9, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
supplemental brief is due January 24, 2024. 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s supplemental brief is due January 31,
2024. Plaintiff/Cross-Complainant to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
on
June 23, 2023, Patrick Muh-En Lu (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Lootably, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10. Plaintiff seeks declaratory
relief regarding whether his shares in Defendant have vested making him a 25%
owner. 
 
On August 18, 2023, the
Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and Roes 1 to 50. The
Cross-Complaint alleges six causes of action for (1) Recission of Employment
Agreement, (2) Recission of Stock Restriction Agreement, (3) Intentional Misrepresentation,
(4) Negligent Misrepresentation, (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and (6) Breach
of Contract. 
 
On September 18, 2023, the
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filed a demurrer to the Cross-Complaint.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant opposes the demurrer. The matter is now before the
court. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect
by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer
must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.¿
(CCP, § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) In
evaluating a demurrer, the court accepts the complainant’s properly pled facts
as true and ignores contentions, deductions, and conclusory statements. (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1976) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713; Serrano v. Priest (1971)
5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Moreover, the court does not consider whether a plaintiff
will be able to prove the allegations or the possible difficulty in making such
proof. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
590, 604.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges
that in July of 2022, Defendant’s Chief Executive Office wanted to purchase the
domain name “Playfull.com” from its owner Patrick Muh-En Lu (“Plaintiff” or
“Lu”). (CC ¶ 7.) During discussions, it became clear that Plaintiff was not
interested in selling the domain name but because Plaintiff and Defendant had
similar business models, the discussion shifted to Plaintiff joining Defendant
based on Plaintiff’s representation that through his business contacts, he
could grow Defendant’s business. (CC ¶¶ 7, 8.) Specifically,  on or about March 20, 2023, Plaintiff
represented to Ethan Grezi (“Grezi), Chief Executive Office of Lootably, and
Joshua Verdehem (“Verdehem”), Lootably’s Chief Technology Officer, that
Plaintiff knew people “at some of the largest marketing/advertising/esports
companies, and that he would use his ‘contacts’ to drive substantial business
to LOOTABLY.” (CC ¶¶ 9, 10.)
Based on Plaintiff’s
representations, Lootably offered Plaintiff employment, and an employment
agreement (the “Employment Agreement”) was signed on April 21, 2023. (CC ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff was hired to serve as Lootably’s President and Chief Operating Officer
(“COO”), which required Plaintiff to report directly to Lootably’s Chief
Executive Officer, Geczi, and devote his full business time and attention to
furthering Lootably’s business interests. (CC ¶ 11, Ex. A [Employment
Agreement].) 
 
The Employment Agreement,
subject to Lootably’s Board approval, granted Lu a restricted stock grant (the
“Stock Grant”) of One Million shares of the Company’s Common Stock (the
“Shares”) at a price per Share equal to the fair market value of the Company’s
Common Stock as determined by the Board on the date of grant, pursuant to the
terms of a written tock restriction agreement (“Equity Agreement”). (CC ¶ 12.)
Under the Employment Agreement, Lu was entitled to equity compensation unless
he was terminated for cause as determined by the Board. (CC ¶ 12.) The
Cross-Complaint further alleges that Plaintiff’s employment with Lootably was
“at-will, in that Lootably may terminate Lu’s employment and all related
compensation and other rights and benefits at any time and for any reason.” (CC
¶ 13.) Lootably, also “reserved the right, in its sole  and absolute discretion, to prospectively
modify or rescind any of the terms set forth in the employment agreement at any
time during Lu’s employment.” (CC ¶ 13.) 
 
On April 21, 2023, Lootably and
Plaintiff entered into a Stock Restriction Agreement, wherein all vesting of
stock was dependent on Plaintiff’s employment with Lootably and Plaintiff’s
right to equity would be null and void if he was terminated for cause or if
Lootably, in its sole discretion, modified or rescinded any of the terms set
forth in the Employment Agreement. (CC ¶ 14, Ex. B [Stock Restriction
Agreement].) 
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges
that Plaintiff’s representation about his ability to grow Lootably’s business
were false, that Plaintiff misappropriated Lootably’s assets by engaging in
self-entertainment and self-promotion rather than Lootably’s business development,
and that Plaintiff neglected his duties as President and COO, thus breaching
his fiduciary duties to Lootably and its stockholders. (CC ¶ 16.) The
Cross-Complaint alleges that during Plaintiff’s employment, Plaintiff only
generated $500.00 in revenue and due to the above, Plaintiff materially
breached the Employment Agreement and related agreements. (CC ¶ 16.) On June
12, 2023, Lootably informed Plaintiff that his employment was terminated, and
he was removed as a Director, President, and Chief Operating Officer of
Lootably. 
 
After Plaintiff filed suit
against Lootably, Defendant Lootably filed a Cross-Complaint. Plaintiff demurs
to the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action in the
Cross-Complaint on the basis that the Cross-Complaint fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            A.        Delaware
Choice of Law Provision
 
Plaintiff points out that the
Employment Agreement and the Stock Restriction Agreement are governed by the
laws of the State of Delaware. 
 
Paragraph 8 of the Employment
Agreement states: 
 
This Offer Letter shall be governed by the laws of the State
of Delaware without regard to conflict-of-law principles.
 
(CC Ex. A at p. 4, ¶ 8.) 
 
Section (e) of Paragraph 12 of
the Stock Restriction Agreement states: 
 
Governing Law. This agreement and actions
taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with, the
laws of the State of Delaware, applied without regard to conflict of law
principles. 
 
(CC Ex. B at p. 8, ¶ 12(e)
[underline original].)
 
Plaintiff’s demurrer is based
on the fact that  the causes of action
pled in the Cross-Complaint are barred under Delaware law. In opposition,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant does not dispute that Delaware law applies to the
agreements at issue but asserts that California law applies to the demurrer
because Plaintiff did not request judicial notice of the Delaware authority
cited and did not supply Defendant with copies of the Delaware cases cited. 
 
The court does not reach the
merits of the demurrer because Plaintiff has failed to show the Delaware choice
of law provision: (1) has a substantial relationship to the parties; or (2) there is
a reasonable basis exists for the parties' choice of law. (See Trust
One Mortgage Corp. v. Invest America Mortgage Corp.
(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1302, 1308.) 
 
In Washington Mutual Bank, FA v. Superior Court (2001) 24
Cal.4th 906, the California Supreme Court explained that the burden is on the
proponent of the choice of law provision to show that the clause should be
applied:
 
Accordingly,
if the proponent of the clause (here, [Plaintiff]) demonstrates that the chosen
state has a substantial relationship to the parties or their transaction, or
that a reasonable basis otherwise exists for the choice of law, the parties'
choice generally will be enforced unless the other side can establish both that
the chosen law is contrary to a fundamental policy of California and that
California has a materially greater interest in the determination of the
particular issue. 
 
(Id. at p. 917.)


In a conclusory manner, Plaintiff asserts
that Delaware law applies, without explaining why the state of Delaware has a
substantial relationship to the parties or their transaction or showing that a
reasonable basis exists for choosing to have Delaware law applied to the
agreements at issue. “If neither of these tests is met, the court need not
enforce the parties' choice of law; however, if either test is met, the
court must next determine whether the chosen state's law is contrary to a fundamental policy of California.”(Gramercy Investment Trust v. Lakemont Homes Nevada, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 903, 909 [italics original].) 
 
Since Plaintiff failed to show that Delaware law should be
applied to the agreements at issue, the court cannot determine as a matter of
law that Delaware law applies to this action. The court orders that parties
submit supplemental briefs as to whether Delaware law should be used to
interpret the Employment Agreement and Stock Restriction Agreement and whether
Delaware law applies to this entire action. 
 
Conclusion
 
The hearing on Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint is continued to 
February 9, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
supplemental brief is due January 24, 
2024.  Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
supplemental brief is due January 31, 2024. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Complainant to give notice. 
 


