  Case Number:  21STCV06362    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PATRICK KRUG, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE CALIFORNIA
  STATE UNIVERISTY, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV06362
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO UPHOLD CONFIDENTIALITY
  DESIGNATIONS
 
Date: October 26, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
The Board of Trustees of the California State University
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Patrick Krug
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of an employment
relationship. The currently operative second amended complaint (the “SAC”)
alleges: (1) discrimination; (2) harassment; (3) retaliation; (4) failure to
prevent, investigate and remedy harassment and discrimination; (5) whistleblower
retaliation; and (6) reprisal/retaliation.
 
            The Court denied Plaintiff’s motion
to enter protective order pursuant to a stipulation entered into between the
parties. (See June 13, 2023 Minute Order.) Instead, the Court instructed
Plaintiff to submit a modified protective order with terms designating certain
information as confidential.  
 
            On July 12, 2022, Plaintiff filed
the modified protective order as instructed, which was granted by the Court. 
 
            On September 7, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to uphold
confidentiality designations. Plaintiff opposes. 
 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
            The meet and confer
requirement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 4025.420 has been met.
(Ostroff Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) 
 
Legal Standard
            The burden is on the party seeking
the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought. (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) Broad allegations
of harm, unsubstantiated by specific examples or articulated reasoning are
insufficient to establish good cause. 
(See Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 233
Cal.App.4th 261, 318.) A party seeking a protective order may be required to
make a factual showing that: (1) the documents that it has been ordered to
produce contained confidential commercial information or information in which
it had any protectable interest; or (2) dissemination of the documents to the
public would result in injury. (Id.) A conclusory declaration, lacking
factual specificity, is insufficient to establish good cause. (Id.)
Ultimately, however, the issue and formulation of protective orders are a a
large extent discretionary and rulings on motions for protective orders will
not be disturbed absent an abuse of discretion. (Id. at 316.)
            Under California Rules of Court,
rule 2.550(c), unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are
presumed to be open. Subject to certain exceptions, a court record must not be
filed under seal without a court order. (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 486.) “A party requesting that
a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record.  The motion or
application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts
sufficient to justify the sealing.” 
California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d) states: “The court may order
that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that
establish: [¶] (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right
of public access to the record; [¶] (2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record; [¶] (3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; [¶] (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and [¶] (5) No less restrictive means
exist to achieve the overriding interest.”
 
Merits
Defendant seeks maintain the “Confidential”
designation of excerpts from the transcript of the Deposition of Diane Fazzi as
set forth in the stipulated protective order (“SPO”). (Notice of Motion at pg.
2.) Defendant asserts that the transcripts include citations and direct quotes
from documents concerning the decision-making process for providing salary
increases to certain third-party employees. (Motion at pg. 1.) Defendant
contends that this information does not constitute publicly available
compensation information about state employees, and instead, it is
decision-making personnel information, which is restricted to protect the
privacy interests of those third-parties. (Ibid.) Based on the SPO, it
was understood that individuals are entitled to a right of privacy in their
personnel records. (Motion at pg. 2; Ostroff Decl., Exh. A.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that information is
not private because the salaries of public employees is public information.
(Opposition at pg. 2.) Second, Plaintiff asserts that, if the information is
deemed private, then only the redaction of the third-party’s name and contact
information is necessary to protect their interests. (Ibid.) 
 
The Court is not convinced by Plaintiff’s
representation that the documents cited and quoted during Ms. Fazzi’s
deposition consisted of public salary information. Rather, the documents
indicate that they involved evaluations that formed the basis for salary raise
recommendations. (Reply at pg. 1.) Thus, this would qualify as sensitive
information regarding the third-party’s work performance. (BVR, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal. App. 4th 742, 757.) “The public interest in
preserving confidential, personnel information generally outweighs a private
litigant’s interest in obtaining that information.” (Life Technologies Corp.
v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 652.) In order for
Plaintiff’s interest in the information to outweigh the privacy interest,
Plaintiff must show a compelling need and that the information can be obtained
through less intrusive means. (Ibid.) Under the circumstances, Plaintiff
has not expressed why the deposition experts at issue here should be no longer
be considered “Confidential” as provided under the SPO.  Furthermore, because “[p]ublic employees
have a legally protected interest in their personnel files,” sealing the
selected excerpts is warranted as its confidentiality is recognized by law. (BVR,
Inc., supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at 756; Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.550(c).) Merely redacting the third-parties’ name and contact information
would be insufficient to protect their interests. 
            
            Based on the foregoing, because the transcript
excerpts in question concern private personnel record information, the Court
GRANTS the instant motion. The excerpts lodged under seal as Exhibit D of
Defendant’s moving papers shall remain under seal.   
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 26th day of October, 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



