 Case Number:  23STCV01162    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PORCH.COM, INC.,
  a Delaware corporation, and MATTHEW EHRLICHMAN, an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
KANDELA, LLC, a California limited
  liability company; ELI GORDON, an individual; DAVID FIEDLER, an individual;
  NOTEH BERGER, an individual; RENEE J. JAMES, an individual; JOSHUA LOBEL, an
  individual; EVAN SCHLESSINGER, an individual; MICHAEL SACHSE, an individual;
  AARON HIRSCHHORN, an individual; WESTWOOD CONCIERGE, LLC, a California
  limited liability company; WM INVESTMENT HOLDINGS, LLC, a Kentucky limited
  liability company; WMIH-I, LP, a Kentucky limited partnership; KAN FUNDING
  LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; EDIDIN PARTNERS, LLC, a Delaware
  limited liability company; 1P VENTURES, LLC, a California limited liability
  company; SHARRAN INVESTMENTS; THE ENTRUST GROUP FBO SHARRAN SIRVATSAA IRA
  7230011965; SRILO VENTURES, LLC, a California limited liability company;
  BRIAN G. JOHNSON DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLAN; SEGIL LIVING TRUST, DATED
  AUGUST 10, 1984, LARRAINE SEGIL TRUSTEE; MGB MINING DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION
  PLAN; PESCETARIAN BROTHERS, LLC, a California limited liability company; and
  DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV01162
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date: October 26, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendants
Edidin Partners, LLC; 1P Ventures, LLC; KAN Funding, LLC; Pescetarian Brothers,
LLC; WM Investment Holdings, LLC; WMIH-I, LP, the Segil Living Trust; The
Entrust Group FBO Sharran Sirvatsaa IRA; Srilo, LLC; Evan Schlessinger; Joshua
Lobel; Noteh Berger; Eli Gordon; David Fiedler; Michael Sachse; and MGB Mining
Defined Benefit Pension Plan.
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:
Plaintiffs Porch.Com, Inc., and Matthew Ehrlichman.
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises from alleged fraudulent
transfers and/or voidable transfers of assets—namely Porch.Com, Inc. common
unregistered stock -- by Defendant Kandela, LLC in connection with Porch.Com,
Inc.’s acquisition of certain assets of Kandela, LLC pursuant to an Asset
Purchase Agreement between Porch.Com, Inc. and Kandela, LLC dated March 22,
2019.  
 
On
October 4, 2023, plaintiffs Porch.Com, Inc. and Matthew Ehrlichman
(“Plaintiffs”) filed the first amended complaint against defendants Kandela,
LLC; Eli Gordon; David Fiedler; Noteh Berger; Renee J. James; Joshua Lobel; Evan
Schlessinger; Michael Sachse; Aaron Hirschhorn; Westwood Concierge, LLC; WM Investment
Holdings, LLC; WMIH-I, LP; Kan Funding, LLC; Edidin Partners, LLC; 1P Ventures,
LLC; Sharran Investments; The Entrust Group FBO Sharran Sirvatsaa IRA
7230011965; Srilo Ventures, LLC; Brian G. Johnson Defined Benefit Pension Plan;
Segil Living Trust, dated August 10, 1984, Larraine Segil Trustee; MGB Mining Defined
Benefit Pension Plan; and Pescetarian Brothers, LLC. Plaintiffs sued for (1)
actual intent fraudulent conveyance/voidable transfer, (2) constructive
fraudulent conveyance/voidable transfer, (3) indemnification, and (4) breach of
contract as to defendant members. 
 
The
day before, defendants Edidin Partners, LLC; 1P Ventures, LLC; KAN Funding, LLC;
Pescetarian Brothers, LLC; WM Investment Holdings, LLC; WMIH-I, LP, the Segil
Living Trust; The Entrust Group FBO Sharran Sirvatsaa IRA; Srilo, LLC; Evan
Schlessinger; Joshua Lobel; Noteh Berger; Eli Gordon; David Fiedler; Michael
Sachse; and MGB Mining Defined Benefit Pension Plan (collectively, “Defendants”)
moved for sanctions and dismissal of the action based on the filing and service
of the original complaint. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
             Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objection is
OVERRULED. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
Sanctions
under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 
            A court may order a party to pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, “incurred by another party as a
result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).)
Frivolous means “totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose
of harassing an opposing party." (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (b)(2).)

 
         “Frivolous” means totally and completely without merit or
for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party. “Because the Legislature
intended that the conditions for sanctions under the current version of section
128.5 mirror section 128.7, [the California Court of Appeal has held] that the
objective standard used to evaluate section 128.7 sanctions motions applies to
section 128.5.” (San Diegans for Open Government v. City of San Diego
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1306, 1318.) “Although the objective standard of proof
is easier to satisfy, the Legislature intended to ‘retain the extremely high
proof required for such awards’ with its applicability lying with ‘truly
egregious behaviors.’” (Id. at pp. 1318-19.) An objectively reasonable attorney
standard applies to this determination. (Id. at p. 1319.) 
 
Sanctions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7
An attorney or
unrepresented party who presents a motion to the court makes an implied
certification as to its legal and factual merit, which is subject to sanctions
for violation of this certification under Code of Civil Procedure section
128.7. (Murphy v. Yale Materials Handling Corp. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th
619, 623.) The Court may impose sanctions for conduct that violates any one of
the requirements set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7,
subdivision (b). (Eichenbaum v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 967,
976.)   
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (b) provides:  
(b)¿By presenting to the
court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading,
petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or
unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge,
information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the
circumstances, all the following conditions are met: 
(1)¿It is not being presented
primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary
delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation. 
(2)¿The claims, defenses, and
other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a
non-frivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing
law or the establishment of new law. 
(3)¿The allegations and other
factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically, so identified, are likely to
have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery. 
(4)¿The denials of factual
contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically, so identified, are
reasonably based on a lack of information or belief. 
In addition, section 128.7 does not require a finding of
subjective bad faith; instead it requires only that the Court finds
that the conduct be objectively unreasonable. (In re Marriage of
Reese & Guy (1999) 73 Cal. App. 4th 1214, 1221.) 
 
Under section 128.7, a court
may impose sanctions if it concludes a pleading was filed for an improper
purpose or was indisputably without merit, either legally or factually. (Bucur
v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189–190.) A claim is factually
frivolous if it is “not well grounded in fact” and is legally frivolous if it
is “not warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law.” (Ibid.) In either case, to
obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party's conduct in asserting
the claim was objectively unreasonable. (Ibid.) A claim is objectively
unreasonable if “any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and
completely without merit.” (Ibid.) However, “section 128.7 sanctions
should be ‘made with restraint’ [Citation] and
are not mandatory even if a claim is frivolous.” (Peake v. Underwood
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428. at 448.) 
 
Safe Harbor Provisions
            If the alleged sanctionable conduct
is the filing and service of a complaint, Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5
has a safe harbor provision, which requires that the moving party serve the
motion on the sanctionable party at least 21-days before it is filed with the
Court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (f)(1)(B); Code Civ. Pro., § 128.7,
subd. (c)(1).) This affords the party an opportunity to cure the improper
pleading. (Ibid.) 
 
            Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.7 has a safe harbor provision, which requires that the moving party
serve the motion on the sanctionable party at least 21-days before it is filed
with the Court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c)(1).) The papers to be served on the opposing party must
be the same papers which are to be filed with the court. (Hart v. Avetoom (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 410, 414.)
 
            The 21-day “safe harbor” provision
is strictly enforced. “Substantial compliance” is insufficient. (See Cromwell
v. Cummings (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th Supp.10, 15 [“Correspondence to opposing
counsel which threatens sanctions of an unknown nature at an unspecified time
against unidentified persons, and which lacks citation to controlling
authority, does not fulfill these statutory purposes.”].)
 
DISCUSSION
            Because Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint after
Defendants moved for sanctions, the motion for sanctions and motion to dismiss are
moot. 
 
            Further,
defendants did not meet the safe harbor provision of Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5 and 128.7 because the motion they served on September 1, 2023,
differs from the motion they filed on October 4, 2023. The court reviewed the
differences between the two motions and finds that there are additional points
and authorities. (Reply Decl. Jackson, ¶ 4, Ex. 2.)  Plaintiffs would be entitled to a new 21-day
period to withdraw or correct the pleading. (Hart v. Avetoom, supra,
95 Cal.App.4th 410 at p. 413.) 
 
The motion is therefore MOOT. 
 
Moving Parties are to give notice of
this ruling.        
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
            Dated this 26th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



