  Case Number:  23PSCV00979    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant Ven-Chee Koh dba Win Way Academy’s MOTION TO
SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT is DENIED, notably as the
court questions Defendant’s credibility based upon insufficient and conflicting
statements/evidence.  
 
Background
 
This is a contracts case arising from the alleged breach of
a commercial rental agreement. 
 
On April 4, 2023, Plaintiff RKW & MLW Fmy Lmt Prtsp I, a
CA LP DBA Walnut Commercentre filed suit against Defendant Ven-Ghee Koh, an
individual DBA Win Way Academy alleging damages of $37,862.48, with interesting
continuing to accure on the past due rent. 
 
On May 18, 2023, default was entered against Defendant. 
 
On July 18, 2023, default judgment was entered against
Defendant in the amount of $48,039.08. 
 
On January 5, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion. 
 
On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition. 
 
On January 19, 2024, Defendant filed its reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Defendant brings forth the motion pursuant to CCP Section 473.5.
(Motion p. 2:4-5.) 
The statute, in its totality, provides the following: 
(a) When service of a summons
has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a
default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action,
he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or
default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall
be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the
earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against
him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written
notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.
(b) A notice of motion to set
aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall
designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision
(b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under
oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party
shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other
pleading proposed to be filed in the action.
(c) Upon a finding by the
court that the motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision
(a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect, it may set aside the default or default judgment on
whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend the action. (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 473.5, emphasis and underline added). 
As to whether Defendant received
actual notice of the action via substituted service,[1]
CCP section 415.20 subdivision (b) states in relevant part: 
If a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90,
a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at
the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business,
or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least
18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and
by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class
mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of
the summons and complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is
deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing. (Code of Civ. Proc., §
415.20, subd. (b), emphasis added.)   
As to who can be served, a person will be considered to be of suitable age and
discretion where the nature of his/her “relationship with the person to be
served makes it more likely than not that they will deliver process to the
named party.” (Reply p. 2, citing Bein v. Brechtel-Jochim Group, Inc. (1992)
6 Cal.App.4th 1387, 1393,[2]
quoting 50 Court St. Assoc. v. Mendelson et al. (1991) 151 Misc.2d 87,
91 (Mendelson)); see also Motion p. 4, citing Ellard v. Conway (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 540.) “In applying this principle, the courts search for
indications that the person served can be counted on to inform the named party
of the proceeding.” (Mendelson, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at p. 91.) 
In sum, combining the rules above, if (1) affidavits indicate that substituted
service did not comply with the statutory mechanism (i.e., summons and
complaint was not left with competent member of the household, who is 18, and
informed of the contents thereof)—and (2) the motion is timely, the court
may in its discretion[3] set
aside the default and default judgment. 
Discussion
 
Prong 1: Whether the Motion is
Timely 
Plaintiff disputes the timeliness
of the motion arguing that the deadline to file was May 18, 2023, six months
after entry of default. (Opp. p. 5, citing Manson, Iver & York v.
Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42 (Manson).) 
Here, the court disagrees with
Plaintiff. The plain language of the statute provides that the six-month period
may run when written notice of default judgment has been entered. Six
months from the entry of default judgment (7/18/23) is 1/18/24. As the
motion was filed on 1/5/24, the motion is timely. To the extent that Plaintiff
relies upon Manson, the case is inapposite because the motion there was
brought pursuant to CCP section 473(b) (e.g., mistake), not section 473.5. 
Therefore, the motion is timely,
meaning that the first prong of section 473.5 subdivision (c) is
satisfied.  
Prong 2: Whether Defendant Provides Adequate Evidence
(Affidavit(s)/Declarations) To Demonstrate That His Lack of Actual Notice Was
Not Caused by His Avoidance of Service or Inexcusable Neglect 
 
The POS
indicates that a registered process server served a “John Doe; Asian;
70; 5’7”; 150 lbs; Black Hair; Brown Eyes—Identified as Occupant/Refused
Name.” (emphasis added).
 
Defendant moves for relief on the grounds that the proof of
service (POS) was, essentially, fraudulent. Specifically, he argues that
service was not effectuated upon a “John Doe” (as stated in the POS) because he
lives alone, suggesting no one could have been served. (Koh Decl., ¶3
[“I have been living alone by myself at [address] for the past thirteen
(13) years. I have never had any other co-occupants who lived at
my home.”], emphasis and  underline added).

 
Preliminary, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to
meet its burden to establish valid service.[4] (Motion
p. 3:24-25, citing to American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 383 (Zara).) Not so. As stated in the Zara case, “a registered
process server's declaration of service establishes a presumption affecting the
burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in the declaration.” (Id. at
p. 390.) Here, the POS filed by plaintiff included the declaration of a
registered process server averring that he served a John Doe at the subject
address. Consequently, because of the statutory presumption, Defendant was required
to produce evidence that he was not served. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, however, for
the specific reasons below, Defendant failed to produce evidence to overcome
the presumption that service was proper. 
 
First and foremost, the process service took a photograph
that shows an individual behind the front door, inside of the premises
wearing a white robe. (Opp. p. 5.) To this, Defendant changes his narrative in Reply:
“on occasion Defendant may have had a houseguest or visitor spend the
night.” (Reply p. 2.) But if Defendant knew where he was on the day of
purported service, how would he not know at the very least explain who was
in his home on the day of purported service?[5]
Was it an intruder? Was it a friend? Was it a family member? Or was it Defendant himself?
After all, Defendant does not provide physical descriptors for the court
to ascertain the difference between John Doe and Defendant.[6]

 
Second, Defendant avers that he has “an alibi.” (Koh Decl., ¶5.) On the day of
purported service, Defendant was tutoring. However, despite knowing where he
was the day (i.e., tutoring), Defendant does not provide any details about or a
declaration from the individual he was tutoring to corroborate his “alibi.”  
 
Third, to the extent that Defendant maintains that service
upon an Asian could not be possible because there “are no other Asians living
in the neighborhood,” (Koh Decl., ¶6), that is an improper lay opinion (i.e.,
Defendant has (presumably) not gone to each house to determine that they
are “either Hispanic or Black.” (Koh Decl., ¶6).)
 
Fourth, to the extent that Defendant argues even if a “human
being was handed papers” (Reply p. 4:21-22) that person is not a member of Defendant’s
household, absent any information about this person, this argument is
irrelevant. 
 
Finally, to the extent that Defendant in Reply submits the affidavit
of a neighbor who attests that Defendant has lived next door to Defendant for
15 years (Reply p. 5),[7]
that but further draws into question Defendant’s credibility.
Defendant in his motion and declaration states he has lived in the house for 13
years (Koh Decl., ¶3); now his story changes again as Clark states they have
been neighbors for 15 years. Furthermore, Defendant states he lives at 803 N.
Del Sol Lane in the city of Diamond Bar whereas Clark’s declaration states he
resides at 23972 Sunset Crossing Road in the city of Diamond Bar. (Clarke
Decl., ¶2.) As the two do not live on the same street, it is unclear as
to their capacity as neighbors (i.e., live next door to see who comes
and goes).   
 
All in all, though mindful of the
public policy strongly favors granting relief,
the arguments and evidence, when read in their totality, draw into question the
credibility and veracity of Defendant’s contention that POS was improper. (See Hodge
Sheet Metal Products v. Palm Springs Riviera Hotel (1961) 189 Cal.App.2d
653, 658 [“The weighing of the veracity of the affidavit was in the
province of the trial court.”].) 
 
Therefore, the second prong of CCP
section 473.5(c) is not satisfied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the court,
exercising its discretion, DENIES the motion. 
 
 
 
 
 


