  Case Number:  22STCV35252    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  73 10/11/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MYRA L. WEISS, et al. v. SYBIL M.
FLOM, et al. (22STCV35252)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party: Stephen Owens (Alvarez-Glasman & Colvin)
Counsel for
Defendants/Cross-Complainants/moving party: Alexander Eisemann, Mark Share (De
Castro, West, Chodorow, Mendler & Glickfeld Inc.)
 
(1)   MOTION To compel DAVID E. WEISS to
provide further responses to special interrogatories, set one, and for an award
of sanctions 
(2)   MOTION To compel myra l. weiss to provide
further responses to special interrogatories, set one, and for an award of
sanctions 
(3)   MOTION To compel DAVID E. WEISS to
provide further responses to REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, set one, and for an award
of sanctions
(4)   MOTION To compel MYRA L. WEISS to provide
further responses to REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, set one, and for an award of
sanctions 
(5)   MOTION To compel DAVID E. WEISS to
provide further responses to REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION, set one, and for an award
of sanctions 
(6)   MOTION To compel MYRA L. WEISS to provide
further responses to REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION, set one, and for an award of
sanctions 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel David E. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel Myra L. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel David E. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for
Admissions, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel Myra L. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for
Admissions, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel David E. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for
Production, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel Myra L. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for
Production, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
November 3, 2022, Plaintiffs Myra L. Weiss, individually and as trustee of the David E. Weiss Family Revocable
Living Trust Dated 3/14/1997 and as a beneficiary of the Morning Family Trust
No. 2 (“Myra”); and David E. Weiss, individually and as trustee of the David E.
Weiss Family Revocable Living Trust Dated 3/14/1997 (“David”), filed this
action against Defendant Sybil M. Flom, aka Sybil Flom Blank, individually and
as trustee of The Sybil Flom Trust Dated 10/31/2007 and as a beneficiary of the
Morning Family Trust No. 2 (“Sybil”).
 
The Complaint
alleges causes of action for:
1.      Money Paid
Under Mistake of Fact
2.      Unjust Enrichment
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. David received a short-term loan in the amount of
$225,000 from funds in an account at Bank of America standing in the name of
Morning Family Trust No. 2. David
repaid the principal amount of the loan in full, in one lump sum, 123 days (4
months and 1 day) after it was made. Nevertheless, almost one year after the loan had been repaid in
full, the accountant for Defendant Sybil called David and mistakenly claimed
that the loan had not been repaid. In
response, David deposited a second check in the amount of $225,000 into a bank
account standing in the name of Morning Family Trust No. 2. This second payment
amounted to a double repayment of the same loan that had already been repaid
approximately 11 months earlier. The second repayment was made entirely from
funds that were community property in which both Plaintiffs had and have an
interest. The
funds in the Morning Family Trust No. 2 accounts were later distributed to the
three beneficiaries, or former beneficiaries, of the Trust: Dr. Bernard A.
Michlin, Plaintiff Myra Weiss, and Defendant Sybil Flom.
 
Within the
three years immediately prior to the filing of this action, Myra and David
discovered that David had repaid the loan on two separate occasions and also
discovered that they had distributed $75,000 more to each of the three
beneficiaries than each beneficiary was entitled to receive, for a total excess
distribution of $225,000 of their own personal funds that they had made by
mistake. Plaintiffs first discovered David’s double repayment and the mistaken
distribution of $225,000, during the course of their preparations to respond to
discovery demands directed to them by Sybil, her son (Noah Flom) and business
entities owned by them in a separate lawsuit now pending in this court (LASC
Case No. 20STCV33044). Despite
several requests, Sybil has refused to repay any part of the $75,000
overpayment she received.
 
Defendants
filed the following Motions to Compel Further Responses to Discovery Requests:
1.     
Motion to
Compel David E. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set One, and for an award of sanctions (filed on 8/23/24)
2.     
Motion to
Compel Myra L. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set One, and for an award of sanctions (filed on 8/12/24 and amended motion
filed on 8/20/24)
3.     
Motion to
Compel David E. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for Admissions,
Set One, and for an award of sanctions (filed on 8/23/24)
4.     
Motion to
Compel Myra L. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for Admissions,
Set One, and for an award of sanctions (filed on 8/23/24)
5.     
Motion to
Compel David E. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for Production,
Set One, and for an award of sanctions (filed on 8/23/24)
6.     
Motion to
Compel Myra L. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for Production,
Set One, and for an award of sanctions (filed on 8/23/24)
 
On
October 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a consolidated opposition.
 
On
October 7, 2024, Defendants filed a consolidated reply.
 
DISCUSSION
 

A.      Legal
Standard
 
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or
production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of inability
to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion to compel further production must set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) It is not necessary for the
motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in evidence. “Good
cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts show that the
discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to prevent surprise
at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65
Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also CCP §§ 2017.010, 2019.030(a)(1) (Information is
discoverable if it is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and it is not
unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source
that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.); Lipton v.
Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611-1612 (noting a party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence).) 
 
“On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(a).¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(b).¿ In addition, a separate statement is required.¿
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).¿ 
¿ 
A motion to compel further responses may be brought based on
responses to requests for admission (“RFA”) that: (1) provide evasive or
incomplete answers; or (2) make unmeritorious or overly-generalized
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290(a).)  However, a motion to
compel further responses cannot compel the admission of matters already
denied.  (Holguin v. Superior Court (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 812,
821.) 
 
If a timely motion to compel has been filed, the¿burden is on the
responding party¿to justify any objection or failure fully to answer.¿(Coy
v. Superior Court¿(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories]; see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
B.      Timeliness of
Plaintiff’s Opposition
 
As an initial matter, Defendants argue that the Court should
disregard Plaintiff’s Opposition because it is untimely.
 
Plaintiff filed its Opposition on October 1, 2024, eight court
days prior to the hearing. This
opposition is untimely. (CCP §1005(b) (Papers opposing a motion must be filed
and served at least nine court days before the hearing).)
 
However,
a court may properly consider papers that are not timely filed pursuant to CCP
section 1005(b) unless “substantial rights” are affected.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1300(d); Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)  The appearance of a party
at the hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to the motion on the
merits is a waiver of any procedural defects or irregularities in a motion.
 (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697.)
 
The Court elects to exercise its discretion to consider the
untimely opposition. (CRC 3.1300(d).) 
 
C.      Procedural
Deficiency – Timeliness of Motions to Compel Further Responses
 
Before discussing the merits of Defendants’ Motions, the Court
first addresses the procedural issues with Defendants’ Motions. 
 
The parties dispute as to whether the instant Motions to Compel
Further Responses were timely filed. 
 
“Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response
to the interrogatories.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(c).¿“[T]he time limitations set forth
in section 2030 and section 2034, subdivision (a) [are] mandatory and [when]
not met, the trial court's order is in excess of its jurisdiction.”¿(Vidal
Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)
 
Plaintiffs David and Myra served their responses to Defendants’ Request for Production, Set One, Request for Admissions,
Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, on April 22, 2024 and April 24,
2024. Since Plaintiffs’ responses only contained objections, their
responses were not required to be verified. Responses that only contain
objections
need not be verified under oath. (Golf & Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127; CCP § 2030.250(a); CCP §
2031.250(a); CCP § 2033.240(a).) Therefore,
Defendants were
required to bring their motions to compel within the 45-day time limit
specified in CCP § 2030.300(c), CCP §
2031.310(c) and § 2033.290(c) or within such time as the parties agreed in
writing.
 
Here, the parties do not dispute that they had agreed in writing to
two extensions of time and that the deadline for Defendants’ motions to compel
were August 5, 2024. (Eisemann Decl., Exhibit U, X.)
 
Defendants assert that on August 5, 2024, Defendants’ counsel
reached out to Plaintiffs’ counsel to request a third extension to file their
motions to compel. Defendants’ counsel was unsuccessful in obtaining an
extension. 
 
Therefore, Defendants contend that at 11:55 p.m. on August 5,
2024, they filed: (1) a general Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses that
included a combined notice of motion for all six motions to compel, (2) a
supporting declaration with exhibits, and (3) a Separate Statement in support
of Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses by Myra Weiss to Special
Interrogatories, Set One. (Eisemann Decl., ¶¶ 45-49.) Due to technical
difficulties, Defendants’ counsel was unable to upload the separate statements
as to any of the other motions to compel before the August 5, 2024 deadline. (Ibid.)
The next day, Defendants’ counsel states that the Clerk rejected Defendants’
filings because the original reservation number under which they had been filed
had been cancelled several months earlier, three days after the reservation was
made. (Eisemann Decl., ¶ 50.) Defendants’ counsel states he had been unaware
that reservations expire if associated motions are not filed within three days
of making the reservation. (Ibid.) Defendants attempted to file four full
motions to compel the next day, but they were rejected as well. (Ibid.) Finally,
Defendants refiled their Motion to Compel Further Responses to Myra’s Special
Interrogatories on August 12, 2024 and the amended motion on August 20, 2024.
Defendants filed their five other separate motions to compel further responses
on August 23, 2024. 
 
Defendants assert that their motions should be considered timely
filed because despite the Clerk’s rejection of the initial filings on August 5,
2024, documents shall still be considered filed as of the date and time they
are electronically transmitted. In support, Defendants cite to the following:
 
“California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 provides: “’Electronic filing’ means the
electronic transmission to a court of a document presented for filing in
electronic form. For purposes of this section, this definition of electronic
filing concerns the activity of filing and does not include the processing and
review of the document and its entry into the court's records, which are
necessary for a document to be officially filed.” Id. § (a)(1)(D). 
 
Section
1010.6(e)(3) provides that “[a]ny document received electronically by the court
between 12:00 a.m. and 11:59:59 p.m. on a court day shall be deemed filed on
that court day.” 
 
Rule 1.20 of
the California Rules of Court, entitled “Effective Date of Filing,” provides:
“Unless otherwise provided, a document is deemed filed on the date it is
received by the court clerk.” (emphasis added).”
 
However, the Court does not find Defendants’ argument persuasive.
As California Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 states, for a document to
be officially filed, it includes the processing and review of the document and
its entry into the court’s records. Here, none of Defendants’ motions were
entered into the court’s records on August 5, 2024. The provisions that
Defendants’ rely on do not specifically support their position. Defendants do
not establish that the Clerk’s receipt and subsequent rejection of documents
without a valid reservation number would constitute an electronic filing. 
 
Moreover, Defendants did not file all six of their complete
Motions to Compel Further Responses until August 23, 2024. While Defendants
argue that the Notice of Motion that they attempted to file on August 5, 2024
provided sufficient detail to provide notice of the six motions to compel, the
Court disagrees. The single, combined motion and notice of motion should have
been submitted as separate motions for the RFPs, special interrogatories, RFAs
and as to each Plaintiff. While there
is no specific provision of law that, in so many words, requires separate
motions for each, Code of Civil Procedure 1003 provides: “ Every direction of a
court or judge, made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is
denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.” Additionally, motions
under Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.290, §2030.300 and §2031.310 each require separate statements. The effect is
to require that each request for further response to RFPs, RFAs or special
interrogatories, requires a separate motion as a matter of course, as the moving
party is requesting relief as to a specific and distinct discovery request. Here,
Defendants’ single motion attempted to combine multiple motions into one. Due
process and basic fairness requires that each party against whom relief is
sought is adequately appraised of the relief sought against them in separate
motions in order to prevent inequitable and unjust results. The Court does
not find Defendants’ single motion provided sufficient notice.
 
Thus, the Court does not find that the instant Motions to Compel
Further Responses were timely filed. Based on this procedural deficiency, the
Court DENIES Defendants’ Motions. 
 
DISPOSITION
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel David E. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel Myra L. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel David E. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for
Admissions, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel Myra L. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for
Admissions, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel David E. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for
Production, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
Motion to Compel Myra L. Weiss to Provide Further Responses to Request for
Production, Set One, and for an award of sanctions.  