  Case Number:  22GDCV00480    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULING
 
Calendar:         5                                              
Date:                                                                                       8/16/2024                    
Case No:                                                                                 22
GDCV00480                     Trial Date:       None Set 

Case Name:                                                                             Conn v. Hudson Insurance Company                         
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:           
 Plaintiff Shannon L. Conn   
Responding Party:       Defendant
Hudson Insurance Company 
RELIEF REQUESTED:         
             Order striking defendant Hudson Insurance
Company’s answer
 Monetary sanctions in the sum of $4,550.00  
SUMMARY OF FACTS:
Plaintiff Shannon Conn alleges that
in January of 2016, plaintiff entered into a Residential Purchase/Sale
Agreement for the purchase of real property in Magalia, California, and that in
February of 2016, the sellers agreed to make repairs to the subject property,
including repairing the sinks and windows. 
Plaintiff was assured that no leaks were found in the master bathroom,
but in April of 2016, shortly after plaintiff moved into the subject property,
plaintiff discovered leaks and water intrusion.
Plaintiff alleges that in May of
2016 she hired Jim E. Hale dba Jim E. Hale B General Contractor and Plumbing
Contractor to inspect and resolve the defects in the subject property.   Hale represented that he had repaired the
leak, but the leak in fact remained unrepaired, and caused water intrusion and
mold growth. 
Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff
hired numerous contractors to repair and abate the leaks and became ill. 
In May of 2017, plaintiff filed a
complaint for damages against Hale in the Superior Court of California, County
of Butte.  On May 23, 2022, the court
entered judgment against Hale in favor of plaintiff in the sum of
$15,000.00. 
The FAC alleges that at all times
mentioned, Hale, as a licensed contractor, was required to be bonded, and was
bonded through defendant Hudson Insurance Company (Hudson Insurance).  Plaintiff alleges that in July of 2022
plaintiff contacted defendant Hudson Insurance to recover against Hale’s
contractor bond, but on July 20, 2022, defendant denied any claim by plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges that she has been harmed by
defendant’s unjustified refusal to recognize and pay plaintiff’s asserted
claim.
The file shows that on March 17,
2023, at a hearing on a demurrer and motion to strike with respect to
defendant’s first amended answer, the court issued a stay in this case.   The minute order states, “The Court hereby
stays the case in its entirety, with the exception of filing a Responsive
Pleading as ordered in today’s tentative ruling.” 
The subject responsive pleading,
the Second Amended Answer, was filed on March 24, 2023.  
On October
3, 2023, at a Case Management Conference and Status Conference Re: Stay, the
court indicated that it had read and considered the Declaration filed by
counsel re: status of case in Butte County, and, after conferring with counsel,
ordered, “The Stay issued in this case remains in effect.” 
            On March 6, 2024, at a Case
Management Conference, the court ordered, “Stay remains in place.”
            On May 7, 2024, at a Case Management Conference, the court
lifted the stay in the case, and ordered plaintiff to give notice.  On May 7, 2024, plaintiff filed and served a
Notice of Ruling at Case Management Conference, reflecting that “the Court
lifts the stay in the case.” 
            The day before the stay was lifted,
on May 6, 2024, defendant Hudson Insurance filed and served a motion for
summary judgment, setting a hearing date for July 19, 2024.  Plaintiff filed timely opposition to the
motion for summary judgment.
            At the hearing on July 19, 2024, the
court issued a tentative ruling via posting on LACourt.org website, which was
to not consider the motion.  There was no
appearance for either side, and the court adopted its tentative ruling and made
the rulings its final orders.  The
court’s ruling was that the motion was not considered by the court, as the
motion was improperly filed while a stay of the action in its entirety was in
place, and on the additional ground that defendant had acknowledged that the
motion was not served on sufficient notice. 
            The court also ordered the
reimposition of the complete stay in this matter, effective July 19, 2024,
staying discovery propounded and all other matters served, exchanged or noticed
during the period from May 7, 2024 to July 18, 2024, with the limited exception
of the statutorily permitted briefing and hearing on this motion for sanctions.               

ANALYSIS:
            Plaintiff
Shannon Conn indicates in the notice of motion that plaintiff moves this court
pursuant to CCP sections 128 and 128.5 for an order striking defendant Hudson
Insurance’s answer, arguing that defendant prematurely filed a motion for
summary judgment prior to the court lifting the stay in this matter, and that,
furthermore, the motion was not timely served, making it a frivolous motion.  
 
Plaintiff
also requests that the court have Hudson Insurance answer for its intentional
disobedience of three court orders staying this matter by reimbursing plaintiff
the attorneys’ fees and costs incurred due to the disobedience of those orders.  The motion seeks the fees incurred by
plaintiff in responding to Hudson Insurance’s motion for summary judgment, in
the sum of $4,550.00.  [Spelger Decl.,
paras. 12, 13].  
            Plaintiff quotes from CCP section
128, as follows: 
“(a)
Every court shall have the power to do all of the following:
(1)
To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence.
(2) To enforce order in the proceedings before
it, or before a person or persons empowered to conduct a judicial investigation
under its authority.
(3) To provide for the orderly conduct of
proceedings before it, or its officers.
(4) To compel obedience to its judgments,
orders, and process, and to the orders of a judge out of court, in an action or
proceeding pending therein.
(5) To control in furtherance of justice, the
conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner
connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining
thereto.
CCP section 128
(a)(1)-(5).
            Plaintiff emphasizes the court’s
power “to compel obedience to its judgment, orders…”  CCP section 128 (a)(4). 
            The statute goes on to address
orders of contempt and does not include an express provision for the imposition
of sanctions.   There is no request for
an order of contempt here, and it is not clear how the striking of an answer
would compel obedience to the court’s orders staying the action. 
            Plaintiff also relies on CCP section
128.5, which provides, in pertinent part:   
(a) A trial court may order a party,
the party's attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics,
made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay. This section also applies to judicial arbitration proceedings under
Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) of Title 3 of Part 3.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Actions or tactics” include, but
are not limited to, the making or opposing of motions or the filing and service
of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading. The mere
filing of a complaint without service thereof on an opposing party does not
constitute “actions or tactics” for purposes of this section.
(2) “Frivolous” means totally and
completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party.
(c) Expenses pursuant to this section
shall not be imposed except on notice contained in a party's moving or
responding papers or, on the court's own motion, after notice and opportunity
to be heard. An order imposing expenses shall be in writing and shall recite in
detail the action or tactic or circumstances justifying the order.”
As an initial matter, to the extent
plaintiff relies on this section, plaintiff has not followed the appropriate
procedures for making a motion under this section.  Although CCP § 128.5, in contrast to CCP §
128.7, does not uniformly require the provision of a safe harbor, the statute
includes a provision evidently intended to prevent motions which should be
brought under §128.7 with the safe harbor requirement from being brought under
§128.5 to avoid this requirement.
            The statute
provides, in pertinent part, at CCP § 128.5 (f):
“(f) Sanctions ordered pursuant to this
section shall be ordered pursuant to the following conditions and procedures:…
(1) If, after notice and a reasonable
opportunity to respond, the court issues an order pursuant to subdivision (a),
the court may, subject to the conditions stated below, impose an appropriate
sanction upon the party, the party's attorneys, or both, for an action or
tactic described in subdivision (a). In determining
what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider whether a
party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence….

(B) If the alleged action or
tactic is the making or opposing of a written motion or the filing
and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive
pleading that can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, a notice of
motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with
or presented to the court, unless 21 days after service of the motion or any
other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged action or tactic is not
withdrawn or appropriately corrected.”
            This motion
is addressed to the making of a written motion which could have been withdrawn,
the motion for summary judgment heard on July 19, 2023.  The motion for sanctions accordingly should
have been served prior to the hearing on that motion, as it was (on July 3,
2024), but then not filed until 21 days later to permit that motion for summary
judgment to be withdrawn.   However, the
file shows the motion was filed on July 3, 2024, the same day of service.  The 21-day safe harbor was not permitted, and
this fact is pointed out in the opposition. 
The defect is not directly addressed by plaintiff in the reply.  The motion is denied on this ground. 
This outcome appears particularly
appropriate here, as counsel for Hudson Insurance explains that the
misunderstanding concerning the scope of the stay and the sufficiency of notice
first came to his attention when plaintiff served the opposition papers to the
motion for summary judgment, and counsel promptly acknowledged the procedural
error and sought to meet and confer to correct the problem and address
plaintiff’s concerns.  [Humphrey Decl.,
paras. 7-9].   The opposition indicates that plaintiff’s
counsel chose not to informally resolve the issues and points out that under
CCP section 128.5 (f)(1), set forth above, “In determining what sanctions, if
any, should be ordered, the court shall consider whether a party seeking
sanctions has exercised due diligence.” 
[Humphrey Decl., paras. 7-11].  The
reply argues that due diligence was exercised by the notices of ruling filed
and served by plaintiff but does not address the failure to bring the issues
forward in a motion for sanctions which permitted the opportunity to withdraw
the motion for summary judgment.  The
motion properly is denied on these grounds. 
            Even were
the court to consider the request for sanctions, the court would not strike
defendant’s answer under the circumstances presented here.  While the court does not condone defendant’s
conduct in filing a motion while a complete stay of the action was in effect,
in violation of several court orders, and defendant’s failing to bring a motion
for summary judgment on sufficient notice without a stipulation of the other
party, the court is also mindful that plaintiff has obtained the relief she
argues she was entitled to here, as the court did not in fact consider the
motion for summary judgment based on similar arguments made by plaintiff in
this motion.  The court is also concerned
that striking defendant’s answer, in effect, granting a terminating sanction in
favor of plaintiff without determining the matter on its merits, would be
greatly disproportionate to the conduct of filing a motion prematurely one day
before a stay was lifted, and failing by only a few days to give sufficient
notice of the motion.   
Moreover, as pointed out in the
opposition, and discussed in more detail below, plaintiff has failed to provide
clear statutory authority in support of a request to strike Hudson Insurance’s
answer under the circumstances. 
With respect to the request for the
costs of opposing the summary judgment motion, the court again notes that the
lapse in the 75 day notice period was a matter of a few days, and during the
lengthy period the motion was pending, and the stay had been lifted, plaintiff
had ample opportunity to file a motion for sanctions permitting the 21 day safe
harbor before opposition to the motion was due, as required under statute, or
to otherwise seek ex parte relief from the court so that plaintiff could have
avoided the expense of preparing opposition to the motion for summary judgment
on its merits.  Defendant argues in the
opposition that in any case, the time and effort spent preparing the opposition
will not have been wasted, as defendant intends to seek leave of court to file
a motion for summary judgment on the defense of res judicata, and plaintiff
will undoubtedly oppose the motion.  Under
these circumstances, the court does not award monetary sanctions under this
section.  
The moving papers also appear to seek relief under CRC Rule
2.30, which provides, in pertinent part:
“(a) Application
This sanctions rule applies to the rules in the
California Rules of Court relating to general civil cases, unlawful
detainer cases, probate proceedings, civil proceedings in the appellate
division of the superior court, and small claims cases. 

(b) Sanctions In addition to any other sanctions permitted
by law, the court may order a person, after written notice and an opportunity
to be heard, to pay reasonable monetary sanctions to the court or an aggrieved
person, or both, for failure without good cause to comply with the applicable
rules. For the purposes of this rule, "person" means a party, a
party's attorney, a witness, and an insurer or any other individual or entity
whose consent is necessary for the disposition of the case. If a failure to
comply with an applicable rule is the responsibility of counsel and not of the
party, any penalty must be imposed on counsel and must not adversely affect the
party's cause of action or defense thereto. 

(c) Notice and procedure Sanctions must not be imposed under
this rule except on noticed motion by the party seeking sanctions or on the
court's own motion after the court has provided notice and an opportunity to be
heard. A party's motion for sanctions must (1) state the applicable rule that
has been violated, (2) describe the specific conduct that is alleged to have
violated the rule, and (3) identify the attorney, law firm, party, witness, or
other person against whom sanctions are sought. The court on its own motion may
issue an order to show cause that must (1) state the applicable rule that has
been             violated, (2) describe
the specific conduct that appears to have violated the rule, and (3) direct the
attorney, law firm, party, witness, or other person to show cause why sanctions
should not be imposed against them for violation of the rule.
(d) Award
of expenses In addition to the sanctions awardable under (b), the court may
order the person who has violated an applicable rule to pay to the party
aggrieved by the violation that party's reasonable expenses, including
reasonable attorney's fees and costs, incurred in
connection with the motion for sanctions or the order to show cause.”
            This rule
is not mentioned in the notice of motion, which only seeks relief under CCP
sections 128 and 128.5, giving rise to due process concerns. 
In any case, as pointed out in the
opposition, the motion itself fails to state any rule that has been violated;
the only California Rule of Court mentioned in the motion is Rule 2.30.  There is no mention of any other rule in the
California Rules of Court which is alleged to have been violated.  The statute requires that a motion “must”
“state the applicable rule that has been violated.”  CRC Rule 2.30 expressly applies to “the rules
in the California Rules of Court” relating to general civil cases such as this
one.  CRC Rule 2.30 (a).  The
rule does not apply to the Code of Civil Procedure, or to local rules, so any
reference to such provisions could not support an order under Rule 2.30.  There is no California Rule of Court at
issue here, and no authority cited under which CRC Rule 2.30 can be used to
impose sanctions for the failure to comply with any rule other than one
included in the California Rules of Court. 
There is no statement in
the motion of the “applicable rule that has been violated” to which Rule 2.30
would apply, as required under subdivision (c), and the court is accordingly not
in a position to order “the person who has violated an applicable rule” to pay expenses
under subdivision (d).  The motion
fails to comply with the mandatory statutory requirements.  This point is not addressed in the reply, and
plaintiff fails to point to any California Rule of Court which it is claimed
has been violated. 
In addition, as noted above, the
motion seeks as monetary sanctions the attorney’s fees expended by plaintiff to
prepare opposition to the motion for summary judgment.   However, although not cited by the parties, case
law strictly construes the statutory language of CRC Rule 2.30 and holds that
attorneys’ fees are recoverable for a violation only in connection with fees “incurred
in connection with the motion for sanctions for filing the motion for
sanctions.” CRC Rule 2.30 (d); Sino Century Development Limited. v. Farley
(2012 2nd Dist.) 211 Cal.App.4th 688, 698 (“Rule 2.30(d)
authorizes the court to award reasonable attorney fees incurred in connection
with the motion for sanctions, not attorney fees incurred as a result of the
rule violation.”)
            There are
no sanctions sought here for the preparation of the motion for sanctions, only
for the preparation of the opposition to the motion for summary judgment.  [See Spelger Decl., paras. 12, 13].  Plaintiff has failed to establish entitlement
to sanctions under Rule 2.30. 
 
Plaintiff
also appears to seek sanctions under the Los Angeles Superior Court local
rules, citing LASC Rule 3.10, which provides: 

“The court may impose appropriate sanctions
for the failure or refusal to comply with the rules in this chapter, including
the time standards and/or deadlines, and any court order made pursuant to the
rules. Counsel are directed to Code of Civil Procedure sections 128, 128.7,
177.5, 575.2, 583.150, 583.430, 2016.010-2036.050, Government Code section
68608, and California Rules of Court, rule 2.30.  The sanctions may be imposed on a party and,
if appropriate, on counsel for that party.” 
 
            Again, the notice of motion does not
refer to this Rule, giving rise to due process concerns.  In addition, as pointed out in the
opposition, similarly to the request under the California Rules of Court, this motion does not refer to any LASC Rule other than
Rule 3.10 to establish that there has been a “failure or refusal to comply with
the rules in this chapter,” as required under the rule.  There is no specific local rule
referenced which, for example, prohibits filing motions when a stay is in place,
or prohibits filing motions on insufficient notice.  There is no rule cited pursuant to which the
stay order was entered by the court.  Again, the reply does not address this issue,
or point to any separate local rule which plaintiff claims has been
violated.   
            The motion accordingly is denied in
its entirety.            
RULING:
Plaintiff Shannon Conn’s Motion for Sanctions Against
Defendant Hudson Insurance Company is DENIED.
Relief is sought in the notice of motion under CCP section
128 and 128.5.  Plaintiff has failed to
establish that relief is available under either section.  Specifically, the motion is based on the
conduct of defendant and counsel in making a written motion for summary
judgment while a stay was in place and making such a motion on insufficient
notice.  This written motion for summary
judgment could have been withdrawn, but the motion for sanctions was filed
without having provided the required 21-day safe harbor period required under
CCP § 128.5 (f)(1)(B). 
To the extent sanctions are
requested pursuant to CRC Rule 2.30, such relief is not sought in the notice of
motion, and the moving and reply papers fail to cite to any rule in the
California Rules of Court with which defendant has failed to comply, pursuant
to which sanctions or expenses under Rule 2.30 may be order awarded. Plaintiff
has also not sought the expenses authorized to be awarded under Rule 2.30.  

 
To the extent sanctions are
requested pursuant to LASC Rule 3.10, such relief is not sought in the notice
of motion, and the moving and reply papers fail to refer to any LASC Rule other
than Rule 3.10 to establish that there has been a “failure or refusal to comply
with the rules in this chapter,” as required under the rule.    
DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING
TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES 
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED.
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative.      