  Case Number:  23TRCV02045    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CHARLES
  EVANS, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02045
  




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ZELTA
  SILEY, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 9, 2025
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant/Cross-Complainant Zelta Siley
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Charles Evans
Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This case
was filed June 26, 2023 as a complaint to quiet title, for trespass, and for
injunctive relief.  On September 13, 2023,
Defendant Zelta Siley filed her Cross-Complaint alleging four causes of action,
1) quiet title to easement (prescription), 2) injunctive relief, 3) declaratory
relief, and 4) violation of Civil Code section 841.  
 
The
parties are next-door neighbors.  In
April of 2022, Defendant tore down a brick planter box located on Plaintiff’s
property.  (Opp., Evans Decl. ¿¿ 1, 2, 3.)  Defendant then built a tall block wall where
the eastern edge of the planter was.  (Id.)  The new wall is completely on Plaintiff’s
property.  (Opp., Coffey Decl., ¿ 5.)  Plaintiff alleges that the new wall is a
nuisance as it does not allow Plaintiff to open his car door when he is parked
in his driveway.  (Opp., Evans Decl., ¿
1.)  Defendant argues that she was entitled
to modify the wall and planter box on Plaintiff’s property as she has a
prescriptive easement as her use of the planter from 2005 to 2022 was open,
notorious, exclusive, and continuous. 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant cannot establish a prescriptive
easement, as the new wall built in 2022 is significantly different from the
original planter in size and use, and therefore Defendant does not have five
years of continuous use.
            
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Summary Judgment/Adjudication 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to
enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.¿(Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843). In analyzing such
motions, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley¿v.¿Oakshade¿Town
Center¿(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294).¿ Thus, summary judgment or summary
adjudication is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence
set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable
issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.¿(CCP § 437c(c);¿Villa v.¿McFarren¿(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741).¿¿ 
¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the party¿moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential
element.¿(Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1520). Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”¿(Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389). A
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication must be denied where the
moving party's evidence does not prove all material facts, even in the absence
of any opposition or where the opposition is weak.¿(See¿Leyva v. Superior
Court¿(1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475;¿Salesguevara¿v. Wyeth
Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Once the¿moving¿party has met the
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party¿to show via specific facts that
a triable issue of material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense
thereto.¿(CCP § 437c(o)(2)).¿ When¿a¿party¿cannot¿establish an essential
element or defense, a court must grant a motion for summary adjudication.¿(CCP
§ 437c(o)(1)-(2)).¿¿ 
 
Defendant contends that undisputed
material facts establish that Defendant is entitled to a prescriptive easement
which quiets title to the wall at issue in favor of Defendant, and therefore confirm
that Defendant is entitled to permanent injunctive relief preventing Plaintiff
from interfering with her easement property rights and a declaration that Defendant
has an undisputed property right in the wall via prescriptive easement.  Defendant also alleges that Plaintiff
violated Cal. Civ. Code section 841 by failing to contribute equally to the
cost of maintenance and repairs to the wall.
 
 Legal Standard for Prescriptive Easement
 
“Adverse possession is a means to
acquire ownership of land,” or in other words, obtain exclusive title to real
property.¿ (Silacci v. Abramson (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 558, 562.)¿ “By
comparison, an easement is merely a right to use the land of another.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
“ ‘An easement creates a nonpossessory right to enter and use land in another’s
possession, and obligates the possessor [of the land] not to interfere with the
uses authorized by the easement.’ [Citation.]”¿ (Main Street Plaza v.
Cartwright & Main, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1044,1053.)¿
 
The elements for a prescriptive
easement are: (1) the claimant’s continuous and uninterrupted use of the
property for the statutory period of five years; (2) the use has been open and
notorious; (3) hostile or adverse to the true owner; and (4) under a claim of
right. (Hansen v. Sandridge Partners, L.P. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1020,
1032-1033.) The party seeking to establish a prescriptive easement has the
burden of proof by clear and convincing evidence because there is no policy
favoring establishing prescriptive easements. (Grant v. Ratliff (2008)
164 Cal.App.4th 1304, 1310.)  Additionally,
“if the prescriptive interest sought by a claimant is so comprehensive as to
supply the equivalent of an estate, the claimant must establish the elements of
adverse possession, not those of a prescriptive easement.”  (Hansen, supra, 22 Cal. App. 5th at 1033
[citation omitted].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            In Defendant’s Separate
Statement, Defendant lists twenty-eight undisputed facts, of which Plaintiff
disputes 19, including numbers 5 through 11, 13, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, and 23
through 28.  The crux of Defendant’s
argument is that her actions in tearing down the planter and building a new
wall on Plaintiff’s property were proper as undisputed facts show that she has
a prescriptive easement on the Plaintiff’s property.  In support of her claim for prescriptive
easement, Defendant alleges that her use of “the wall” on Plaintiff’s property
has been ongoing and continuous since 2005 (UMF #6), that the use was open and conspicuous
(UMF #7), that her use was hostile and adverse to Plaintiff, the true owner
(UMF #8), and that her use was under a claim of right (UMF # 11.)  To establish her undisputed facts, Defendant
cites to her own declaration as well as others she has submitted from her
attorney and her longtime friends and family regarding her diligent use of the
planter.  As to the original
planter/wall, it appears that Defendant has shown material facts that she might
be entitled to a prescriptive easement and the burden now shifts to Plaintiff.
 
            However,
Plaintiff’s opposition argues that Defendant cannot have a prescriptive
easement on the new wall, as it was built in 2022, and has a different location
and use than the previous iteration. 
Plaintiff notes that the previous iteration of the low wall allowed him
to open his car door when his car was parked on his driveway, but Defendant’s
new wall does not, causing a nuisance to him. 
Plaintiff repeatedly points to Defendant’s deposition testimony which
states not only that the new wall was built in 2022, but that it is not in the
same orientation as the prior planter.  (DMF, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 18, 24, 26, and
27.)  This creates several material facts
that are in dispute – such as what is the exact physical description of any
area that should be quieted title for Plaintiff, or alternatively for which
Defendant should be given a prospective easement.  Further, Defendant provides declarations
regarding Defendant’s ongoing use of the original planter and alleging that no
permission was given by Plaintiff as to this original area, which are also
disputed by Plaintiff in his declaration. 
(UMF, #8.)  
Further, Plaintiff
disputes that the current iteration of the “wall” constitutes the same
dimensions, presenting evidence in the form of his own declaration, with
written letters between the parties, and the Defendant’s own deposition, that
there was possibly some permission given, but not to the 2022 construction.  This case resembles Hansen, supra, in
that Defendant appears to be seeking a prescriptive easement to use this land
as a border wall for security, and to the exclusion of Plaintiff.  Previously, Defendant maintained the planter
box essentially for beautification of the property.  Pursuant to Hansen, this court should
look to the extent which the Plaintiff would still be able to use the disputed
land for any “practical purpose.”  (Hansen,
at 1034.)  Plaintiff asserts that he can
no longer use that portion of his driveway for his car as he cannot open the
driver’s side door.  (Opposition, Evans
Decl. ¿ 1.)
            Because
Defendant has not shown undisputed facts that she has enjoyed continuous and uninterrupted use of
the property for the statutory period of five years, as the new construction
was only built in 2022 and has not been shown to have been in the same location
as the original planter, the motion for summary judgement is DENIED.
 
As to Defendant’s request for
summary adjudication, Defendant’s claims for injunctive relief, declaratory
relief, and violation of Civil Code
section 841 fail as they are derived from the cause of action to quiet
title, which also fails, as described above.
 
ORDER
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
motion for summary judgment/adjudication is denied.
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.