 Case Number:  24PSCV01437    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  H           Pimentel
v. Rentokil North America, Inc., et al., Case No. 24PSCV01437


ORDER ON MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION


Defendants Rentokil North America, Inc. and Richard Thongsavanh’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The
case is ordered stayed, pending completion of the arbitration.
I.        Background
In this wrongful termination
case, plaintiff Jose Antonio Pimentel (“Pimentel”) has sued his former
employer, Rentokil North America, Inc. (“Rentokil”), and his former manager,
Richard Thongsavanh (“Thongsavanh”) (together, “Defendants”), in connection
with Pimentel’s brain cancer diagnosis. Specifically, Pimentel’s complaint alleges
that before being diagnosed with cancer, he worked as a pest control technician
for Rentokil but never received the proper training for the handling of
hazardous chemicals, even though his manager falsely certified that Pimentel
had received the requisite training. Pimentel further alleges that after being
diagnosed with cancer and while he was undergoing chemotherapy, Rentokil
unlawfully discriminated against him and terminated him based on his medical
condition.  
On
August 5, 2024, Guadalupe Pimentel (“G. Pimentel” or “Plaintiff”) was
substituted in as Plaintiff pursuant to a motion granted by the Court.
Plaintiff’s First Amendment
Complaint asserts several causes of
action against Rentokil, Thongsavanh, and Does 1 through 10, including, among
others, discrimination, retaliation, wrongful termination, failure to provide
overtime wages, unlawful and unfair business practices, and negligent hiring,
supervising, and retention. 
Pending
before the Court is Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and stay all
further proceedings pending completion of arbitration. For the reasons stated
herein, the motion is granted. 
II.      Legal Standard 
“A written provision in . . . a
contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
controversy thereafter arising out of such contract . . . or an agreement in
writing to submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a
contract. . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. . .”
(9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
“A party seeking to compel arbitration has the burden
under the FAA to show (1) the existence of a valid, written agreement to
arbitrate; and, if it exists, (2) that the agreement to arbitrate encompasses
the dispute at issue.” (Ashbey v.
Archstone Property Management, Inc. (2015) 785 F.3d 1320, 1323.)
III.     Discussion
Defendants move the Court for an
order compelling binding arbitration of all of Plaintiff’s claims and staying
all further judicial proceedings pending completion of arbitration.
A.       Evidentiary Objections 
The Court
rules on Defendants’ evidentiary objections as follows: Sustained as to Nos. 1-6
and overruled as to No. 7. 
The Court
rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as follows: Sustained as to No. 4
and Sustained as to No. 7 in part (i.e., as to the phrase “To ensure that all
mailings were promptly received by the proper Rentokil employee” only) and overruled
as to Nos. 1-3, 5, 6 and 8, and No. 7 in part. 
B.       Business and Professions Code Section
17918 
At the
outset, the Court addresses Plaintiff’s contention that Defendants’ motion is
barred by Business and Professions Code section 17918, on the basis that Rentokil’s
fictitious business name, “Western Exterminator Company,” was never registered.
“Section
17918 provides. . . that where a party transacts business under a fictitious business
name, the party may not ‘maintain any action upon or on account of any contract
made, or transaction had, in the fictitious business name in any court of this
state until the fictitious business name statement has been executed, filed,
and published as required by this chapter.’” (Villareal v. LAD-T, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 446, 457.) “Although
the requirement for a fictitious business statement ordinarily applies to bar a
plaintiff from maintaining an action on a contract in the name of a fictitious
business, the requirement similarly applies to motions to compel arbitration
because ‘[a] proceeding to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to
compel specific performance of a contract.’” (Id. at 457.) 
Plaintiff
points out that Defendants’ counsel produced a Fictitious Business Name
Statement with a June 5, 2024 filing date (“June 5, 2024 Statement”) for
“Western Exterminators” but not “Western Exterminator Company,” which
improperly reflects a residential address as the principal place of business
and incorrectly lists the “date registrant commenced to transact business under
the fictitious name” as  “N/A.” (J. Govea
Decl., ¶ 11, Exh. J.) In response, Defendants explain that (1) the June 5, 2024
Statement was prepared by former employee, Teresa Gifford, who worked remotely
and listed her residential address and “-LEGAL,” from where she worked
full-time, as Rentokil’s street address (Thaggard Decl., ¶¶ 3-8, Exh. 1); (2)
Rentokil uses its brand names “Western Exterminators” and “Western Exterminator
Company” in California interchangeable (Id.,
¶ 11); (3) Rentokil maintains a City of Los Angeles Tax Registration
Certificate in the name of “Rentokil North America Inc.,” as well as a City of
Santa Monica Business License Certificate in the business names of “Western
Exterminator Company” and “Rentokil North America Inc.” (Id., ¶¶ 9 and 10, Exhs. 2 and 3) and that (4) on December 31, 2024,
Rentokil submitted an amended Fictitious Business Name Statement (“December 31,
2024 Statement”) identifying both “Western Exterminators” and “Western
Exterminator Company” as Rentokil’s fictitious business names. (Id., ¶ 12, Exh. 4.) The December 31,
2024 Statement further reflects that the “date registrant commenced to transact
business under the fictitious name” has been corrected from “N/A” to “09/2012.”
(Id.) 
The Court
agrees with Defendants’ position that the motion should not be denied on this
basis, even if Rentokil had not properly filed a Fictitious Business Name
Statement until December 31, 2024, because any such deficiency has been
adequately corrected by the December 31, 2024 Statement. (Villareal, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at 457 [“Failure to comply with
the fictitious-name statutes does not make the parties’ promises, agreements,
and transactions invalid as such. Noncompliance merely prevents a fictitiously
named business from enforcing obligations owed to it until it places on record
its true nature and ownership”]; see also, Templeton
Action Committee v. County of San Luis Obispo (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 427,
432 [the “sole penalty” for failure to comply “is a bar from maintaining an
action on contracts made in the fictitious business name until the statement is
filed”].)
C.       Meet and Confer 
Next, the
Court addresses Plaintiff’s argument that Defendants failed to meet and confer
prior to filing the instant motion. As an initial matter, the Court is not
aware of any statutory requirement mandating that a meet and confer be
conducted. 
Regardless,
the Court notes that Defendants’ counsel provided Plaintiff’s counsel with
numerous documents and information prior to filing the instant motion,
including Plaintiff’s personnel records, Rentokil’s fictitious business name
registration, Plaintiff’s training completion record, and an explanation of the
onboarding process by which Rentokil employees logged into Rentokil’s online
human resources system (“UKG”). (Jackson Decl., ¶ 4, 2:22-23, 3:16-20.) Defendants’
counsel averred in his declaration accompanying the motion that Plaintiff’s
counsel advised that Plaintiff’s spouse and mothers were “confident that
Plaintiff would not write his name the way it appears on the [Employment
Agreement],” but did not provide any further explanation. (Id., ¶ 4, 3:7-9 and ¶ 5.)
Accordingly,
the Court rejects Plaintiff’s meet and confer argument and will proceed to the
merits of the motion.
D.      Merits 
 
           (1)      Existence
of Agreement to Arbitrate
Defendants contend, and
Plaintiff does not dispute, that the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies
here.
“Under both federal and state
law, the threshold question presented by a petition to compel arbitration is
whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.” (Cheng-Canindin v. Renaissance Hotel Associates (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
676, 683; Van Ness Townhouses v. Mar
Industries Corp. (1988) 862 F.2d 754, 756 [the “threshold inquiry is
whether the parties agreed to arbitrate”].)  
“[C]ourts generally apply state
law principles governing the formation of contracts when deciding whether an
agreement to arbitrate exists in the first instance.” (Sellers v. JustAnswer LLC (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444, 462, fn. 4.) The
essential elements of a contract are (1) parties capable of contracting, (2)
their consent, (3) a lawful object and (4) a sufficient cause or consideration.
(Civ. Code § 1550.) 
Defendants seek to compel
arbitration based on a “Mutual Arbitration Agreement and Class Action Waiver” provision
(the “Arbitration Agreement”) contained within his Employment Agreement, which
they assert now-deceased former Plaintiff Jose Antonio Pimentel (“Pimentel”) electronically
signed on October 5, 2022. (Alson Decl., ¶ 14, Exh. 4.) Rentokil
Onboarding/Pre-Hire Specialist Edith Alson (“Alson”) explains that (1) in
October 2022, Rentokil used an on-line application system known as ICIMS and a
human resources information system known as UKG (Alson Decl., ¶¶ 6-7), (2) she
launched the onboarding process for Pimentel (Id., ¶ 8), (3) before launching Pimentel’s onboarding, she
confirmed that Pimentel had completed all the information in his ICIMS account
(Id., ¶ 10), (4) a copy of the
sign-in screen for Pimentel’s ICIMS account showed that he created the account
under the name “Jose A Pimentel” and provided jose.pimentelperez@hotmail.com as
an email address (Id., ¶ 10, Exh. 2),
(5) when she launched Pimentel’s onboarding, the UKG system sent him an email
to the email address listed in ICIMS, which contained a link to the onboarding
page in UKG and a unique login and instructed Jose that he would need to create
a unique password when he first accessed UKG (Id., ¶ 11), (6) Pimentel logged into UKG on October 5, 2022. Once
logged in, the system provided a list of documents Pimentel would need to
review and acknowledge or sign, with a link to each document. Once a document
link is clicked, the UKG system pulls up the document to be reviewed and at the
end of the document is a box for the individual to check that states “by
checking the box I agree I have reviewed and am electronically signing the
document in agreement.” Once the box is checked, the UKG system then pulls the
individual’s name as it appears in ICIMS, electronically “signs” the document
and stores it in the UKG system (Id.,
¶ 12) and that (7) the only way for the UKG system to generate and store an
electronically signed Employment Agreement was for Pimentel to click on the
link in the onboarding email he was sent, login to UKG with his unique UKG
login and self-created password, click on the link to the Employment Agreement
in UKG during the onboarding session and then check the “I agree” box at the
end of the document (Id., ¶ 16). 
The Arbitration Agreement
provides, in relevant part, as follows:
                “In
consideration of the undersigned EMPLOYEE’s employment with EMPLOYER the
promises contained in this Agreement, both EMPLOYER and EMPLOYEE agree that all
legal disputes and claims that have existed, currently exist or that may arise
between them, including without limitation any dispute or disagreement between
them relating to this Agreement or EMPLOYEE’s employment with EMPLOYER, or
separation from employment (‘Covered Claims’), shall be determined exclusively
by final and binding arbitration before a single, neutral arbitrator pursuant
to the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes then in effect
and by and before the American Arbitration Association . . . Claims against the EMPLOYER
subject to this Mutual Arbitration Agreement and Class Action Waiver shall
include claims against the EMPLOYER’’s parents, subsidiaries, affiliates,
agents, divisions, officers, directors, employees and any alleged co-employers,
where [sic] past or present. . .
                THE PARTIES
HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THIS SECTION, WHICH BINDS THE PARTIES TO ARBITRATION. THE
PARTIES UNDERSTAND THAT BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, EACH PARTY AGREES TO SUBMIT
ANY CLAIMS BETWEEN THEM TO BINDING, INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATION, AND THAT THIS
ARBITRATION CLAUSE CONSTITUTES A WAIVER OF SUCH PARTY’S RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL
AND RELATES TO THE RESOLUTION OF ALL DISPUTES RELATING TO ALL ASPECTS OF THE
EMPLOYER/EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIP, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, DISCRIMINATION CLAIMS.” (Id.) 
Defendants have met their
initial burden of establishing the existence of an arbitration agreement by
attaching to their motion a copy of the purported Employment Agreement bearing Pimentel’s
electronic signature. (Espejo v. Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060; Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747, 755). 
“If the movant bears its initial
burden, the burden shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a
factual dispute as to the agreement’s existence—in this instance, by disputing
the authenticity of their signatures. To bear this burden, the arbitration
opponent must offer admissible evidence creating a factual dispute as to the
authenticity of their signatures. The opponent need not prove that his or her purported signature is not authentic, but
must submit sufficient evidence to create a factual dispute and shift the
burden back to the arbitration proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the
signature.” (Iyere, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at 755). 
Plaintiff challenges the
validity of Pimentel’s signature on the Employment Agreement, asserting that he
“always” wrote and signed documents using his full last name, “Pimentel Perez,”
and not just “Pimentel” as it appears on the Employment Agreement. (Opp., 6:4-5.)
Plaintiff also contends that the typed name “Jose A Pimentel” on the Employment
Agreement was not an act by Pimentel. (Id.,
2:8-9.) Plaintiff posits that Alson’s declaration “is rife with inaccuracies
and information gaps” because she “fails to mention” that Thongsavanh was
copied on the October 4, 202 email containing a link to the onboarding page in
UKG (Id., 3:3-7; J. Govea Decl., ¶ 5,
Exh. D), that on October 14, 2022, she emailed Pimentel his UKG login
information, copying Thongsavanh and District Manager Sean Turk and advising
therein that his password was set to his birthdate as a default (Opp., 3:7-10;
J. Govea Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. H), that Thongsavanh printed the October 14, 2024
email out on October 17, 2022 and gave it to Pimentel (Opp., 3:14-19; J. Govea
Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. H), and that one onboarding document signed on October 5, 2022
(i.e., “USCIS Form I-9”) is signed “Jose Pimentel” with the “A” missing,
instead of “Jose A Pimentel” (Opp., 3:19-22; J. Govea Decl., ¶ 13, Exh. L). 
The Court agrees that the
statements contained in the declarations of Pimentel’s family members averring,
inter alia, that Pimentel stated that he never signed an arbitration agreement
with Rentokil, that Pimentel called Thongsavanh for answers to the onboarding
training module exam questions, that Pimentel stated that Thongsavanh completed
the onboarding paperwork and module training for him, that Pimentel specifically
requested, when applying for United States citizenship, that his name not be
changed from “Jose Antonio Pimentel Perez” on legal documents, and that Pimentel
always filled out any document as “Jose Antonio Pimentel Perez,” are hearsay,
speculative, and/or not based on personal knowledge; even if considered, the
Court determines that Defendants have established the authenticity of Pimentel’s
electronic signature by a preponderance of the evidence, a standard which
“simply requires the trier of fact to believe that the existence of a fact is
more probable than its nonexistence.” (Katie
V. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 586, 594 [internal quotations
and citation omitted].) 
Civil Code section 1633.9 provides, in relevant
part, that “(a) An electronic record or electronic signature is attributable to
a person if it was the act of the person. The act of the person may be shown in
any manner, including a showing of the efficacy of any security procedure
applied to determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic
signature was attributable.” 
Plaintiff cites to Ruiz v. Moss Brothers Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836 in
support of the contention that “[c]ourts have denied motions to compel
arbitration for defendants’ failure to authenticate electronic signatures based
on similarly lacking declarations.” (Opp., 10:6-7.) In Ruiz, however, the court determined that the defendant failed to
show how it “inferred” that the electronic signature on the arbitration
agreement was plaintiff’s act because the defendant did not explain that (1)
the electronic signature could only have been placed on the arbitration
agreement by a person using the plaintiff’s “unique login ID and password,” (2)
the date and time printed next to the electronic signature indicated the date
and time the electronic signature was made, (3) all of the defendant’s employees
were required to use their unique login ID and password when they logged into
the HR system and signed electronic forms and agreements, and that (4) and the
electronic signature on the 2011 agreement was, therefore, apparently made by the
plaintiff at the date and time listed next to the signature. (Id. at 844.)
The court in Espejo distinguished the facts before it
from those in Ruiz in concluding that
the defendant properly authenticated the electronic signature on the
plaintiff’s arbitration agreement, explaining that a supplemental declaration
from the defendant’s systems consultant, which “detailed [the defendant’s]
security precautions regarding transmission and use of an applicant’s unique
username and password, as well as the steps an applicant would have to take to
place his or her name on the signature line of the employment agreement,”
“offered the critical factual connection that the declarations in Ruiz lacked.” (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at 1062.)
The Court determines that
Alson’s initial and supplemental declarations likewise “offer[] the critical
factual connection that the declarations in Ruiz
lacked.” In addition to the information proffered in her initial declaration, Alson
explains that, although the October 4, 2022 email copied Thongsavanh, only Pimentel
could access the remaining steps to log in and create his own password because
the second link was sent only to the specific email address Pimentel provided.
(Alson Supp. Decl., ¶ 15.) Then, when Pimentel clicked on the second link, he
was taken to a sign-in page where he had to click “create new password” to
log-in; once he clicked this, he received a four-digit code via email which he
was required to enter in order to create his new password. (Id., ¶ 15, Exhs. 5 and 6.) Alson further
explains that only once Pimentel went through this process was he able to log
into his new hire UKG account and that, once logged into said account, he was
required to input his social security number twice to receive an Employee ID. (Id., ¶ 17.) She explains that the system
required that Pimentel have an employee ID before he could complete the
onboarding forms and that a new hire cannot receive an employee ID without
creating a unique password. (Id., ¶
18.)
Alson explains that, while the
UKG system pulled Pimentel’s name as it appeared in ICIMs when he manually
clicked on the hyperlink to each onboarding document, the Form I-9 completed by
Pimentel required that he provide additional information as opposed to a simple
acknowledge and accept or “check the box,” thus requiring him to manually type
in the required information and his electronic signature instead of his name
being auto populated as with the other acknowledgments. (Id., ¶¶ 22-25, Exhs. 8 and 9.)
Alson next explains that Pimentel
received the October 14, 2022 email after he reviewed and acknowledged the
onboarding documents, that this email included links to access his UKG
colleague information such as payroll and benefits, and that to access this
information, he was required to create a new password with the default being
the employee’s birthdate. (Id., ¶ 26.)
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Defendants have demonstrated the existence of a valid, written agreement to arbitrate.
       (2)      Coverage of Disputes
Defendants must also demonstrate that “the
agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 207
F.3d 1126, 1130.) The First Amended Complaint includes causes of action for Discrimination Based on Disability and Medical Condition in Violation
of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”), Retaliation in Violation of the
California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”), Failure to Engage in the Interactive
Process in Violation of FEHA, Failure to Accommodate, Failure to Prevent Discrimination
in Violation of FEHA, Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy, Failure
to Provide Meal Periods, Failure to Provide Rest Periods, Failure to Pay
Overtime Wages, Failure to Provide Accurate Itemized Wage Statements, Waiting
Time Penalties, Unlawful and Unfair Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof.
Code § 17200 et seq.), Intentional Misrepresentation, and Negligent Hiring,
Supervision & Retention. Each of these claims relates to Plaintiff’s
employment, or separation of employment, with Rentokil and are asserted against
Rentokil and Thongsavanh, an employee of Rentokil.
The language quoted above from
the Arbitration Agreement encompasses all of Plaintiff’s claims.                                                                                                   
IV.     Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, the Court
grants the motion and orders the case stayed, pending completion of the
arbitration.