  Case Number:  23PSCV02921    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  H Ramirez v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., Case No. 23PSCV02921


ORDER CONTINUING
HEARING ON DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
The Court is inclined to continue the hearing on Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Second Cause of
Action for Fraudulent Inducement—Concealment, in order to permit additional
discovery to be conducted. The Court
will hear further from counsel at the hearing regarding the timing of a continued
hearing date and briefing deadlines.
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff Victor Paredes Ramirez (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows: 
 
          On
November 2, 2021, Plaintiff entered into an express written contract with
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) regarding a new 2022 Honda CR-V,
VIN # 7FARW1H75NE003437. The subject vehicle is equipped with a computerized
driver-assisting safety system known as ‘Honda Sensing,” which includes
adaptive cruise control, lane departure warnings, and autonomous braking known
as the Collision Mitigation Braking System (“CMBS”). The Honda Sensing system
suffers from a defect that causes the various subsystems within it to
malfunction dangerously while the vehicles are driven (“Sensing Defect”).
Defendant knew or should have known about the Sensing Defect before the subject
vehicle was sold and failed to disclose same. 
 
On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint,
asserting causes of action against Defendant and Does 1-10 for (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Express Warranty, and (2) Fraudulent Inducement—Concealment. 
 
The Final Status
Conference is set for September 30, 2025. Trial is set for October 14, 2025.
 
Pending before the Court
is Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication on the second cause of action
for fraudulent inducement—concealment. 
 
 
Discussion
Defendant moves the Court for an order granting summary
adjudication in its favor and against Plaintiff as follows:
          Issue No. 1:
Plaintiff’s second cause of action (i.e., for Fraudulent
Inducement—Concealment) fails, because Plaintiff cannot prove that Defendant
concealed a material fact;
          Issue No. 2:
Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails, because Plaintiff cannot prove that
Defendant owed him a duty of disclosure because there was no direct transaction
between the parties in which information could be disclosed;
          Issue No. 3:
Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails, because Plaintiff cannot prove
damages as he lacks evidence to establish the difference in the market value of
the Insight and the value of the vehicle he received;
          Issue No. 4:
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages fails, because Plaintiff lacks evidence
to establish malicious, fraudulent or oppressive conduct, or corporate
ratification of any malicious, fraudulent or oppressive conduct.
 
Request for
Continuance
“If it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition
to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts
essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be
presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit
affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as
may be just. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).)
“To mitigate summary judgment’s harshness, the statute’s
drafters included a provision making continuances—which are normally a matter
within the broad discretion of trial courts—virtually mandated.” (Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003)
106 Cal.App.4th 30, 34 [quotations and citation omitted].) “Where the opposing
party submits an adequate affidavit showing that essential facts may exist but
cannot be presented timely, the court must either deny summary judgment or
grant a continuance.” (Id. [citation
omitted].)
On December 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed an “Affidavit of
Timothy Lupinek Regarding Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c(h).”
Timothy Lupinek (“Lupinek”) attests, in relevant part, that
depositions of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified and Custodian of Records,
Scott Hunter (“Hunter”) and Chris Martin (“Martin”) were taken on December 13
and 18, 2024, respectively, in case styled Meraz
v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., Case No. 22AHCV01340 (“Meraz”) (Lupinek Decl., ¶ 3); that
Defendant served cross-notices of the aforesaid depositions with the instant
case such that Plaintiff may use the Meraz
deposition transcripts herein (Id., ¶
3, Exhs. A and B); that, because Hunter’s deposition was not completed on
December 13, 2024, the parties are meeting and conferring about scheduling a
second deposition session for him (Id.,
¶ 4); that Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition attendance of a person most
qualified and custodian of records was continued on December 12, 2024 to
January 27, 2025 (Id., ¶ 5); that, as
of the December 20, 2024 date of the affidavit, Plaintiff has not yet had the
opportunity to depose any person most qualified and custodian of records in
this case, nor has Plaintiff received the Hunter and Martin deposition
transcripts in Meraz (Id., ¶ 6); and that the aforesaid
depositions involve questions about Defendant’s knowledge of defects with the
Collision Mitigation Braking System equipped in the subject vehicle herein (Id.)
Lupinek represents that, in the instant motion, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot prove active concealment by Defendant and that
Defendant did not make any affirmative misrepresentations. (Id., ¶ 7.) He further represents that
the aforesaid depositions “may reveal evidence that is essential to show that
Defendant was aware of a defect in Plaintiff’s 2022 Honda CR-V prior to
Plaintiff’s purchase and that Defendant concealed its knowledge of the defective
nature of the Honda Sensing System and Collision Mitigation Braking System from
Plaintiff prior to their purchase of the [s]ubject [v]ehicle,” in addition to
“corporate ratification of fraudulent conduct.” (Id.) Lupinek requests that the Court continue the hearing on the
instant motion to allow Plaintiff the opportunity to depose Defendant’s person
most qualified or, alternatively, that the Court deny the instant motion on the
basis that Plaintiff has not been given the opportunity to obtain essential
evidence to oppose the motion, despite its reasonable diligence. (Id., ¶ 8).
The Court determines that Lupinek’s declaration reflects
sufficient compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(h), such that a
continuance of the hearing is warranted. The Court will hear further from
counsel at the time of the hearing regarding proposed continued hearing dates
and briefing deadlines.  