

 
Background
 
            This
action arises from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on March 26, 2022.
Plaintiff Sebastian Lee (“Plaintiff”) alleges Defendants Eduardo Gonzalez, Luxe
Seafood Company, and Does 1 to 50 (“Defendants”) negligently operated a motor
vehicle, causing Plaintiff’s injuries. 
            
            On
February 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendants for two
causes of action: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence and (2) General Negligence.
 
            On
February 27, 2024, Defendant filed an answer.
 
            On
August 28, 2024, Defendants filed this Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint. Plaintiff filed no opposition. On September 18, 2024,
Defendants filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
A defendant can cross-complain against a third person not
yet a party to the action if the cause of action asserted “(1) arises out of
the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as
the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the
property or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (b).) 
 
Cross-complaints against third parties are permissive. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024), ¶ 6:544.) Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (b) requires that any
cross-complaint, other than a compulsory cross-complaint, must be filed “at any
time before the court has set a date for trial.” Once a court has set a trial
date, section 428.50, subdivision (c) provides that “[a] party shall obtain leave
of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified
in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at
any time during the course of the action.” Permission to file a permissive
cross-complaint is solely within the trial court's discretion. (Orient
Handel v. United States Fidelity and Guaranty Co. (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d
684, 701.) 
            
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against third parties, Jairo Hernandez
(“Hernandez”), David Arcos (“Arcos”), and Roes 1 to 100 (“collectively
Cross-Defendants”) for indemnity or contribution. 
 
In absence
of stipulation, the defendant seeking leave to file a cross-complaint must file
a noticed motion. (See
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group 2024), ¶ 6:561.) The Court finds that Defendants have provided the requisite
moving papers—i.e., notice, declaration by Defendants’ counsel, points and
authorities, and a copy of the proposed cross-complaint. (Keogh Decl., Exh. A.)
Defendants’ counsel was not able to obtain information necessary to determine
Cross-Defendants’ involvement in the accident before filing the answer. (Keogh
Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendants’ counsel learned about Cross-Defendants’ involvement in
the accident through recent depositions of Plaintiff and Defendant Gonzalez. (Ibid.)
Defendants’ counsel has thus adequately explained that recent discovery of new
facts caused the delay in filing the cross-complaint.
 
Defendants
may cross-complain against any person from whom they seek equitable indemnity. Defendants
must only allege that the harm for which they are being sued is attributable,
at least in part, to the cross-defendant. (American Motorcycle Ass'n v.
Super. Ct. of L.A. County (1978) 20 Cal.3d 578, 607; Paragon Real Estate
Group of San Francisco, Inc. v. Hansen (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 177,
182] 
 
            Defendants
allege that Cross-Defendants’ negligence caused Plaintiffs injuries, and
Defendants are entitled to indemnification. Specifically, Defendants claim
Hernandez, driving at a high speed, attempted to squeeze in between Plaintiff’s
and Defendant’s vehicle. (Keogh Decl., ¶ 4.) Hernandez’ vehicle made impact
with Plaintiff’s vehicle, which caused Hernandez to crash into Defendant’s
vehicle. (Ibid.) Arcos owned vehicle Hernandez drove. (Ibid.) The
Court therefore finds Defendants’ indemnification claim “arises out of the same
transaction” as the incidents in the Complaint because Cross-Defendants were
involved in the accident at issue in the Complaint. (See Time for Living,
Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Develop. Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d
30, 38 [“Cross complaints for comparative equitable indemnity would appear
virtually always transactionally related to the main action.”].) 
 
As recognized by Defendants, the
cross-complaint is permissive. The standard is whether it would be in the
interest of justice to permit leave to file the cross-complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).) Defendant must show that the delay does not
“unreasonably burden and complicate plaintiff’s lawsuit with cross-actions and
third parties.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before
Trial (The Rutter Group 2024), ¶ 6:565.)
 
            The Court
finds that the interests of justice will be served by granting leave to file a cross-complaint.
A separate case for indemnification between Defendants and Cross-Defendants
would require relitigation of the same issues in the present case and may
result in inconsistent rulings. Further, Plaintiff will not be unreasonably
burdened by delay. The Court notes Plaintiff has filed no opposition and has
been unresponsive to Defendants’ counsel meet and confer attempts. (Keogh Decl.,
¶ 5.)
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint. 