  Case Number:  22STCV24865    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce Iwasaki 
Department 58 
 
Hearing Date:             September
30, 2024     
Case Name:                 Cald
Holdings, LLC v. Richard Madokoro 
Case
No.:                    22STCV24865
Motion:                       Motion for Leave to File
a First Amended Complaint and to Continue Trial  
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Cald Holdings

Responding Party:      Defendant Steve Najera
 

 
Tentative Ruling:      Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint
is GRANTED.
Plaintiff's Motion for an Order to Continue Trial is GRANTED.

 

 
Background
 
On August 2, 2022,
Plaintiff Cald Holdings, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants
Richard Madokoro, Steve Najera, Abel Aureliano Galvez Carrillo, and Anastasia
Prakharenka, alleging ten causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2)
promissory estoppel; (3) unjust enrichment; (4) fraud; (5) conspiracy to commit
fraud; (6) conversion; (7) conspiracy to commit conversion; (8) breach of
fiduciary duty; (9) professional negligence; and (10) violation of California
Business and Professional Code § 17200 et. seq. 
 
Defendant Najera then filed an Answer on
December 19, 2022, and a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and all other
Defendants the following day. Defendant Najera is the only defendant to appear
in this action. Plaintiff then began discovery, and the court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further discovery responses against Defendant
Najera on March 22, 2024. On September 17, 2024, Plaintiff made an oral motion
to continue trial at the parties’ Trial Readiness Conference, which the court
denied.
 
On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion seeking leave to amend its Complaint and to continue trial.
Defendant Najera filed a Non-Opposition to the motion on September 24, 2024. 

Discussion
 
I.              
Leave
to Amend Complaint
“The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
Judicial policy favors resolution
of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, the courts have
held that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of
amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296–297;
see also Ventura v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258,
268) [“Trial courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial where the adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].)  Morgan
vs. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 543, held that “If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend...” It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing parties are
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment (i.e., by delay).  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  
Pursuant to California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state
what allegations are proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous
pleading and where such allegations are located. California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(b) requires a separate declaration that accompanies the
motion, stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
Here, Plaintiff’s motion contains a
list of the proposed changes and is accompanied by the proposed First Amended
Complaint, serially numbered, and a declaration in support of the motion from Plaintiff’s
counsel. The motion complies with the requirements of Rule of Court 3.1324. Furthermore,
Defendant Najera, the only defendant to appear in this action, filed a
non-opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to amend the complaint on September 24,
2024.
Having reviewed this testimony and
evidence, and in light of judicial policy favoring liberal allowance of
amendments, the court grants Plaintiff’s motion.
II.            
Order
to Continue Trial
“Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits. The Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in
determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(d).) Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated
to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c), (d).)¿ 
Plaintiff argues that a continuance
is necessary due to Plaintiff’s amendment of the complaint to add new
defendants and new cause of actions. (Motion to Amend Complaint and Continue
Trial, p. 7.) Plaintiff argues that it needs more time to effect service on the
addition defendants and conduct discovery pertaining to the new defendants and
causes of action. (Motion to Amend Complaint and Continue Trial, p. 8.)
The addition of a new party, if the
new party or others have not had reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery regarding
the new party’s involvement may indicate good cause for continuance. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).) In this case, Plaintiff seeks to add three
additional defendants, asserting a cause of action for aiding and abetting
against them and Defendant Najera. (Motion to Amend Complaint and Continue
Trial, p. 2–3.) Plaintiff also seeks to remove Defendant Najera from three
other causes of action. 
Plaintiff has shown good cause for
a continuance based on the addition of new defendants and causes of action. Plaintiff
only identified grounds for adding defendants and an additional cause of action
during Defendant Najera’s deposition on August 18, 2024, and through a third
party subpoena to his bank. (Declaration of Nicolas W. Spingner, ¶ 9.)
Furthermore, Plaintiff served Request for Admission, Set 2, on Defendant Najera
on November 7, 2023. (Motion to Compel Responses, p. 4.) These admissions
sought to confirm details about the aforementioned bank account. (Motion to
Compel Responses, p. 4.) However, Defendant Najera did not adequately respond,
and this court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses on March 22,
2024. Plaintiff has shown reasonable diligence in obtaining information to
identify new parties and causes of action.
Additionally, Plaintiff waited
until after its Mandatory Settlement Conference with Defendant Najera on
September 13, 2024 to seek an amendment and continuance, in hopes it would
reach a mutually agreeable settlement at the conference. (Declaration of
Nicolas W. Spingner, ¶ 23.) After the parties failed to do so, it promptly
filed this motion.
Plaintiff has shown good cause for
a continuance of trial. The court grants Plaintiff’s motion.
Conclusion
            The court grants Plaintiff leave to
amend its Complaint. The court grants Plaintiff’s motion to continue the trial
date and will set the date at the hearing.