

Hearing Date:             September 30, 2024
Case Name:                 Emir
Phillips v. Gary Fidler Esq et al.           
Case No.:                    24STCV05755           
Motion:                       Motion
for Reconsideration 
Moving
Party:             24STCV05755

Responding Party:      Gary Fidler, Esq (Defendant); Gary D
Fidler, APLC (Defendant)


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion for
Reconsideration is DENIED.
 

 
This is a defamation case. On March
7, 2024, Plaintiff Emir Pillips (Plaintiff) filed suit against Defendants Gary Fidler
(Fidler); Gary D. Fidler APLC (Fidler Law); Barham 22nd Street, LLC (Barham);
and Amanda Roberts (Roberts; collectively Defendants). Plaintiff alleged that
Defendants publicly filed an unlawful detainer lawsuit against Plaintiff which
made false and defamatory statements about Plaintiff. Additionally, Defendants
cited Plaintiff’s LinkedIn account in connection with the unlawful detainer suit
and made false and misleading statements about Plaintiff’s professional
activities. 
 
On April 29, 2024, Fidler and Fidler
Law (collectively Fidler Defendants) filed a special motion to strike under
Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP). Fidler Defendants moved to
strike allegations pertaining to protected activity and move to strike causes
of action one (defamation), two (false light), three (negligent infliction of
emotional distress), four (intentional infliction of emotional distress), five
(breach of lease), and six (breach of right of privacy) on the grounds that
Plaintiff could not carry his burden of prevailing. On July 16, 2024, the court
denied the motion with respect to cause of action six, but in all other
respects granted the motion. The court awarded Fidler Defendants $9,500 in
attorneys fees. 
 
On July 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for reconsideration of the court’s ruling on the Anti-SLAPP motion
brought by Fidler Defendants. 
 
On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the operative first amended complaint (FAC). 
 
Legal Standard
 
“When an application for an order
has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1008, subd., (a).) 
 
Analysis
 
Notice
 
The first question the court is
presented with is the basis of this motion. “A notice of motion must state in
the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the grounds for
issuance of the order.” (Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1110, subd. (a); see also Code
Civ. Proc., § 1010.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s opening moving
papers present argument that there are new or different facts supporting
reconsideration pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008 (Section 1008)
subdivision (a). However, in the reply brief Plaintiff states that reconsideration
should be granted on the “court’s broader authority to ensure that justice is
served.” (Reply, at p. 4:13-14.) This broader legal theory is not grounds for
reconsideration under Section 1008. Accordingly, the court analyzes Plaintiff’s
request within the confines of Section 1008.
 
New or Different Facts Circumstances or Law
 
In ruling on a motion for
reconsideration, the court must determine whether the moving party’s affidavit
demonstrated new or different facts or law. 
 
Applicable facts known to the moving
party at the time of the underlying motion are not new or different facts for
the purpose of a motion for reconsideration. (See Hennigan v. White
(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 395, 405.) When relying on new facts, the moving party
must provide a “satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that
evidence at an earlier time.” (Shiffer v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240
Cal.App.4th 246, 255.)
 
Similarly, legal opinions or laws that
were available at the time of the underlying motion, but not relied upon by the
moving party are not “new” law.  (Baldwin
v. Home Sav. Of America (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1192, 1196-1197.) Where
different law is relied upon the moving party must present a satisfactory
explanation for its failure to present this information earlier. (Id. at
pp. 1197-1198.)
 
As a preliminary note, plaintiff
does not include an affidavit explaining what different facts or circumstances
justify application. The court is left to deduce this from the moving papers. 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that the
court should reconsider the motion because the claims are factually and legally
sufficient. However, Plaintiff is relitigating both the facts and law which he
presented in the underlying motion. Plaintiff neither presents any new case law
nor satisfactorily explains what, if any, prior case law plaintiff failed to
present earlier. 
 
Plaintiff’s argument that he needs
more discovery to establish Fidler Defendants’ involvement is not a basis for
reconsideration. The argument that the imposition of attorneys’ fee is a burden
on plaintiff is also not a basis for reconsideration. 
 
With respect to facts, plaintiff does
not present any new or different facts. 
 
Plaintiff has not presented grounds
for reconsideration.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is denied. 