  Case Number:  19STCV45113    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78PURUSHOTTAM PATEL; Plaintiff, vs.TRAVELERS PROPERTY CASUALTY COMPANY OF AMERICA, et al.;  Defendants. Case No.: 19STCV45113 Hearing Date: February 8, 2024   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANTS ADP, INC., AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INSURANCE AGENCY, INC., AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC., AUTO DATA PROCESSING, INC, AND ADP PAYROLL SERVICES, INC.  The summary judgment motion is GRANTED as to the following Defendants:(1) Automatic Data Processing, Inc., (2) Auto Data Processing, Inc. and (3) ADP Payroll Services, Inc.Moving parties to file and serve a proposed judgment within five days after the date of this order.The Court sets a nonappearance review date re: the proposed judgment for February 29, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.The motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication is DENIED as to the causes of action against the following Defendants: (1) ADP, Inc. and (2) Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc.The motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED with respect to the issue of punitive damages.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff filed this action against Defendants Travelers Property Casualty Company of America and Travelers Property Casualty Agency (the “Travelers Defendants”) and Auto Data Processing, Inc., ADP Payroll Services, Inc., Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc., Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and ADP, Inc. (the “ADP Defendants”) for breach of contract.  Plaintiff’s Fifth Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges to following causes of action (1) breach of contract against the Travelers Defendants; (2) breach of contract against Travelers Defendants and ADP Defendants; and (3) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing against Travelers Defendants and ADP Defendants.Plaintiff Purushottam Patel (“Plaintiff”) operates the Welcome Inn.  Plaintiff hired ADP Defendants to do payroll services for the business.  (FAC, ¶10(I).)  Plaintiff’s Agreement with ADP Defendants required ADP Defendants to obtain worker’s compensation coverage for Plaintiff’s business (FAC, ¶10(iii).)  ADP Defendants contracted with Travelers Defendants to provide worker’s compensation coverage for the Welcome Inc.  (FAC, ¶10(ix).)  ADP Defendants told Plaintiff that the Welcome Inn would have workers’ compensation insurance, so long as its payroll was processed by ADP Defendants. (FAC, ¶11.)In January 2016, Plaintiff’s entire staff quit. Plaintiff had no employees from February 1, 2016 to July 31, 2016.  (FAC, ¶14.)  ADP Defendants told Plaintiff that, so long as he continued to pay a bimonthly minimum payment to ADP Defendants, his worker’s compensation coverage would continue when he hired new employees.  (FAC, ¶15.)  Plaintiff continued to pay these minimums and understood that his coverage continued.  (FAC, ¶¶16-19.)  In April 2016, Plaintiff received a notice of intent for cancellation for nonpayment of insurance premiums.  (FAC, ¶22.)  When Plaintiff contacted Travelers Defendants, Travelers Defendants informed Plaintiff that he would have to speak with ADP Defendants.  (FAC, ¶22.)  When Plaintiff spoke with ADP Defendants, ADP Defendants informed Plaintiff that this was Travelers Defendants’ mistake.  (Ibid.)  In September 2016, Plaintiff learned in a conversation with ADP Defendants and Travelers Defendants that the policy was canceled erroneously due to a glitch in Travelers' computer system, and that his policy was up to date.  In April 2017, Plaintiff informed ADP Defendants and Travelers Defendants that a worker’s compensation claim had been filed by a former Welcome Inn employee.  (FAC, ¶39.)  ADP Defendants and Travelers Defendants informed Plaintiff that they did not have a record of Plaintiff being covered during this time, but they would defend Plaintiff in the worker’s compensation action, because the lack of coverage had been due to clerical error.  (FAC, ¶44.)  On December 15, 2017, Travelers Defendants refunded $967 to Plaintiff but did not inform him that they were canceling  his coverage and would not defend him in the worker’s compensation  action.  (FAC, ¶46.)  Travelers Defendants has not defended Plaintiff in the worker’s compensation action.  (FAC, ¶46.)  PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn December 13, 2019, Plaintiff filed the initial complaint.On October 26, 2020, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint.On January 27, 2021, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint.On September 15, 2021, Plaintiff filed the Third Amended Complaint.On November 3, 2021, Travelers Defendants filed a Demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint.On November 24, 2021, the Court sustained Travelers Defendants demurrer in part and overruled it in part.  The Court granted Plaintiff twenty days to amend.On December 21, 2021,Plaintiff filed the Fourth Amended Complaint asserting four causes of action:1.  Breach of Contract (Policy No. IJUB-3f392393-3-15 on May 9, 2016)2.  Breach of Written Contract (Contract Entered into on March 28, 2011 with ADP and Travelers)3.  Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing4.  FraudOn May 4, 2022, the Court struck Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action, sustained Travelers’ and ADP’s Demurrers to the Second and Third Causes of Action as to both Defendants with leave to amend sustained the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of action as to both Defendants without leave to amend.On June 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to Amend the Complaint to add the First Cause of Action for Violation of Insurance Code.  The Court granted it.On August 24, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Fifth Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting the same cause of action numbers one through three but omitting the Fourth Cause of Action for Fraud.  On October 14, 2022, ADP Defendants and Travelers Defendants demurred to the FAC and moved to strike portions of it.  The Court sustained Travelers Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action without leave to amend and overruled Travelers Defendants’ and ADP Defendants’ demurrers to the other causes of action. The Court also granted the motion to strike.  On March 16, 2023, Travelers Defendants moved for an order compelling responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents and to deem RFAs admitted.  Plaintiff untimely filed a declaration in opposition on July 26, 2023.  On August 2, 2023, the Court denied Travelers Defendants’ motion to deem RFAs admitted and granted the motions to compel responses to the Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production.  On August 24, 2023, ADP Defendants submitted a Stipulation and Order setting aside the default against Defendants ADP, Inc. (erroneously sued as ADP Payroll Services, Inc.) and Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc. (erroneously sued as Auto Data Processing) and allowing them to file a single, consolidated answer to the FAC.  On August 28, 2023, Defendants ADP, Inc. (f/k/a ADP LLC and erroneously sued as ADP Payroll Services, Inc.), Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc. (erroneously sued as Auto Data Processing), Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Auto Data Processing, Inc. and ADP Payroll Services, Inc. filed a consolidated answer to the FAC per the August 4, 2023 Stipulation.  On August 28, 2023, the Court dismissed Defendant Travelers Property Casualty Agency from the FAC without prejudice.  On October 27, 2023, Defendants ADP, Inc. f/k/a ADP, LLC (erroneously sued as ADP Payroll Services, Inc.), Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc. (erroneously sued as Auto Data Processing), Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Auto Data Processing, Inc. and ADP Payroll Services, Inc. (“ADP Defendants”) filed the instant motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication.As of February 5, 2024, no opposition to the ADP Defendants’ motion for summary judgment has been filed.  DISCUSSIONI. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSPlaintiff did not file an opposition to the Motion for Summary Judgment.  No evidentiary objections.  II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICEADP Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice of the FAC and the original complaint is GRANTED.  III. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATIONA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its initial burden, inter alia, by proving that for each cause of action alleged, Plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).) What this means in practice is that if a cause of action, such as fraud, for example, requires proof of five elements, one of which is reliance, and if Defendant sets forth a prima facie case that reliance cannot be proven (either by citation to plaintiff’s deposition testimony, written discovery responses or other means), then Defendant has met its burden.Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) A.  ADP Defendants’ PositionADP Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ causes of action against Auto Data Processing, Inc., ADP Payroll Services, Inc. and Automatic Data Processing, Inc. fail as a matter of law because Plaintiff is not in privity of contract with these defendants.  ADP Defendants argue the contract produced by Plaintiff in support of his contract claims only identifies ADP, Inc. (“ADP”) and Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc. (“Agency”) as parties.  ADP Defendants argue the remaining ADP Defendants are not named as parties and therefore cannot be held liable on the contract.  ADP Defendants argue the mere fact that ADP Defendants are affiliated with one another would not alone make them liable for the contractual obligations of each entity.  ADP Defendants argue ADP and Agency also did not breach the agreement as a matter of law.  ADP Defendants argue ADP and Agency were obligated and authorized under the agreement to debit Plaintiff’s account for payment of insurance premiums.  ADP Defendants argue that was precisely what ADP and Agency did.  ADP Defendants argue ADP nor Agency were expressly relieved of any obligation to procure insurance or make insurance available for Plaintiff.  ADP Defendants argue Plaintiff also failed to notify ADP or Agency in writing of the change in his insurance coverage.  ADP Defendants argue the contract specifically states that if Plaintiff required any changes to the policy, changes to the payment terms or wanted to terminate its policy, Plaintiff was required to provide ADP and Agency with notice. ADP Defendants argue failure to adhere to this condition precedent negates any allegation of breach of contract.  ADP Defendants argue their alleged breach was not a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s damages.  ADP Defendants argue it was not their alleged breach that deprived Plaintiff of worker’s compensation insurance covering the subject worker’s compensation action.  ADP  Defendants argue they had no duty to obtain worker’s compensation coverage for Plaintiff.  ADP Defendants also argue Travelers refused to confirm that it would have renewed Plaintiff’s policy had the premiums been received.  ADP Defendants argue even if such a policy had been renewed, it would not have covered the subject worker’s compensation action because of the employee’s legal status and Plaintiff’s admission that the individual was not an employee and not on payroll.  ADP Defendants argue the breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of action fails for the same reason as the breach of contract claim.  ADP Defendants argue they were under no legal obligation to secure worker’s compensation for Plaintiff, only to debit Plaintiff’s account for payment of insurance premiums, which ADP and Agency did.  ADP Defendants argue any assertion that there was an oral agreement is barred by the two-year statute of limitations under CCP §339.  ADP Defendants argue Plaintiff admits he received Notice of Cancellation of the insurance policy on April 25, 2017.  ADP Defendants argue Plaintiff did not file this action until December 13, 2019, more than two years after the breach.  ADP Defendants also argue that the punitive damages claim fails as a matter of law.  ADP Defendants argue there is no evidence that would support a finding of malice, oppression or fraud under Civil Code §3294.   B.  Based on the undisputed facts, Auto Data Processing, Inc., ADP Payroll Services, Inc. and Automatic Data Processing, Inc. are not parties to the contract sued upon in the second cause of action for breach of contract or the third cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  The motion for summary judgment on behalf of Auto Data Processing, Inc., ADP Payroll Services, Inc. and Automatic Data Processing, Inc. is GRANTED.  Auto Data Processing, Inc., ADP Payroll Services, Inc. and Automatic Data Processing, Inc. establish that they were not parties to the contract upon which Plaintiff bases his second cause of action for breach of contract and third cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  The only agreement identified between Plaintiff and any of the ADP Defendants is the ADP Insurance Services Addendum, attached as Exhibit B to the FAC. (Defendants’ RJN, Ex. A, FAC, Ex. B.)  Plaintiff identified that same agreement as the basis for the breach of contract and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing causes of action against ADP Defendants.  (Defendants’ Appendix of Exhibits, Ex. C, Plaintiff’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, 2:8-10; Ex. E, Plaintiff’s Responses to RFPs, 2:4-5; Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, FAC, Ex. B.)  The ADP Insurance Services Addendum is between ADP, Agency and Plaintiff.  (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, FAC, Ex. B, p. 1.)  ADP Defendants negate the existence of an enforceable agreement between Plaintiff and Auto Data Processing, Inc., ADP Payroll Services, Inc. and Automatic Data Processing, Inc.  ADP Defendants therefore negate an essential element of Plaintiff’s breach of contract and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing causes of action against them.  (Reichert v. General Ins. Co. of America (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830 (elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are existence of contract, plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; defendant’s breach and the resulting damages to the plaintiff); CACI 325 (elements of breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing (1) plaintiff and defendant entered into a contract; (2) plaintiff did all, or substantially all of the significant things that the contract required plaintiff to do or was excused from doing those things; (3) that all conditions required for defendant’s performance occurred or were excused; (4) that defendant engaged in conduct that prevented the plaintiff from receiving benefits under the contract; (5) that by doing so, defendant did not act fairly or in good faith; and (6) that plaintiff was harmed by defendant’s conduct).)In response, Plaintiff did not file an opposition.  Plaintiff therefore failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to the existence of an enforceable agreement with Auto Data Processing, Inc., ADP Payroll Services, Inc. and Automatic Data Processing, Inc.  Based on the undisputed facts, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED as to Auto Data Processing, Inc., ADP Payroll Services, Inc. and Automatic Data Processing, Inc. on grounds that there is no enforceable agreement between Plaintiff and these ADP entities.   C.  ADP and Agency fail to negate Plaintiff’s allegations of breach.  ADP and Agency’s Motion for Summary Judgment and Adjudication on grounds of lack of duty and lack of breach is DENIED.  Based on Plaintiff’s FAC, ADP and Agency were contractually obligated to procure and maintain worker’s compensation insurance for Plaintiff and to pay the premiums for this insurance by automatically debiting Plaintiff’s account and forwarding the payment to Travelers.  (FAC, ¶¶74-83.)  Plaintiff alleges ADP and Agency agreed that Plaintiff would have workers’ compensation insurance, so long as Plaintiff’s paid insurance premiums.  (FAC, ¶74.).  Plaintiff alleges ADP and Agency breached their contractual obligations by failing to provide insurance for the period from August 1, 2016 to August 1, 2017, even though Plaintiff paid the premium for that period through ADP and Agency.  (FAC, ¶¶84, 88, 89.)  Plaintiff alleges Travelers accepted his October 3, 2016 premium payment in the amount of $967 through ADP and Agency, but ultimately denied there was a 2016-2017 policy that would cover the claim of one Daniel Hernandez.  (FAC, ¶89.)  According to Defendants ADP and Agency, they were not obligated to provide insurance or obtain or procure insurance for Plaintiff.  However, the sections of the contract cited by Defendants ADP and Agency do not clearly establish that they were not obligated under the ADP Insurance Services Addendum to obtain or procure insurance for Plaintiff or to ensure that Plaintiff was covered by worker’s compensation insurance so long as ADP and Agency were processing premiums on Plaintiff’s behalf.  ADP Defendants rely on ¶¶2, 3 and 6 of the ADP Insurance Services Addendum as evidence that their obligations to Plaintiff did not include ensuring that Plaintiff had worker’s compensation coverage.  However, none of these paragraphs clearly state that ADP and Agency’s contractual obligations to Plaintiff did not include ensuring that there was no lapse in coverage, or that their contractual obligations were limited to payment of premiums, even where the policy for which the premiums were being paid had lapsed. In fact, ¶3 states, “Client acknowledges that Agency has and/or may in the future assist Client with obtaining insurance from insurance carriers.  Client understands that neither ADP nor Agency is making this insurance available to Client…”  (Defendant’s RJN, FAC, Ex. B, ¶3.)  At best, ¶3 is ambiguous as to what Agency’s duties are under the ADP Insurance Services Addendum and whether it included the obligation to ensure there was no lapse in Plaintiff’s coverage, to determine whether there was a lapse in coverage or to inform Plaintiff of any lapse in coverage.  Exacerbating the ambiguity of ADP and Agency’s obligations under the ADP Insurance Services Addendum is the failure of the portion of the agreement cited to define “Pay-by-Pay Services.”  The ADP Insurance Services Addendum defines the services to be provided in ¶1 therein:  “The Services.  Subject to the following terms and conditions, ADP will provide Client with ADP’s Pay-By-Pay services for worker’s compensation insurance and any other insurance products supported by the Pay-By-Pay Premium Payment Program.  The Agency will provide Client with certain services as an insurance agent.”  (RJN, FAC, Ex. B, ¶1.)  “Pay-by-Pay Services” is not defined.  Moreover, ¶1 expressly states that Agency would serve as Plaintiff’s insurance agent, which goes beyond merely debiting premium payments from Plaintiff’s account.  Finally, the Addendum is merely and addendum and it states that it “supplements the agreement between [Plaintiff] and ADP that governs your payroll services.”  (RJN, FAC, Ex. B, ¶1.)  Standing alone, the Addendum fails to negate Plaintiff’s allegations of ADP and Agency’s breach of contract.  In fact, ADP and Agency’s evidence raises questions of fact regarding whether they breached the Addendum by failing to pay premiums as agreed.  ADP and Agency’s SSUMF No. 10 states that “Travelers converted Plaintiff’s workers compensation insurance policy to the Standard Premium Payment Plan pursuant to the ADP Insurance Services Addendum,”  citing to Plaintiff’s responses to Defendants’ Special Interrogatories as support.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 10.)  Plaintiff’s full response to SI No. 1 regarding Section 2 of the Addendum claims ADP and Agency refused to pay for Plaintiff’s worker’s compensation insurance: “On or about April 19, 2016, Travelers converted policy IJUB-3F39239-3-15 as Standard Premium Payment plan pursuant to the agreement and demanded full payment of insurance premium form [ADP/Agency] but [ADP/Agency] refused to make a full payment of worker’s compensation premium and said that policy would be on ‘hold’ for six months.”  (Defendant’s Appendix of Exhibits, Ex. C, 3:20-23.)  ADP and Agency’s evidence also establishes that Travelers issued a notice of cancellation based on nonpayment of the premium on May 9, 2016.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 13.)  Again, this evidence relied upon by ADP and Agency does not clearly establish that ADP and Agency were not in breach of their contractual obligations.  Even if their contractual obligations were limited to payment of premiums, SSUMF Nos. 10 and 13 raise questions as to whether ADP and Agency performed that obligation.  ADP and Agency fails to establish as a  matter of law that they did not breach their contractual obligations under the ADP Insurance Services Addendum as alleged in Plaintiff’s FAC.  ADP and Agency’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication based on lack of breach of duty is DENIED.  C.  Based on the undisputed facts, ADP and Agency establish that Plaintiff’s alleged damages were not caused by ADP and Agency’s alleged conduct.  ADP and Agency’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication based on “causation” is GRANTED.“The test for causation in a breach of contract…action is whether the breach was a substantial factor in causing the damages.  Causation of damages in contract cases, as in tort cases, requires that the damages be proximately caused by the defendant's breach, and that their causal occurrence be at least reasonably certain.  A proximate cause of loss or damage is something that is a substantial factor in bringing about that loss or damage.  The term ‘substantial factor’ has no precise definition, but it seems to be something which is more than a slight, trivial, negligible, or theoretical factor in producing a particular result.”  (US Ecology, Inc. v. State of California (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 887, 909.)  ADP and Agency argue Plaintiff cannot establish that their conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s damage.  According to ADP and Agency, their conduct was not a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s damages, because (1) they had no duty to ensure that Plaintiff had worker’s compensation insurance or there was no lapse in coverage; and (2) Travelers stated that there would not have been coverage had it received insurance premiums owed by Plaintiff and Hernandez’s legal status would not have allowed for coverage.  As discussed above, Defendants fail to establish as an issue of law that they had no duty to ensure Plaintiff had worker’s compensation coverage.  However, Defendants submit evidence that the Hernandez workers’ compensation claim would not have been covered under the Travelers’ workers’ compensation policy for multiple reasons even if it had been in effect.  Travelers stated in response to Plaintiff’s discovery that the Hernandez workers’ compensation claim would not have been covered, because (1) Hernandez was not injured or not injured in the course of his employment by Plaintiff; (2) Plaintiff knowingly employed Hernandez in violation of the law; and (3) Plaintiff’s failure to comply with the terms of the policy prior to filing this lawsuit.  (Defendant’s Appendix of Exhibits, Ex. Q, 7:13-21.)  Defendants have not explained how the statements by co-defendant Travelers are admissible against Plaintiff. The Court is not aware of any non-hearsay evidence showing that there is no genuine issue of fact regarding whether Hernandez' claim would have been covered by the policy. Therefore, the motion is DENIED on this basis.D.  Defendants fail to establish that the action is barred by the 2-year statute of limitations applicable to oral agreements under CCP §339Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1), a party may properly seek summary adjudication of one or more causes of action, one or more affirmative defenses, the issue of punitive damages or the issue of duty.  (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of damages or an issue of duty.”  (Id.)Defendants argue the second and third causes of action for breach of contract and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing are barred by the 2-year SOL under CCP §339, which applies to actions on oral agreements.  As moving party, Defendants have the burden to show that undisputed facts support each element of the affirmative defense.  (Sumner v. Simpson University (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 577, 580 (defendants established each element of ministerial exception as a complete defense to tort claims but exception did not foreclose contract claims).)Defendants fail to establish that the 2-year SOL under CCP §339 applies to Plaintiff’s claims.  CCP §339 applies a 2-year SOL to “an action upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded upon an instrument of writing…”  Plaintiff is alleging that ADP Defendants breached their obligations under ADP Insurance Services Addendum, a written agreement, not an oral agreement.  (FAC, Caption, 1:16-18, “SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION:  against Travelers and ADP…Breach of Written Contract”; 29:12-17, “Second Cause of Action for Breach of WRITTEN Contract” (emphasis in original).)  CCP §339 would not apply or bar Plaintiff’s claims for breach of written contract.  There is one reference in the complaint to an “oral contract.”  “Plaintiffs contend that Defendant Travelers…authorized ADP…to transaction business in California as a licensed agent of Travelers and to solicit, negotiate or effect contracts for various classes of insurance…per the said authorization ADP had an ability to bind Defendant Travelers Insurance by an oral contract upon paying insurance premium to Travelers through ADP so long as ADP processed the payroll for the insured.”  (FAC, ¶88.)  At best, Plaintiff alleges an oral contract binding on Defendant Travelers, not ADP Defendants.ADP Defendants also fail to identify any oral agreement in their separate statement.  Given Plaintiff’s express allegation that he is suing for breach of written contract, Defendants’ evidence that the claims are based on the ADP Insurance Services Addendum and Defendants’ lack of any evidence of an oral agreement, Defendants fail to establish that Plaintiff’s claims are barred as a matter of law by the 2-year SOL under CCP §339.  Even if Plaintiff had based his second and third causes of action in part on some oral agreement, the 2-year SOL would not fully dispose of those causes of action.  Both claims are undeniably based in part on the ADP Insurance Services Addendum, a written agreement.  ADP Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication based on CCP §339 is DENIED.  E.  Defendants negate Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages under Civil Code §3294“In the usual case, the question of whether the defendant's conduct will support an award of punitive damages is for the trier of fact, since the degree of punishment depends on the peculiar circumstances of each case.  But the issue may be resolved on summary judgment, giving due regard to the higher proof standard. While the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to prove a case for punitive damages at summary judgment.  However, where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.  Summary judgment on the issue of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff's evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.”  (Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Court (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762; Pacific Gas and Electric Company v. Superior Court (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158–1159.)  The party moving for adjudication of a plaintiff’s punitive damages claim bears the initial burden of production.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson & Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)ADP Defendants establish that no reasonable trier of fact could find that it was guilty of malice, fraud or oppression.  Even accepting Plaintiff’s allegations as true, ADP Defendants at most failed to make timely premium payments or failed to ensure there was no lapse in worker’s compensation coverage.  These actions, without more, would at best qualify as breaches of contract and do not qualify as malice, fraud or oppression in the context of the breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.   Moreover, recovery of punitive damages for tortious breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing has been allowed against an insurer in limited contexts, such as denial of insurance benefits after failing to undertake an adequate, good faith investigation and the insurer’s unreasonable refusal to accept a settlement offer in an attempt to exploit an insured’s exigent financial situation to force settlement favorable to the insurer.  (2 Witkin, Summary of California Law (11th ed. 2017), Insurance, §343.)  The conduct alleged against ADP Defendants and ADP Defendants’ evidence do not support a finding that ADP Defendants engaged in conduct akin to the bad faith denial of insurance benefits or subordination of an insured’s rights. Accordingly, the Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. DATED:  February 8, 2024  ________________________________                                                                 Hon. Jill Feeney                                                                  Judge of the Superior Court