 Case Number:  23SMCV02329    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  KEVIN MCGINN,     Plaintiff, v.  PETER B. MENDELSOHN, M.D., et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV02329     Hearing Date:  September 29, 2023   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT DAVID KAMEN’S    DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE    COMPLAINT     MOVING PARTY:  Defendant David Kamen  RESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiff Kevin McGinn  BACKGROUND This is a medical malpractice case.  Defendants David Kamen, Peter Mendelsohn and Specialty Surgical Center performed cataract surgery on Plaintiff Kevin McGinn’s right eye.  Plaintiff alleges “[t]he procedure performed including but not limited to the medications prescribed and provided and the timing thereof deviated from the standard of practice causing great pain, injury and anxiety, all causing severe injury and damage to Plaintiff.”  (Compl. ¶9.)  Plaintiff also alleges “the withholding of medications before and during the procedure were acts that were beyond the scope of those actions which would be considered to be within the bounds of civilized society.”  (Id. ¶17.)  The operative complaint alleges three claims for (1) medical negligence, (2) assault and battery and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress.   This hearing is on Defendant David Kamen’s demurrer and motion to strike the complaint.  Kamen argues that (1) Plaintiff’s second cause of action for assault and battery fails because Plaintiff has not alleged Kamen performed a “substantially different procedure” as required to plead medical battery, and (2) Plaintiff’s third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails because Plaintiff fails to plead facts showing extreme and outrageous conduct or intent to cause or reckless disregard of the possibility of causing emotional distress.  Kamen also moves to strike both causes of action and the associated prayers for relief on the same grounds as asserted in his demurrer.      LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5 requires that before the filing of a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike.  (CCP §§ 430.41(a), 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §§ 430.41(a)(2), 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)  Kamen submits the Declaration of Erin Gonzalez, which adequately shows counsel attempted to meet and confer prior to bringing this demurrer and motion to strike. DISCUSSION Assault and Battery Kamen argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for assault and battery because Plaintiff consented to the procedure performed and medical battery requires that a doctor perform a substantially different medical procedure than one to which the patient consented.  The Court agrees.   The essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3)¿ plaintiff did not consent to defendant's conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (CACI No. 1301;¿Plotnik v. Meihaus¿(2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1603–1604.) The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the touching.¿(CACI No. 1300; see¿Kaplan v. Mamelak¿(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 637, 645.)   As a general rule, one who consents to a touching cannot recover in an action for battery or assault.  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-69.)  Thus, one who gives consent to a surgery cannot recover for assault and battery where the consented to surgery was actually performed. To plead assault or battery against a doctor, Plaintiff must allege that Defendant performed a medical procedure without his consent or that he consented to one medical procedure but defendant performed a materially different procedure.  (CACI 530A; see also Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 239 (“the battery theory should be reserved for those circumstances when a doctor performs an operation to which the patient has not consented”); Saxena v. Goffney (2008) 159 CAl.App.4th 316, 324 (“[w]hen a physician performs a procedure without obtaining any consent, it is [an] intentional tort of battery”.)   The Court in Cobb noted examples of medical battery including where (1) a doctor performed a myelogram involving a spinal puncture, when the plaintiff consented to an electromyogram, (2) a plaintiff consented to a prostate resection but the doctor tied his sperm ducts; (3) a plaintiff consented to exploratory surgery, but the doctor performed a mastectomy, and (4) consent was given for a hernia operation but the doctor removed both ovaries. (Cobbs, 8 Cal.3d at 239.)  A battery was also found when a plaintiff consented to remove excess skin from her arms, back and thighs but the surgeon augmented her breasts after she verbally refused the procedure several times and the surgeon reassured her that he would not do so.  (Perry v. Shaw (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 658, 664.)  Here, Plaintiff does not allege that he underwent a “substantially different” procedure from what he consented to.  He merely alleges “The Defendants and each of them performed a medical procedure without consent; said procedure amount to an unconsented to and unwanted touching of Plaintiff, all of which constituted an assault and battery.”  Plaintiff fails to allege what consent was given, what procedure he consented to, what procedure was actually performed, and how that was a substantially different procedure than the one to which he consented.  Plaintiff makes only conclusory allegations of an unwanted touching.   Plaintiff’s reliance on Kaplan v. Mamelak is unavailing.  In Mamalek, the complaint alleged that back surgery had been performed on the wrong disk.  (Id. at 647.)  The appellate court concluded this was sufficient to set forth a cause of action for battery.  (Id.)  There is no similar allegation here.  Plaintiff, for example, does not allege that the surgery was performed on the wrong eye or the surgery, while performed on the right eye, was different than the cataract procedure to which he consented.     In sum, the facts alleged do not support a finding that Plaintiff did not consent to the procedure or that a substantially different procedure was performed.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for assault and battery. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress Kamen argues that Plaintiff’s claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails as a matter of law because Plaintiff has not alleged extreme and outrageous conduct or that Kamen intended to cause or acted in reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress.  The Court agrees. The elements of a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress are: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress, (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress, and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.)  To be outrageous, conduct must be “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Id.)  The defendant must have engaged in conduct “intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.  It is not enough that the conduct be intentional and outrageous.  It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.”  (Christenson v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)   To avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must allege with “great specificity the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.”  (Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.)  “Whether behavior is extreme or outrageous is a legal determination to be made by the court, in the first instance.”  (Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 166, 172; Fowler v. Varian Associates, Inc. (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 34, 44.) Plaintiff fails to allege any facts that would demonstrate extreme and outrageous conduct beyond what is expected in a civilized society.  At best, Plaintiff’s razor thin allegations that Defendants failed to administer unspecified medications during his cataract surgery amount to a claim of negligence, not any intentional tort.  Plaintiff offer no facts that Defendants intended to inflict emotional distress.  Plaintiff only makes the conclusory allegation that “[t]he actions of Defendants and each of them were intended to and designed by Defendants to inflict great emotional distress on Plaintiff.”  (Compl. ¶17.)       Motion to Strike Kamen moves to strike the claims for assault and battery and intentional infliction of emotional distress and their associated prayers for relief.  The Court denies the motion as moot given its ruling on the demurrer.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer with 20 days’ leave to amend and DENIES as moot Defendants’ motion to strike.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: September 29, 2023     ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 