 Case Number:  23PSCV02093    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants HLP ED Foundation, SVG Training Foundation,
Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District
 
Defendants HLP ED Foundation, SVG Training Foundation,
Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of
the Second Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District
 
Defendant Cynthia Parulan-Colfer’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District
 
Defendant Cynthia Parulan-Colfer’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Second Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants HLP ED Foundation, SVG Training Foundation,
Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint¿is SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20) days
leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action and Plaintiff Anthony Duarte’s
first, eleventh, and twelfth causes of action.
 
The Demurrer
is further SUSTAINED IN PART without leave to amend as to the fourteenth cause
of action and OVERRULED IN PART as to the second, third, sixth, and thirteenth
causes of action as well as Plaintiff Hacienda La Puente Unified School
District’s first, eleventh, and twelfth causes of action.
 
Defendants HLP ED Foundation, SVG Training Foundation,
Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of
the Second Amended Complaint is deemed MOOT.
 
Defendant Cynthia Parulan-Colfer’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint¿is
SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the fifth cause of
action and Plaintiff Anthony Duarte’s first and eleventh causes of action. 
 
The Demurrer
is further SUSTAINED IN PART without leave to amend as to the fourteenth cause
of action and OVERRULED IN PART as to the sixth and thirteenth causes of action
as well as Plaintiff Hacienda La Puente Unified School District’s first and eleventh
causes of action.
 
Defendant Cynthia Parulan-Colfer’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Second Amended Complaint is deemed
MOOT.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action arising from alleged misappropriation of
non-profit funds. Defendant HLP ED Foundation (HLP ED) was a non-profit public
benefit corporation initially founded in August 2008. Its alleged purpose was
to provide scholarships for the students of Hacienda La Puente Unified School
District (HLPUSD) and fund special projects that enhanced students’ academic
and co-curricular activities. Since HLP ED’s founding, Defendant Cynthia
Parulan-Colfer served as a director. In 2016 and 2018, Parulan-Colfer and
another HLP ED board member allegedly used HLP ED’s funds to provide
scholarships for Parulan-Colfer’s children outside the normal scholarship
review process. In 2019, HLP ED’s funds were allegedly used for
Parulan-Colfer’s retirement party. And in July 2020, HLP ED’s funds were
allegedly used to pay the law firm Parulan-Colfer’s husband for legal services.

In September 2020, HLP ED was dissolved and Parulan-Colfer allegedly
transferred its remaining funds to other non-profits founded by Parulan-Colfer
including Defendants SVG Training Foundation, Inc. (SVG Training Foundation)
and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc. (San Gabriel Career Foundation). As a
result, at least one of HLP ED’s scholarship recipients was unable to cash a
scholarship check.
 
On July 12, 2023, Anthony Duarte and HLPUSD filed a
complaint against Parulan-Colfer, HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, San Gabriel
Career Foundation, and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
breach of fiduciary obligations and duties, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) fraud, (5) conversion, (6)
breach of charitable trust, (7) money had and received, (8) unfair business
practices, (9) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage,
(10) declaratory relief, and (11) accounting.
 
On October 3, 2023, Duarte and HLPUSD filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action
with an additional twelfth cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duties. On January 24, 2024, the Court
sustained demurrers to the FAC by HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, San Gabriel
Career Foundation, and Parulan-Colfer in part with leave to amend.
 
On
March 22, 2024, Duarte and HLPUSD filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC)
against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action with an
additional thirteenth cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of
charitable trust and a fourteenth cause of action for negligence. They also
named Rob Bonta, the Attorney General of the State California, as an
indispensable party.
 
On April 26, 2024, HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, and San
Gabriel Career Foundation (collectively, Entity Defendants) filed their
demurrer. On the same day, Parulan-Colfer filed a demurrer and motion to strike
while the Entity Defendants filed a notice of joinder to Parulan-Colfer’s
demurrer and motion to strike. On April 29, 2024, the Entity Defendants filed
their motion to strike. Prior to filing on April 8, 2024, counsel for
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants telephonically met and conferred with
counsel for Duarte and HLPUSD and were unable to reach a resolution. (Brethen
Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
A hearing on the present motions is set for May 22, 2024, along
with a case management conference. A hearing on Duarte and HLPUSD’s petition
for retroactive leave to amend is set for July 8, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS

Parulan-Colfer demurs to Duarte’s first cause
of action (breach of fiduciary obligations and duties), HLPUSD’s fifth cause of
action (conversion), HLPUSD’s sixth cause of action (breach of charitable
trust), Duarte and HLPUSD’s eleventh cause of action (accounting), HLPUSD’s
thirteenth cause of action (aiding and abetting breach of charitable trust), and
Duarte and HLPUSD’s fourteenth cause of action (negligence). In addition to the
causes of action demurred to by Parulan-Colfer, the Entity Defendants also
demur to HLPUSD’s second cause of action (breach of contract), HLPUSD’s third
cause of action (breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing), and Duarte
and HLPUSD’s twelfth cause of action (aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary
duties).
 
For the following reasons, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrers in part and OVERRULES
the demurrers in part.
 
Legal Standard

A party may demur to a complaint on the
grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept
all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty (First Cause of
Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer argues Duarte’s first cause of
action for breach of fiduciary obligations and duties fails as a matter of law
because Parulan-Colfer did not owe any fiduciary duty to Duarte. HLP ED also
argues this cause of action fails as a matter of law because HLP ED did not owe
any fiduciary duty to Duarte and HLPUSD. The court agrees as Duarte, but
disagrees as to HLPUSD.
 
Legal Standard
 
The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty,
and damages.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
820.)
 
Discussion
 
The SAC alleges HLP ED owed fiduciary duties
to HLPUSD, Duarte, and student beneficiaries from soliciting and accepting
charitable contributions. (FAC, ¶ 65-66.) The SAC also alleges Parulan-Colfer
owed similar fiduciary duties by acting as HLP ED’s agent. (FAC, ¶ 66.) Parulan-Colfer
argues Duarte’s lack standing to assert breach of fiduciary duty claims because
Duarte does not have standing to enforce a charitable trust. (Parulan-Colfer
Demurrer, p. 2:13-3:17.) HLP ED makes the same argument with regards to both
Duarte and HLPUSD. (Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 5:10-19.)
 
Business and Professions Code section 17510.8
recognizes the existence of “a fiduciary relationship between a charity or any
person soliciting on behalf of a charity, and the person from whom a charitable
contribution is being solicited.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17510.8.) It also
recognizes that “[t]he acceptance of charitable contributions by a charity or
any person soliciting on behalf of a charity establishes a charitable trust and
a duty on the part of the charity and the person soliciting on behalf of the
charity to use those charitable contributions for the declared charitable
purposes for which they are sought.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17510.8.)
 
Here, as noted below, the SAC adequately
establishes HLPUSD has standing to sue for breach of charitable trust due to
its contractual interest in HLP ED’s funds. As to Duarte, the Court previously found
Duarte lacked standing to sue for breach of charitable trust. (1/24/2024
Ruling, p. 3.) And the SAC does not cure that deficiency. Instead, Duarte
argues that there is no current case law that indicates a lack of standing to
sue for breach of charitable trust precludes standing to sue for breach of
fiduciary duty. (Parulan-Colfer Opp., p. 9:17-20.) But even so, the standing
requirements for breach of charitable trust claims applies to any “action to
enjoin, correct, obtain damages for or to otherwise remedy a breach of a
charitable trust.” (Corp. Code, § 5142, subd. (a).) Because a breach of
charitable trust necessarily includes a breach of the fiduciary duties arising
pursuant to that trust, the Court finds repackaging such claims as breach of
fiduciary claims does not allow Duarte to avoid the standing requirements of
Corporation Code section 5142.
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED’s
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend as to Duarte
and OVERRULED as to HLPUSD.
 
Breach of Contract (Second Cause of
Action)
 
HLP ED contends HLPUSD’s second cause of
action for breach of contract fails because HLP ED’s articles of incorporation
do not constitute a contract. The court disagrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of
contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms
must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin,
Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances,
a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its
precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty
Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.) “[T]he vital elements of a cause
of action based on contract are mutual assent (usually accomplished through the
medium of an offer and acceptance) and consideration.” (Division of Labor
Law Enforcement v. Transpacific Transportation Co. (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d
268, 275.)
 
Discussion
 
In previously sustaining HLP ED’s demurrer to
this cause of action, the Court found HLP ED’s articles of incorporation did
not form a binding contract between HLP ED and HLPUSD. (1/24/2024 Ruling, p. 4.)
While HLPUSD also alleged HLP ED’s articles of incorporation formed a binding
contract between HLP ED and the state, HLPUSD failed to provide any legal
authority in support of this contention. (1/24/2024 Ruling, p. 4.) The SAC
repeats this allegation and provides citations to Trustees of Dartmouth
College v. Woodward (1819) 17 U.S. 518 (Dartmouth College), and Heller
Inv. Co. v. Southern Title & Trust Co. (1936) 17 Cal.App.2d 202, 211 (Heller).
(SAC, ¶ 74.) HLP ED contends these authorities are inapposite. (Entity Def.
Demurrer, p. 7:21-8:14.)
 
In Dartmouth College, the U.S. Supreme
Court addressed whether a state legislature’s modifications to the charter of a
charitable corporation violated the constitutional prohibition on the
impairment of contracts. (Dartmouth College, supra, 17 U.S. at p.
624-626.) In answering in the affirmative, the Supreme Court held the charter
was “plainly a contract to which the donors, the trustees and the crown (to
whose rights and obligations New Hampshire succeeds) were the original parties.”
(Id., at p. 643-644.) HLP ED contends this authority is inapposite as Dartmouth
College addressed different issues and did not hold a contract was created
in favor of third parties. (Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 8:3-14; Entity Def. Reply,
p. 4:4-15.) Yet subsequent courts have recognized Dartmouth College
establishes the principle that a corporation’s charter or articles of
incorporation form a contract between the state and the corporation. (E.g.,
Shelton College v. State Bd. of Ed. (1967) 48 N.J. 501, 522, fn. 5; see
also State ex rel. Swanson v. Perham (1948) 30 Wash.2d 368, 375, overruled
on other grounds by Seattle Trust & Sav. Bank v. McCarthy (1980) 94
Wash.2d 605.)
 
HLPUSD’s opposition suggests this principle
has been adopted in California by following a restatement of this principle
with citations to California authorities. (Entity Def. Opp., p. 6:24-7:8, 13:20-14:2.)
The court finds, however, that these authorities do not stand for the
proposition suggested. 
 
Instead, they merely recognize that a
corporation’s founding documents form a contract between it and its
shareholders. (Tu-Vu Drive-In Corp. v. Ashkins (1964) 61 Cal.2d 283,
288; EpicentRx, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 890, 897,
fn. 3, review granted December 13, 2023, S282521; Wong v. Restoration
Robotics, Inc. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 48, 61; Bushansky v. Soon-Shiong (2018)
23 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1005; Demello v. Dairyman’s Co-Operative Creamery (1946)
73 Cal.App.2d 746, 750.) In Heller, the court addressed whether the
legislature had the power “to change the contract of a stockholder with a
corporation.” (Heller, supra, 17 Cal.App.2d at p. 206.) While the
court’s opinion included block quotes from out-of-state cases that referenced Dartmouth
College and quoted another Supreme Court decision for the suggestion that
“[a] legislative grant to a corporation of special privileges, if not forbidden
by the constitution, may be a contract,” the court’s analysis was limited to the
legislature’s power to change a corporation’s structure. (Id., at p. 208,
210-212, quoting Attorney General v. Looker (1897) 111 Mich. 498, 505.)
 
On its own, the court has located at least
one California case that recognizes a corporate charter serves as a contract
between the state and the corporation. In Spring Val. Waterworks v. Board of
Sup’rs of San Francisco (1881) 61 Cal. 3, the California Supreme Court cited
Dartmouth College and stated “it may be conceded that the charter of a
corporation, when accepted by the corporators, is a contract between them and
the State.” (Id., at p. 2.) The court also noted that the California
Constitution’s reservation of powers for the state legislature had “entered
into the contract between the company and the State, and when the corporation
accepted the charter of the company, under the general law of 1858, they
consented to take it subject to the exercise of the powers reserved to the
State.” (Ibid.) Our supreme court is not alone in coming to this
conclusion as other state courts have done the same. (E.g., Orchard
Ridge Country Club, Inc. v. Schrey (Ind. Ct. App. 1984) 470 N.E.2d 780, 783;
State ex rel. Starkey v. Alaska Airlines, Inc. (1966) 68 Wash.2d 318,
328-329; Westlake Hospital Ass’n v. Blix (1958) 13 Ill.2d 183, 195; State
ex rel. Crabbe v. Thistle Down Jockey Club (1926) 114 Ohio St. 582, 590; Grisim
v. South St. Paul Live Stock Exchange (1922) 152 Minn. 271, 276.) Thus, there
is legal support for the contention that HLP ED’s articles of incorporation
form a contract between HLP ED and the state.
 
Next, HLP ED contends there is no allegation in
SAC that suggests HLPUSD participated in the formation of HLP ED, consented to
HLP ED’s alleged contract with the state, or formed any contract with HLP ED.
(Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 9:1-16.) Additionally, the SAC does not allege HLPUSD
was a party to HLP ED’s contract with the state. Rather, the SAC alleges HLPUSD
was an intended third-party beneficiary of HLP ED’s contract with the state
which was allegedly made for the purpose of engaging in fundraising on HLPUSD’s
behalf. (SAC, ¶ 74, 75.) Last, HLP ED contends that even if HLP ED’s articles
of incorporation constitute a binding contract, HLPUSD fails to establish how
HLP ED breached that contract. To the extent the SAC suggests HLP ED breached
the contract by transferring its funds to other non-profit entities upon
dissolution, HLP ED contends this transfer was authorized by HLP ED’s own
articles of incorporation which required this distribution. (SAC, ¶ 48; Entity
Def. Demurrer, p. 8:15-21.) But even so, this argument ignores the fact that
the SAC also alleges HLP ED used scholarship funds for Parulan-Colfer’s
children (SAC, ¶ 31-33), paid legal fees to Parulan-Colfer’s husband for
services that were never provided (SAC, ¶ 38), and covered the cost of
Parulan-Colfer’s retirement party (SAC, ¶ 39).
 
Accordingly, HLP ED’s demurrer to this cause
of action is OVERRULED.
 
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing (Third Cause of Action)
 
HLP ED maintains HLPUSD’s third cause of
action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails because
the SAC does not establish the existence of a contract. (Entity Def. Demurrer,
p. 9:21-26; Entity Def. Reply, p. 8:20-23.) Because the court has found the
opposite in overruling HLP ED’s demurrer to HLPUSD’s second cause of action for
breach of contract, HLP ED’s demurrer to this cause of action is also OVERRULED.
 
Conversion (Fifth Cause of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants
argue HLPUSD’s fifth cause of action for conversion fails because HLPUSD has no
ownership interest in the funds at issue. The court agrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the
plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.” (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.)
“Conversion is an intentional tort.” (Multani v. Knight (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 837, 853.) “Because the act [of conversion] must be knowingly done,
‘neither negligence, active or passive, nor a breach of contract, even though
it result in injury to, or loss of, specific property, constitutes a
conversion.’” (Taylor v. Forte Hotels International (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124.)
 
“[C]ases recognizing claims for the conversion of money
‘typically involve those who have misappropriated, commingled, or misapplied
specific funds held for the benefit of others.’” (Voris v. Lampert (2019)
7 Cal.5th 1141, 1152, quoting PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink,
Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 396.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the SAC alleges HLPUSD had an
ownership interest in HLP ED’s funds which arose out of its status as a
third-party beneficiary of HLP ED’s articles of incorporation. (SAC, ¶ 92.)
Parulan-Colfer argues HLPUSD’s alleged future interest in HLP ED’s donated
funds is not sufficient to establish an ownership interest for conversion as “a
mere contractual right of payment, without more, will not suffice.”
(Parulan-Colfer Reply, p. 6:9-10, quoting Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 445, 452.) And “[m]oney cannot be the subject of a cause of
action for conversion unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved,
such as where an agent accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails
to make the payment.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.)
 
Here, the SAC fails to point to a specific
and identifiable sum to which HLPUSD was entitled. HLP ED’s articles of
incorporation do not specifically entitle HLPUSD to funds collected by HLP ED. Instead,
they merely state that such funds are to disbursed “to the benefit” of HLPUSD.
(SAC, Ex. A, ¶ 2(II)(B).) And upon dissolution, HLP ED’s funds were to be sent
to another nonprofit fund, foundation, or corporation. (SAC, Ex. A, ¶ 2(IV).)
Because HLPUSD was only entitled to the benefits of the donations collected by
the HLP ED and was not entitled to actual possession of all donations made, the
court finds the SAC fails to establish HLPUSD had an ownership interest over
the funds that were allegedly converted.
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED’s
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
Breach of Charitable Trust (Sixth Cause
of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED contend HLPUSD’s sixth
cause of action for breach of charitable trust fails because HLPUSD lacks
standing. The court disagrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Corporations Code section 5142, subdivision
(a), an action for breach of charitable trust may be brought by “(1) [t]he
corporation, or a member in the name of the corporation pursuant to Section
5710[,] (2) [a]n officer of the corporation[,] (3) [a] director of the
corporation[,] (4) [a] person with a reversionary, contractual, or property
interest in the assets subject to such charitable trust,” or the attorney
general.”
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the SAC alleges HLPUSD’s
standing arises from its contractual interest in HLP ED’s assets as a
third-party beneficiary of HLPUSD’s articles of incorporation. (SAC, ¶ 97-98.)
Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED contend HLPUSD does not have a contractual interest
in HLP ED’s assets. (Parulan-Colfer Demurrer, p. 6:22-25; Entity Def. Demurrer,
p. 5:14-23.) But as noted above, the Court has found HLPUSD is a third-party
beneficiary of the contract between HLP ED and the state and thus has a
contractual interest in the disposition of HLP ED’s funds. Accordingly,
Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Accounting (Eleventh Cause of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants
maintain Duarte and HLPUSD’s eleventh cause of action for accounting fails because
they cannot establish some balance is due to them. The court agrees as to
Duarte, but disagrees as to HLPUSD.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing
that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting. [Citations.] An action for accounting is not
available where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a
sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Parulan-Colfer maintains Duarte
and HLPUSD cannot show some balance is due to them as HLP ED’s articles of
incorporation do not establish they are entitled to HLP ED’s funds.
(Parulan-Colfer Demurrer, p. 8:4-20.) The Entity Defendants maintain this cause
of action fails because they did not owe any fiduciary duty to Duarte and
HLPUSD. (Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 11:19-26.)
 
With regards to Duarte, the court agrees. In
the SAC, Duarte alleges a first cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a
fourth cause of action for fraud, a seventh cause of action for common counts, an
eighth cause of action for unfair business practices, a tenth cause of action
for declaratory relief, a twelfth cause of action aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duties, and fourteenth cause of action for negligence. Following this
demurrer, only Duarte’s fourth, seventh, eighth, and tenth causes of action
remain. Because these causes of action are based on a specific sum that HLP ED
allegedly fraudulently induced, the court finds Duarte is not able to state a
claim for accounting. (SAC, ¶ 29.)
 
As to HLPUSD, Parulan-Colfer maintains HLP
ED’s articles of incorporation entitle HLPUSD to the benefit of the donations
raised by HLP ED rather than the actual funds. (Parulan-Colfer Demurrer, p. 8:4-7.)
But while the court relied upon this distinction in sustaining Parulan-Colfer
and HLP ED’s demurrer to HLPUSD’s cause of action for conversion, this distinction
does not similarly defeat the present cause of action since benefits may
include sums due to HLPUSD. And while Parulan-Colfer maintains sums were not
due to HLPUSD upon HLP ED’s dissolution (Parulan-Colfer Demurrer, p. 8:8-16),
HLPUSD may still be able to establish that HLP ED’s remaining funds should have
gone to another entity that benefited HLPUSD rather than the Entity Defendants.
Because HLPUSD has adequately stated causes of action for breach of charitable
trust, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of contract, HLPUSD has established
some balance of funds is due to HLPUSD.
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity
Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend as to Duarte and OVERRULED as to HLPUSD.
 
Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary
Duties (Twelfth Cause of Action)
 
The Entity Defendants argue Duarte and
HLPUSD’s twelfth cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary
duties fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim because HLP ED was
legally obligated to transfer its property to the other Entity Defendants.
(Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 12:1-8.) As to Duarte, this cause of action fails for
the reasons noted above as Duarte cannot state a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duties. As to HLPUSD, while HLP ED was legally obligated to transfer its
funds to another charitable entity upon its dissolution, HLP ED’s transfer to
these specific entities may still constitute a breach of fiduciary duties if
HLPUSD establishes the transfer was made for Parulan-Colfer’s personal benefit
and not the benefit of HLPUSD.
 
Accordingly, the Entity Defendants’ demurrer
to this cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend as to Duarte
and OVERRULED as to HLPUSD.
 
Aiding and Abetting Breach of Charitable
Trust (Thirteenth Cause of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED contend HLPUSD’s thirteenth
cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of charitable trust fails for
the same reasons as HLPUSD’s cause of action for breach of charitable trust. (Parulan-Colfer
Demurrer, p. 9:6-7; Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 12:10-13.) Accordingly, their
demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED
for the same reasons noted above.
 
Negligence (Fourteenth Cause of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants maintain
Duarte and HLPUSD’s fourteenth cause of action for negligence fails because (1)
the Court did not permit Parulan-Colfer to be named as a party pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.15, subdivision (a), (2) the cause of action is
time-barred, and (3) the cause of action fails to allege sufficient facts to
state a claim.
 
The court need not address these grounds for
the demurrers as Duarte and HLPUSD did not obtain leave to include this cause
of action in the SAC when the Court sustained the previous demurrers to the FAC
with leave to amend. (See Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Accordingly, their demurrers to this cause of action
are SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, the Court rules as follows.
 
As to the first
cause of action, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers are SUSTAINED
with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to Duarte and the Entity
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED as to HLPUSD.
 
As to the second
cause of action, the Entity Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
As to the third
cause of action, the Entity Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
As to the fifth
cause of action, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers are SUSTAINED
with twenty (20) days leave to amend.
 
As to the sixth
cause of action, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers are OVERRULED.
 
As to the
eleventh cause of action, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers
are SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to Duarte and OVERRULED
as to HLPUSD.
 
As to the twelfth
cause of action, the Entity Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30
days’ leave given to amend as to Duarte and OVERRULED as to HLPUSD.
 
As to the
thirteenth cause of action, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers
are OVERRULED.
 
As to the
fourteenth cause of action, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers
are SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Based upon the
recommendations made on the demurrers, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity
Defendants’ motions to strike are DEEMED MOOT.