 Case Number:  BC598021    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




THAKOR I. PATEL AND KUSUM T.
  PATEL AS TRUSTEES OF THE PATEL FAMILY TRUST, DATED MAY 15, 1992, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
8300 SOUTH VERMONT AVENUE,
  L.P., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


BC598021 




Hearing Date:


April 15, 2024




Hearing Time:


3:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS
  CBRE, INC. AND DENNIS ZHANG’S AMENDED MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR
  ALTERNATIVELY, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 




Background
On July 1, 2015, Plaintiff Thakor I. Patel and Kusum T. Patel as
Trustees of the Patel Family Trust, dated May 15, 1992 (“Patel Family Trust”)
filed this action against Defendants 8300 South Vermont Avenue, L.P., Factory
Outlet Store, Inc., Factory Outlet Store, LLC, Western Holdings Limited
Liability Company, and Eli Sasson. 
Patel Family Trust filed a First Amended Complaint on August 22, 2017.
On September 16, 2019, Patel Family Trust filed a request for dismissal of the
complaint. The case was ordered dismissed by the Court on August 9, 2019. (See
Request for Dismissal filed September 16, 2019.) 
On November 17, 2017, Cross-Complainants 8300 South Vermont Avenue,
L.P., Factory Outlet Store, Inc., Factory Outlet Store, LLC, Western Holdings
Limited Liability Company, and Eli Sasson (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against CBRE, Inc. On July 14, 2020, Cross-Complainants
filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against CBRE, Inc.
(“CBRE”) and Dennis Zhang (“Zhang”) (jointly, “Cross-Defendants”). The FACC
alleges causes of action for (1) equitable indemnity, (2) breach of contract,
(3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) negligence, (5) violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200, (6)
unjust enrichment, and (7) declaratory relief. All of the causes of action of
the FACC are alleged against both Cross-Defendants. 
On February 19, 2021, Department 57 of this Court issued a minute
order in this action concerning, inter alia, Zhang’s demurrer to the
FACC. The February 19, 2021 minute order provides, inter alia, that
“Cross-Defendant Zhang’s demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to the
second, fourth, and seventh causes of action. The demurrer is overruled as to
the third and sixth causes of action.” 
Cross-Defendants now move for summary judgement of each cause of
action in FACC. In the alternative, Cross-Defendants move for summary
adjudication of the individual causes of action of the FACC. Cross-Complainants
oppose. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on the parties’ Amended Joint Statement Regarding
Objections to Evidence Submitted in Support of and in Opposition to
Cross-Defendants’ Amended Motion for Summary Judgment, or Alternatively,
Summary Adjudication as follows: 
Cross-Complainants’ Objections 
Objection to Paragraph 23 of
the Kennedy Declaration: sustained 
Objections to Zhang
Declaration
Objection to Paragraph 5:
overruled
Objection to Paragraph 7: overruled as to
the first sentence, sustained as to the second sentence 
Objection to Paragraph 9: overruled
Objection to Paragraph 10: overruled 
Objection to Paragraph 11: overruled 
Objection to Paragraph 12: overruled 
Objection to Paragraph 13: overruled 
Objection to Paragraph 17: overruled 
Objection to Paragraph 19: overruled
Objection to Paragraph 20: overruled
Objection to Paragraph 21: overruled
Objection to Paragraph 22: overruled 
Cross-Defendants’ Objections 
Objections to Damiao
Declaration 
Objection to Paragraph 4: overruled 
Objection to Paragraph 5: sustained as to “without
knowledge of concealed information as discussed below,” overruled as to the
remainder 
Objection to Paragraph 16: sustained 
Objection to Paragraph 17: sustained as to
“Mr. Zhang was required to seek authorization from Eli Sasson before making
such a representation, as he was aware Mr. Sasson owned both 8300 and Factory
Outlet Store,” overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection to Paragraph 18: sustained 
Objection to Paragraph 19: sustained 
Objections to Gross
Declaration 
                        Objection to Paragraph
9: sustained 
                        Objection to Paragraph
11: overruled as to the first sentence, sustained as to the 
remainder 
                        Objection to Paragraph
12: overruled
                        Objections to Amended
Declarations of Gross, Damiao, and Evans
                        The objections are
overruled except as to the objection to paragraph 10 of the 
Gross Declaration regarding
the statement as to what was provided to “8300, Eli 
Sasson;” overruled as to the
remainder. 
Legal Standard 
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may
move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an
action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or
one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has
no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there
is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is
no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did
not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only
if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Ibid.)  
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) When a defendant seeks summary
judgment or summary adjudication, he/she must show either (1) that one or more
elements of the cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a
complete defense to that cause of action. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
 
 
 
 
Discussion 
A.    Allegations of the
FACC 
In the FACC, Cross-Complainants allege that “Mr. Sasson’s company,
8300 South Vermont, purchased 6401 Haven Avenue, Rancho Cucamonga (the ‘Subject
Property’) in 1996, and owned the Subject Property until its sale to Plaintiffs
on July 3, 2012.” (FACC, ¶ 9.) 
“Trader Joe’s entered into a lease with 8300 South Vermont on July 6,
2007 to occupy one of two retail spaces at the Subject Property...” (FACC, ¶
11.) “On May 27, 2009, Mr. Sasson formed [Factory Outlet Store, Inc. (‘FOS,
Inc.’)]. On September 1, 2009, 8300 South Vermont entered into a 7-year lease
with FOS, Inc. to occupy the other retail space at the Subject Property with
the Factory Outlet Store retail store (the ‘FOS Lease’).” (FACC, ¶ 13.) On
February 1, 2011, FOS, Inc. assigned its interest in the FOS Lease to FOS, LLC.
(FACC, ¶ 15.)
“On February 14, 2012, Mr. Sasson on behalf of 8300 South Vermont
entered into an Exclusive Sales Listing Agreement (the ‘Listing Agreement’)
with Cross-Defendant CBRE, to act as the licensed real estate broker…Dennis
Zhang, a Senior Managing Director at CBRE, executed the Listing Agreement on
behalf of Cross-Defendant CBRE.” (FACC, ¶ 16.) “Under the terms of the Listing
Agreement, Cross-Defendants agreed to use its ‘reasonable efforts to effect a
sale’ of the Subject Property for a period commencing on February 8, 2012 and
ending June 6, 2012 (the ‘Listing Term’), at a list price of $7,500,000.00. If
successful, Cross-Defendants would earn a commission of 4% of the gross sales
price.” (FACC, ¶ 17.) 
“In or around early-April 2012, Total Woman Gym + Spa (‘Total Woman’),
a national credit tenant, expressed interest in leasing the space occupied by
FOS, LLC at the Subject Property.” (FACC, ¶ 24.) “Despite the fact that
Cross-Defendants knew that replacing FOS, LLC with a national credit tenant
would increase the value of the Subject Property, Cross-Defendants never
informed Cross-Complainants of the Total Woman opportunity and did not seek a
Letter of Intent from Total Woman. Had Cross-Defendants informed
Cross-Complainants of Total Woman’s interest, it would have increased the
listing price and market value of the Subject Property.” (FACC, ¶ 25.)
Cross-Complainants allege that “the reason why Mr. Zhang never informed them of
the Total Woman opportunity was because (1) Mr. Zhang could not earn a
commission through Cross-Complainants for procuring Total Woman and (2) because
Mr. Zhang sought to keep that deal for Plaintiffs, to be completed after close
of escrow.” (FACC, ¶ 27.) 
“On May 29, 2012, Plaintiffs and Cross-Complainants executed a
Standard Offer, Agreement and Escrow Instructions For Purchase of Real Estate
(the ‘Purchase Agreement’)…This document discloses that Mr. Zhang of
Cross-Defendant CBRE was the real estate broker representing both Plaintiffs
(Buyer) and Cross-Complainant 8300 South Vermont (Seller). The final purchase
price for the Subject Property was $6,870,000.00…” (FACC, ¶ 30.) Cross-Complainants
allege that “Cross-Defendants helped renegotiate the purchase price for
Plaintiffs and ultimately brokered the sale of the Subject Property to
Plaintiffs for $6,870,000—more than $500,000 less than the listing price
Cross-Defendants agreed to use reasonable efforts to secure for
Cross-Complainants under the Listing Agreement. At closing, Plaintiffs’
representative, Ray Patel, emailed Mr. Zhang, writing: ‘Dennis, you conducted
the sale of [the Subject Property] with creativity and excellence today.’ Mr.
Zhang replied: ‘Ray, I did this only for you, I am looking to doing more
transactions with you in the future.’” (FACC, ¶ 34.) 
B.    First Cause of
Action for Equitable Indemnity 
In the first cause of action of the FACC for
equitable indemnity, Cross-Complainants allege that “[o]n August 22,
2017, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint for Breach of Contract, Breach
of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Fraudulent Concealment, Fraud in
the Inducement and Constructive Fraud, against Cross-Complainants, asserting
(among other things) that Cross-Complainants are liable to Plaintiffs for
concealing certain facts from Plaintiffs in connection with the sale of the
Subject Property, including Eli Sasson’s affiliation with FOS, Inc. and FOS,
LLC, and for early-termination of a lease agreement, as is more fully alleged
in the First Amended Complaint in this action.” (FACC, ¶ 40.)
Cross-Complainants further allege that “[i]n
October 2018, Cross-Complainants entered into a settlement with the Plaintiffs,
upon which Cross-Complainants agreed to pay settlement monies in exchange for
dismissal of Plaintiffs’ lawsuit…Cross-Complainants are entitled to equitable indemnity,
apportionment of liability, and contribution from Cross-Defendants for the
injuries and damages allegedly suffered by Plaintiffs, and for reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in defending Plaintiffs’ action against
Cross-Complainants.” (FACC, ¶ 42.) 
In the motion, Cross-Defendants assert that the first cause of action
fails. Cross-Defendants cite to BFGC Architects Planners, Inc. v. Forcum/Mackey
Construction, Inc. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 848, 852, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]lthough the body of law defining and applying principles
of equitable indemnity has not fully gelled but is still evolving, one thing is
clear: The doctrine applies only among defendants who are jointly and severally
liable to the plaintiff…With limited exception, there must be some basis for
tort liability against the proposed indemnitor.” 
Cross-Defendants assert that “[t]o obtain indemnification here,
Cross-Complainants must show that the CBRE Defendants breached a duty owed to
the purchaser, Plaintiff, and thus would be joint and severally liable with
Cross-Complainants. Cross-Complainants cannot do so. The sole basis for such
tort liability is CBRE’s alleged concealment of Cross-Complainant Sasson’s
involvement with the FOS entities. But the undisputed evidence shows that on
May 25, 2012, CBRE sent Plaintiff an email, disclosing Mr. Sasson’s involvement
with FOS, including an attachment summarizing FOS’s Company Profile stating
that the FOS team is ‘headed by Mr. Eli Sasson.’” (Mot. at p. 9:12-18.)[1] In
his supporting declaration, Zhang states that “[o]n May 25, 2012, I sent an
email to Mr. Patel confirming my familiarity with Trader Joes and disclosing
Mr. Sasson’s involvement with FOS. A true and correct copy of that email is
attached as Exhibit E.” (Zhang Decl., ¶ 16, Ex. E.)
In the opposition, Cross-Complainants assert that “[b]ased upon the
substantial evidence of misrepresentations and non-disclosures, and breaches of
duties by Cross-Defendants during the pendency, at the close, and after the
close of escrow, which infected the relationship between Cross-Complainants and
Plaintiff in the main action, the claims for equitable indemnity are supported
by evidence and Summary Adjudication should be denied as to this cause of
action...” (Opp’n at p. 15:3-8.) But Cross-Complainants do not cite any legal
authority supporting their apparent argument that Cross-Defendants “infected
the relationship between Cross-Complainants and Plaintiff,” such that an
equitable indemnity cause of action exists here. (See Opp’n at pp.
14:18-15:8.) As discussed, the doctrine of equitable
indemnity applies only among defendants who are jointly and severally liable to
the plaintiff. (BFGC Architects Planners, Inc. v. Forcum/Mackey
Construction, Inc., supra,
119 Cal.App.4th at p. 852.) “With
limited exception, there must be some basis for tort liability against the
proposed indemnitor.” (Ibid.) Cross-Complainants
do not demonstrate how Cross-Defendants are purportedly jointly and severally
liable to Patel Family Trust, or how there is purportedly a basis for
tort liability against Cross-Defendants, the alleged indemnitors. 
In addition, Cross-Complainants do not dispute that “[o]n May 25,
2012, Mr. Zhang sent an email to Plaintiff disclosing Mr. Sasson’s involvement
with FOS.” (See Cross-Complainants’ Response to Cross-Defendants’
Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 29.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Cross-Defendants have met
their burden of demonstrating that the first cause of action is without merit,
and that Cross-Complainants have failed to raise a triable issue of material
fact as to this cause of action. Thus, the Court grants Cross-Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication as to the first cause of action. 
C.    Second
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract 
In the second cause of action for breach of
contract, Cross-Complainants allege, inter alia, that “Cross-Defendants
materially breached the Listing and Purchase Agreements by failing to use
reasonable efforts to effect a sale of the property for $7,500,000.00. Among
other things, Cross-Defendants withheld information from Cross-Complainants
that would have increased the purchase price and/or market value of the
property, including but not limited to, information concerning national credit
tenants—such as Total Woman Spa—interested in leasing the space occupied by
FOS, LLC. Cross-Defendants presented these opportunities to Plaintiffs instead,
while the Subject Property was still in escrow.” (FACC, ¶ 48.) 
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach
of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v.
Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
1182, 1186.) Cross-Defendants
assert that here, Cross-Complainants cannot prove that Cross-Defendants
breached the Listing Agreement or Purchase Agreement. 
First, Cross-Defendants assert that
“CBRE did not breach the Listing Agreement’s offering brochure requirements.” (Mot.
at p. 10:4-5.) As an initial matter, the Court is unable to locate any
allegation in the FACC that Cross-Defendants purportedly breached the Listing
Agreement’s offering brochure requirements. Cross-Complainants only appear to
allege that “[u]nder the Listing Agreement, Cross-Defendants also agreed to
produce marketing materials, of a type that is customary for selling similar
properties, to help market and sell the Subject Property. The brochure was to
contain property facts, photographs, and other relevant information regarding
the Subject Property.” (FACC, ¶ 46.) The Court notes that “[t]he pleadings play a key role
in a summary judgment motion and set the boundaries of the issues to be
resolved at summary judgment. [T]he scope of the issues to be properly
addressed in [a] summary judgment motion is generally limited to the claims framed
by the pleadings.” (Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage
Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 444 [internal quotations and citation
omitted].) 
In addition, even if Cross-Complainants alleged that Cross-Defendants
breached the Listing Agreement by failing to produce an adequate brochure,
Cross-Complainants provide evidence that Zhang prepared an offering brochure
which he sent to 8300 South Vermont Avenue. L.P. (“Vermont”) for review and
approval. (Zhang Decl., ¶ 10.) Zhang states that Vermont approved the brochure.
(Ibid.) 
Cross-Defendants also assert that “CBRE did not have, nor did it
breach, any duty to disclose Total Woman’s Interest in the FOS space.” (Mot. at
p. 11:4-5.) Cross-Defendants indicate that the Listing Agreement did not
require CBRE to be responsible for leasing the Property. (Zhang Decl., ¶ 12.)
Cross-Defendants also assert that “even if CBRE had a duty (which it did not),
the record evidence shows that CBRE disclosed Total Woman’s interest to
Vermont’s representative, Mr. Gross, who confirmed that Vermont was not
interested in replacing FOS with Total Woman.” (Mot. at p. 11:14-16, emphasis
omitted.) 
Cross-Defendants cite to the following testimony from Zhang’s
deposition: “Q[.] Okay. When that other broker called you about Total Woman,
what exactly did that broker tell you? A[.] They said that they are looking at
this location. Q[.] I’m sorry. I did not understand. A[.] They are looking at
this location. Q[.] So Total Woman is looking at the FOS location? A[.] Yes. 
(Kennedy
Decl., ¶ 14, Ex. 12 (Zhang Depo.) at pp. 153:25-154:9.) Cross-Defendants also
cite to the following testimony: “Q[.] Okay. During your initial call with this
broker when this broker told you about Total Woman’s interest, what else did
you discuss? A[.] I do not recall. Q[.] Okay. A[.] But I pass this information
to Barry Gross. Barry Gross told me he is not interested.  Q[.] Okay. Let me ask you about that. So you
passed that information along to Barry Gross when? A[.] After Total Woman
called me. Q[.] So right after Total Woman called you? A[.] Yes. Q[.] Okay.
Okay. Okay. And what did Barry Gross tell you? A[.] He said Factory Outlet
Store will never leave, he doing good business there, there is no space for
lease. Q[.] Okay. So in other words, Mr. Gross told you that Factory Outlet
Store was not interested in leaving that space; correct? A[.] Yes. Because
there is no space for lease.” (Id. at p.
155:1-22.)[2] 
            In the opposition,
Cross-Complainants assert that “[t]he evidence comprising the testimony of
Jennifer Duenas, Barry Gross, and Katia Demiao, is that Cross-Defendants knew
material facts, including the interest of the Total Woman Gym/Spa, a national
credit tenant, which would have supported the sales price of $7,500,000 or
above. However, instead of using this information to secure a sale at
$7,500,000, Cross-Defendants breached the contract, by failing and refusing to
both disclose this material fact to Cross-Complainants, and failed to use this
information to obtain a sales price of $7,500,000.” (Opp’n at p. 10:21-28.) However,
Cross-Complainants do not appear to dispute Cross-Defendants’ assertion that Cross-Defendants
did not have any duty to disclose Total Woman’s interest in the “FOS space.”
(Mot. at p. 11:4-5.) 
            Cross-Complainants argue that
“Cross-Defendants violated their contractual duties by not using this favorable
information, and thereby breached their contractual obligations by securing a
final sales price of more than $600,000 less than the Listing Agreement sales
price.” (Opp’n at p. 11:3-6.) But Cross-Complainants do not appear to identify
such purported “contractual duties.” Cross-Complainants do not appear to point
to any provisions of the Listing Agreement or Purchase Agreement purportedly
requiring Cross-Defendants to disclose to Cross-Complainants Total Woman Spa’s
interest in leasing the space occupied by FOS, LLC. Thus, it is unclear how
Cross-Defendants allegedly breached such agreements. Cross-Defendants note that
“a real estate broker’s duty is derived from the
agreement between the broker and client.” (Carleton v.
Tortosa (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 745,
750-751.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Cross-Defendants have met
their burden of demonstrating that the second cause of action of the FACC is
without merit, and that Cross-Complainants have failed to raise a triable issue
of material fact as to this cause of action. Thus, the Court grants
Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the second cause of
action. 
D.    Third Cause of
Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty 
In the third cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, Cross-Complainants
allege that “Cross-Defendants breached their fiduciary duty to
Cross-Complainants by failing to disclose to Cross-Complainants information
that would materially affect the sales price and/or market value of the Subject
Property. Instead, Cross-Defendants disclosed that information to Plaintiffs
and assisted Plaintiffs in negotiating a purchase price more than $600,000.00
below the price for which Cross-Defendants had agreed with Cross-Complainants
to use reasonable efforts to sell the Subject Property. Moreover, if what
Plaintiffs have alleged in the underlying complaint is true, Cross-Defendants
further breached their fiduciary duty to Cross-Complainants by failing to
disclose to Plaintiffs facts concerning Mr. Sasson’s involvement with FOS,
LLC.” (FACC, ¶ 56.)
In the motion, Cross-Defendants argue that “there is no evidence CBRE
breached its fiduciary duties by tilting the scaled in Plaintiff’s favor during
the sales transaction.” (Mot. at p. 14:6-7.) In support of this assertion,
Cross-Defendants cite to the following testimony from Mr. Gross’s deposition:
“Q[.] And you didn’t think that he was preferring the buyer over the seller,
and he’s acting in this dual relationship. You never felt like he was tilting
the scales one way or the other, correct?...THE WITNESS: Not that I can
recall.” (Kennedy Decl., ¶ 22, Ex. 20 (Gross Depo.) at p. 68:23-69:5.)
In the opposition, Cross-Complainants note that “[u]nder California law, a real estate broker may act as a
‘dual agent’ for both the seller and the buyer in a real property transaction,
provided both parties consent to the arrangement after full disclosure. To that
end, the law requires brokers to disclose whether they are acting as dual
agents and to inform the parties that a broker acting as a dual agent owes
fiduciary duties to both buyer and seller.” (Horiike v.
Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1024, 1028 [internal citation omitted].) The
Horiike Court found that “[b]ecause Cortazzo, as an agent of Coldwell Banker in the
transaction, owed Horiike a duty to learn and disclose all facts materially
affecting the value or desirability of the property, the trial court
erred in granting nonsuit on Horiike’s breach of fiduciary duty claim
against Cortazzo and in instructing the jury that it could not find Coldwell
Banker liable for breach of fiduciary duty based on Cortazzo’s conduct.” (Id. at
p. 1042.) 
Cross-Defendants acknowledge that “[o]n May 29, 2012, Plaintiff and
Vermont (including its general partner, Western Holdings) executed a Standard
Offer Agreement and Escrow Instructions for the Purchase of Real Estate…which
disclosed CBRE’s role as the dual agent for the buyer and seller.” (Cross-Defendants’
UMF No. 30.) In the opposition, Cross-Complainants assert that “the
Declarations of Barry Gross…and Katia Damaio…include testimony…that emails
discovered years after the transaction closed in July, 2012, establish that
Cross-Defendants CBRE and Dennis Zhang, knew material facts about the interest
of at least one national credit tenant, Total Women Gym, and other potential
tenants, in the space occupied by Factory Outlet Stores, in April and May,
2012, which would have significantly affected the ‘value and desirability’ of the
Subject Property. Per the Declarations of Barry Gross and Katia Damaio, neither
Cross-Defendant disclosed that material information.” (Opp’n at p. 4:6-16.) 
            Exhibit “A” to Mr. Gross’s
declaration includes a May 31, 2012 email from “Ray” to Zhang stating, “Ok.
Dennis, I wanted to get the contact information for total women. Do you have
it?” (Amended Gross Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. A.) This Exhibit also includes a May 31,
2012 email from Zhang stating, “[w]ill pass over to you as soon as you take
title, another broker called today too, he has a tenant wants this location…” (Ibid.) Exhibit “B” to Mr. Gross’s declaration
includes an April 3, 2012 email from Zhang to “Dean Copans” stating, “Total
Women wants to take Factory Outlet Store location, Total Women has financials
and 15 locations owned a well known person [sic], I am still trying to do this
deal with you even I have back up offers [sic]…” (Amended Gross Decl., ¶ 7, Ex.
B.) Mr. Gross states in his supporting declaration that “I do not recall the
information contained in the April 3, 2012 email or the May 31, 2012 email,
being provided…while the escrow was pending with Patel in 2012.” (Amended Gross
Decl., ¶ 8.) 
            In the reply, Cross-Defendants
counter that Cross-Complainants “submit a declaration from Mr. Gross,
indicating that he ‘do[es] not recall’ seeing two specific emails discussing
Total Woman’s interest in leasing the FOS space…This could very well be true,
but it is irrelevant, because Mr. Zhang never forwarded those emails to Mr.
Gross. Instead, Mr. Zhang and Mr. Gross had a verbal conversation about Total
Woman during which Mr. Gross informed Mr. Zhang that FOS would not leave the
leased space…Mr. Gross does not dispute this.” (Reply at p. 5:14-20.) Such
conversation is discussed above in connection with Cross-Defendants’ arguments
pertaining to the breach of contract cause of action. Indeed, Cross-Complainants
do not appear to dispute that Mr. Gross had a conversation with Zhang
concerning Total Woman’s interest in the FOS, LLC space.
            Cross-Complainants also cite to the
deposition transcript of Jennifer Duenas, who was produced as
Cross-Complainants’ PMQ/PMK in this action. (Amended Evans Decl., ¶ 3.)
Cross-Complainants cite to the following testimony from Ms. Duenas’s
deposition: “Q[.] On behalf of 8300, did 8300 know about the interest of Total
Woman and/or any other tenant as of the time of this deal in April through May
of 2012?...A[.] we were unaware of any tenants that approached Dennis Zhang
during the listing period or the escrow period that they expressed interest. We
were not made aware of any of that.” (Amended Evans Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 7 (Duenas
Depo.) at p. 318:4-17.) Ms. Duenas further testified that “[w]hen we found out
later through discovery that Ray Patel was interested in Total Woman Spa and
that there was interest from tenants at that time, we would have had more of a
leverage to negotiate and stand our ground when we were at the seven million
when he asked for a discount at his appraisal -- due to his appraisal.” (Amended
Evans Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. 13 (Duenas Depo.) at p. 282:17-23.) In the reply,
Cross-Defendants do not appear to address Ms. Duenas’s testimony.
            In addition, the parties acknowledge
that “Ray [Patel] e-mailed Dennis Zhang on June 19 and told him, ‘Dennis, you
conducted the sale of 6401 with creativity and excellence today.’…Dennis Zhang
replies back and tells him on the next day, ‘Ray, I did this only for you. I’m
looking to do more transactions with you in the future…” (Amended Evans Decl.,
¶ 14, Ex. 12 (Duenas Depo.) at p. 341:15-25; Mot. at p. 14:18-21.) Cross-Defendants
assert that “[t]his evidence is nowhere near sufficient to prove a breach of
fiduciary duty.” (Mot. at p. 14:22.) However, Cross-Defendants do not appear to
cite to any legal authority to support such assertion. 
Cross-Complainants assert that Zhang’s email further “substantiate[s]
the loyalty expressed by Mr. Zhang to Ray Patel, the Buyer, in conflict with
the duties owed to the Seller…” (Opp’n at p. 6:23-24.) In Horiike v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co., supra, 1
Cal.5th at page 1030, the California Supreme Court noted that “[j]udicial decisions had long made clear that real estate
agents owed sellers the same obligation of undivided service and loyalty that
[the law] imposes on a trustee in favor of his beneficiary.” (Internal
quotations omitted.) The Horiike Court further noted that “[t]he
statute also requires real estate agents to provide their clients with a form
entitled ‘Disclosure Regarding Real Estate Agency Relationship.’…The form,
the contents of which are prescribed by the statute, states that ‘[a] real
estate agent, either acting directly or through one or more associate
licensees, can legally be the agent of both the Seller and the Buyer in a
transaction, but only with the knowledge and consent of both the Seller and the
Buyer,’ and that, ‘[i]n a dual agency situation,’ the agent owes ‘[a] fiduciary
duty of utmost care, integrity, honesty and loyalty in the dealings with either
the Seller or the Buyer.’ (Id., § 2079.16.).” (Id.
at p. 1031.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Cross-Complainants have
raised a triable issue of material fact regarding their third cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty. Thus,  
the
Court denies Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the third
cause of action.
E.     Fourth Cause of
Action for Negligence
Cross-Defendants assert that Cross-Complainants’ negligence cause of
action is barred by the economic loss rule. The economic loss rule “functions
to bar claims in negligence for pure economic losses in deference to a contract
between litigating parties…[q]uite simply, the economic loss rule prevent[s]
the law of contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other…” (Sheen v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th
905, 922 [internal quotation and citations omitted].) “In
general, there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely
economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property
damage.” (Ibid.) 
Cross-Defendants assert that the negligence
cause of action seeks purely economic losses that do not go above and
beyond alleged broken contractual promises. In the fourth cause of action for
negligence, Cross-Complainants allege, inter alia, that
“Cross-Defendants breached their duty of care to Cross-Complainants by, among
other things, failing to disclose to Cross-Complainants information that would
materially affect the sales price and/or market value of the Subject Property
and failing to use reasonable efforts to sell the Subject Property for
$7,500,000.00 as agreed under the Listing Agreement.” (FACC, ¶ 60.) 
In the opposition, Cross-Complainants argue that “[t]he Fourth Cause
of Action in the First Amended Cross-Complaint states a negligence claim based
upon a breach of duty of due care for the conduct of Cross-Defendants in this
Real Estate Transaction.” (Opp’n at p. 9:15-17.) 
Cross-Complainants
cite to Salahutdin v. Valley of California, Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
555, 558-559, where “[t]he
trial court found that while representing plaintiffs in a real estate purchase,
appellant’s employee David Seigal breached his fiduciary duty of care and
committed constructive fraud by making false representations to plaintiffs that
the property they purchased was more than one acre in size and that it could be
subdivided where, in fact, the property was less than one acre and could not be
subdivided.” The Court of
Appeal affirmed the judgment. (Id.
at p. 559.) The Salahutdin Court noted that
“the disclosure duty is a general duty imposed
on the agent, and whether a breach of that duty constitutes negligence or fraud
depends on the particular circumstances of each case. Consequently, there is no
clear line establishing when a fiduciary’s breach of the duty of care will be
merely negligent and when it may be characterized as constructive fraud.” (Id. at p. 563 [internal citation omitted].) However, the Salahutdin case does not
concern the application of the economic loss rule. Thus, the Court does not see
how it is relevant to Cross-Defendants’ argument that the negligence cause of
action is barred by the economic loss rule. 
Cross-Complainants also assert that “[t]here is no limit to recovery
of economic losses for a professional negligence claim against a licensed real
estate broker based upon the foregoing non-disclosures and misrepresentations,
under the above authorities.” (Opp’n at p. 10:11-14.) In support of this
assertion, Cross-Complainants cite to Smith v. Rickard (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d
1354. Cross-Complainants
cite to page 1364 of the opinion, in which the Court of Appeal
noted that “[a]n agent must exercise reasonable skill
and care for the benefit of the principal in the performance of agency duties,
and will be liable for any damages suffered by the principal as a result of the
agent’s negligence. Those
duties may include inspecting the property and disclosing any material defects
to the principal.” (Smith v. Rickard, supra, 205 Cal.App.3d at p. 1364 [internal
citation omitted].) However, the Smith case also does not discuss the
economic loss rule.
            Cross-Complainants also cite to Civil Code section 3333, which provides that “[f]or the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, the measure of damages, except where otherwise expressly provided by
this code, is the amount which will compensate for all the detriment
proximately caused thereby, whether it could have been anticipated or not.”
The Court does not see how this statute purportedly demonstrates that the
economic loss rule does not bar Cross-Complainants’ negligence cause of action.

Lastly, Cross-Complainants cite to CACI No. 4101, which concerns the
elements of a claim for breach of the fiduciary duty to use reasonable care.
Cross-Complainants also cite to CACI No. 400, which concerns the elements of a
claim for negligence. The Court also does not see how these Judicial Council of
California Civil Jury Instructions demonstrate that the economic loss
rule does not bar Cross-Complainants’ negligence cause of action. 
The Court does not find that Cross-Complainants have shown that their
negligence cause of action is not barred by the economic loss rule. Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Cross-Defendants have met their burden of
demonstrating that the fourth cause of action is without merit, and that
Cross-Complainants have failed to raise a triable issue of material fact as to
this cause of action. Thus, the Court grants Cross-Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of action. 
F.     Sixth Cause of
Action for Unjust Enrichment
Cross-Defendants assert that the unjust enrichment cause of action
fails because no such cause of action exists in California. 
Cross-Defendants cite to Castillo v. Toll Bros., Inc. (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th
1172, 1209-1210, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he trial court granted summary adjudication of the
claims for unjust enrichment on the ground California does not recognize unjust
enrichment as a separate cause of action. (See McBride v. Boughton (2004)
123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387 [20 Cal. Rptr. 3d 115].) Plaintiffs do not dispute
this ruling on appeal.” In McBride v. Boughton, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at page 387, cited in Castillo,
the Court of Appeal noted that “[u]njust
enrichment is not a cause of action, however, or even a remedy, but rather a
general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies…It is synonymous with
restitution…Unjust enrichment has also been characterized as describing the
result of a failure to make restitution…” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) 
In
the opposition, Cross-Complainants assert that “[a] claim for
unjust enrichment for restitution is expressly recognized in California.”
(Opp’n at p. 13:23-24.) Cross-Complainants cite to Professional Tax Appeal v.
Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[g]enerally, one who is
unjustly enriched at the expense of another is required to make restitution. The
elements of a cause of action for unjust enrichment are simply stated as
‘receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of
another.’” (Internal citations omitted, emphasis added.) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not find that Cross-Defendants have met their burden
of demonstrating that “Cross-Complainants’ unjust enrichment claim fails
because no such cause of action exists in California.” (Mot. at p. 15:1-2.)
Thus, the Court denies Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to
the sixth cause of action for unjust enrichment. 
 
G.   
Fifth Cause of Action for Violations of Business and Professions Code Section 17200
and Seventh Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief 
            Lastly, Cross-Defendants assert that
“Cross-Complainants’ claims for violation of the UCL and declaratory relief
fail as a matter of law because they are derived from faulty predicate claims.”
(Mot. at p. 15:11-13.) 
As to the fifth cause of action, Cross-Defendants assert that
“[b]ecause Cross-Complainants’ breach of contract, negligence, and breach of
fiduciary duty claims fail, so does their UCL claim.” (Mot. at p. 15:18-19.) As
set forth above, the Court denies Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to Cross-Complainants’ third cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty. Thus, the Court does not find that Cross-Defendants have met their burden of
demonstrating that the fifth cause of action is without merit and denies Cross-Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication as to the fifth cause of action. 
            In the seventh cause of action for
declaratory relief, Cross-Complainants allege that “Cross-Complainants contend
they are entitled to indemnity from Cross-Defendants for the injuries and
damages allegedly suffered by Plaintiffs, and for reasonable attorneys’ fees
and costs incurred in defending Plaintiffs’ action against Cross-Complainants.
Cross-Complainants are informed and believe that Cross-Defendants contends to
the contrary.” (FACC, ¶ 74.) 
Cross-Complainants further allege that they “seek a declaration that
Cross-Defendants, as the dual broker and agent of Plaintiffs and
Cross-Complainants under the Purchase Agreement, is in breach of that agreement
and of their fiduciary duties owed to Cross-Complainants if, as Plaintiffs have
alleged, Cross-Defendants in fact failed to disclose the facts concerning Mr.
Sasson’s relationship to FOS, Inc. and FOS, LLC to Plaintiffs, and that
Cross-Complainants are entitled to be indemnified by Cross-Defendants for all
losses and liabilities resulting from Plaintiffs’ action against
Cross-Complainants.” (FACC, ¶ 75.) In the motion, Cross-Defendants assert that
“[t]he undisputed facts demonstrate that Cross-Defendants disclosed such
information, and thus did not violate any duty nor breached any agreement. The
declaratory relief claim, therefore, necessarily fails.” (Mot. at p. 16:1-3.) 
As discussed above in connection with the first cause of action for
equitable indemnity, Zhang states in his supporting declaration that “[o]n May
25, 2012, I sent an email to Mr. Patel confirming my familiarity with Trader
Joes and disclosing Mr. Sasson’s involvement with FOS.” (Zhang Decl., ¶ 16, Ex.
E.) 
            In the opposition,
Cross-Complainants only assert that “[t]he Seventh Cause of Action frames the
issues based upon the breaches of contract and fiduciary duties which are now
supported by the evidence supplied in this Opposition. There were breaches of
duties as established by the Opposition, and there is a ripe controversy for
purposes of a Declaratory Relief Action under C.C.P. Section
1060. Because Cross-Complainant has otherwise supported claims for breach
of contractual and legal duties arising from this relationship, the claim for
Declaratory Relief is supported by admissible evidence and this claim should
overcome Summary Adjudication as well.” (Opp’n at p. 14:8-15.) 
            But as discussed, the declaratory
relief cause of action alleges that “Cross-Complainants seek a declaration that
Cross-Defendants, as the dual broker and agent of Plaintiffs and
Cross-Complainants under the Purchase Agreement, is in breach of that agreement
and of their fiduciary duties owed to Cross-Complainants if, as Plaintiffs
have alleged, Cross-Defendants in fact failed to disclose the facts concerning
Mr. Sasson’s relationship to FOS, Inc. and FOS, LLC to Plaintiffs, and that
Cross-Complainants are entitled to be indemnified by Cross-Defendants for all
losses and liabilities resulting from Plaintiffs’ action against
Cross-Complainant.” (FACC, ¶ 75, emphasis added.) In the opposition, Cross-Complainants
do not address Cross-Defendants’ point that Zhang disclosed Mr. Sasson’s
involvement with FOS. (Opp’n at p. 14:8-15.) In addition, as noted by
Cross-Defendants in the reply, it is undisputed that “[o]n May 25, 2012, Mr.
Zhang sent an email to Plaintiff disclosing Mr. Sasson’s involvement with FOS.”
(See Cross-Complainants’ Response to Cross-Defendants’ UMF No. 29.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Cross-Defendants have met
their burden of demonstrating that the seventh cause of action is without
merit, and that Cross-Complainants have failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact as to this cause of action. Thus, the Court grants
Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the seventh cause of
action. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment
is denied.
Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the
first, second, fourth, and seventh causes of action. Cross-Defendants’ motion
for summary adjudication is denied as to the third, fifth, and sixth causes of
action. 
Cross-Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this Order. 
DATED:  April 15, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court 


