 Case Number:  24STCP00774    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 







HOWARD HAO-CHUNG HSIEH,
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
CETERA
  INVESTMENT SERVICES LLC,
                        Respondent.


Case No.:


24STCP00774




Hearing Date:


April 15, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
  PETITION
  TO CONFIRM CONTRACTUAL 
  ARBITRATION
  AWARD



 
Background 
Petitioner
Howard Hao-Chung Hsieh (“Petitioner”) filed the instant petition on March 13,
2024 to confirm an arbitration award issued on January 12, 2024. (Pet, ¶ 8(a);
Attachment 8(c).
No opposition to the petition was filed.¿
Discussion 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been
made may petition the court to 
confirm, correct or
vacate the award. The petition shall name as respondents all parties to the
arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound by the
arbitration award.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) “A petition under this
chapter shall: (a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the
agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an
agreement. (b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have
attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if
any.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.) “If a petition or
response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm
the award as made…unless in accordance with this chapter it corrects the award
and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.) Any response to the petition
is required to be filed and served within 10 days after service of the
petition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.)  
On March 18, 2024,
Petitioner filed a notice of hearing on the petition. The proof of service
attached to the notice of hearing indicates that the notice was served by email
on March 18, 2024. In addition, on March 18, 2024, Petitioner filed a Notice
and Acknowledgment of Receipt indicating that Respondent Cetera Investment
Services, LLC received, inter alia, the petition, the memorandum of
points and authorities in support of the petition, and the Declaration of
Christina Z. Vourakis in support of the petition. 
The Court finds
that Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of Code
of Civil Procedure section 1285.4, by attaching a copy of the underlying
agreement to arbitrate (Pet., ¶ 4, Attachment 4(b)) by setting forth the name
of the arbitrator (Pet. ¶ 6), and by attaching a copy of the arbitration award
and the written opinion of the arbitrator (Pet., ¶ 8, Attachment 8(c)). 
Petitioner requests that the Court confirm the Expungement Award. (Pet., ¶ 8, Attachment 8(c)). The award
provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Arbitrator awards the
expungement of all references to Occurrence Numbers 2173023 and 2212583 from
registration records maintained by the CRD for Claimant Howard Hao-Chung Hsieh
(CRD Number 4947882) with the understanding that, pursuant to Rule 2080, Claimant Howard Hao-Chung Hsieh
must obtain confirmation from a court of competent jurisdiction before the CRD
will execute the expungement directive.” (Pet., ¶ 8, Attachment 8(c)). The award
also provides that “[u]nless specifically waived in writing by
FINRA, parties seeking judicial confirmation of an arbitration award containing
expungement relief must name FINRA as an additional party and serve FINRA with
all appropriate documents.” (Pet., ¶ 8, Attachment 8(c)). In her supporting declaration,
Petitioner’s counsel states that “[t]he Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority (‘FINRA’) expressly waived its right to be named as a
nominal respondent in this proceeding pursuant to FINRA Rule 2080. A true and correct copy of the
FINRA approval letter is attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (Vourakis Decl., ¶ 3,
Ex. A.) 
The Court finds that good cause has been shown for confirmation of
the arbitration award.  
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Petitioner’s petition to confirm contractual arbitration
award. The Court orders Petitioner to file and serve a proposed judgment within
10 days of the date of this Order.  
Petitioner is ordered to provide notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  April 15, 2024                                                                                
________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court