 Case Number:  23STCP04385    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 22, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE: N/A
                                                           
CASE:                         United Firefighters of Los Angeles City,
IAFF Local 112 v. City of Los Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCP04385            
 
PETITION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner United Firefighters of Los Angeles City,
IAFF Local 112
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Respondent City of
Los Angeles
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a petition to compel arbitration that was filed on December 4,
2023. Petitioner seeks to compel arbitration of a grievance involving a firefighter
whose probational promotion was revoked pursuant to a memorandum of
understanding between the parties. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
The Petition to Compel Arbitration
is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Petitioner
seeks to compel arbitration of a grievance pursuant to a Memorandum of
Understanding between the parties. 
 
Timeliness of Response
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 1290.6 requires that a response to a petition to
arbitrate brought under section 1290 must be served within 10 days of service
of the petition, unless the petition is served on a party outside the State of
California pursuant to section 1290.4 subdivision (b)(2). (Code Civ. Proc. §
1290.6.) Here, the Petition was served by personal service on the Respondent in
Los Angeles on December 5, 2023. (Proof of Service of Summons.) The response to
this petition was therefore due ten days later, on December 15, 2023. However,
Respondent’s opposition was served and filed on January 4, 2024, well past the
deadline. Under section 1290, “[t] he allegations of a petition are deemed to
be admitted by a respondent duly served therewith unless a response is duly
served and filed.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1290.) Thus, by failing to serve and file
a timely response, the Court is within its authority to deem the allegations of
the Petition admitted and order the matter to arbitration. In the interest of
fully resolving this matter on its merits, however, the Court will consider
Respondent’s opposition in ruling on the Petition. 
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
Under California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Blake v. Ecker (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
728, 741 (overruled on other grounds by
Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094).) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of persuasion to establish the existence of a valid
agreement to arbitrate, and the party opposing the petition has the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense.
(Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.) 
 
Applying the burden of production,
rather than persuasion, courts have articulated a three-step burden-shifting
process: 
 
First, the moving party bears the
burden of producing “prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate
the controversy.” [citation] The moving party “can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the [motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the [opposing party’s] signature.” [citation] Alternatively,
the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth the agreement’s
provisions in the motion. [citations] For this step, “it is not necessary to
follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” [citation] If the
moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does
not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is
required for the moving party to meet its burden of persuasion.
 
If the moving party meets its initial
prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the
second step, the opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to
challenge the authenticity of the agreement. [citation] The opposing party can
do this in several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify under oath
or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does not
remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not
remember signing the agreement. [citations]
 
If the opposing party meets its burden
of producing evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish
with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. The
burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence remains with
the moving party. [citation].
 
(Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165-66.) Here, Petitioner sets forth the relevant portions of
the Memorandum of Understanding pertaining to grievance resolution in the
Petition. (Petition ¶¶ 5-8.) Although Respondent challenges the applicability
of the Memorandum of Understanding to this grievance, Respondent freely admits
that the Memorandum exists and that it provides for arbitration. (Opposition
p.2:6-7.) 
 
            The Court
therefore finds that there is an agreement to arbitrate between the parties. 
 
Applicability of the Federal Arbitration Act
 
            Neither
party contends that the Memorandum of Understanding is governed by the Federal
Arbitration Act. The Court therefore finds that the Memorandum is governed by
California law. 
 
Scope of Arbitration Agreement
 
             “The scope of arbitration is a matter of
agreement between the parties.” (See, e.g., Ericksen, Arbuthnot, McCarthy,
Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35 Cal.3d 312, 323.) “A
party can be compelled to arbitrate only those issues it has agreed to
arbitrate.” (Perez v. U-Haul Co. of California (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 408,
419.)
 
            Petitioner
argues that the Memorandum of Understanding allows for the filing of grievances
regarding “the MOU, the Manual of Operations, department rules and regulations,
bulletins, personnel practices, other rules, conditions of employment, or
working conditions.” (Complaint ¶ 6.) The grievance procedure contains five
steps for escalation: (1) an informal conference between the grievant and
immediate supervisor; (2) appeal in writing to the Chief Officers; (3) appeal
to the Fire Chief; (4) optional mediation, and (5) arbitration before a
mutually appointed neutral arbitrator. (¶ 7.) If the grievance is not resolved
before the final step, “the grievant and the Union jointly may file a written
request for arbitration with the Employee Relations Board with a copy to the
Fire Chief or his/her designee.” (¶ 8.) Petitioner contends that the grievant
was notified on January 12, 2023 that his promotional probation was terminated,
and thereafter commenced the grievance process pursuant to Article 2.1 Section
III of the Memorandum of Understanding. (Complaint ¶¶ 9-13.) After exhausting
the previous steps, Petitioner and the grievant filed a request for arbitration
on June 8, 2023. (¶ 14.) The City Respondent did not respond to the request for
arbitration. (Complaint ¶¶ 18, 20, 22.) 
 
            In
response, the City argues that the grievance provisions of the Memorandum of
Understanding do not apply to the dispute at issue here because it is
encompassed within an exclusion in the Memorandum. 
 
            The
California Supreme Court describes the procedure for analyzing the terms of a
contract thusly: 
 
Under statutory
rules of contract interpretation, the mutual intention of the parties at the
time the contract is formed governs interpretation. (Civ. Code, § 1636.) Such
intent is to be inferred, if possible, solely from the written provisions of
the contract. (Id., § 1639.) The "clear and explicit" meaning of
these provisions, interpreted in their "ordinary and popular sense,"
unless "used by the parties in a technical sense or a special meaning is
given to them by usage" (id., § 1644), controls judicial interpretation.(Id.,
§ 1638.) [1] Thus, if the meaning a lay person would ascribe to contract
language is not ambiguous, we apply that meaning. [citations].
 
If there is
ambiguity, however, it is resolved by interpreting the ambiguous provisions in
the sense the promisor . . . believed the promisee understood them at the time
of formation. (Civ. Code, § 1649.) If application of this rule does not
eliminate the ambiguity, ambiguous language is construed against the party who
caused the uncertainty to exist. (Id., § 1654.)
 
(AIU Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (FMC Corporation) (1990)
51 Cal.3d 807, 821-22.) 
 
            The Court
begins, therefore, with the written provisions of the Memorandum at issue. Article
2.1, section 1 of the Memorandum of Understanding states:
 
A grievance is
defined as any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this
MOU, the Manual of Operations, departmental rules and regulations, bulletins,
personnel practices, other rules, conditions of employment, or working
conditions. The following items are not grievable:
 
1. An impasse in
meeting and conferring upon the terms of a proposed MOU.
 
2. Probationary
employee terminations.
 
(Respondent’s Exh. E [MOU] Article 2.1 § 1.) The Memorandum
does not define “probationary employee terminations,” but Respondent contends
that the grievant, whose probational promotion to Captain I from
Engineer was revoked, is subject to this exclusion. (See Declaration of Eric
Talamantes ISO Opp. ¶ 2.) A revocation of a promotion, otherwise known as a demotion,
is not a “termination” in the “ordinary and popular sense,” and Respondent
cites to no provision of the Memorandum that would suggest an alternative
interpretation. Respondent’s citation to the Civil Service Rules definition of
“Probationary Employment Period” is entirely irrelevant to the interpretation
of a contract. Moreover, the authorities relied upon by Respondent in support
of its position are, as argued by Petitioner, inapposite. Los Angeles Police
Protective League v. City of Loas Angeles found that a dispute regarding an
employee’s transfer to a new police station was not arbitrable because the
Memorandum of Understanding expressly provided that “disputes concerning
transfers” were excluded. (Los Angeles Police Protective League v. City of
Los Angeles (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 77, 81-82.) Similarly, Fugitt v. City
of Placentia, although apparently similar on a superficial reading in that
it concerned an exception for probationary employment terminations in an
arbitration provision, concerned employees whose relationship with their
employer was actually severed. (Fugitt v. City of Placentia (1977) 70
Cal.App.3d 868, 871.) 
 
            The Court
is not persuaded by Respondent’s arguments. The interpretation offered by
Respondent is contrary to the plain language of the Memorandum of
Understanding. The dispute at issue falls within the definition of a
“grievance” under the Memorandum of Understanding, and Petitioner is therefore
entitled to pursue this matter in binding arbitration. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
the Petition to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 22, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 