  Case Number:  20STCV12016    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




DENNIS
  LUNA

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
FERNANDO GAYTAN

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV12016




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   13, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
DEFENDANT’S motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Diana Gaytan
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Dennis Luna and Vanessa Luna
Bishop
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion.  
The court did not consider the filings entitled “Plaintiffs’ Response
to Defendant, Diana Gaytan’s Reply Brief in Support of Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication” and “Addendum to
Plaintiffs’ Opposition and to Separate Statement and to Declaration of Dennis
Luna Relative to Defendant, Diana Gaytan’s Motion for Summary Judgment or in
the Alternative for Summary Adjudication,” filed on February 27, 2024 by
plaintiffs Dennis Luna and Vanessa Luna Bishop after defendant Diana Gaytan
filed her reply papers, because parties are not permitted to file sur-reply
briefs without leave of court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a), (b) [authorizing filing of moving, opposition,
and reply papers in connection with a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication].)    
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on defendant Diana Gaytan’s evidentiary objections,
filed on January 26, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 11-15, 20, and 29-30.
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-10, 16-19, 21-28, and 31.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Diana Gaytan’s requests for judicial notice. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (c), (d); Yvanova v. New Century
Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 916, 924, n. 1 [recorded documents were
properly noticed by the trial court].) 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Diana Gaytan (“Defendant”) moves
the court for an order granting summary judgment in her favor and against
plaintiffs Dennis Luna (“Luna”) and Vanessa Luna Bishop (“Bishop”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on their Third Amended Complaint or, in the
alternative, granting summary adjudication as to the second and third causes of
action.[1]

1.     Procedural
Issue
The court notes that, in opposition, Plaintiffs have pointed out
that (1) Defendant filed a prior motion for summary judgment directed to their
Third Amended Complaint on March 20, 2023; (2) on May 11, 2023, Judge Jill
Feeney (presiding over Department 78) issued a minute order that (i) set forth
the court’s tentative ruling on Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, which
denied the motion as to the second cause of action but granted it as to the
third cause of action, and (ii) continued the hearing on Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment to June 14, 2023, in order to allow plaintiff Luna to attend
the hearing; and (3) Defendant filed, on June 12, 2023, a preemptory challenge
to Judge Jill Feeney pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 170.6.  (March 22, 2023 Minute Order, p. 1 [deeming
Defendant’s ex parte application for joinder to be a motion for summary
judgment]; May 11, 2023 Minute Order, pp. 1, 6; Def. June 12, 2023 Peremptory
Challenge.)  On June 12, 2024, Judge Jill
Feeney issued a minute order finding that Defendant’s peremptory challenge was
timely filed, was in proper format, and thus was accepted.  (June 12, 2023 Minute Order, p. 1.)  This action was thereafter assigned to
Department 53.
Judge Jill Feeney did not issue a final order on Defendant’s first
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication before this case was
transferred to Department 53.  (Silverado
Modjeska Recreation & Park Dist. v. County of Orange (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 282, 300 [“a trial court’s tentative ruling is not binding on the
court; the court’s final order supersedes the tentative ruling”].)  Although Plaintiffs assert that Defendant was
engaging in “judge-shopping,” Plaintiffs do not cite any authority that would require
or permit the court to deny Defendant’s motion for summary judgment or
adjudication under the circumstances presented. 
The court therefore rules on the merits of Defendant’s motion. 
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation ‘are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.’”  (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare
Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met her burden of showing that
the second cause of action for intentional misrepresentation has no merit because
Defendant has shown that an element of the cause of action (a misrepresentation
made by Defendant) cannot be established. 

Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendant “misled [p]laintiff Luna by
falsely assuring [him] that a Life Estate existed for Plaintiff Luna in the
Property, which ultimately induced Plaintiff Luna to enter into the
Agreement[.]”  (TAC ¶ 35; TAC ¶ 39
[Defendant induced plaintiff Luna by “making the false promise [that]
[p]laintiff Luna would retain a Life Estate in the Property”].)  Defendant has submitted the deposition
testimony of plaintiff Luna, in which, after being asked whether Defendant
“ever t[old] [Luna] verbally or in writing that [he] would have a life estate
in the Keenan Street property[,]” he stated that “Marc [Grismer] did, and she
knew about it.”  (Gaytan Decl., Ex. F,
Luna Dep., p. 197:3-6.)  When asked to
confirm whether Defendant “affirmatively either t[old] [him] verbally,
face-to-face, over the phone or in writing that [he] had a life estate[,]”
plaintiff Luna said “No.  She told me
we’re going to all live together, and [she’d] take care of [him].”  (Id., p. 197:12-17.)  Defendant has also submitted her declaration,
in which she states that she “did not represent to [plaintiff Luna] either
verbally or in writing that [she] was giving him a life estate in the Subject
Property.”  (Gaytan Decl., ¶ 20.)  The court finds that this evidence is
sufficient to show that the element of a misrepresentation made by Defendant to
plaintiff Luna cannot be established.   
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of a
misrepresentation made by Defendant to plaintiff Luna.  
In support of their opposition, Plaintiffs have submitted (1) a
copy of the Ancillary Agreement for Purchase of Real Property (the “Ancillary
Agreement”), entered into by and between Plaintiffs, on the one hand, and
nonmoving defendants Fernando Gaytan and Angie Coello (“Buyer Defendants”) on
the other hand, and (2) the declaration of plaintiff Luna. 
First, Plaintiffs assert that the terms of the Ancillary Agreement
establish that Defendant was aware that Plaintiff intended to reside in the
subject property.  (Mot., p.
15:15-18.)  The court acknowledges that
the Ancillary Agreement includes a provision stating that the promissory note
(to be executed by Buyer Defendants) will become due and payable either five
years from the date of the sale or, “if [plaintiff Luna] so chooses to reside
in the Subject Property, then upon Dennis Luna’s demise.”  (Pl. Ex. 2, Ancillary Agreement, p. 1,
¶ 1, subd. (b).)  However, this
language does not show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether Defendant made the alleged misrepresentation that is the basis of
Plaintiffs’ cause of action (i.e., that Defendant “falsely assert[ed] that a
Life Estate existed for Plaintiff Luna in the property”).  (TAC ¶ 36.)  Instead, the terms of the Ancillary Agreement
(to which Defendant was not a party) appears only to contemplate that plaintiff
Luna had the option to continue residing on the subject property. 
Second, plaintiff Luna states in his declaration that Defendant
informed him that he “could retain a life estate in the manner that Mr. Grismer
had previously suggested[,]” which induced him to agree to that proposal.  (Pl. Response to Material Fact No. 36; Luna
Decl., ¶ 7.)  The court finds that
this statement is insufficient to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether Defendant falsely asserted to plaintiff Luna that he had a
life estate in the subject property. 
            As set forth above, as part of her
moving papers, Defendant presented plaintiff Luna’s deposition testimony in
which Luna expressly testified that Defendant did not tell him, verbally or in
writing, that he had a life estate in the subject property. (Gaytan Decl., Ex.
F, Luna Dep., p. 197:3-17.)  Plaintiff
Luna’s declaration now appears to contradict that testimony, since he now
states that, during a meeting, Defendant “told him . . . that [he] could retain
a life estate” in the property.  (Luna
Decl., ¶ 7.)  The court finds that
plaintiff Luna’s contradictory declaration is insufficient to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the existence of the alleged
misrepresentation made by Defendant.  (D’Amico
v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21 [“Where, as
here, however, there is a clear and unequivocal admission by the plaintiff,
himself, in his deposition . . . we are forced to conclude there is no substantial
evidence of the existence of a triable issue of fact”] [citation and internal
quotation marks omitted]; Harris v. Thomas Dee Engineering Co., Inc. (2021)
68 Cal.App.5th 594, 603 [quoting D’Amico, supra, 11 Cal.3d at p.
21], 604 [the D’Amico Court “stated only that [contradictory]
declarations may be insufficient to create a triable issue of material fact”].)
            Thus, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have not submitted evidence sufficient to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the element of misrepresentation. 
            The court therefore grants
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the second cause of action
for intentional misrepresentation. 
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment
“‘The elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are “receipt of a
benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.”  [Citation.] 
“The theory of unjust enrichment requires one who acquires a benefit which
may not justly be retained, to return either the thing or its equivalent to the
aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly enriched.”  [Citation.]’” 
(Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769.)  “‘The term “benefit” “denotes any form of
advantage.” ’”  (Professional Tax Appeal
v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018)
29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met her burden of showing that
the third cause of action for unjust enrichment has no merit because Defendant
has shown that an element of the cause of action (that Defendant received a
benefit at the expense of Plaintiffs) cannot be established.  
In support of this cause of action, Plaintiffs have alleged that
Defendant has been unjustly enriched (1) by delivering a 60-day notice to
vacate in violation of the terms of the Ancillary Agreement, resulting in
Defendant’s retaining possession of the property without making the final
payment, and (2) in the amount of $300,000. 
(TAC ¶¶ 43-44.)  As set forth
above, the Ancillary Agreement was entered into by and between Plaintiffs and
Buyer Defendants.  (Gaytan Decl., Ex. B,
Ancillary Agreement, pp. 1 [“This Agreement is entered into by and between
Dennis Luna and Vanessa Luna Bishop (‘Sellers’) and Fernando Gaytan and Angie
Coello (‘Buyers’)”], 3 [signature page].) 
The Ancillary Agreement provides that the Buyer Defendants would (and Fernando
Gaytan did) execute a promissory note in the amount of $150,000, payable to
plaintiff Bishop, which would become due and payable (1) five years from the
date of sale, or (2) upon plaintiff Luna’s demise, if he chose to reside on the
property.  (Gaytan Decl., Ex. B,
Ancillary Agreement, p. 1, § 1, subd. (b).) 
Pursuant thereto, defendant Fernando Gaytan executed the promissory note
in the amount of $150,000.  (Gaytan
Decl., Ex. G, p. 2 [signature page of Fernando Gaytan].)  
Defendant is not a party to either the Ancillary Agreement or
promissory note.  (Gaytan Decl., Exs. B,
Ancillary Agreement, G, promissory note.) 
Thus, Defendant has met her burden to produce evidencing showing that
she (1) is not obligated to make the payment set forth in those agreements, and
(2) therefore has not received a benefit at the expense of Plaintiffs (i.e., she
has not been benefited by (i) possessing the property without making all
payments due and owing, and (ii) retaining the $150,000 payment described in
the parties’ agreements).  (Ibid.;
TAC ¶¶ 43-44.)  Moreover, Defendant has
stated, in her declaration, that she does not currently, nor has she “ever had
or been on title to the Subject Property.” 
(Gaytan Decl., ¶ 22.)  Thus,
Defendant has also shown that she has not retained property to the detriment of
Plaintiffs. 
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Defendant’s
receipt of a benefit at their expense. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that Defendant has been enriched
by her ability “to retain the $150,000, at this time . . . .”  (Opp., p. 16:13-16.)  However, Plaintiffs have not submitted
evidence showing that Defendant was a party to the Ancillary Agreement or
promissory note, such that Defendant was obligated to, but did not, make the
$150,000 payment to Bishop and therefore has retained that amount at the
expense of Plaintiffs.  Instead,
Plaintiffs state that, because Fernando Gaytan is Defendant’s father, their
familial relationship “should result in a presumption that [Defendant] was
unjustly enriched . . . .”  (Luna Decl.,
¶ 6; Opp., p. 17:21-24; Pl. Response to Material Fact No. 65.)  Plaintiffs have not cited any authority
establishing that Defendant may be construed to be unjustly enriched solely
because she is related to a party to the Ancillary Agreement that might have
been unjustly enriched at Plaintiffs’ expense. 
Moreover, Plaintiffs have not presented any other evidence showing Defendant’s
retention of a benefit at Plaintiffs’ expense. 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not submitted evidence
sufficient to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
element of Defendant’s receipt of a benefit at the expense of Plaintiffs.
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for unjust enrichment.
Because the court has granted summary adjudication as to each
remaining cause of action alleged against Defendant, the court finds that all
of the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(c).)  The court therefore grants
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.
ORDER
The court grants defendant Diana Gaytan’s motion for summary
judgment on plaintiffs Dennis Luna and Vanessa Luna Bishop’s Third Amended
Complaint. 
The court orders defendant Diana Gaytan to prepare, serve,
and lodge a proposed judgment no later than 10 days from the date of this
order. 
The court sets an Order to Show Cause re entry of judgment for
hearing on June 11, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 53.
The court orders defendant Diana Gaytan to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 13, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


