  Case Number:  23TRCV03015    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                Wednesday, January 17, 2024
Department B                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 13   



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Stephanie
Gauss v. David De Wispelaere, et al.  
23TRCV03015
1.     
Stephanie Gauss’s
Application for Preliminary Injunction 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Stephanie Gauss’s Application for a Preliminary
Injunction is granted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 526.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on September 12, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts.  In
September 2020, Plaintiff purchased real property commonly known as 8301 Wiley
Post Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90045 (“8301 Wiley Post”). Plaintiff made a down
payment of 25% of the purchasing price and obtained a loan for the balance with
FCI Lender Services, Inc. Plaintiff decided to build a duplex. Plaintiff
obtained a loan from David De Wispelaere for $1,500,000.00. The duplex has
common addresses: 8303 and 8305 Wiley Post Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90045. As part
of the loan, De Wispelaere was to pay off the existing FCI loan. Unbeknownst to
Plaintiff, De Wispelaere changed the lender from himself to Defendant Annie
Maes (“Maes”). The loan amount was also changed. DeWispelaere and Maes are not
licensed to accept consumer loans. During the loan origination process,
Plaintiff was never asked to complete a 1003 Loan Application or provide a copy
of her credit report, or income or asset verification. Plaintiff alleges that
the loan is in violation of federal lending laws and that the loan charges
usurious interest.
 
Application for Preliminary Injunction
 
“In determining whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, the trial court considers two related factors: (1) the likelihood
that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the
interim harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the
court grants a preliminary injunction. 
The latter factor involves consideration of such things as the
inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity
of preserving the status quo.”  14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT
Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.
 
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary injunction to
refrain Defendants “from selling, attempting to auction, causing to be sold,
transferring ownership, further encumbering or conducting a non-judicial
foreclosure sale of the real property commonly known as 8303 and 8305 Wiley
Post Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90045.”  (Notice,
page 2, lines 2-6.)
 
The Court finds that, solely for purposes of the
instant application for preliminary injunction, Plaintiff has adequately met her
burden to demonstrate a likelihood that Plaintiff will prevail on the merits of
her case at trial.  Plaintiff has submitted
evidence to, at a minimum, show that Defendants may have committed violations
of the statutes identified in the Complaint.  
 
In Plaintiff’s supplemental declaration filed on
December 11, 2023, Plaintiff contends that Defendant Ime Inyang Oduok never
disclosed that he was receiving a commission on the loan and took no action to
arrange the loan.  (Suppl. Decl., Gauss, ¶
5.) Plaintiff contends that the property was never appraised, and a rent survey
never conducted. (Id. at ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff
contends that she was never provided notice of a balloon payment becoming due.  (Id. at ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff states that she did not sign any
document that indicated that it was a business purpose loan and that she could
not occupy the property.  (Id. at ¶¶ 9-10.)
 Plaintiff also contends that Defendant
De Wispelaere represented that he was the lender on the loan and never
disclosed that the actual lender was Annie Maes.  (Id. at ¶ 14.)
 
Defendants refute some of these contentions and
provide evidence indicating that Plaintiff knew that the loan was for a
business purpose and that Plaintiff’s goal all along was to sell the property.
While Defendants submitted evidence to, at a minimum, allege a material defense
to some of the allegations of violations of the statutes identified in the
Complaint, Plaintiff provided evidence to show that, at a minimum, some
statutory violations may have occurred. 
 
Thus, in consideration of the above, the Court must
weigh the interim harm that Plaintiff may suffer if an injunction is denied
compared to the harm that Defendants are likely to suffer if an injunction is
granted.  A trustee’s sale of the subject
real property has the potential of inflicting irreparable harm upon Plaintiff.  In addition, the Court must consider the
policy of retaining the status quo until the resolution of the action on the
merits. 
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s application
for preliminary injunction.  In
conducting the balancing test, the Court determines that the interim harm that
Plaintiff may suffer if the injunction is not granted is greater than
Defendants’ relative harm if the injunction is granted. 
 
Thus, the application for a preliminary injunction is granted.
 
“On granting an injunction, the court or judge must
require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the effect that the
applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount
to be specified, the party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the
court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction.
Within five days after the service of the injunction, the person enjoined may
object to the undertaking. If the court determines that the applicant's undertaking
is insufficient and a sufficient undertaking is not filed within the time
required by statute, the order granting the injunction must be dissolved.” Code Civ. Proc., § 529(a).
 
The Court determines that the amount that Defendants
may suffer would simply be an approximate amount of fees incurred by Defendants
to ultimately substantiate and prevail as to Defendants’ defenses. Defendants request a bond in the sum of over 2
million dollars which represents the payoff amount.  This request is unreasonable because, should
Defendants ultimately prevail, Defendants will be able to conduct a sale of the
subject real property.
 
The Court orders that Plaintiff post a bond in the sum
of $25,000.00.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.