  Case Number:  23TRCV01096    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Compel Second Independent Medical ExaminationMoving Parties: Defendants Breanna Sanchez and Lisa SanchezResponding Party: Plaintiff Mandy LambertThe court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.RULINGDefendants’ Motion to Compel a Second Independent Medical Examination is GRANTED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn April 10, 2023, Plaintiff Mandy Lambert (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Breanna Sanchez (“Breanna”) and Lisa Sanchez (“Lisa”) (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging negligence.On May 16, 2023, Defendants filed their answer to the complaint. Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s injuries were the result of her own negligence, and thus she cannot recover.On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff underwent an independent medical examination (“IME”) with Dr. Tony Feuerman, a neurosurgeon.On August 14, 2024, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel, informing Plaintiff of Defendants’ intent to seek leave to conduct a second IME. Defendants asked Plaintiff’s counsel to stipulate to a second to avoid filing the instant motion. Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond. (Motion to Compel Second IME, p. 4, lines 7-14.)On August 22, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion. On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion. On September 16, 2024, Defendants filed a reply to the opposition.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn or around April 14, 2021, Plaintiff and Breanna’s cars collided at an intersection. (Complaint ¶¶ 7, 11.) Lisa is the named insured on the insurance policy for Breanna’s car. (Motion to Compel Second IME, p. 3, lines 13-14.) After the collision, Plaintiff claimed she suffers from severe shock to the body and nervous system. (Complaint, ¶ 13.)On June 21, 2021, Plaintiff was involved in a second car accident with Jaime Baur and Byron Baur (collectively, the “Baur’s”). (Motion to Compel Second IME, p. 3, lines 15-21.) Plaintiff filed a complaint against the Baur’s, alleging that the accident caused neck, back, and traumatic brain injuries. (Motion to Compel Second IME, p. 3, lines 18-22.)Plaintiff claims that she suffered the same injuries from both accidents. (Motion to Conduct Second IME, p. 3, line 23.)After Plaintiff’s first IME on December 20, 2023, Plaintiff received nerve blocks and trigger point injections from Dr. Jonathan Eskenazi, a neurologist, to address Plaintiff’s traumatic brain injury (“TBI”) symptoms. (Motion to Compel Second IME, p. 3, lines 2-4.) Defendants request a second IME with Dr. Barry Ludwig to address the effects of the nerve blocks and injections. (Reply, p. 3, lines 24-26.)Dr. Ludwig’s IME will involve “taking PLAINTIFF’s history of the injury and recent medical history of similar injuries or complaints to those areas claimed to have been injured in the subject accident; a diagnostic examination and manipulation of PLAINTIFF’s body, including a standard neurologic examination; and such other tests and procedures of all areas of the body PLAINTIFF claims to have been injured in the subject accident and all related body structures as may be deemed necessary to determine the existence and nature of bodily injuries allegedly suffered by PLAINTIFF, specifically neurological complaints and manifestations of a traumatic brain injury as diagnosed by TBI Specialist, Jonathan Eskenazi, M.D. and any residual complaints made by PLAINTIFF as a result of injuries claimed in the subject accident.” (Motion to Compel Second IME, p. 2, lines 7-18.)LEGAL STANDARDUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220, subdivision (a), a defendant in a personal injury case has the right to one physical examination of the plaintiff, without leave of court, simply by serving a written demand on plaintiff. The physical exam is limited to whatever portion of plaintiff's body or conditions are “in controversy” in the lawsuit. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).) A defendant in a personal injury case that has exhausted its right to a physical examination of the plaintiff under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220, subdivision (a), may seek an additional physical examination of the same plaintiff only by order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.) Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a); see also Conservatorship of G.H. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1441.)Generally, “good cause” requires a showing of (1) relevancy to the subject matter and (2) specific facts justifying discovery: i.e., allegations showing the need for the information sought and lack of means for obtaining it elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsHere, Defendants contend that a second examination will reveal pertinent information specific to Plaintiff’s TBI. Defendants assert that the initial IME conducted by Dr. Feuerman was limited in scope and only determined whether Plaintiff would need surgery or other treatments. Defendants hired Dr. Ludwig to perform a neurological test, which will examine Plaintiff’s cognitive functions.Moreover, Defendants argue that there is good cause to conduct the second IME because Plaintiff’s injuries are complex and require diagnosis by a specialist. Defendants argue that a TBI is properly diagnosed by a neurologist, not a neurosurgeon. Thus, Defendants need Dr. Ludwig’s expert opinion to prepare for trial.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiff argues that Defendants did not make a good faith attempt to meet and confer because defense counsel only gave Plaintiff two days to respond to the meet and confer request.Further, Plaintiff contends that Defendants did not describe the procedures and tests to be performed in the second IME with sufficient detail. Plaintiff also argues that Defendants did not identify the name and specialty of the person who will perform the second exam.Reply ArgumentsDefendants argue that they made a good faith attempt to meet and confer but Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond.Defendants assert that there is good cause to perform a second IME because Plaintiff received non-surgical intervention after the initial IME, and Defendants need Dr. Ludwig to address the effects of the treatment.Merits of Defendants’ MotionA. Meet and ConferA motion for medical examination must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, asserting that a good faith effort was made to informally resolve each issue in dispute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)Here, Defendants sent Plaintiff’s counsel a request to meet and confer on August 14, 2024. (Motion to Compel a Second IME, Exh. D.) Defendants asked Plaintiff to respond by August 16, 2024, otherwise, they would proceed with filing the motion to compel examination. (Motion to Compel a Second IME, Exh. D.) Plaintiff’s counsel failed to respond to the letter, and Defendants filed their motion on August 22, 2024. Plaintiff does not assert that she had good cause for not responding to the letter.Accordingly, the court finds that Defendants have satisfied the meet and confer requirement.B. Good CauseThere is no limit on the number of medical examinations that can be ordered upon a showing of good cause. (Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1254.) In its ruling, the Shapira court relies on a treatise by James Hogan, who indicates that federal courts and other state courts have “upheld multiple examinations by medical specialists in different fields pertinent to a plaintiff’s injury.” (Id. at p. 1255.)Based on the arguments presented, the court finds that Defendants have good cause to order a second IME. The initial IME was conducted by a neurosurgeon, who only determined whether Plaintiff’s injury would require surgical intervention. Dr. Ludwig would provide a more holistic examination of Plaintiff to determine her level of cognitive and executive function. Though the examiners’ specialties are similar, the tests they perform are different and would reveal new information.Moreover, there is good cause to conduct the second IME because Plaintiff has received treatment (nerve blockers and injections) for her injuries, which may indicate that her condition has worsened or will change before trial.The court finds that Defendants have good cause to order a second IME.C. Specificity of MotionMotions for medical examinations must specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)Plaintiff argues that Defendants did not meet any of the above requirements. The court disagrees. Defendants specified that the IME is tentatively scheduled for 1:00 PM on October 3, 2024, at 2811 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 508, Santa Monica, California 90403. (Motion to Compel a Second IME, p. 2, lines 2-5.) Defendants identify Dr. Barry Ludwig as the examiner and provide his credentials as Exhibit C. (Motion to Compel a Second IME, p. 2, lines 2-5.) Accordingly, the court has found that Defendants have satisfied the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (b).D. Scope of ExaminationPlaintiff relies on Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 269 to claim that Defendants must list the physical examinations to be conducted by name. However, Carpenter specifically ruled on mental examinations. (Id. at p. 260.) Carpenter specifically states that the requirement of naming tests and diagnostic procedures with specificity is not present in the section of the Code governing demands for physical examinations. (Id. at p. 259.)Accordingly, the court finds that Defendants do not need to name each type of physical examination to be performed with particularity.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendants’ Motion to Compel a Second IME is GRANTED.Defendants to give notice of ruling.