 Case Number:  23TRCV02343    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint   Moving  Parties: Defendant  Godlewski                       Responding Party: Plaintiff McCaslin   RULING Having  considered Defendant’s demurrer, Plaintiff’s opposition, and Defendant’s reply,  the court rules as follows: the demurrer to the first cause of action in the  First Amended Complaint is overruled. The demurrer to the second, third,  fourth, and fifth cause of action in the First Amended Complaint is sustained  with 20 days leave to amend.   PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND On July  19, 2023, Plaintiff, Christine McCaslin (“Plaintiff”), filed a Complaint  against Defendants, Philip Godlewski (“Godlewski”) and DOES 1 through 500. On  May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging  causes of action for: (1) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress  (“IIED”); (2) Private Nuisance; (3) Libel Per Se; (4) False Light; and (5) Invasion  of Privacy.   On July 8,  2024, Godlewski demurred to the FAC. On September 4, 2024, Plaintiff opposed  the demurrer. On September 16, 2024, Godlewski filed a reply to Plaintiff’s  opposition.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND Plaintiff  is a hairstylist and owner of the hair salon, Salon Touché. (FAC, ¶ 14.)  Plaintiff alleges that prior to her May 2023 interaction with Godlewski, her  salon enjoyed positive Yelp! and Google reviews. (FAC, ¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges  that Godlewski is a QAnon influencer with hundreds of thousands of followers on  social media. (FAC, ¶ 15.)   Plaintiff  alleges that on May 6, 2023, Defendants posted her address, phone number, and  other personal information on Godlewski’s social media. (FAC, ¶ 21.) After  Plaintiff saw this post, she privately emailed Godlewski to ask why he doxed[1]  her. (FAC, ¶ 22.) During the email exchange, Plaintiff mentioned previous  lawsuits that Godlewski was involved in. (FAC, ¶ 22.)   On May 7,  2023, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants posted the email exchange, a screenshot  of her salon’s 5-star rating on Google, and the message “So, this is how the  owner of the Salon speaks to people she doesn’t know. I wouldn’t want to do  business with this person. Would you?” on Godlewski’s social media. (FAC, ¶ 23)  Over 2,000 of Godlewski’s followers “liked” the post. (FAC, ¶ 24) Plaintiff  alleges that Godlewski made posts encouraging his followers to negatively  review her salon, even if they had not been actual customers. (FAC, ¶ 24.)  Plaintiff also alleges that Godlewski posted a video, where he announced that  he intended to harm her business and threatened to turn it into a “taco stand.”  (FAC, ¶ 24.) Following this post, Godlewski encouraged his followers to harass  Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 24.)   After  seeing these posts, Plaintiff emailed Godlewski to ask why he posted her  salon’s information on his social media. (FAC, ¶ 25.) Godlewski responded with,  “You don’t intimidate me. Your arrest is coming soon. I will own your salon  within a year.” (FAC, ¶ 25.)   Plaintiff  alleges that since May 2023, her business has been flooded with harassing phone  calls and negative reviews from Godlewski’s followers that have never been to  her salon. (FAC, ¶ 26.)    On May 8,  2023, Defendants made another post on Godlewski’s social media, encouraging his  followers to negatively review Plaintiff’s salon “even if you’ve never stepped  foot in the Salon.” (FAC, ¶ 27)   Plaintiff  alleges that she has also been harassed in real life by Godlewski’s followers.  (FAC, ¶ 28) Plaintiff has received two threatening notes, calling her a “filthy  bitch” and stating that “Everyone will watch you BURN!” (FAC, ¶ 28)   After the  flood of negative reviews, Plaintiff took down her Google review site, but  Defendants urged Godlewski’s followers to continue to leave negative reviews on  Yelp! and Facebook. (FAC, ¶ 29)   On July  28, 2023, Defendants posted a forged screenshot containing the Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s (“FBI”) emblem, Plaintiff’s name and social media username  (Pebbles), and a record number, implying that the FBI was investigating  Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 31) Plaintiff alleges that Godlewski has a history of  insinuating that she is a criminal because he sent her an email on May 8, 2023,  stating that, “You’ve been monitored for a very long time and you didn’t know  it. We have you for a slew of crimes, and you will not be getting away with a  single one.”   Plaintiff  alleges that Defendants forged an FBI memo and encouraged negative reviews of  her salon to harass, antagonize, and harm her. (FAC, ¶¶ 30, 37) Plaintiff  alleges that she has suffered physical and economic harm after Defendants’  threatening notes, harassing phone calls, and negative reviews. (FAC, ¶¶ 44-45)  Further, Plaintiff alleges that Godlewski doxed her by publicly connecting her  anonymous username of Pebbles to her legal first and last names. (FAC, ¶¶  77-78)              LEGAL STANDARD           A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a  complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of  action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special  demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,  subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is  so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot  reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or  claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif.,  Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   When considering demurrers, courts accept all  well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185  Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the  evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects  appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v.  Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in  a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with  extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147  Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions,  deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)   Although courts construe pleadings liberally,  sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a  demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81  Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be  allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show  the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)   DISCUSSION               Moving  Party’s Arguments   Godlewski  contends that Plaintiff failed to plead with particularity such that Godlewski  would know exactly what allegations and causes of action pertain to him. He  argues that Plaintiff confusingly uses “Defendants” and “Godlewski” in the same  paragraph, muddling which actions are attributed to the DOE Defendants or  Godlewski.   Moreover,  Godlewski contends that Plaintiff has not pleaded facts sufficient to establish  any of the five causes of action in the FAC.   Responding  Party’s Opposition    Plaintiff  argues that Godlewski unfairly summarized the allegations in the FAC to argue  that the facts are not adequately pleaded.   Merits  of the Demurrer and Motion to Strike    A.    Meet and Confer    Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and  confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who  filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of  determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended  pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)    Neither  Godlewski nor Plaintiff mention any attempt to meet and confer in their papers.  Accordingly, the court finds that the meet and confer requirement has not been  met.   B.     First Cause of Action for IIED   “The  elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of  emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant  with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of  causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme  emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional  distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must  be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized  community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation  and ellipses omitted.) The court has found that a defendant’s behavior is  extreme and outrageous if he (1) “abuses a relation or position which gives him  power to damage the plaintiff’s interest, (2) knows the plaintiff is  susceptible to injuries through mental distress, or (3) acts intentionally or  unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness  through mental distress.” (Newby v. Alto Riviera Apartments (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d  288, 297.)   Here,  Godlewski abused his position as an influencer with hundreds of thousands of  followers to harass Plaintiff. In Newby, the court found that a  landlord’s threats of eviction and his statement of “we will deal with this  like they do down South” was extreme and outrageous because his threats were  elevated by his position of power over the tenant. (Newby, supra,  60 Cal.App.3d 298.) Similarly, Godlewski’s threats to Plaintiff may not have  risen to the level of extreme and outrageous conduct on their own, but  Godlewski took advantage of his position as an influencer with a large audience  of “fanatical followers,” and the accompanying power that provides, to direct  more harassment at Plaintiff. Godlewski made a video stating that he intended  to harm Plaintiff’s business and made follow-up posts encouraging his followers  to harass her with fake negative reviews, resulting in over 1,000 negative  reviews on various websites. (FAC, ¶ 24.) Acting on his own, Godlewski might  not have been able to negatively impact Plaintiff’s business, but wielding his  influence and encouraging his large following to join in on the harassment  makes his behavior extreme and outrageous.   Further,  Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient to meet the other elements of an IIED  claim. Plaintiff alleges that Godlewski’s video and encouragement of harassment  directly caused her harm because she suffers so much fear and anxiety that she  can no longer enjoy daily life or return to work. Taken as true, these  allegations are sufficient to establish the causation and severe emotional  distress prongs of an IIED claim.   Accordingly,  the court overrules the demurrer to the first cause of action.   C.     Second Cause of Action for Private  Nuisance   To  establish an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an  interference with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of  the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial,  that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3)  “the interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but  it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or  amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of  the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3  Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, citations, italics, brackets, and quotation marks  omitted.)   While  Plaintiff correctly states that private nuisance may be established by  non-physical intrusions into land (Reply, pp. 13, lines 21-22), Plaintiff fails  to sufficiently allege that Godlewski’s conduct interfered with her free use  and enjoyment of her salon. In her FAC, Plaintiff alleges that she is unable to  use her salon for its intended purpose because she fears for her life and  safety after receiving threatening notes and phone calls. (FAC, ¶ 51.)    However, private  nuisance actions cannot be maintained on fear of a future injury. (Koll-Irvine  Center Property Owners Assn. v. County of Orange (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1036,  1041-1042.) In Koll-Irvine, property owners argued that the storage of  jet fuel near their businesses was a private nuisance because it would likely  lead to an increase in insurance premiums, which would in turn make it too  expensive to continue running their businesses at that location. (Id. at  p. 1039.) The Koll-Irvine Court ruled that because the business owners  could not establish present harm, they did not have a private nuisance claim. (Id.  at p. 1041-1042.) Similarly, Plaintiff stopped using the salon because she worried  that Godlewski’s followers would harm her in the future. As in Koll-Irvine,  fear of a future injury is not enough to sustain Plaintiff’s private nuisance  cause of action.   Accordingly,  the court finds that Plaintiff has not pleaded facts sufficient to sustain a  private nuisance cause of action against Godlewski. The court sustains the  demurrer to the second cause of action with leave to amend.   D.  Third Cause of Action for Libel Per Se   “A libel  which is defamatory of the plaintiff without the necessity of explanatory  matter, such as an inducement, innuendo or other extrinsic fact, is said to be  a libel on its face.” (Civ. Code, § 45, subd. (a).) A statement is not libel  per se if a reasonable reader could only recognize the defamatory nature of the  statement due to their “knowledge of specific facts and circumstances,  extrinsic to the publication, which are not matters of common knowledge  rationally attributable to all reasonable persons.” (Barnes-Hind v. Superior  Court (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 377, 387)   A  statement is defamatory if it is (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3)  defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or  causes special damage. The defamatory statement must specifically refer to, or  be of and concerning, the plaintiff.” (John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016)  1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312, quotation marks and citation omitted.)   Here,  Plaintiff contends that Godlewski committed libel per se when he conspired with  the DOE Defendants to publish a forged FBI memo, insinuating that Plaintiff was  the subject of a criminal investigation. However, the memo does not contain her  full name, only her first name and her Telegram username. To know that the memo  referred specifically to Plaintiff, the reader would have to know that she is  the Telegram user “Pebbles Flintstone.” The Court has previously ruled that a  statement is not libel per se if the reader requires extrinsic knowledge to  understand the defamatory nature of the statement. (Barnes-Hind, supra, 181  Cal.App.3d at p. 387.)    In Barnes-Hind,  a contact lens solution manufacturer sued its competitor for libel per se over  statements made in publications to eye care professionals. (Barnes-Hind,  supra, 181 Cal.App.3d at p. 381.) In those publications, the competitor claimed  that the other manufacturer’s lens solution contained enzymes that “tend to cause  irritation and do not get lenses clean.” (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal  ruled that this was not libel per se because the reader would need an eye care  professional’s specialized knowledge to recognize its defamatory nature. (Id.  at p. 388.) Similarly, a reader would only recognize the defamatory nature of  the forged FBI memo if they knew that Plaintiff went by the name “Pebbles  Flintstone” on Telegram. Godlewski’s followers and the DOE Defendants knew of the  connection between Plaintiff and “Pebbles” after Godlewski leaked their private  emails, but her username is not a matter of common knowledge. Because the  defamatory statement required extrinsic knowledge to understand, it cannot be  libelous per se.   Accordingly,  the court finds that Plaintiff has not pleaded facts sufficient to sustain a  libel per se action. Thus, the court sustains the demurrer to the third cause  of action in the FAC.   E.  Fourth Cause of Action for False Light   “One who  gives publicity to a matter concerning another that places the other before the  public in a false light is subject to liability to the other for invasion of  his privacy, if (a) the false light in which the other was placed would be  highly offensive to a reasonable person, and (b) the actor had knowledge of or  acted in reckless disregard as to the falsity of the publicized matter and the  false light in which the other would be placed.” (Daniel v. Wayans (2017)  8 Cal.App.5th 367, 397, quotations marks omitted.)    When a  false light claim accompanies a defamation claim, “the false light claim is  essentially superfluous, and stands or falls on whether it meets the same  requirements as the defamation cause of action.” (Jackson v. Mayweather  (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1240, 1264, quoting Eisenberg v. Alameda Newspapers,  Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1395.)   As  discussed above, Plaintiff fails to establish a cause of action for defamation.  Thus, her false light claim fails as well.   Accordingly,  the court sustains the demurrer to the fourth cause of action with leave to  amend.   F.  Fifth Cause of Action for Invasion of Privacy   “An  actionable claim [for invasion of privacy] requires three essential elements:  (1) the claimant must possess a legally protected privacy interest; (2) the  claimant’s expectation of privacy must be objectively reasonable; and (3) the  invasion of privacy complained of must be serious in both its nature and  scope.” (County of Los Angeles v. Los Angeles County Employee Relations  Commission (2013) 56 Cal.4th 905, 926, citations omitted.) “An otherwise  actionable invasion of privacy may be legally justified if it substantively  furthers one or more legitimate competing interests. Conversely, the invasion  may be unjustified if the claimant can point to ‘feasible and effective  alternatives’ with ‘a lesser impact on privacy interests.’” (Ibid.,  citation omitted.)    Here,  Plaintiff argues that her right to privacy was invaded by Godlewski when he  publicly disclosed that she was the Telegram user “Pebbles.” In support of her  argument, Plaintiff makes a vague reference to California and Federal  constitutional rights but does not cite to any specific provision or case law  that establishes a “legally protected privacy interest” in remaining anonymous  on online forums.   Accordingly,  the court finds that Plaintiff has not pleaded facts sufficient to sustain a  cause of action for invasion of privacy. Thus, the court sustains the demurrer  with leave to amend.   CONCLUSION   Based on the foregoing,  the Court OVERRULES the demurrer of Godlewski to the first cause of action and SUSTAINS  the demurrer to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action in the  FAC with 20 days leave to amend.    Defendant  Godlewski to give notice.      