 Case Number:  23BBCV00105    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 29,
2023

MOTION
TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00105

 



MP:  


Julie
  Lynn McIntire dba Golden Bear Management (Defendant) 




RP:  


Zachary
  Kamen and Appel Appelusa (Plaintiffs) 



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Zachary Kamen and Appel Appelusa (“Plaintiffs”)
bring this action against Julie Lynn McIntire dba Golden Bear Management (“Defendant”)
in connection with an alleged mold issue in Plaintiffs’ former apartment.
Plaintiffs allege they experienced adverse health conditions while residing at 4918 Cahuenga Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA
91601 which ultimately forced them to vacate the premises. 
 
The First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) contains causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract,
(2) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability, (3) Breach of Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment, (4) Negligence, (5) Constructive Eviction, (6) Business &
Professions Code Section 17200 et seq., and (7) Private Nuisance. 
 
Defendant
now moves to strike various portions of the FAC requesting punitive damages and
Plaintiffs oppose. 
  
RELIEF REQUESTED: 
 
Defendant requests
the Court issue an order striking the following portions of Plaintiffs’
Complaint: 
 
1.     
FAC p.15, Line 21:
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive and/or exemplary damages
2.     
FAC ¶ 30:
Plaintiffs’ allegations that Defendants conduct was willful, oppressive, and
malicious. 
3.     
FAC ¶ 31: Plaintiffs’
allegations that failure to remediate was an intentional act by Defendant to
extract rent from Plaintiffs. Plaintiff’s allegations that the decision to not
remediate was conscious and meant to subject Plaintiffs to subhuman living
conditions for monetary gain. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.)
The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to
strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. §
435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of
motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant
matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or
those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. §
431.10.) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MEET AND
CONFER
 
C.C.P. §
435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike. Upon review, the
Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Asrani Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
III.             
MERITS 
 
“The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant
an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166 (citations omitted).)
 
To
establish “malice”, a plaintiff must demonstrate that (1) the defendant
intended to cause injury to plaintiff or (2) despicable conduct with a willful
and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code
§3294(c)(1).). “[A]bsent an intent to injure the plaintiff, malice requires
more than a willful and conscious disregard of the plaintiffs’ interest. The
additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hosp.
Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) 
 
“Despicable”
means conduct that is “so vile, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome
that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Scott
v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.) “Such conduct
has been described as having the character of outrage frequently associated
with [a] crime.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs
allege the following facts with respect to Defendant’s alleged failure to
remediate damage to the property: 
 
A leak occurred in August of
2015 causing water to leak into the walls. Plaintiffs complained and Defendant
called a plumber who repaired the leak, but Defendant did not address the water
damage. (FAC ¶ 22.) 
 
Another leak occurred in 2017,
again a plumber was called to fix the leak. Water entered in between the walls
and the leak was observed coming through the first-floor light fixtures. (FAC
¶ 23.) 
 
In January 2021 the property
suffered from water leaks, water damage, excess moisture, inadequate plumbing,
mold, dust mites, and other related allergens. Defendants subsequently hired
noncertified vendors to perform faulty remediations of the water leaks, water
damage, excess moisture, inadequate plumbing, mold, dust mites, and other
related allergens. (FAC ¶ 24.) 
 
Plaintiffs informed management
of the existence of mold and excessive water leaks, water damage, mold, dust
mites and other related allergens a plethora of times via in person, telephone
calls, and/or in emails, however, the issues were never adequately addressed.
(FAC ¶ 28.) 
 
Plaintiffs
argue these facts are sufficient to allege despicable conduct. In doing so, Plaintiffs
cite Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, where the Court of Appeals held
that punitive damages were recoverable on a claim for constructive eviction. (Stoiber
supra, 101 Cal.App.3d 903 at 926.) Stoiber concerned
allegations of leaking sewage from the bathroom plumbing, defective and
dangerous electrical wiring, structural weaknesses in the walls, deteriorated
flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof, dilapidated doors, and broken windows.
(Id. at 912.) Stoiber also involved the landlord’s complete
refusal to address any of these problems, save one occasion in which a plumber
was called to repair a toilet. (Id. at 913.)  
 
The
Court notes that the holding in Stoiber has been applied by the
Appellate Court to mold remediation cases. In Burnett
v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 1057, plaintiffs repeatedly complained of a mold issue and
defendant landlord refused to remediate. The trial court in Burnett
granted the defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings without leave to
amend. The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment, holding that whether the landlord’s refusal to rectify the mold issue was extreme
and outrageous was a question of fact for the jury. (Id. at 1069, citing
Stoiber, 101 Cal.App.3d 903.) The Court notes Burnett also involved a
complete refusal by the landlord to repair. (Id. at 1062.) 
 
While there exist instances
where habitability actions can support punitive damages, Plaintiffs have not
shown as much here. The Court finds the allegations in the FAC are
far afield from those in Stoiber. The facts alleged only speak to three
separate incidents of mold intrusion. The FAC states that in response to each
of these incidents, Plaintiffs complained, and Defendants called a plumber or
other person out to fix the problem. There are no allegations of refusal to
remediate as in Stoiber and Burnett, rather allegations that the
remediation that occurred was inadequate. The Court finds the provision of
remediation which failed to address the issue does not speak to despicable
conduct.  
 
Where the pleading defect
raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of cure,
leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff a
chance to cure the defect in question; it is generally an abuse of discretion to
deny leave to amend, because the drastic step of denial of the opportunity to
correct the curable defect effectively terminates the pleader's action. (Velez
v. Smith (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1174.) Here, The Court finds the
defects in Plaintiff’s allegations cannot be reasonably cured by the addition
of factual allegations because the allegations must necessarily contain
Defendant’s attempts to repair and remediate. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
strike the request for punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Julie Lynn McIntire dba Golden Bear Management’s Motion to Strike came on
regularly for hearing on September 29, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 29, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 