 Case Number:  22BBCV01162    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 29,
2023

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01162

 
MP      Mercury Casualty Insurance Company
(Defendant)
RP:     Alpha Steam Pro, Natalex
Enterprise Inc. dba Jumpin' Java, Healthy Bites Inc. (Plaintiffs) 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On December 12, 2023, Alpha Steam Pro, Natalex Enterprise Inc. dba
Jumpin' Java, Healthy Bites Inc. (Collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed suit against
Mercury Casualty Insurance Company (“Defendant”) alleging Defendant failed to
pay out insurance benefits pursuant to an insurance agreement between the
parties (“the Agreement”). The Complaint contained causes of action for (1) Breach
of Contract, (2) Breach of The Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (3) Unfair
Business Practices Under Business and Professions Code § 17200, Et Seq., (4) Unjust
Enrichment, (5) Negligent Misrepresentation, and (6) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On May 5, 2023 the Court
sustained a previous demurrer with leave to amend for Negligent
Misrepresentation and to each of the remaining causes of action without leave
to amend. 
 
Plaintiffs subsequently filed
their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) which contains a singular cause of action
for Negligent Misrepresentation to which Defendant now demurs. 
 
The Court notes that Defendant move
to strike portions of the FAC which repeat allegations in connection with the causes
of action to which demurrer was sustained without leave. While a declaration was
filed in connection with this motion to strike, the motion to strike itself was
not filed. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.  (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Ibid.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§
430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur
to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MEET
& CONFER 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and
confer requirements were met. (Duque Decl. ¶¶ 7-9.) 
 
III.             
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff’s sole remaining cause
of action is premised on alleged misrepresentations with respect to virus
exclusions in Plaintiff’s insurance policies. The Court previously sustained
Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action for failure to plead
misrepresentation with sufficient particularity. 
 
While there is some conflict in
the case law discussing the precise degree of particularity required in the
pleading of a claim for negligent misrepresentation, there is a consensus that
the causal elements, particularly the allegations of reliance, must be
specifically pleaded. (National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, PA v.
Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 35, 50.) For
policy reasons, some causes of action, such as fraud and negligent
misrepresentation, must be pleaded with particularity, that is, pleading must
set forth how, when, where, to whom, and by what means representations were
made. (Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1028.) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs have
not alleged misrepresentation with sufficient particularity to sustain the
cause of action. Defendant further argues no changes have been made to the FAC
which addresses the Court’s previous concerns about particularity in the
pleadings. The allegations in the FAC with respect to representations made to
Plaintiffs are as follows: 
 
·        
Defendant represented to Plaintiffs that all
loss of income in case of business closure and/or loss of business would be
covered; 
 
·        
[T[hat such coverage would be for the length of
period stated in the subject insurance policy and declarations page. 
 
·        
At the time of purchasing the policies and
throughout subsequent renewals, Defendant explicitly communicated to Plaintiffs
that their coverage would encompass all forms of loss of income, without any
disqualifying factors. 
 
·        
Specifically, Defendant made explicit
representations regarding the coverage provided under the insurance policies,
assuring Plaintiffs that their loss of business income would be fully
compensated even in the event of closures or disruptions.
 
(FAC ¶ 78.) 
 
The Court agrees that these allegations remain insufficient
to support a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation. The Complaint
only contains conclusory allegations that Defendant misrepresented the scope of
the insurance coverage without averring to the particulars of this
misrepresentation. There are no allegations as to where these
misrepresentations were made, who made them, when they were made, or by what
means they were made. Plaintiffs simply state that Defendant misrepresented the
scope of the coverage without any detail. The Court clearly signaled to
Plaintiffs during the previous hearing which facts needed to be added to their
complaint, yet none were added. Given this failure, the Court concludes there
is no reasonable possibility Plaintiffs can further amend to add sufficient
factual allegations 
 
As such, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to cause of action
for Negligent Misrepresentation without leave to amend. 
 
Given the Court has sustained the demurrer to all causes of action
without leave to amend, the motion to strike the certain factual allegations is
MOOT. 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion
elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically
signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records.
 
ORDER
 
Mercury
Casualty Insurance Company’s Demurrer came
on regularly for hearing on September 29, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  September
29, 2023                               
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles