 Case Number:  23BBCV00010    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 29,
2023

MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00010

 



MP:  


Frank Johnny Moreno (Defendant)




RP:  


None



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On January 3, 2023, Cesar
Hilario Prado (‘Prado”) & Daniel Morales (“Morales) (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
brought
this action against Frank Johnny Moreno
(Defendant) in connection with an alleged motor vehicle accident. Defendant has
answered and demanded jury trial. Plaintiffs were previously represented by
counsel, however a motion to be relieved was granted on May 19, 2023. 
 
On August 4, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to
compel discovery responses from Plaintiff and to deem requests for admissions (“RFA”)
matters admitted.  
 
Defendant now moves for terminating sanctions. Plaintiffs have
filed no opposition. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where a
party fails to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P., §§ 2030.290(c),
2023.010(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.
App. 4th 486, 495.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists
in disobeying the court’s orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) 
 
A
terminating sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with
caution.” (Deyo supra, 84 Cal. App. 3d at 793.) “A decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 262, 279-280.) While the court
has discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should be
appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo
supra, at 793.) “[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction
against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his
discovery obligations.” (Id.) Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed for
punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to
prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife v.
Bernal (1988) 203 Cal. App. 3d 57, 64.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Despite Plaintiffs’ clear
neglect of this case, the Court does not find Plaintiffs’ failure to comply
with the August 4, 2023 order warrants the remedy of terminating sanctions.  Other remedies may be more appropriate. 
 
“The trial court may order
a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of
the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’”(Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hachman (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) 
 
Here, Defendant has not
shown that Plaintiffs’ failure to adhere to the Court’s order is willful,
rather than the result of neglect. Plaintiffs’ noncompliance is not, in and of
itself, a showing of willful behavior. While Defendant served notice of the
Court order upon Plaintiffs by mail, there has been no reply which indicates repeated
and willful defiance. 
 
Further, Defendant’s motion
makes no argument as to a detriment suffered which cannot be offset by less
severe sanctions. Defendant requests no sanctions in the alternative to the
terminating sanctions requested here. The Court agrees that sanctions of some
kind are in order, but Defendant has not provided the Court with any basis to determine
what those sanctions are.  Furthermore,
there are other procedural remedies for the Defendant.
 
Defendant is certainly
entitled to receive responses to the discovery that he has propounded, and
Plaintiff is subject to appropriate (and potentially escalating) sanctions for
the failure to comply with his obligations under the Civil Discovery Act and
court orders, but at this time the Court cannot make a determination that the
Plaintiffs’ failures to comply were willful. While Plaintiffs’ behavior is
certainly ripe for monetary sanctions, it does not constitute the continued and
willful refusal to comply that justifies terminating sanctions. 
 
The Court is sensitive to
the fact that this is the Plaintiffs’ case to prosecute and that failure to
reply to discovery does inconvenience Defendant. However, dismissal for failure
to prosecute and the granting of terminating sanctions are two separate legal
remedies which require different showings from a defendant. Here, Defendant has
shown Plaintiffs failed to comply with the August 4, 2023 order, but Defendant
has not shown that this failure was willful or has produced a detriment which
cannot be resolved via lesser sanctions. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Frank Johnny Moreno’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions came on regularly
for hearing on September 29, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 29, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 