 Case Number:  23BBCV01458    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 29,
2023

MOTION FOR
TRIAL PREFERENCE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01458

 



MP:  


Yahya Tahbaz (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Coldwater Care Center, LLC dba
  Sherman Village Health Care Center and Longwood Management Corp. (Defendants)



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Yahya Tahbaz (“Plaintiff”)
brings this action against Coldwater Care Center, LLC dba Sherman Village Health
Care Center and Longwood Management Corp. (“Defendants”) in connection with a
fall Plaintiff suffered on November 13, 2022. Plaintiff alleges he sustained
injuries when he slipped on Defendant’s premises. 
 
Plaintiff now moves
for trial preference pursuant to C.C.P. § 36 and Defendants oppose. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
36(a) provides in part: “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age
may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial
interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation.”. 
 
Per
C.C.P. § 36.5, “An affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference
under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for
the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the
medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (See also Fox v. Superior
Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534 [“a motion under subdivision (a) may
be supported by nothing more than an attorney’s declaration “based upon
information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party”].)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff submits proof
that he is 89 years of age (Exh. A.) Plaintiff also submits the declaration of
his counsel, Craig Rackohn, and a note from Darius Gharib, MD (“Dr. Gharib”).
Rackhon’s declaration states that Plaintiff suffered a traumatic brain injury (“TBI”)
because of the underlying incident. (Rackohn Decl. ¶ 4.) The letter from
Dr. Gharib states that Plaintiff is in his care, and he is uncertain whether
Plaintiff will remain alive in six months due to “his age, injuries, and health
condition.” (Rackohn Decl., Exh B.) 
 
Defendant first argues
Plaintiff’s showings fail to meet the “clear and convincing standard” required
to grant a mandatory trial preference. The Court finds that Defendant conflates
the standard espoused in C.C.P. § 36(a) with that of C.C.P. § 36(d). C.C.P. §
36(d) concerns discretionary relief for those under 70 and requires “clear and
convincing medical documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers
from an illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of
that party beyond six months.” 
 
“Provided there is evidence
that the party involved is over 70, all subdivision (a) requires is a showing
that that party’s “health ... is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing [her] interest in the litigation.” (Fox supra, 21
Cal.App.5th 529, 534.) Appellate authority has made it clear that the standard
for mandatory and discretionary trial preferences are separate. To show
entitlement to mandatory trial preference, Plaintiff must only show he is over
70 and his health is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudice.
No showing of clear and convincing medical documentation is required. 
 
Defendant next argues the
showings by Plaintiff are insufficient to grant trial preference. Defendant
argues the note from Dr. Gharib is insufficient because it is entirely
conclusory as to Plaintiff’s condition. Defendant cites to Jennings v.
Palomar Pomerado Health Systems, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, where
the court held “…when an expert’s opinion is purely conclusory because
unaccompanied by a reasoned explanation connecting the factual predicates to
the ultimate conclusion, that opinion has no evidentiary value because an
expert opinion is worth no more than the reasons upon which it rests.” (Jennings
supra, 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, at 1117 [internal quotation and
citation omitted].) 
 
The Court finds Defendant’s
citation to Jennings is procedurally inapposite. Jennings concerned
a motion to strike expert testimony from the trial record. (Id. at
1116.) Nothing in the Jennings decision concerns a motion under C.C.P. §
36 and Defendant cites no authority equating the evidentiary standard for a
motion to strike with that of a motion for trial preference. 
 
The Court also disagrees
with Defendant’s characterization of Plaintiff’s showings. C.C.P. § 36.5 states
that an affidavit by a party’s attorney stated upon information and belief alone
can suffice to satisfy that party’s motion for trial preference. This type of
affidavit is not commonly accepted in any other motion and is designed to set
the bar low when it comes to showings of poor health. Here, Plaintiff has
submitted the declaration of his attorney stating he suffers from TBI and a
document from his physician expressing doubt as to Plaintiff’s living another
six months. The Court finds these showings more than satisfy the requirement of
C.C.P. § 36(a). 
 
Further, from Defendant’s opposition
it appears they agree that Plaintiff is not in good health. Defendant states in
their opposition: 
 
Previous records indicate [Plaintiff] had [a] history of ongoing
dizziness and memory loss complaints back in 2021 and 2020 and a small
subarachnoid hemorrhage which has not change[d] after repeat imaging. Plaintiff
was noted to have encephalomalacia in the right temporal lob[e] prior to this
incident in 2021. Encephalomalacia is a serious form of brain damage caused by
injury or inflammation
 
(Oppo. p. 2, Lines 20-24.) 
 
The Court understands
Defendant offers the above to rebut Plaintiff’s assertion that his TBI was
sustained from the alleged fall. However, the fact remains Defendant is openly
arguing Plaintiff suffers from a serious health condition the likes of which
can seriously impair his ability to litigate this matter. Defendant cannot argue
Plaintiff sustained a serious health condition before the incident while
simultaneously arguing Plaintiff has not shown he suffers from such a
condition. 
 
Lastly, Defendants argument
that they will be prejudiced by the granting of trial preference is misplaced.
“Where a party meets the requisite standard for calendar preference based on
party's health and status as more than 70 years of age, preference must be
granted; no weighing of interests is involved.” (Fox supra, 21
Cal.App.5th 529 at 535.) Having made a sufficient showing, Plaintiff’s request must
be granted regardless of effect on Defendant’s ability to prepare for
trial. 
 
III.             
CONCLUSION
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s showing sufficient to establish that preference is necessary
pursuant to CCP §36(a).  Accordingly, the
motion for trial preference is GRANTED. 
Pursuant to CCP §36(f) the Court shall set the trial no more than 120
days from September 29, 2023.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Yahya Tahbaz’s Motion
for Trial Preference came on regularly for hearing on
September 29, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order
for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then
and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE IS GRANTED.   
 
TRIAL IS SET FOR JANUARY 22, 2024, AT 10:30 A.M.  
 
A FINAL STATUS CONFERENCE IS SET FOR JANUARY 18,
2024, AT 9:30 A.M. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 29, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 