  Case Number:  22BBCV00461    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 29,
2023

MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00461

 



MP:  


Mikayel
  Israyelyan (Plaintiff)  




RP:  


Krikor Bardakjian (Defendant)



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On June 24, 2022, Plaintiff Mikayel Israyelyan (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint, against Krikor Bardakjian (“Defendant”), Krikor Bardakjian,
DDS, Inc., Noho Dental Group by Bardakjian DDS, Inc., Sherman Oaks Dental Group
by Krikor Bardakjian DDS, Inc., and 485 Cliff Dr. LLC, alleging nine causes of
action and seeking compensatory damages in excess of $3,000,000.00, general
damages, punitive and exemplary damages, attorney’s fees and costs of suit.
 
On August 2, 2022, Defendant filed his Cross Complaint
against Plaintiff, Alina Bagasian (“Bagasian”), Liana Sahakyan (“Sahakyan”),
Suren Minasyan (“Minasyan”), Irnes Okanovich (“Okanovich”), Muse Lifestyle
Group, LLC (“Muse”), Laureate Aesthetics Management (“Laureate”), and Does 1
Through 50, alleging 15 causes of action and seeking a jury trial as to various
damages.
 
On May 4, 2023, the Court issued a ruling on Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to requests for production. The
Court granted the motion in part and denied it in part. As part of its ruling,
the Court ordered Defendant to render discovery responses no later than June 5,
2023. 
 
Plaintiff now brings this motion for terminating sanctions,
citing Defendant’s failure to comply with the Court’s order. Plaintiff seeks to
strike Defendant’s Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint, as well as Defendant’s Cross-Complaint.
In the alternative, Defendant seeks an order of contempt as to Defendant and
monetary sanctions. 
 
Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where a
party fails to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P., §§ 2030.290(c),
2023.010(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.
App. 4th 486, 495.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists
in disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) 
 
A
terminating sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with
caution.” (Deyo supra, 84 Cal. App. 3d at 793.) “A decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 262, 279-280.) While the court
has discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should be
appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo
supra, at 793.) “[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction
against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his
discovery obligations.” (Id.) Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed for
punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to
prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife v.
Bernal (1988) 203 Cal. App. 3d 57, 64.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant
has willingly refused to comply with the Court order by not producing
responsive documents to the following RFPD: 
 
1.      P&L’s for 2018-2021 (RFPD 10)
2.      Escrow documents for the purchase of 485 Cliff
Drive (RFPD 23)
3.      Documents pertaining to funds repaid to John
Ohannes Tchaboukian (RFPD 24-26)
4.      Bank statements (RFPD 31-33)
5.      CareCredit reports (RFPD 74)
6.      Communications with Plaintiff from 2013 to 2019
(RFPD No. 5)
7.      All communications with John Ohannes Manuel
Tchaboukian for the purchase of the 485 Cliff Drive Property (RFPD No. 27)
8.      All communications with Liana Sahakyan and Ani
Dolbakian (RFPD 34, 36, 37)
 
Plaintiff states that his
counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel on June 6, 2023, after they received no production
pursuant to the Court’s order. (Yacoubian Decl. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff states
Defendant provided supplemental production later that same day and additional
responses some days later. (Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel, unsatisfied with
the subsequent production, sent a meet and confer letter to Defendants counsel
on June 27, 2023. (Id. at 16.) On July 7, 2023, Defendants counsel
responded to the letter, stating that Defendant was not in possession of the
documents Plaintiff sought (namely records from an iCloud account Defendant
claimed was defunct). (Id. ¶ 17.) On July 10, 2023, the parties further
met and conferred regarding the status of the documents and whether or not they
were in Defendant’s possession. (Id. ¶ 18.) 
 
After the July 10 meet and
confer, Plaintiff personally received a text message communication featuring a
picture of a “needle and thread” which was sent by Defendant. (Id. ¶¶
19-21.) Plaintiff alleges this communication shows Defendant has access to the
iCloud account which he claimed is out of his possession. (Id.)
Defendant’s counsel confirms that Defendant sent the text message to Plaintiff.
(Samson Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
On August 10, 2023,
Defendant agreed to allow Plaintiff’s counsel access to the iCloud account.
(Samson Decl. ¶ 11.) Defendant’s counsel states that Defendant did not
originally disclose the iCloud content as he was embarrassed by the sexual
nature of some communications. (Id. ¶¶ 7-8.) Defendant’s counsel hired
an IT specialist to retrieve files from the iCloud account, an operation which
was only partially successful. (Id. ¶12-13.) On September 5, 2023,
Defendant’s counsel turned over what was recoverable from the account. (Id.
¶ 15.) 
 
“The trial court may order
a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of
the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’”(Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hachman (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) 
 
Here, it is readily
apparent that Defendant was willingly refusing to produce the content which
Plaintiff seeks, but eventually complied to the extent they provided access to
the iCloud account. Although Defendant failed to produce documents by the date
set in the Court’s order, it appears he has subsequently complied with
Plaintiff’s requests in some part. What is unclear is what production remains
outstanding after Defendant’s subsequent productions on June 6, 2023, and
September 5, 2023. Plaintiff’s reply makes no mention of the September
production and does not detail which RFPD remain outstanding. 
 
Plaintiff is certainly
entitled to receive responses to the discovery that he has propounded, and Defendant
is subject to appropriate (and potentially escalating) sanctions for the
failure to comply with his obligations under the Civil Discovery Act and court
orders, but at this time the Court does not decide that the Defendant’s initial
failures to comply justify terminating sanctions. Plaintiff’s motion makes no
argument as to a detriment suffered which cannot be offset by less severe
sanctions and it appears to the Court that monetary sanctions would be
appropriate to offset the cost of attempting to obtain discovery.  Defendant should be aware that escalating
sanctions will be imposed for future noncompliance, including evidentiary
preclusion, issue sanctions and potentially terminating sanctions.
 
Accordingly, the motion for
terminating sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Contempt 
 
C.C.P. § 1211(a) states, in
part, “When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of
the court, or of the judge at chambers, an affidavit shall be presented to the
court or judge of the facts constituting contempt….” 
 
Plaintiff submits no such
affidavit here. Accordingly, the Court declines to issue an order to show cause
re: contempt. 
 
However, the Defendant is
admonished that the Court ORDERED compliance, and failure to comply with a
court order can be contempt of court. 
Other options were available to Defendant to address the Defendant’s
privacy concerns; however, contempt of court by refusing to comply with a court
order is not one that will be permitted by the Court.
 
Sanctions 
 
In the alternative to
terminating sanctions, Defendant requests an order granting an additional $7,46.65
in monetary sanctions. This amount is reflective of the efforts of Defendant’s
counsel to resolve the discovery matter and to bring this motion. Defendant’s
counsel states a total of 16.5 hours was spent on these efforts at an hourly
rate of $450. (Yacoubian Decl. ¶ 22.) The requested amount also includes the $61.65
filing fee. (Id.) 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
request to be reasonable, however it disagrees with the appropriateness of the
number of hours expended on this motion and obtaining discovery. As such, the
Court awards sanctions to Defendant in the amount of $4,561.65.  
 
III.             
CONCLUSION

 
Plaintiff’s motion for
terminating sanctions is denied. Sanctions are awarded against Defendant in the
amount of $4,561.65.  These sanctions
shall be paid within 30 calendar days and are joint and several against defendant.
 
The Court notes that this
is one of several discovery related motions in this case. Plaintiff has
previously filed motions to compel further responses which required extensive
briefing and hearings. In addition, there are four separate discovery motions
on the calendar for the month of October. Given the nature of previous meet and
confer attempts, the Court strongly suggests the parties consider scheduling an
Informal Discovery Conference so that any remaining discovery issues can be
resolved clearly and expeditiously. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Mikayel Israyelyan’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions came on regularly
for hearing on September 29, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS DENIED. 
 
THE COURT
AWARDS FURTHER MONETARY SANCTIONS AS AGAINST DEFENDANT IN THE AMOUNT OF $4,561.65.

 
UNLESS
ALLPARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 29, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles