  Case Number:  22PSCV01611    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant George Liu’s Demurrer
to Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Loa
Int’l (USA) Transport Co. Inc.
Defendant
George Liu’s Motion to
Strike Portions of the Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiff Loa Int’l (USA)
Transport Co. Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant George Liu’s
Demurrer to Complaint is SUSTAINED with ten (10) days leave to
amend.
Defendant
George Liu’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint¿is deemed MOOT.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract action arising between an employer and former employee.
Plaintiff LOA Int’l (USA) Transport Co. Inc. (LOA) is a transportation business
that worked closely with RL Jones, a customs brokerage and international
logistics company in Texas. Defendant George Liu was an employee of LOA who
worked closely with RL Jones and was aware of the business relationship between
RL Jones and LOA. On July 6, 2022, Liu resigned from employment with LOA and
signed a confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement. On September 14, 2022, Liu
allegedly sent an email to RL Jones posing as a current employee of LOA to
obtain LOA’s pricing and attempt to secure RL Jones as a customer. Liu also
allegedly disclosed LOA’s pricing to RL Jones.
On
November 1, 2022, LOA filed a complaint against Liu and Does 1-20, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) intentional
interference with contractual relations, (3) intentional interference with
prospective economic relations, (4) violation of California Unfair Competition
Law, (5) trade secret misappropriation, and (6) common law trademark
infringement. On April 6, 2023, the court sustained Liu’s demurrer to LOA’s
Complaint.
On May
8, 2023, LOA filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants
alleging the same causes of action.
On June 7, 2023, Liu filed
the present demurrer and motion to strike. On August 10, the court continued
the hearing on Liu’s demurrer and motion to strike in order for parties to
further meet and confer. On September 11, Liu’s counsel spoke with LOA’s
counsel to further meet and confer. (Feazell Suppl. Decl., ¶ 7.)
A hearing on the present
demurrer and motion to strike as well as a case management conference are set
for September 27, 2023.
ANALYSIS
Liu
demurs to LOA’s first cause of action (breach of contract), second cause of
action (intentional interference with contractual relations), third cause of
action (intentional interference with prospective economic relations), fourth
cause of action (violation of Unfair Competition Law), and fifth cause of
action (trade secret misappropriation). For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS Liu’s
demurrer in its entirety, with leave to amend.
Legal
Standard
A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds
that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts
accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc.
(2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Breach
of Contract (First Cause of Action)
Liu
argues LOA’s first cause of action for breach of contract fails to plead
sufficient facts to state a claim. The court agrees.
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51
Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of
a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the
legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.)
In
this case, Liu argues LOA still fails to plead sufficient facts establishing
the existence of a contract. LOA alleges the existence of three different
agreements. First, LOA alleges the existence of an implied-in-fact contract
created by Liu and LOA’s employment relationship. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Second, LOA
alleges Liu signed an employee handbook acknowledgment agreement on September
1, 2020, in which Liu agreed to uphold company rules. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Third, LOA
alleges Liu signed a confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement on September
1, 2022, when Liu resigned from employment with LOA. (FAC, ¶ 22.) LOA also
provides a copy of the employee handbook acknowledgement agreement and the
employee handbook. (FAC, ¶ 22, Ex. D, F.) In section 2.2 of the employee
handbook, there is a provision prohibiting employees from disclosing
“confidential information.” (FAC, ¶ 22, Ex. F, p. 35.)
With
regards to the implied-in-fact contract, LOA failed to plead the terms of this agreement
and how Liu breached this agreement when the employment relationship had
already been terminated. (FAC, ¶ 22.) As to the employee handbook
acknowledgement agreement, LOA failed to demonstrate how this agreement was
supported by adequate consideration. While employment can constitute
consideration, LOA failed to allege if adherence to the employee handbook was a
requirement of employment or what LOA promised in exchange for Liu’s compliance
with its handbook. (See Cubic Corp. v. Marty (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 438,
448.) Finally, LOA’s allegations regarding the confidentiality agreement are
contradictory or unclear. While LOA alleges the agreement was signed on
September 1, 2022, when Liu’s employment ended, the actual copy of the
agreement appears to have been signed two years earlier on September 1, 2020. (FAC,
¶ 22, Ex. E.) And elsewhere, LOA alleged Liu’s employment ended on July 6, 2022.
(FAC, ¶ 13.)
Accordingly,
the court finds LOA failed to adequately allege a cause of action for breach of
contract and SUSTAINS Liu’s demurrer to this cause of action with leave
to amend.
Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations (Second Cause of Action)
Liu
contends LOA’s second cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The
court agrees.
The
elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations are “(1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2)
defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts
designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4)
actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting
damage.” (I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257,
289.)
In this case,
Liu contends LOA failed to establish the existence of a valid contract between
LOA and third parties. While LOA repeats the prior allegations that LOA “worked closely
with RL Jones” and that Liu was “aware of the substantial business activities
between LOA and [RL Jones],” LOA failed to allege the existence of a valid
contract between LOA and RL Jones. (FAC, ¶ 10-11.)
Accordingly,
Liu’s demurrer to LOA’s second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave
to amend.
Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations (Third Cause of Action)
Liu
maintains LOA’s third cause of action for intentional interference with
prospective economic relations fails to plead sufficient facts to state a
claim. The court agrees.
To
state a cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage or relations, a plaintiff must establish: “(1) a relationship between
the plaintiff and some third party with the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship;
(3) a wrongful act, apart from the interference itself, by the defendant
designed to disrupt the relationship;¿(4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.”¿ (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275,
1290, quoting Arluk Medical Center Industrial Group, Inc. v. Dobler (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 1324,
1340-1341.)
In
addition to establishing the defendant interfered with a plaintiff’s
prospective economic advantage, plaintiff must establish that defendant’s
conduct “was wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of interference
itself.” (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11
Cal.4th 376, 393.)¿“To establish that the defendant's interfering conduct was¿independently¿wrongful,
the plaintiff must instead prove that the conduct—whether directed at the
plaintiff or someone else—was ‘proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.’” (Drink Tank
Ventures LLC v. Real Soda in Real Bottles, Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 528,
538, quoting Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130,
1142.)
In
this case, Liu maintains LOA failed to establish how Liu interfered with the
relationship and how that interference amounted to a wrongful act. LOA alleged
Liu’s wrongful act was breaching Liu’s confidentiality agreement with LOA.
(FAC, ¶ 37.) But as noted above with respect to the first cause of action, LOA failed
to allege facts sufficient to establish a breach of contract and thus also
failed to establish a wrongful act. Accordingly, Liu’s demurrer to LOA’s third
cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Violation
of Unfair Competition Law (Fourth Cause of Action)
Liu
argues LOA’s fourth cause of action for violation of California’s Unfair
Competition Law fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court
agrees.
To
state a cause of action for unfair business practices, a plaintiff must
establish defendant engaged in “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200.) This section establishes three types of unfair
competition, prohibiting “practices that are either ‘unfair,’ or ‘unlawful,’ or
‘fraudulent.’” (Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490,
1496.) Thus, “An act or practice may be actionable as “unfair” under the unfair
competition law even if it is not ‘unlawful.’” (Chavez v. Whirlpool Corp. (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 363, 374.)
In this case,
LOA repeated the conclusory allegation that “Defendants’ acts of unfair
competition constitute unlawful business practices” while declining to specify or
identify which actions constitute unfair competition. (FAC, ¶ 43.) Having
already previously found this cursory allegation to be insufficient, the court
again SUSTAINS Liu’s demurrer to this cause of action with leave to
amend.
Trade
Secret Misappropriation (Fifth Cause of Action)
Liu
contends LOA’s fifth cause of action for trade secret misappropriation fails to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court agrees.
“[A]
prima facie claim for misappropriation of trade secrets ‘requires the
plaintiff to demonstrate: (1) the plaintiff owned a trade secret, (2) the
defendant acquired, disclosed, or used the plaintiff's trade secret through
improper means, and (3) the defendant's actions damaged the plaintiff.’” (CytoDyn
of New Mexico, Inc. v. Amerimmune Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 288,
297, quoting Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v. Able Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th
1658, 1665.) A “trade secret” is defined as “information, including a formula,
pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process, that: (1)
[d]erives independent economic value,
actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) [i]s the subject of efforts
that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” (Civ.
Code, § 3426.1, subd. (d).)
In
this case, LOA alleged LOA “continues to operate a transportation business with
several customers, which were and are trade secrets of LOA at all times.” (FAC,
¶ 49.) But LOA failed to allege how a customer can qualify as a trade secret. Accordingly,
Liu’s demurrer to LOA’s fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Liu’s demurrer to LOA’s FAC is SUSTAINED in its
entirety with ten (10) days leave to amend.
Based upon the recommendations made on the
demurrer, Liu’s motion to strike portions of LOA’s FAC is MOOT.