 Case Number:  22PSCV03023    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  G Defendants United Towing
& Transport Inc. and Henry Hernandez’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Hiram
Muro
Defendants United Towing
& Transport Inc. and Henry Hernandez’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Hiram
Muro
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants United Towing
& Transport Inc. and Henry Hernandez’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
 Defendants to answer the First Amended
Complaint in ten (10) days.
Defendants United Towing
& Transport Inc. and Henry Hernandez’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action. On April 12, 2022, Defendants United Towing &
Transport, Inc. (United) and Henry Hernandez responded to a call for service by
Plaintiff Hiram Muro in West Covina. After Hernandez placed Muro’s vehicle on a
flatbed truck, Hernandez allegedly had Muro exit the vehicle while the truck’s
bed was raised at a high angle. As a result, Muro fell from the raised bed and
sustained severe injury.
On
December 12, 2022, Muro filed a complaint against United, Hernandez, and Does
1-20, alleging (1) motor vehicle negligence, (2) general negligence, and (3)
common carrier liability.
On
April 6, 2023, Muro filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same
Defendants alleging the same causes of action, with the exception of the third
cause of action for common carrier liability.
On
May 5, 2023, United and Hernandez filed the present demurrer and motion to
strike. On July 3, the court continued a hearing on United and Hernandez’s
motions in order for parties to further meet and confer. On July 10, United and
Hernandez’s counsel telephonically met and conferred with Muro’s counsel. (Mate
Suppl. Decl., ¶ 7.)
A
hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike is set for September 27, 2023,
along with a case management conference.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
United
and Hernandez demur to Muro’s first cause of action for motor vehicle
negligence on the grounds that Muro (1) fails to allege the injuries were
caused by Hernandez’s negligent operation of the flat bed and (2) fails to
establish United and Hernandez are subject to the common carrier standard of
care. For the
following reasons, the court OVERRULES United and Hernandez’s demurrer.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A
demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
The
basic elements of a negligence claim are (1) duty, (2) breach, (3) causation,
and (4) damages. (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43
Cal.App.4th 472, 480.) An operator of a motor vehicle is “under a duty,
both by statute and common law, to operate his vehicle without negligence so as
to abstain from injuring any other person or his property.” (Bewley v. Riggs
(1968) 262 Cal.App.2d 188, 194.)
Discussion
In
this case, United and Hernandez argue Hernandez’s alleged instructions and
Muro’s actions were the cause of Muro’s injury. But Muro also alleges that Hernandez
raised the flat bed to a dangerously high level which caused Muro to fall when
Muro attempted to exit the vehicle on the flat bed. (FAC, ¶ 3-4.) Because
Hernandez allegedly operated the flatbed in a manner that caused Muro to fall
and become injured, the court finds Muro sufficiently pled a cause of action
for motor vehicle negligence.
To
the extent United and Hernandez argue United is not a common carrier, the court
finds this argument an inappropriate ground for demurrer. Even if United and
Hernandez are not subject to the heightened standard of care for common
carriers, they are still governed by the standard of care for operating a motor
vehicle as noted above and a demurrer cannot “lie to a part of a cause of
action.” (Cornejo v. Lightbourne (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 932, 944.)
Accordingly,
United and Hernandez’s demurrer to Muro’s first cause of action is OVERRULED.
Motion
to Strike
United
and Hernandez move to strike Muro’s allegations regarding common carrier
liability from the FAC. For the following reasons, the court DENIES their
motion.
Legal
Standard
Upon
a party’s motion or the court’s own motion, the court may strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
Common
carriers have a heightened duty of “utmost care” that requires them “to do all
that human care, vigilance, and foresight reasonably can do under all the
circumstances.” (Acosta v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1970) 2
Cal.3d 19, 27.) To determine whether one qualifies as a common carrier, “a
court may properly consider whether (1) the defendant maintains a regular place
of business for the purpose of transportation; (2) the defendant advertises its
services to the general public; and (3) the defendant charges standard fees for
its services.” (Martine v. Heavenly Valley Limited Partnership (2018) 27
Cal.App.5th 715, 725.)
Discussion
In
this case, United and Hernandez argue Muro makes the conclusory allegation that
they were common carriers without any supporting facts. But United and
Hernandez fail to identify any authority that requires such specificity as the
pleading of ultimate facts is appropriate. (Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 998, 1019.) Accordingly, their motion to strike is DENIED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, United
and Hernandez’s demurrer to Muro’s FAC is OVERRULED. Furthermore, their
motion to strike portions of Muro’s FAC is also DENIED.
Defendants to answer the First Amended Complaint
in ten (10) days.