 Case Number:  23PSCV03476    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  H ORDER  ON DEMURRER AND MOTIONS TO STRIKE 1.        Defendants SoCal Sealcoat Solutions,  LLC, Meister Sealcoat & Supplies, LLC, David Thorson, and Michael Held’s Motion  to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is DENIED in part  (i.e., as to the first sentence in Paragraphs 21 and 25) and GRANTED in part  (i.e., as to the second sentence of Paragraphs 21 and 25, as well as Paragraphs  77 and 92 and Paragraph 6 of the Prayer). The Court will hear from Plaintiffs’  counsel as to whether leave to amend is requested, and if so, will require an  offer of proof. 2.        Defendant Calmat dba Vulcan  Materials Western Division Co.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended  Complaint is SUSTAINED. The Court will hear from Plaintiffs’ counsel as to  whether leave to amend is requested, and if so, will require an offer of proof. 3.        Defendant Calmat dba Vulcan  Materials Western Division Co.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First  Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.  Background  Plaintiffs Elizabeth  Zarate Uscanga and Jesus Pedroza Palma, individually and as  successors-in-interest of Jose Gilberto Pedroza, and The Estate of Jose  Gilberto, by and through its successors-in-interest, Elizabeth Zarate Uscanga and  Jesus Pedroza Palma, (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)  allege that on November 4, 2022, Jose Gilberto Pedroza was  killed when his motorcycle struck a fire hydrant and bollards near 4600 Little  John Street in Baldwin Park. On February 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First  Amended Complaint (the “Operative Complaint” or “FAC”), asserting causes of  action against City of Baldwin Park California, Little Palms Investments, LLC,  William M. Podley, Christopher Tolles, Sealmaster Industries, Sealmaster  Industries Doe Manager, SoCal Sealcoat Solutions, LLC (“SoCal Sealcoat”),  Michael Held (“Held”), Meister Sealcoat & Supplies, LLC (“Meister”), David  Thorson (“Thorson”), CalMat dba Vulcan  Materials Western Division Co. (erroneously sued and served as Vulcan Materials  Company, Vulcan Durbin Pit and Vulcan Materials Company Irwindale Asphalt)  (“CalMat”), Vulcan Materials Company  Doe Manager, Vulcan Durbin Pit Doe Manager, Vulcan Materials Company Irwindale  Asphalt Doe Manager, Southern California Edison Co. (“SoCal Edison”), and Does  1-200 for (1) negligence; (2) premises liability; and (3) dangerous condition  of public property. On  March 5, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed the case as against SoCal Edison, without  prejudice. On March 12, 2024, a “Stipulation and Order Re: Dismissal of  Defendant The People of The State of California, Acting By and Through the  Department of Transportation (Erroneously Sued as ‘California Department of  Transportation’)” was entered. On April 8, 2024, an “Order to Deem the First  Amended Complaint the Operative Complaint” was entered. Pending  before the Court are two motions to strike portions of the Operative Complaint—one  filed by defendants SoCal Sealcoat, Meister, Thorson, and Held and one filed by  defendant CalMat—as well as CalMat’s demurrer to the Operative Complaint. For  the reasons stated herein, the Court (1) grants the SoCal Sealcoat defendants’  motion to strike, except as to the first sentence of Paragraph 21 and the first  sentence of Paragraph 25, (2) sustains CalMat’s demurrer, and (3) denies as  moot CalMat’s motion to strike.   1.  SoCal Sealcoat, Meister, Thorson, and Held’s Motion to Strike Legal  Standard Pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made  pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or  filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of  the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the  challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take  judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Discussion SoCal  Sealcoat, Meister, Thorson and Held (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) move  the Court for an order striking out the following portions of the Operative  Complaint relating to the punitive damages claim:  1.       Paragraph 21  (i.e., 6:10-15 [“PLAINTIFFS are informed and believe, and upon such information  and belief, allege that at all times herein mentioned, SEALMASTER Defendants,  DOES 1 through 200, inclusive, and each of them, were acting as the agents,  servants, and/or employees of the other named SEALMASTER Defendants, and were  within the course and scope of their employment and with the full knowledge and  consent of each of the other named SEALMASTER Defendants. Each SEALMASTER  Defendant subsequently ratified and condoned the conduct of each remaining  SEALMASTER Defendant”]).  2.       Paragraph 25  (i.e., 6:25-7:2 [“PLAINTIFFS are informed and believe, and upon such  information and belief, allege that at all times herein mentioned, MEISTER  Defendants, DOES 1 through 200, inclusive, and each of them, were acting as the  agents, servants, and/or employees of the other named MEISTER Defendants, and  were within the course and scope of their employment and with the full  knowledge and consent of each of the other named MEISTER Defendants. Each  MEISTER Defendant subsequently ratified and condoned the conduct of each  remaining MEISTER Defendant”]). 3.       Paragraph 77  (i.e., 19:17-21 [“As a legal, direct and proximate result of DEFENDANTS’  and DOES 1 through 200, willful conduct and conscious disregard for DECEDENTS’  safety and DEFENDANTS’ negligence, carelessness, recklessness, and other  tortuous conduct and DOES 1 through 200, inclusive, PLAINTIFFS suffered and  will continue to suffer extreme and severe distress, pain, anguish, and other  economic and non-economic damages in amounts to be proven at trial”]). 4.       Paragraph 92  (i.e., 24:9-15 [“As a legal, direct and proximate result of Defendants  CITY OF BALDWIN PARK, PALMS INVESTMENTS, SEALMASTER, MEISTER and DOES 1 through  200, willful conduct and conscious disregard for DECEDENT’S safety and  Defendants CITY OF BALDWIN PARK, PALMS INVESTMENTS, SEALMASTER, MEISTER and  DOES 1 through 200, inclusive, negligence, carelessness, recklessness, and  other tortuous conduct, PLAINTIFFS suffered and will continue to suffer extreme  and severe distress, pain, anguish, and other economic and non-economic damages  in amounts to be proven at trial”]).  5.       Prayer  Paragraph 6 (i.e., 29:8-10 [“For punitive damages against all DEFENDANTS  by Plaintiff THE ESTATE OF JOSE GILBERTO PEDROZA, by and through its  Successors-in-Interest, ELIZABETH ZARATE USCANGA and JESUS PEDROZA PALMA,  pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 377.30  and 377.34, according to proof”]). The motion is summarily denied in part (i.e., as to the  first sentence in Paragraph 21 and the first sentence in Paragraph 25),  inasmuch as moving defendants fail to provide the Court with any argument in  support of their request to strike those sentences. The motion is otherwise  granted (i.e., as to the second sentences of Paragraphs 21 and 25, as well as Paragraphs  77 and 92 and Paragraph 6 of the Prayer).  Punitive  damages may be awarded in an action for the breach of an obligation not arising  from contract upon clear and convincing evidence that a defendant has been  guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to  subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the  employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed  him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or  authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded  or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a  corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,  ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an  officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,  subd. (b).)  “Malice”  is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to  the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a  willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code  § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that  subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that  person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is defined as “an  intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known  to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby  depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)  A  “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional, willful and  fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or  malice.’” (Brousseau v. Jarrett  (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was  committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only  must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be  alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)  Plaintiffs have failed to factually allege circumstances of  malice, oppression, and/or fraud. Plaintiffs’ conclusory allegations that moving  defendants knew or should have known of the alleged dangerous condition and had  actual or constructive notice of the alleged dangerous condition is  insufficient to support a prayer for punitive damages.     2. CalMat’s Demurrer  Legal Standard  A demurrer  may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).)  “A demurrer  tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or  are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153  Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff  need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the  factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole  v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,  however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in  the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or  facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may  take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land  Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)  Discussion  CalMat  demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e), to the first cause of  action (i.e., for Negligence), on the basis that it fails to state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  At the outset, the Court addresses CalMat’s Request  for Judicial Notice (“RJN”). “The court will take judicial notice of records  such as admissions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, and the like, when  considering a demurrer, only where they contain statements of the plaintiff or  his agent which are inconsistent with the allegations of the pleading before  the court.” (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123  Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)  With this standard in mind, the Court grants the RJN  and takes judicial notice of the following exhibits: Exhibit 1 (Plaintiff  Elizabeth Zarate Uscanga’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One); Exhibit  2 (Plaintiff Elizabeth Zarate Uscanga’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set  One); Exhibit 3 (Plaintiff Elizabeth Zarate Uscanga’s Responses to Request for  Admission, Set One); Exhibit 4 (Plaintiff Elizabeth Zarate Uscanga’s Responses  to Request for Production of Documents, Set One); Exhibit 5 (Plaintiff Jesus  Pedroza Palma’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One); Exhibit 6 (Plaintiff  Jesus Pedroza Palma’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One); Exhibit 7 (Plaintiff  Jesus Pedroza Palma’s Responses to Request for Admission, Set One); and Exhibit  8 (Plaintiff Jesus Pedroza Palma’s Responses to Request for Production of  Documents, Set One).  Turning to the merits of the demurrer, “[t]he elements of  any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and  damages.” (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services,  Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)  Plaintiffs have alleged, in relevant part, that the accident  occurred at or near the premises located at 4600 Little John Street in Baldwin,  CA 91706 (FAC, ¶ 3); that CalMat does business at 13000, 16001, and 16005 E.  Foothill Blvd., Irwindale, CA 91702 (Id., ¶¶ 26, 34 and 42); and that “upon  information and belief, based on eyewitness account, [CalMat,] who owned a  nearby mine and rock quarry instructed, allowed, entrusted and/or permitted  trucks and other vehicles owned, leased or operated by or for [CalMat] to  travel over the subject roadway where accident occurred and to spill gravel,  rock, or other debris traveling to or from the [CalMat] mine, and . . . : (1) [did  not take measures to] prevent trucks from traveling through the area; (2) [did  not take measures to] prevent trucks from dropping or spilling gravel, rocks or  debris onto the subject roadway; (3) did not undertake to clean up the spilled  rocks, gravel or debris, and (4) otherwise was negligent in its operations to  permit trucks or other vehicles to spill gravel, rocks or other debris over the  subject roadway that caused the DECEDENT’S motorcycle to lose control and cause  the subject accident leading to death” (Id., ¶ 69(k)).  CalMat, in response, has provided the Court with  Plaintiffs’ discovery responses for the purpose of confirming that there is no  “eyewitness” and that they have no facts or evidence that gravel-debris in the  road caused or contributed to the decedent’s death, let alone any gravel or  debris spilled by a vehicle owned or operated by CalMat. (See generally RJN  Exhs. 1-8.)   Plaintiffs, in turn, assert that they supplemented  their discovery responses on July 9, 2024 (subsequent to the filing of the  instant demurrer), wherein they disclosed Ramon Reyes, Jr. as the eyewitness.  (Opp., 8:18-22.) Plaintiffs have failed to provide the Court with these supplemental  responses; as such, the Court declines to consider them as they are extrinsic  to the face of the pleading and are not properly before the Court via a request  for judicial notice. The Court similarly declines to consider Plaintiffs’  argument pertaining to CalMat’s purported disregard of a “left turn only” sign,  as it is extrinsic to the face of the pleading and not properly before the  Court through a judicially noticeable document.  Plaintiffs have failed to allege a duty, let alone a  breach of duty. The demurrer is sustained.    3. CalMat’s Motion to Strike In light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, CalMat’s  motion to strike is denied as moot.