 Case Number:  23TRCV02318    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 31, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV02318
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Cynthia Booze v. One Imperial Plaza LP.,
et al.  
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant/Cross-Defendant, 12 0 27 Protective
Services, Inc. 
                                                
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
Super Center Concepts Inc. dba Superior Grocers
                                                
TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendant/Cross-Defendant, 12
0 27 Protective Services, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) The Motion to Compel
Arbitration of the Cross-Complaint is DENIED without prejudice pending outcome
of the underlying civil action.  The
Court will take oral argument as to whether discovery between Protective
Services and Superior Grocers bearing on the cross-action should be stayed or
should be restricted until the main action is resolved.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿¿
¿¿¿ 
This motion arises out of the original filing of a
complaint on July 18, 2023 by Plaintiff, Cynthia Booze, individually and as
successor-in-interest to decedent, Gordy Nnamdi Aniako (“Plaintiff”) against
Defendants, One Imperial Plaza LP, a California corporation, Superior WHSE
Grocers Inc., a California corporation, The Right Choice Home Remodeling, Inc.,
a California corporation, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges causes
of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Wrongful Death; (3) Respondeat Superior
Liability; and (4) Negligent Hiring and Retention. Plaintiff’s complaint is based
on an incident taking place on January 26, 2023 when Decedent, Gordy Nnamdi
Aniako (“Decedent”) allegedly suffered traumatic and fatal injuries while
lawfully on the premises of Superior Grocers when he encountered Angel
Alexander Ramos (“Assailant”) who shot Decedent three times in the parking lot
of the store. (Complaint, ¶¶ 16-18.) Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that at all
relevant times, both Defendants, One Imperial Plaza LP and Superior Grocers
owned, operated, maintained, managed, and/or controlled the subject premises.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 19-20.) 
 
On December 18, 2023, Superior Center Concepts Inc.
dba Superior Grocers (“SCC”)  filed a
cross-complaint against Defendants, One Imperial Plaza LP, The Right Choice
Home Remodeling, Inc., Angel Alexander Ramos, and MOES 1 through 50.
Subsequently, on April 11, 2024, SCC filed a Doe Amendment identifying 12 “0”
27 Protective Services, Inc. as MOE 2. The cross-complaint alleges causes of
action for: (1) Equitable Indemnity; (2) Express Indemnity; (3) Breach of
Contract; (4) Contribution; and (5) Declaratory Relief. Cross-Defendant, 12 0
27 Protective Services, Inc. (“Protective Services”) entered into a Security
Guard Services Contract with SCC in March 29, 2018 under which SCC purchased
security guard protection services for its properties. 
 
Protective Services now files a motion to compel
arbitration on the grounds that it argues the Security Guard Services Contract
includes an agreement for mandatory arbitration. 
 
B.    Procedural¿¿¿ 
 
On September 17, 2024, Protective
Services filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration and for Stay Pending the
Arbitration. On September 19, 2024, SCC filed an opposition brief. On October
24, 2024, Protective Services filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal
Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)
California law states
that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence
of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the
agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §
1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. 
 
When seeking to compel
arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It
is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration
agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72
Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must
establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then
weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) 
 
If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
B.    Discussion 
Protective
Services argues that SCC entered into the Security Guard Services Contract,
which contained an arbitration clause which states, in Section 9.1: 
If any controversy, claim or dispute arises between the
Parties which is related in any way to the performance or interpretation of
this Contract, or any breach thereof, or concerns any other matter in
connection with this Contract which cannot be settled by amicable agreement, then upon
either Party giving written notice of the difference or dispute to the other, the
matter shall be resolved by submitting the matter to the American Arbitration
Association for final and binding arbitration in accordance with the rules
and procedures of the Inter-American Commercial Arbitration Commission and the
law applicable to the substance of the dispute which shall be the law of the
State of California, U.S.A. The language of the arbitral proceedings shall be
English, and the place of arbitration shall be Los Angeles, CA, U.S.A. The
award rendered by the arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties.
 
            In
opposition, SCC concedes that there was a valid arbitration clause in the operative
contract between it and Protective Services and does not dispute the accuracy
of the portion of the arbitration clause above. Instead, SCC argues that the
above portion of the arbitration clause cited to by Protective Service omits
the final two sentences which read: “Provided, however, that the Parties will
first attempt to settle disputes by mediation before resorting to arbitration.
When a dispute is taken to mediation, both Parties shall make a good faith
effort to settle the dispute.” (Declaration of Adam C. Young (“Young Decl.”), ¶
6, Exhibit E.)
            Moreover,
SCC opposes the moving papers on the grounds that it argues this court should
deny Protective Service’s motion because pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, subdivision (c), compelling SCC and Protective Services to
arbitration when the case involves a number of other parties creates a risk of
the possibility of conflicting rulings. Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 states
in relevant part that, 
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration alleging the
existence of  a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:…(c) “[a] party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition. This
subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to
the professional negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section
1295.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd.
(c).) 
            As such,
this court notes that Protective Services carries its initial burden (to which
SCC concedes) in showing that a valid arbitration clause exists between the parties.
Thus, the burden shifts to SCC and the issue remaining is whether the court
exercises its discretion to deny the motion based on the risk of conflicting
rulings. The court agrees that all the claims in Plaintiff’s complaint and the
subsequently filed cross-complaint arise out of the same event. However, even
if this is the case, a likelihood of conflicting rulings does not per se become
a risk. 
The disputed issues between SCC and
Protective Services are based on their contract. Nonetheless, in the underlying
civil action, Plaintiff argues that an issue exists as to whether SCC or One
Imperial (as well as their respective security contractors) possessed the duty
to secure certain portions of the property, and whether there were immediate
duties to defend under the various contracts. SCC acknowledges that although
its contract with Protective Services involves a different contractual
transaction, other transactional relationships with respect to numerous other
cross-complainants and cross-defendants still remain at issue in Plaintiff’s
underlying civil claim. For example, Plaintiff is alleging that Protective
Services owed Decedent a duty of protection by way of its contractual
relationship with SCC, and that Protective Services violated that duty by
failing to provide adequate services. However, liability as to which entity
(SCC or One Imperial) and their respective security contractors remains at
issue. 
Based on the underlying issues
remaining in the underlying civil action, SCC argues that resolution of said
underlying civil case, and the issues contained therein, may make arbitration
of the disputes between SCC and Protective Services unnecessary. For example,
SCC contends that a factual finding that the subject incident did not arise out
of Protective Services’ services under its contract with SCC, or that
Protective Services bears no liability for the incident (which is disputed by
SCC), might extinguish SCC’s claims for express indemnity under the contract.
Further, SCC explains that a global resolution prior to trial in the civil case
might result in an “amicable agreement” which abrogates the need for
arbitration under the applicable arbitration provision. However, this court
notes that while some of the issues in the cross-complaint may produce a risk
of conflicting rulings or may even waste judicial resources as liability of
either SCC or One Imperial may drive those issues, other issues are not subject
to a risk of conflicting rulings. Protective Services’ reply brief discusses
the possibility of the court denying the motion as to the equitable indemnity
and contribution claims while granting the motion as to the express indemnity
and breach of contract claims as well as the possibility of staying the
arbitration until the outcome of the civil action. 
Because the underlying civil action will
determine whether SCC (and potentially Protective Services) is even liable, the
court finds that in the interest of judicial services as well as the interest
of the clients represented by counsel on this motion (who may be required to
spend thousands of dollars on arbitration efforts when SCC may not even by
liable), to defer ruling on the arbitration of the cross-complaint pending the
outcome of the underlying civil action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4. Thus, the motion to compel arbitration is STAYED pending the
outcome of the underlying civil action. 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Protective Services Motion to Compel
Arbitration is DENIED without prejudice pending the outcome of the underlying
civil action. 
 
Protective Services is ordered to provide
notice. 
 
 
 
 