


[1]As discussed in
further detail below, starting with the fifth cause of action for fraudulent
inducement, the causes of action in the body of the FAC are misnumbered. 


[2]The Court notes that the caption page of the FAC states that
the fifth cause of action is for fraudulent inducement. However, the body of
the FAC incorrectly states that this cause of action is the “sixth” cause of
action. The Court refers to the cause of action for fraudulent inducement as
the “fifth” cause of action herein. In addition, the caption page of the FAC
states that the sixth cause of action is for negligent misrepresentation.
However, the body of the FAC incorrectly states that this cause of action is
the “seventh” cause of action. The Court refers to the cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation as the “sixth” cause of action herein.


[3]The Court also
notes that Plaintiff does not appear to dispute that the fraudulent inducement
and negligent misrepresentation causes of action do not allege “where” the representations were
tendered. (See Opp’n at p. 5:12-16.) 


[4]The caption page of the FAC states that the seventh cause of
action is for fraudulent concealment. However, the body of the FAC incorrectly
states that this cause of action is the “eighth” cause of action. The Court
refers to the cause of action for fraudulent concealment as the “seventh” cause
of action herein.


[5]The caption page of the FAC states that the
eighth of action is for civil remedies pursuant to Penal
Code section 496. However, the body of the FAC incorrectly states that this
cause of action is the “ninth” cause of action. The Court refers to the cause
of action for civil remedies pursuant to Penal Code
section 496 as the “eighth” cause of action herein. 


[6]As set forth
above, Plaintiff alleges that “by deliberately underpaying and withholding
wages owed to [Plaintiff], Defendants committed wage theft as defined under Cal. Penal Code § 487m.” (FAC, ¶ 81.) 


[7]The Court notes
that the Demurring Defendants appear to request judicial notice of a trial
court order in connection with their reply. The Court denies any such purported
request for judicial notice. The Court notes that “¿[t]he general rule of motion practice…is
that new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.”¿(¿Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.)¿¿

