  Case Number:  22STCV11231    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



ROBERT J. SMYTH-MEDINA, M.D.,
  a.k.a. ROBERT J. SMYTH, M.D,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
CALIFORNIA EYE SPECIALISTS
  MEDICAL GROUP, INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV11231




Hearing Date:


January 19, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  DEMURRERS [SIC] TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



            
Background
On April 1, 2022, Plaintiff
Robert J. Smyth-Medina, M.D., a.k.a. Robert J. Smyth, M.D. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against a number of defendants.   
On September 26, 2023, a
“Stipulation and Order for Leave to File First Amended Complaint and to
Continue November 29 Trial Date and Other Dates” was filed. The Stipulation
provides, inter alia, that “[t]he stipulated First Amended
Complaint attached as Exhibit A is deemed filed and served as of the day the
court signs this stipulation.” (September 26, 2023 Stipulation at p. 2:17-18.)
On September 26, 2023, the Court issued an Order providing, inter alia,
that “[t]he stipulation of the Parties is approved and is hereby adopted as the
Order of this Court…” 
The First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) attached as Exhibit A to the
September 26, 2023 Stipulation and Order alleges causes of action for (1)
breach of employment contract, (2) violation of Labor
Code section 226, (3) declaratory relief, (4) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (5) fraudulent inducement, (6)
negligent misrepresentation, (7) fraudulent concealment, and (8) civil remedies
pursuant to Penal Code section 496.[1] A number of
defendants are named in the FAC.  
Defendants
California Eye Specialists Medical Group, Inc., Payam Amini, M.D., Payam Amini,
M.D., Inc., Azul Vision, Inc., and North Valley Eye Medical Group, Inc. (“NVE”)
(collectively, the “Demurring Defendants”) now demur to the fourth, fifth,
sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action of the FAC. Plaintiff
opposes. 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the FAC 
In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges that he is a Board-certified physician and surgeon specializing
in ophthalmology. (FAC, ¶ 1.) Before December 1, 2020, Plaintiff was a co-owner
of NVE, an ophthalmology and optometry clinic. (FAC, ¶ 1.)
On or about December 1, 2020, Plaintiff and the other co-owner of NVE
sold all of their stock in NVE to Payam Amini, M.D, Inc. (FAC, ¶ 2.) As part of
that transaction, Plaintiff entered into an “Amended and Restated Physician
Employment Agreement” dated December 1, 2020 (the “Employment Agreement”) under
which he agreed to continue to work for NVE as a physician and NVE’s Medical
Director. (FAC, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that “[s]tarting on or about December
1, 2020, [Plaintiff’s] employer(s), aided and abetted by the other Defendants,
took illegal and improper deductions from [Plaintiff’s] wages…while
intentionally failing to disclose those deductions on his employee wage
statements.” (FAC, ¶ 6.)
 
C.   
Breach of The Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
The Demurring Defendants
assert that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing is duplicative of Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for breach of employment contract. 
In Careau &
Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1394, cited by the Demurring Defendants, the Court of Appeal
noted that “[a] breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the
contractual duty itself…” (Internal quotations omitted.) “If the allegations do
not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same
alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated.” ((Id. at p. 1395.) The Demurring Defendants
assert that “[t]he Fourth Cause of Action pleads nearly identical elements,
alleges the same facts, and seeks the same damages as the First Cause of
Action.” (Demurrer at p. 2:28-3:1.)
Plaintiff asserts that there are allegations “of conduct extraneous to
the contract sufficient to find bad faith.” (Opp’n at p. 4:13-14, emphasis
omitted.) Plaintiff notes that in the fourth cause of action, he alleges that
Defendants and/or their agents prevented Plaintiff from receiving the benefits
he was due under the contract by, inter alia, “diverting critical
clinical trial resources from Plaintiff’s clinic to other clinics such that
Defendants would profit at the expense of Plaintiff’s clinical trial practice…”
(Compl., ¶ 57.) Plaintiff also alleges in the fourth cause of action that
“after acquiring the NVE practice, Defendants secretly terminated and/or
renegotiated the terms of the Optum (f.k.a. Health Care Partners) capitated
contract under which [Plaintiff’s] wages were partially based in a manner that
was intended to, and did, substantially reduce the amount of his earnings.”
(FAC, ¶ 57.) 
Such allegations are not included in the first cause of action for
breach of employment contract, which alleges, inter alia, that
“[b]eginning on or around December, 2020, Defendants breached the Employment
Agreement with Plaintiff by: (i) deducting improper sums from his wages,
including charging Plaintiff for the ordinary costs of conducting Defendants’
business…and deducting payments Defendants made to their affiliates prior to
calculating the percentage compensation to be paid to Plaintiff…(ii) failing to
account for such deductions on his wage statements; (iii) failing to adequately
staff the clinic sufficient to keep a full roster of clinical trial patients;
and (iv) failing to provide administrative services to renew his hospital
privileges.” (FAC, ¶ 42.)
In light of the
foregoing, the Court overrules the demurrer to the fourth cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
D.   
Fraudulent Inducement and Negligent
Misrepresentation 
The Demurring Defendants
assert that the fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement fails.[2]
The Demurring Defendants cite to Cansino v. Bank of
America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
1462, 1469, where the Court of Appeal noted that
“[t]he
elements of fraud are (1) misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3)
intent to induce reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance on
the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damages. Fraud allegations involve a
serious attack on character and therefore are pleaded with
specificity. General and conclusory allegations are insufficient. The
particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
As to the fraudulent inducement
cause of action, the Demurring Defendants assert that Plaintiff does
not plead with specificity “when” the representations were made. In the
fraudulent inducement cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, as
follows: 
 
“Prior to
agreeing to enter into the Employment Agreement, Plaintiff was assured by
Defendant’s agent PEREZ that Defendants were sincerely interested in acquiring
his practice, and employing him as an employee following the acquisition, in
large part because of the substantial revenues that he was generating at the
North Valley Eye clinic as the Principal Investigator in a number of ongoing
clinical trials and because of his potential to attract and service additional
clinical trials going forward. PEREZ further assured [Plaintiff] that
Defendants intended to fully support his ongoing clinical trial practice after
he became their employee such that he would continue to reach full (or nearly
full) enrollment both in ongoing clinical trials and also in new clinical
trials going forward. (PEREZ had, on information and belief, both actual and
apparent authority to make such representations on Defendants’ behalf in his
capacity as CEO of AZUL and also in his capacity as a principal of California
Eye Management Services, L.P. which provides management services to the
corporate defendants.)” (FAC, ¶ 60.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n information and belief, the assurances
provided by PEREZ were false.” (FAC, ¶ 61.) The Demurring Defendants assert
that the allegation “[p]rior to agreeing to enter into the Employment
Agreement” (FAC, ¶ 60) “is nothing other than a general and conclusory
allegation that could point to any time in 2020 or even in 2019.” (Demurrer at
p. 4:21-22.) The Demurring Defendants also note that the FAC does not allege “where”
and “by what means” Perez made the
allegedly false representations. 
The Court agrees with the
Demurring Defendants that the fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement
does not allege with specificity facts
showing “when,” “where,”
and “by what means” the representations were allegedly tendered. (Ibid.) 
The Demurring
Defendants also assert that “just as Dr. Smyth-Medina’s fraud
claim fails, so does his claim for negligent misrepresentation.” (Demurrer at
p. 6:20-21.) “The
elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) the misrepresentation of a past
or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be
true, (3) with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented,
(4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.”
((Apollo Capital Fund LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)
“Under California law, negligent
misrepresentation is a species of actual fraud and a form of deceit.” ((Wong v. Stoler (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1388.)
In the negligent misrepresentation cause of action, Plaintiff alleges,
inter alia, that “[t]he above-referenced representations of PEREZ were
made without reasonable grounds for believing the representations were true
when made,” and that “[Plaintiff] reasonably relied on PEREZ’s representations
and was harmed thereby by suffering the damages alleged hereinabove and by
entering into the Employment Agreement and losing the income he would have
obtained from his clinical trial practice had he not done so.” (FAC, ¶¶ 67,
69.) The Court also
does not find that the sixth cause of action for negligent representation alleges with specificity facts showing “when,” “where,” and “by what means” the
representations were allegedly tendered. (Cansino v. Bank of
America, supra, 224 Cal.App.4th at p. 1469.)[3]

Based on the
foregoing, the Court sustains the demurrer to the fifth cause of action for
fraudulent inducement and the sixth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation. 
E.     Seventh Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment 
The Demurring Defendants also
assert that the seventh cause of action for fraudulent concealment fails.[4]
“The required elements for fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a
defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant
intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing
the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as
he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of
the fact.” ((Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606.)

The Demurring
Defendants cite to Lingsch v. Savage (1963) 213 Cal.App.2d 729, 735,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “Section 1710 of the Civil Code in relevant part provides: ‘A
deceit, within the meaning of the last section, is either: . . . 3. The
suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives
information of other facts which are likely to mislead for want of communication
of that fact; . . .’ In order to fasten liability under the above code sections
on the person charged with the concealment or nondisclosure of certain facts,
it is necessary to establish that he was under a legal duty to disclose them.
While such duty may arise from a fiduciary or other confidential relationship,
no such relationship obtains in the case at bench and the duty of disclosure
must therefore arise from other circumstances.” (Internal
citations omitted.) The Demurring
Defendants assert that the fraudulent concealment cause of action fails here
because Plaintiff “fails to allege that the parties were
in a fiduciary or confidential relationship.” (Demurrer at p. 7:9-10.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the fraudulent concealment
cause of action is adequately pled. Plaintiff cites to Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 613, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n transactions which do not involve fiduciary or confidential
relations, a cause of action for non-disclosure of material facts may arise in
at least three instances: (1) the defendant makes representations but does not
disclose facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, or which render
his disclosure likely to mislead; (2) the facts are known or accessible only to
defendant, and defendant knows they are not known to or reasonably discoverable
by the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals discovery from the
plaintiff.” (Internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he
rule has long been settled in this state that although one may be under no
duty to speak as to a matter, if he undertakes to do so, either voluntarily or
in response to inquiries, he is bound not only to state truly what he tells but
also not to suppress or conceal any facts within his knowledge which materially
qualify those stated. If he speaks at all he must make a full and fair
disclosure” (Ibid. [internal quotations
omitted].) 
In the fraudulent concealment cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “PEREZ also knew at the time that he was attempting to convince
[Plaintiff] to sell his practice and become an employee of Defendants that,
after the sale, Defendants planned to terminate and/or renegotiate the Optum
capitated contract that was responsible for a large percentage of [Plaintiff’s]
wages and would replace it with another contract that was far less advantageous
to [Plaintiff] but intentionally concealed this information from [Plaintiff].
Defendants, and each of them, owed a duty to [Plaintiff] to disclose the fact
that they were planning to terminate and/or renegotiate the terms of the
existing Optum capitated contract in a manner that would greatly disadvantage
him but remained silent in order to induce him to sell NVE and to become their
employee.” (FAC, ¶ 73.) Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendants, and each of
them, also owed a duty to [Plaintiff] to disclose the sums they were improperly
withholding from his wages in a timely manner. By making representations as to
his wages in the form of regular wage statements that did not include the
improper deductions that Defendants were taking, they lead [Plaintiff] to
believe that his wages were higher than Defendants now contend, thereby
effectively ‘pulling the wool’ over his eyes and delaying discovery of their
deliberate illegal pattern and practice of blatant wage theft.” (FAC, ¶ 74.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[t]hese facts were known only to Defendants who knew that they
were not known to or reasonably accessible to [Plaintiff].” (FAC, ¶ 75.) 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has adequately alleged that “defendant makes representations but does not disclose facts
which materially qualify the facts disclosed, or which render his disclosure
likely to mislead.” (Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp., supra,
6 Cal.App.4th at p. 613.) Thus, the Court overrules the demurrer to the
seventh cause of action for fraudulent concealment. 
 
 
F.     Eighth Cause of
Action for Civil Remedies Pursuant to Penal Code section
496

In the eighth cause of action[5]
for civil remedies pursuant to Penal Code section 496,
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants violated California
Penal Code section 496 by obtaining property belonging to Plaintiff by
theft and knowingly withholding the property from Plaintiff or by aiding in
obtaining in knowingly withholding said property. In particular, by
deliberately underpaying and withholding wages owed to [Plaintiff], Defendants
committed wage theft as defined under Cal. Penal Code
§487m. And, by receiving funds received by wage theft including, but not
limited to diverted funds from capitated contracts owed as wages to
[Plaintiff], and by persisting in withholding those wages even after
[Plaintiff] discovered the improper diversions, Defendants knowingly received property
in a manager [sic] constituting theft under Cal. Penal Code§ 487m and are liable for civil remedies pursuant to Cal. Penal Code §496.” (FAC, ¶ 81.) 
Penal Code section 496, subdivision (a)
provides that “[e]very person who
buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained in
any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so
stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing,
selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be
so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for
not more than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170. However, if the value of the property
does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950), the offense shall be a
misdemeanor, punishable only by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one
year, if such person has no prior convictions for an offense specified in
clause (iv) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 667 or for an offense requiring
registration pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section
290.” Penal Code section 496, subdivision
(c) provides that “[a]ny person
who has been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an
action for three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the
plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney’s fees.” 
The Demurring Defendants assert that the cause of action for civil
remedies pursuant to Penal Code section 496 fails.
They cite to Lacagnina v. Comprehend Systems, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 955, 960, where the plaintiff (“Lacagnina”) signed an employment agreement with the
company “Comprehend” by which he became director of business development. (Id. at p.
960.) Thereafter, “[i]n August 2013, without Lacagnina’s knowledge
or input—and despite the prior assurance that he would ‘obviously be involved’
in hiring ‘additional salespeople’—Comprehend extended an offer of employment
to Lee Black…as vice-president of sales.” (Id. at p. 963.) “One month later, in
October 2013, Lacagnina was directed to transition his accounts to Black,
thereby depriving Lacagnina of the ability to earn commissions on sales.” (Ibid. (internal
quotations omitted).)
“One month later, on November 20, 2013,
Lacagnina was abruptly terminated.” (Ibid.) 
The Court of Appeal rejected Lacagnina’s contention that Penal Code section 496 contains a civil remedy for, among other things, theft of
labor procured by misrepresentation or false pretense. (Id. at pp.
968-969.) The Lacagnina Court reasoned that “[s]ection 496, which bears the
heading, ‘Receiving stolen property,’ makes no reference to labor. Rather,
it is limited by its terms to the purchase or receipt of ‘any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained in
any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained ....’ But the crux of
the issue is that labor is not ‘property’ as that term is used in the Penal
Code. ‘[T]he Penal Code defines property to include ‘both real and personal
property’ and further defines personal property to include ‘money, goods,
chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt.’ The statutory definition
makes no reference to labor or other services.” (Id. at p. 969 (internal citations omitted,
emphasis in original).) 
The Demurring Defendants assert that “Lacagnina is fatal to
[Plaintiff’s] Eighth Cause of Action. Like the plaintiff in Lacagnina,
[Plaintiff] also asserts that Defendants engaged in the ‘theft’ of ‘property,’
in the form of his labor…However, as explained in Lacagnina, Penal Code § 496 does not apply to the ‘theft’ of
‘labor.’” (Demurrer at p. 10:12-16.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff cites to Siry Investment, L.P. v.
Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 339, where the California Supreme Court granted
review to address apparent conflicts in the Courts of Appeal
concerning, inter alia, “whether a trial court may award treble damages
and attorney’s fees under Penal Code section 496,
subdivision (c)…in a case involving, not trafficking of stolen goods, but
instead, fraudulent diversion of a partnership’s cash distributions.” The
California Supreme Court answered “yes” to this question. (Ibid.) 
The Siry Court found that “[f]undamentally, we agree with
the conclusions of Bell and Switzer that section
496(c) is unambiguous, and that read together with sections
496(a) and 484, and in conformity with our standard approach to
interpretation, section 496(c) must be understood
as yielding the understanding attributed to it in those decisions: A plaintiff
may recover treble damages and attorney’s fees under section
496(c) when property has been obtained in any manner constituting theft.” (Siry Investment, L.P.
v. Farkhondehpour, supra,
at page 361 [internal
citation omitted].) The Siry Court further found that “section 496(c) applies concerning the conduct at
issue in the present case. The unambiguous relevant language covers fraudulent
diversion of partnership funds. Defendants’ conduct falls within the ambit of section 496(a): They ‘receive[d]’ ‘property’ (the
diverted partnership funds) belonging to plaintiff, having ‘obtained’ the
diverted funds ‘in [a] manner constituting theft.’ Defendants also
‘conceal[ed]’ or ‘withh[e]ld[]’ those funds (and/or aided in concealing or
withholding them) from plaintiff. They did all of this ‘knowing’ the diverted
funds were ‘so … obtained.’” (Id. at p. 361 [internal citations omitted].) 
Plaintiff contends that “[h]ere, the FAC…alleges that Defendants
fraudulently diverted money from, and improperly charged its own expenses to,
the income streams that Defendants were contractually bound to pay to
Plaintiff, which exceeded the deductions permitted under the contract, just as
was held to constitute a ‘theft’ in Siry.” (Opp’n at p. 8:20-24.) But Plaintiff’s
eighth cause of action alleges, inter alia, that “by deliberately
underpaying and withholding wages owed to [Plaintiff], Defendants committed
wage theft as defined under Cal. Penal Code §487m.
And, by receiving funds received by wage theft including, but not limited to
diverted funds from capitated contracts owed as wages to [Plaintiff], and by
persisting in withholding those wages even after [Plaintiff] discovered the
improper diversions, Defendants knowingly received property in a manager [sic] constituting
theft under Cal. Penal Code § 487m and are liable
for civil remedies pursuant to Cal. Penal Code §496.”
(FAC, ¶ 81.) The Siry Court found that “[t]he present case does not
pose whether wage theft might give rise to a claim for treble damages under section 496(c). We express no view concerning
whether Lacagnina correctly
distinguished between the theft of labor or services and the theft of other
intangible property.” (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour, supra, 13 Cal.5th at p. 352, fn. 14.)  
Plaintiff also argues that “[a]fter Lacagnina, a more recently
enacted wage theft statute (P.C. §487m) expressly
provides that such an intentional underpayment of wages is ‘theft,’ which is
the predicate act for imposition of civil remedies under P.C. §496…” (Opp’n at pp. 8:27-9:4.)[6] Penal Code section 487m, subdivision (a)
provides that “[n]otwithstanding Sections 215 and 216 of the Labor Code, the
intentional theft of wages in an amount greater than nine hundred fifty dollars
($950) from any one employee, or two thousand three hundred fifty dollars
($2,350) in the aggregate from two or more employees, by an employer in any consecutive
12-month period may be punished as grand theft.” Penal
Code section 487m was “[a]dded Stats 2021 ch 325 § 1 (AB 1003), effective January 1, 2022.” (Pen.
Code, § 487m.) 
But as
discussed, the Siry Court noted that “[t]he present case does not
pose whether wage theft might give rise to a claim for treble damages under section 496(c). We express no view concerning
whether Lacagnina correctly
distinguished between the theft of labor or services and the theft of other
intangible property.” (Siry
Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour, supra,
13 Cal.5th at p. 352, fn. 14.) In addition, the Court notes that
the Lacagnina Court
found as follows: 
 
“Nor does Lacagnina’s reliance on section 484 help him.
That statute provides the following broad definition of theft: ‘Every person
who shall feloniously steal, take, carry, lead, or drive away the personal
property of another, or who shall fraudulently appropriate property which has
been entrusted to him or her, or who shall knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or personal property … is guilty of theft.’ (§ 484, subd. (a), italics added.) The italicized
language appears in a clause codifying the common law crime of theft by false
pretense, which includes defrauding another person of labor by false or
fraudulent representation…However, section
484 defines theft,
not property;
that labor may be the object of a ‘theft’ does not transform it into ‘stolen
property.’…Indeed, we find it significant
that while section 484 refers to labor, section 496 does not. The difference in language
between the two statutes, which are found in the same statutory scheme, is
further evidence that the Legislature did not intend ‘property’ as that term is
used in section 496 to include ‘labor’; otherwise,
it would not have used different terms in the two statutes.” (Lacagnina v. Comprehend Systems, Inc., supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at p. 969 [emphasis in
original].)  
In light of
the foregoing, the Court sustains the demurrer to the eighth cause of action for civil remedies pursuant to Penal Code section 496.[7]
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the Demurring
Defendants’ demurrer to the 
fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement, the sixth
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, and the eighth cause of action
for civil remedies
pursuant to Penal Code section 496, with leave to amend. The
Court overrules the demurrer to fourth cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing and the seventh cause of action for
fraudulent concealment.  
Plaintiff is
ordered to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the
date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court
orders the Demurring Defendants to file and serve their answer to the FAC
within 30 days of the date of this order. The Demurring Defendants are
ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  January 19, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


