 Case Number:  23SMCV01991    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Groundtech Inc. v.
Puryear et al., Case No. 23SMCV01991
Hearing Date
September 20, 2023 
Defendant Puryear’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint & Motion to Remove Mechanic’s Lien 
 
Plaintiff
Groundtech performed shoring and concrete subcontracting work at defendant
Puryear’s property. Groundtech alleges Puryear and general contractor RDG failed
to pay for its services. Puryear demurs and moves to remove Groundtech’s
mechanic’s lien. 
 
Breach of Contract

The breach of
contract claim does not allege a contract between Puryear and Groundtech, and
the contract does not name Puryear as a party. Complaint ¶¶14-19, Exhibit 1. The
complaint alleges RDG breached its subcontract by failing to pay Groundtech but
does not state an obligation that Puryear allegedly failed to fulfil. Complaint
¶¶17-19. The complaint fails to adequately allege a contract claim against
Puryear. Groundtech argues the claim should proceed under an implied contract
theory. As this is not explicitly alleged, it cannot be a basis for overruling
the demurrer. SUSTAINED with ten days leave to amend. 
 
Quantum Meruit 
A cause of action
for quantum meruit can only proceed when services were rendered “under some
understanding or expectation of both parties that compensation was due. Huskinson
& Brown v. Wolf (2004) 32 Cal.4th 453, 458. 
 
Puryear argues the
complaint does not allege any expectation Puryear would compensate Groundtech; the
complaint alleges Puryear paid RDG, and RDG was responsible for paying
Groundtech. Puryear argues this cause of action would expose him to potential
double liability, requiring him to pay both RDG and Groundtech for the same
work. The complaint specifically alleges the elements of quantum meruit,
stating Groundtech performed work at Puryear’s request, and Puryear promised to
pay but did not do so. Complaint at ¶21. For purposes of pleading, these
allegations are treated as true. Puryear’s “double payment” argument is a
factual claim, not a proper basis for demurrer. OVERRULED.
 
Account Stated/Open
Book Account
When a common
count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery demanded in a
specific cause of action and is based on the same facts, the common count is
demurrable if the cause of action is demurrable. McBride v. Boughton (2004)
123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394. 
 
Puryear argues these
causes of action fail because they are derivative of the quantum meruit and
breach of contract claims. The quantum meruit cause of action survives
demurrer. Since the account stated/open book account claims are based on the
same allegations, they also survive. OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Remove
Mechanic’s Lien 
To create a valid
mechanic’s lien, a subcontractor must serve a preliminary notice on the
property owner no later than 20 days after the subcontractor first furnished
labor, equipment or materials at the jobsite. Cal. Civ. Code §8204(a). A
late-filed preliminary notice limits the scope of a mechanic’s lien to work
performed within 20 days prior to the service of the untimely notice. Id. A
claimant with a direct contractual relationship with an owner is not required
to provide preliminary notice under §8204. Cal. Civ. Code §8200. 
 
Puryear argues
Groundtech never provided a 20-day notice, so its mechanic’s lien is invalid.
Groundtech argues it filed a proper preliminary notice on January 31, 2023. Both
the complaint and the Puryear declaration indicate Groundtech ceased work on
the property in October 2022, more than 20 days before notice was provided. This
untimely notice precludes Groundtech from recording a lien based on work
performed more than 20 days before service. The lien is invalid for lack of
notice. 
 
Under Cal. Civ.
Code §8200, a claimant who is party to a contract with the property owner is
not required to give preliminary notice. Groundtech has not alleged a direct
contractual relationship with Puryear. Since the court granted Groundtech leave
to amend its breach of contract cause of action, the court will stay its
determination of whether the §8200 exception applies until after Groundtech
files a first amended complaint. CONTINUED pending Puryear’s first amended
complaint.