  Case Number:  19STCV36319    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
D.E. v. Regents of
the University of California, Case No. 19STCV36319
Hearing Date September
20, 2023  
Defendant Regents’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Deposition Questions; Regents’ Motion to
Quash PMQ Deposition Notice
 
Plaintiff D.E., a
UCLA graduate student, alleges defendant Regents discriminated against her
based on her disabilities, which include ADHD and migraines, by failing to
provide reasonable accommodations. Defendant D.E. alleged she saw a physician
for anxiety and other symptoms caused by the Regents’ discrimination. The Regents
allege that during her deposition D.E. refused to identify the physician she
saw for her anxiety and mental/emotional distress and refused to answer about whether
she had treatment for these symptoms before attending UCLA. The Regents move to
compel answers to those deposition questions. 
 
A  patient has the constitutional and statutory
right to refuse to disclose communications with a psychotherapist. Cal. Evid.
Code §1014. A party claiming mental and emotional distress damages places their
emotional state in controversy, making it subject to discovery. Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839. A plaintiff does not  ipso facto put their mental condition
at issue by seeking damages for pain and suffering in a personal injury action.
Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1016. 
 
D.E.’s first
amended complaint alleges “severe emotional distress,” “anguish, pain,
humiliation, indignity,” includes a cause of action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress, and seeks damages for “physical, mental, and emotional
distress.” ¶¶39, 113, 126, 139, 147 and 171. 
 
Regents cite Vinson,
arguing that, via these allegations, D.E. put her mental and
emotional state at issue. D.E. cites Davis, arguing she did not waive her
§1014 privilege merely by seeking damages for pain and suffering. Davis is
distinguishable; there the court rejected defendant’s argument that plaintiff
put their mental state at issue merely by filing a personal injury claim
seeking general damages related to pain and suffering. D.E., unlike plaintiff Davis,
seeks specific damages for “emotional distress,” and “humiliation.” 
 
Davis acknowledged that
when plaintiff’s pleading clearly places a mental condition at issue, the §1014
psychotherapist/patient privilege is waived. Davis, supra, 7 Cal.
App.4th at 1017. This aligns with Vinson. D.E. explicitly seeks damages
for mental and emotional harm. Under both Davis and Vinson, she
has put her mental condition at issue and waived her §1014 privilege. GRANTED. 
 
Regents’ Motion to
Quash PMQ Deposition Subpoena 
The Regents move
to quash 43 categories of requests from D.E.’s PMQ notice on the grounds that
they seek information related to how the University’s policies affect students
other than D.E. The Regents argue these requests are only relevant to a
hypothetical disparate impact claim, which is not pleaded in D.E.’s first
amended complaint. 
 
Disparate
treatment and disparate impact claims are different theories of liability which
must be specifically alleged. Rosenfeld v. Abraham Joshua Heschel Day
School, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 886, 889. 
 
D.E. does not
allege disparate impact; the FAC alleges disparate treatment, claiming D.E. was
harmed by the Regents’ intentional discrimination, retaliation and failure to
provide accommodations. FAC ¶110, 120-125, 131-137, 143-146. No portion of the
FAC alleges a facially neutral policy that disproportionately impacts disabled
individuals. Therefore, discovery will not be permitted to the extent that it
is only relevant to a disparate impact claim.
 
In opposition,
D.E. argues evidence of disparate impact may be probative of her disparate
treatment claim. The court agrees. Although disparate impact is not pleaded in
the FAC, California courts acknowledged evidence of disparate impact “may be
probative of intentional discrimination[.]” Koebke v. Bernardo Heights
Country Club (2005) 36 Cal.4th 824, 854. 
 
D.E. seeks
evidence related to the impact of the Regents’ policies on other disabled
students, which could bolster D.E.’s claim that she was also injured by the
same policies. Given the wide scope of permitted discovery, D.E. may seek
evidence related to disparate impact. Such evidence will only be admissible to
the extent it may support D.E.’s disparate treatment claim, not to support an
unpleaded claim for disparate impact. DENIED. 