 Case Number:  20SMCV01557    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Mardirossian v.
Howarth, Case No. 20SMCV01557
Hearing Date
September 20, 2023 
Plaintiff
Mardirossian’s Motions to Quash Deposition Subpoenas 
 
Mardirossian sued
his neighbor Howarth, alleging leaves and debris falling from Howarth’s trees
constitute a fire hazard and a nuisance. Howarth cross-complained, alleging
Mardirossian’s tennis court violates their properties’ 10-foot setback requirement
and constitutes a noise nuisance and that Mardirossian’s chain link fence
trespasses onto his property. Mardirossian moves to quash deposition subpoenas for
production of business records from his law firm, Mardirossian Akagarian (MA). 
 
Hartunian/Festa
Subpoenas for Business Records 
Howarth served
subpoenas on Rich Festa, a State Farm employee, and Avo Harutunian, Farmers
Insurance employee, seeking documents and communications related to fire
insurance for Mardirossian’s properties. 
 
Mardirossian
argues these subpoenas seek irrelevant information, since fire insurance is not
at issue. Although Mardirossian’s nuisance cause of action is based in part on
the claim that Howarth’s tree creates a fire risk, his fire insurance is
irrelevant to whether the tree constitutes a nuisance. Since the requests are
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, the
subpoenas are quashed. GRANTED.
 
Mardirossian
Akaragian LLP Subpoena for Business Records
Depositions of
opposing counsel are presumptively improper and will not be permitted without a
showing of extremely good cause. Carehouse v. Superior Court (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1558, 1562. 
 
Howarth’s subpoena
seeks: 
1.     
Communications
between Howarth and MA 
2.     
Documents
related to litigation between Mardirossian and the prior owner of 1545 Lachman Lane
3.     
Communications
between MA and Mardirossian relating to an October 2020 email from Mardirossian
to Howarth
4.     
Records
related to due diligence performed prior to the purchase of the Mardirossian
property
5.     
Communications
between MA and people outside the firm related to the Howarth property
6.     
Documents
related to title insurance for the Mardirossian Property
7.     
Communications
between MA and Farmers Insurance employee Avo Harutunian relating to fire
insurance for the Mardirossian Properties
8.     
Communications
between MA and State Farm employee Rich Festa related to fire insurance at the
Mardirossian Properties
9.     
Communications
between MA and any broker or insurance company related to fire insurance at the
Mardirossian Properties
 
The deposition
subpoena does not seek testimony from opposing counsel, but production of
documents in counsel’s possession. The “heightened standard” for attorney
depositions does not apply. Request No. 3 seeks communications between
Mardirossian and his counsel, MA. This is an attempt to obtain information
protected by attorney-client privilege. None of the other clearly falls within
the protection of the A-C privilege, since they seek communications between MA
firm and third parties. 
 
Request No. 4
seeks some relevant information, as the documents may show whether Mardirossian
was aware of the improper construction alleged in the cross-complaint when he
acquired the property as part of a lawsuit settlement with its prior owner. As
phrased, the request is overbroad, as it seeks “all communications between YOU
and any person,” including attorney-client privileged documents. Additionally,
it seeks all “pleadings, court filings, deposition transcripts, and settlement
agreements[.]” It would be unreasonable to require Mardirossian to produce
every document produced during the prior litigation, since most will be
irrelevant to the matters at issue here. The request must be narrowed to
require production of non-privileged documents relevant to the question of
whether improper construction existed at the property when Mardirossian
acquired it. 
 
Requests six
through nine seek fire insurance information, they are quashed as irrelevant
for the reasons stated above.  
 
MA must comply
with requests 1, 2 and 5 since the requests seek information relevant to the
remaining claims in this action. If some responsive material is covered by A-C or
work product privilege, MA must produce a privilege log.  
 
No sanctions will
be awarded, since there is no evidence that either the document requests or the
motions to quash were made in bad faith. GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.