  Case Number:  23STCV17471    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 16, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Ahnal Criego Brown v. Nationstar
Mortgage LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV17471            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Ahnal Criego Brown
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant
Nationstar Mortgage, LLC
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a wrongful foreclosure action that was filed on July 25, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants foreclosed on Plaintiff’s home without reviewing
her loss mitigation applications or contacting her before recording the Notice
of Default.  
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is DENIED. This ruling is
without prejudice to a procedurally proper motion for leave to file an amended
or supplemental complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint. 
 
Procedural Posture of Motion
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion seeks to amend the Complaint to add numerous allegations concerning
events which post-date the filing of the original Complaint. As Defendant
argues in opposition, although the motion is noticed as a motion for leave to amend
the Complaint under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, allegations concerning
conduct past the date of the original pleading are more properly brought in a supplemental
Complaint under Code of Civil Procedure section 464. This section provides, in
relevant part, that “the plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed,
on motion, to make a supplemental complaint or answer, alleging facts material
to the case occurring after the former complaint or answer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
464(a).) A motion to file a supplemental pleading under section 464 is subject
to the “sound legal discretion” of the Court, much like a motion to amend a
pleading. (Flood v. Simpson (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 644, 647.) A supplemental
pleading cannot, however, allege “new” causes of action or defenses. The
purpose of supplementing a complaint is not to seek a new cause of action, but
to address later instances of the same conduct. (Jaffa v. Guttman (1959)
175 Cal.App.2d 790, 798.) 
 
            Here, the
First Amended/Supplemental Complaint seeks to add only factual allegations
concerning Defendant’s failure to consider a further loss mitigation application,
asserting only the same four causes of action brought in the initial Complaint.
Were this the only defect, the Court would find Plaintiff’s
failure to identify section 464 rather than section 473 in her motion as
harmless error, as the statutes impose identical standards in this context. However,
as discussed below, Plaintiff’s motion contains numerous other procedural
deficiencies that warrant denial of the motion.
 
Legal Standard For Supplemental Complaint
 
            As with a
motion to amend a pleading, a motion to supplement a pleading must comply with
California Rule of Court 3.1324(b). (Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ.
Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2021) § 6:812, p. 6-E.)
 
(a)
Contents of motion
 
A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
(1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)
State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and
 
(3)
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located.
 
(b)
Supporting declaration
 
A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1)
The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)
Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
 
(3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
(Cal. Rule of Court 3.1324.)
 
Contents of Motion
 
            Plaintiff
has included, with her motion, a copy of the proposed First
Amended/Supplemental Complaint, as required by Rule 3.1324(a)(1). Plaintiff
does not, however, expressly identify the proposed amendments or supplemental
allegations by page, paragraph, and line number, as required by subdivisions
(a)(2) and (a)(3).) Plaintiff has therefore failed to comply with Rule
3.1324(a). 
 
Supporting Declaration
 
            The
Declaration of Safora Nowrouzi, counsel for Plaintiff, does not describe the
effect of the proposed amendments except to state that they are intended to
include allegations that occurred after the filing of the original Complaint
and relate them to the ongoing wrongs that form the basis of Plaintiff’s causes
of action. (Declaration of Safora Nowrouzi ISO Mot. ¶ 19.) While this
statement, broadly speaking, provides some indication of why the amendments are
necessary and proper under subdivision (b)(2), it does not describe their full
effect under subdivision (b)(1). Moreover, since Plaintiff’s papers do not
expressly identify which allegations are being added, Attorney Nowrouzi’s
explanation of the procedural history of this case after the Complaint was
filed (Nowrouzi Decl. ¶¶ 7-17) does not permit the Court to determine when the
facts giving rise to the new allegations were discovered, or why amendment was
not sought sooner, as required under subdivisions (b)(3) and (b)(4). The Court
therefore finds that Plaintiff has also failed to comply with Rule 3.1324(b). 
 
            Considering
the numerous procedural defects in the motion, the Court is not inclined to
grant leave to amend at this juncture. That said, the Court notes that
Defendant also opposed this motion on the grounds that the First
Amended/Supplemental Complaint is substantively defective. Had Plaintiff filed
a procedurally proper motion, the Court would not be inclined to consider these
arguments as a valid basis to deny leave to amend. Instead, the Court considers
challenges to the merits of a pleading to be more properly brought as a
separately noticed motion or demurrer. 
 
//
 
//
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is DENIED. This
ruling is without prejudice to a procedurally proper motion for leave to file
an amended or supplemental complaint. 
 
            Moving
Party is ordered to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 16, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 