 Case Number:  20STCV02958    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DAVID GREGORY CROFTS, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  RONALDO BELK, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV02958  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO AUGMENT EXPERT DESIGNATION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  September 27, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, David Gregory Crofts (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants, Ronaldo Belk and Secure Sheet Metal (“Defendants”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle accident.   On July 31, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion to augment their expert designation to replace expert Griff Stelzner (“Stelzner”) with Jacqueline Nash Bloink (“Bloink”) as Defendants’ medical billing and coding expert, because Stelzner retired in May 2023. Trial is currently set for October 12, 2023. Defendants served a demand for designation of expert witnesses for an exchange date of October 19, 2022. On October 19, 2022, Defendants served their designation of expert witnesses, which included Stelzner as Defendants’ medical billing and coding expert. Plaintiff also served his designation of expert witnesses. In May 2023, defense counsel avers Stelzner had retired, which was unknown to Defendants at the time of retainment in October 2022. Defense counsel attempted to obtain a stipulation with Plaintiff to amend the expert designation, but Plaintiff did not agree to stipulate, thereby necessitating the motion.  As of September 14, 2023, no opposition has been filed.    II. Motion to Augment Expert Witness List  On motion of any party who has engaged in a timely exchange of expert witness information, the court may grant leave to (1) augment that party’s expert witness list and declaration by adding the name and address of any expert witness whom that party has subsequently retained; and/or (2) amend that party’s expert witness declaration with respect to the general substance of the testimony that an expert previously designated is expected to give.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.610, subd. (a).)  This motion shall be made a sufficient time in advance to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken before the discovery cut-off, unless exceptional circumstances exist.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.610, subd. (b).)  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.610, subd. (c).)   The court shall grant leave to augment or amend an expert witness list only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:    The court has taken into account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.  The court has determined that any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.  The court has determined either of the following:  The moving party would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined to call that expert witness or have decided to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness.  The moving party failed to determine to call that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party has done both of the following:  Sought leave to augment or amend promptly after deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the different or additional testimony.  Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.  (d) Leave to augment or amend is conditioned on the moving party making the expert available immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2034.620.) The motion must be made at a time that will allow the new expert to be deposed before the cutoff for expert discovery, but the court may for good cause allow augmentation sooner to the trial date.  (CCP § 2034.610(b).)  Before the court may grant a party leave to augment the party's expert disclosure, several conditions must be satisfied. (See CCP § 2034.620.) Defendants contend they did not expect that the trial date would need to be moved multiple times due to discovery issues and motions, nor that Stelzner would be retiring before the matter could be tried. Defendants aver they promptly advised Plaintiff’s counsel of the need to replace Stelzner with Bloink, and that there is no prejudice to Plaintiff because no expert depositions have yet to be taken. At the time the motion was filed, the trial date was three months away and there existed adequate time for Plaintiff to take Bloink’s deposition. Defendants also aver they will make Bloink available for deposition. Defense counsel declares they met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel in good faith prior to bringing the motion, but an agreement could not be reached.  Although the current trial date is two weeks away, the instant motion was filed before discovery and motion cut-off dates expired, and Defendants’ original designation of experts was timely. It appears that Defendants suffered from mistake, inadvertence, and surprise in naming Stelzner as their billing and coding expert because Defendants did not realize Stelzner would retire prior to trial. Defendants seek to replace Stelzner with Bloink as Defendants’ billing and coding expert. It is unknown if any expert witness depositions have been taken since the filing of the motion, but since Plaintiff did not oppose the motion, there appears to be no identifiable prejudice. Defendants served Plaintiff with the amended designation of expert witnesses on July 21, 2023. Furthermore, the Court notes that there is a motion to continue trial set to be heard on October 11, 2023, and a motion to compel a second medical examination set for October 27, 2023.    Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED.    Defendants are ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 26th day of September, 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   