 Case Number:  22STCV08988    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ANTHONY OSEGUEDA, Plaintiff(s), vs.  S & J POMONA, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 22STCV08988  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. September 27, 2023   Plaintiff Anthony Osegueda (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, Jonathon Farahi of Law Offices of Jonathon Farahi, APC (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. Counsel contends there is a breakdown in communication with Plaintiff, and Counsel has made many attempts to contact Plaintiff.  Counsel provides he has served the moving papers on Plaintiff at Plaintiff’s last known address, but that he has been unable to confirm the address after mailing the motion papers to the last known address, calling Plaintiff’s last known number, contacting Plaintiff’s emergency contact on file, conducting a comprehensive search for Plaintiff’s current address, and sending numerous emails to Plaintiff. The moving papers served by certified mail was not signed, causing the delivery to be returned.  The Court is unable to grant Counsel’s request for relief because there is no proof of service of the motion, declaration, and proposed order pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d). Counsel must serve Plaintiff and all other parties who have appeared in this case.   Furthermore, since Counsel is unable to serve Plaintiff at a confirmed address, Counsel must serve the moving papers on the Clerk of the Court- located at Stanley Mosk Courthouse- pursuant to CCP §1011 and California Rules Court, rule 3.1362(d), in addition to Plaintiff and all other parties who have appeared in this action.   Therefore, the motion is denied without prejudice.  Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 26th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    