

 
             Plaintiffs Hyon and Jinny Yi (Plaintiffs) sued
defendants The 400 Condominium Owners’ Association
(“the HOA”), Desiree Golembiewski (“Golembiewski”), HOA Management
Professionals, Inc., and Does 1-100 on January 10, 2024, asserting causes of
action for (1) breach of covenants, conditions, and
restrictions, (2) intentional interference with contractual relationship, (3)
declaratory relief, (4) breach of fiduciary duties, (5) violation of the
Davis-Stirling Act, and (6) negligence.

 
In 1995,
Plaintiffs, a husband and wife, bought the property located at 400 S. Lafayette
Park Place, Unit 109, Los Angeles 90057 (“the Unit”). The Unit is one of
approximately fifty condominiums located in the same development (“the
Property”), which is managed by the HOA. All units on the Property are bound by
the same Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictiosn (CC&Rs). The HOA is
administered according to written bylaws. Defendant Golembiewski was, at
relevant times, the HOA’s Board President. 
 
Around
February 2021, Plaintiffs sought to rent out the Unit. Golembiewski recommended
they rent to friends of hers, a Michelle Alvarez and Salvadore Zelaya (“the
Tenants”). Plaintiffs took Golembiewski’s advice and rented to them.  About fourteen months after the Tenants
executed their lease, Plaintiffs began receiving complaints about them from the
HOA. One of the Tenants informed Plaintiffs they had personally fallen out with
Golembiewski. The HOA began imposing increasing fines on Plaintiffs for their Tenants’
purported nuisance behavior. Eventually, the Board passed a resolution to fine
Plaintiffs daily until the Tenants were evicted. Plaintiffs conferred with the
Tenants, who agreed to vacate voluntarily and did so in October 2022.
Throughout this dispute, Plaintiffs allege the HOA did not hold meetings or
impose fines according to its bylaws. 
 
Plaintiffs
decided to sell their Unit because they expected the HOA, led by Golembiewski,
would conduct themselves similarly toward other tenants. They hired a real
estate agent in September 2023. Golembiewski then approached the real estate
agent and, Plaintiffs allege, falsely told the agent that Plaintiffs owe
$20,000.00 in fees that will be deducted from escrow during the Unit’s sale.
The HOA has since provided a breakdown of the fees, several of which were
allegedly fabricated (e.g., $8,500.00 for “evicting nuisance tenant” who left
voluntarily; $4,500.00 in construction work never performed). Plaintiffs
attempted to engage the HOA in informal dispute resolution procedures. Plaintiffs
allege that the HOA failed to cooperate, so they sued. 
 
On June 4,
2024, Golembiewski and the HOA jointly demurred to the complaint and moved to
strike certain portions from it. The HOA challenges only the second cause of
action against it; Golembiewski challenges all of them. On June 27, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed their opposition. Neither the HOA nor Golembiewski replied.
 
            The
Court overruled the HOA’s demurrer to the second cause of action and sustained
Defendant Golembiewski’s demurrer to all causes of action. 
 
The First Amended Complaint (FAC) contains
causes of action for (1) breach of
covenants, conditions, and restrictions, (2) intentional interference with
contractual relationship, (3) declaratory relief, (4) breach of fiduciary
duties, (5) violation of the Davis-Stirling Act, and (6) negligence.  Only the second, fourth, and sixth causes of
action are pleaded against Golembiewski.
 
            Defendant
Golembiewski (Defendant) now demurs to all of the causes of actin
alleged against her. Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer. A reply was filed. 
 
            The demurrer is overruled in part
and sustained in part. 
 
            Defendant’s request for judicial
notice of Exhibit A is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a);
see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading by raising questions
of law. (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280,
286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .”
’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In
applying these standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v.
Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Discussion
 
            As noted, although
Defendant Golembiewski demurs to the entire FAC, only the second, fourth and
sixth causes of action are specifically alleged against her. As such, these three
causes of action are the only claims to which Defendant Golembiewski has
standing to challenge by way of demurrer. 
 
Claims
against Defendant Golembiewski as an individual
 
            Defendant first challenges each cause of action on the
grounds that the claims were improperly alleged against her in her “individual capacity.”
Without citing any legal authority, Defendant argues that the claims fail
because the FAC alleges that Golembiewski was “at all times” acting as a member
of the Board of Directors of the Association. (FAC ¶ 14.) 
 
            It is well established that “[d]irectors and officers are not personally liable on
contracts signed by them for and on behalf of the corporation unless they
purport to bind themselves individually.” (United States Liab. Ins. Co. v.
Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 595.) However, as noted in the Court’s
prior ruling on the demurrer, a corporate officer remains liable for their own
tortious acts. (PMC, Inc. v. Kadisha (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1368, 1379 [“Corporate
director or officer status neither immunizes a person from personal liability
for tortious conduct nor subjects him or her to vicarious liability for such
acts.”] see also id. at 1380 [“A corporate director or officer's
participation in tortious conduct may be shown not solely by direct action but
also by knowing consent to or approval of unlawful acts.].)
 
            Thus, the demurrer on this ground –
without consideration to specific causes of action – is overruled. 
 
Second Cause of Action for
Interference with Contractual Relations 
 
            The
elements of intentional interference are (1) a valid contract between the
plaintiff and a third party, (2) defendant’s knowledge, (3) intentional acts
designed to induce breach or disruption, (4) breach or disruption, and (5)
damage. (Seaman’s Direct Buying Service, Inc. v. Standard Oil Co. (1984)
36 Cal.3d 752, 765-766.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege they had a
valid lease with their Tenants and Defendant Golembiewski knew about it. (FAC ¶
132.) Importantly, the FAC now alleges that Defendant Golembiewski,
specifically, engaged in intentional acts that were designed to disrupt that contractual
relationship, including, among other things, directing a security camera at the
Tenant’s front door to harass them, calling a board meeting without notice to declare
the Tenants a nuisance, and imposing fines without following the proper
procedure. (FAC ¶ 134.) The FAC alleged that these actions were undertaken to
disrupt Plaintiffs’ contract with its Tenants, depriving Plaintiffs of rental
income. (FAC ¶¶ 140-141.) Plaintiffs have pled all the requisite elements of
intentional interference with respect to Defendant Golembiewski. 
            
The demurrer to the second cause of
action is overruled. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
 
“The
elements of a claim for breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by
that breach.” (Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
1395, 1405.)
 
The
directors of a homeowners association are fiduciaries who must act for the
benefit of the association and its members. (Coley v. Eskaton (2020) 51
Cal.App.5th 943, 958; Ostayan v. Nordhoff Townhomes Homeowners Assn., Inc.
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 120, 126-127; Raven's Cove Townhomes, Inc. v. Knuppe
Development Co. (1981) 114 Cal.App.3d 783, 799 [homeowners association
directors and officers are fiduciaries of the homeowner members, including duty
to “ ‘exercise their powers in good faith, and with a view to the interests of
the corporation’ ”].)
 
The business
judgment rule “refers to a judicial policy of deference to the business
judgment of corporate directors in the exercise of their broad discretion in
making corporate decisions. The business judgment rule is premised on the
notion that those to whom the management of the corporation has been entrusted,
and not the courts, are best able to judge whether a particular act or
transaction is one which is ‘ “... helpful to the conduct of corporate affairs
or expedient for the attainment of corporate purposes ...,” ‘ and establishes a
presumption that directors' decisions are based on sound business judgment.
[Citation.] Under this rule, a director is not liable for a mistake in business
judgment which is made in good faith and in what he or she believes to be the
best interests of the corporation, where no conflict of interest exists.” (Gaillard
v. Natomas Co. (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 1250, 1263.)


The common
law business judgment rule (1) immunizes corporate directors from personal
liability if they act in accordance with the requirements of the rule, and (2)
“ ‘insulates from court intervention those management decisions which are made
by directors in good faith in what the directors believe is the organization's
best interest.’ “ (Lamden v. La Jolla Shores Clubdominium Homeowners Assn.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 249, 257.) Corporations Code section 7231 defines the rule
relating to the personal liability of directors of nonprofit corporations. (Lamden,
supra, 21 Cal.4th at p. 257.)
 
The business
judgment rule applies to a homeowners’ association, such as HOA, which is
incorporated as a nonprofit mutual benefit corporation. (Finley v. Superior
Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1161.) Further, the business judgment rule applies to
parties to whom a director owes a fiduciary obligation. (Lamden v. La Jolla
Shores Clubdominium Homeowners Assn., supra, 21 Cal.4th at pp.
266-267.) 


Although
subject to exceptions, the determination whether a breach of fiduciary duty
occurs under a particular set of facts is “ ‘mainly for the trier of facts.’ ”
(Mueller v. MacBan (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 258, 276; see Marzec v.
Public Employees’ Retirement System (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 889, 915 [“ ‘Whether
a fiduciary duty exists is generally a question of law. [Citation.] Whether the
defendant breached that duty towards the plaintiff is a question of fact.
[Citation.]’ ”]; Harvey v. The Landing Homeowners Assn. (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 809, 822, 76 Cal.Rptr.3d 41 [“Breach of duty is usually a fact
issue for the jury. [Citation.] Breach may be resolved as a matter of law,
however, if the circumstances do not permit a reasonable doubt as to whether
the defendant's conduct violates the degree of care exacted of him or her.”].)

            Here, the FAC alleges that
Defendant Golembiewski imposed fines on Plaintiffs based on a personal dispute
with Plaintiffs’ Tenants and also took actions intended to harass Plaintiffs’
Tenant and damage Plaintiffs’ contractual relationship with the Tenants. The
FAC also alleges that Defendant Golembiewski engaged in self-dealing by paying
herself HOA funds to “perform
maintenance and janitorial services.” (FAC ¶¶ 34-80, 158-161.)

            At the demurrer stage, the
allegations are sufficient to state a claim for breach of fiduciary duty owed
to Plaintiffs by Defendant Golembiewski.
 
            Defendant also notes that Plaintiffs
are seeking an order compelling Defendant HOA to rescind the fines and other
charges improperly imposed against Plaintiffs – suggesting that only the claim
against the HOA can provide relief for Plaintiffs’ injuries. However, the cause
of action also seeks “general damages.” (Prayer, ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is overruled. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Negligence
 
“The
elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate
cause, and damages.” (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25
Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Corporations
Code section 7231 establishes “ ‘a presumption that directors' decisions are
based on sound business judgment[, which] can be rebutted only by a factual
showing of fraud, bad faith or gross overreaching.’ ” (Ritter & Ritter,
Inc. Pension & Profit Plan v. The Churchill Condominium Assn. (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 103, 123.) “[W]hile a condominium association may be liable for
its negligence, a greater degree of fault is necessary
to hold unpaid individual condominium board members liable for their actions on
behalf of condominium associations.” (Id. at p. 121.) A plaintiff
must present “ ‘affirmative allegations of fact which, if proven would
establish fraud, bad faith, overreaching or an
unreasonable failure to investigate material facts.’ ” (Berg & Berg
Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1046.) Conclusory
allegations of improper motives are not sufficient, nor is it enough to
generally allege a failure to conduct an investigation. (Id. at p.
1045.)
 
The negligence
cause of action contends that Defendant Golembiewski owed a duty of care to Plaintiffs to act in a
fair, reasonable, and even-handed manner as the President of the Board;
Defendant allegedly breached this duty by charging Plaintiffs for legal fees
which she had personally incurred, or which had not personally incurred, but
which had not been incurred by the HOA. (FAC ¶¶ 85, 177-178.)
 
Defendant argues that the claim
fails because the claim arises from a dispute by the HOA to pay Defendant Golembiewski’s legal fees and thus,
Plaintiffs lack standing to challenge this claim on the HOA’s behalf. Defendant
misunderstands the nature of the claim. The liability arises from Defendant Golembiewski’s negligence in
charging Plaintiffs for legal fees she personally incurred or did not
incur at all. Nonetheless, given the greater pleading requirement for
negligence “necessary to hold unpaid individual condominium board members liable for
their actions on behalf of condominium associations” the allegations are
insufficient to demonstrate a breach of the duty of care. That is, the
allegations do not show fraud, bad faith, or overreaching in the imposition of
these fees.   


            The
demurrer to the negligence cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is overruled
as to the second and fourth causes of action, and is sustained as to
the sixth cause of action against Defendant Golembiewski. Plaintiffs
shall have leave to amend. An amended complaint shall be filed and served by
December 6, 2024.
 
 
 