 Case Number:  23SMCV05914    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05914




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
  Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant C Seed, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff D Art Furnishings LLC



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises from a dispute concerning the purchase of a large,
outdoor television, that is allegedly defective.  
 
Plaintiff D Art Furnishings LLC’s (“Plaintiff”) operative First
Amended Complaint alleges ten causes of action against Defendants C Seed Inc.
(“C Seed”) and Porche Design (“Porche”) (together, “Defendants”) for (1) breach
of written contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing; (3) breach of express warranty – Song Beverly Act – Damages; (4)
breach of implied warranty – Song Beverly Act – Rescission; (5) fraudulent
misrepresentation; (6) negligent misrepresentation; (7) unjust enrichment/restitution;
(8) violations of Civil Code section 895 et seq.; (9) violation of Bus.
& Prof. Code section 7031(B)/Disgorgement; and (10) violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code section 17200.  
 
C Seed now demurs to the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,
eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action on the grounds that they fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e). 

 
C Seed also moves to strike various factual allegations “as either
impertinent, conclusory and/or not supported by facts, seeks remedies not
available in causes of action it pled, or fails to adequately allege
entitlement to punitive damages.”
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions and C Seed replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
               
I.         
DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
1.     Second Cause of Action – Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
“Implied in every contract is
a covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The implied covenant prevents one
side from unfairly frustrating the other's right to receive the benefits of the
agreement actually made. The covenant does not impose substantive terms beyond
those of the contract. A plaintiff claiming breach must allege the defendant's
wrongful conduct was contrary to the contract's purpose and the parties’
legitimate expectations.”  (Cordoba
Corp. v. City of Industry (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 145, 156.)
 
However, tort recovery for a
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is generally only
available in cases involving an insurance contract, where an independent duty
arises from principles of tort law, or where there has been a bad faith denial
of the existence of or liability under the breached contract.  (Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil
Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85, 102.) 
Otherwise, “a breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach
of the contract” although “breach of a specific provision of the contract is
not ... necessary” to a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing[.]” ( Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.)
 
C Seed points out that this is
not an insurance contract, and therefore tort liability for the breach of the
implied covenant is not available. 
Further C Seed contends that the second cause of action is duplicative
of the breach of contract cause of action, and is therefore superfluous.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that “Defendant’s breach of implied covenant includes their conscious
and deliberate acts of refusing to cure the malfunctioning television” which is
“separate from the express terms of the Contract and thus is not superfluous.”  
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached the contract by failing to
supply a television with the attributes and functionality promised (FAC ¶¶
34-39), and that Defendants breached the express warranty by failing to cure
the deficiencies or replace the television. 
(FAC ¶¶ 49-60.)
 
Thus, “refusing to cure the malfunctioning television” is just the
alleged breach of contract and of the express warranty; as such, the breach of
the implied covenant is not separate from the express terms of the contract and
warranty.
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause
of action.
 
2.                 Third
Cause of Action – Breach of Express Warranty
 
“The essential elements of a
cause of action under the California Uniform Commercial Code for breach of an
express warranty to repair defects are (1) an express warranty (Com. Code, §
2313) to repair defects given in connection with the sale of goods; (2) the
existence of a defect covered by the warranty; (3) the buyer's notice to the
seller of such a defect within a reasonable time after its discovery (id., §
2607, subd. (3)(A)); (4) the seller's failure to repair the defect in
compliance with the warranty; and (5) resulting damages[.]”  (Orichian v. BMW of North America, LLC
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1333–1334.) 
Here, the FAC alleges:
 
12. On or around May 30, 2019, C SEED and
Plaintiff entered into a written Agreement (the “Contract”), in which C SEED
would order, ship install and construct the C SEED 201 HL Outdoor LED TV with
horizontal hydraulic lifting system (the “TV”) onto the Property for the Owner
of the Property. The Contract is executed by Plaintiff and C SEED. A true and
correct copy of the Contract is attached hereto as Exhibit B and is fully
incorporated herein by this reference.
 
13. In the Contract, the express warranty
period is outlined as being two (2) years long
 
[…]
 
16. In or around February 2021, the TV was
installed by C SEED.
 
[…]
 
19. In fact, the below is a true and
accurate list of defects involving the TV at the Property: 
 
a. At times, the TV will not go down fully
 
b. At times, the C SEED remote does not
operate. 
 
c. At times, the TV would not open and
rotate. 
 
d. At times, the TV audio would not work. 
 
e. The sensor needs to be replaced. 
 
f. C SEED admitted they failed to make
updates to their software. 
 
g. The Power supply was defective and
needed to be replaced. It won’t allow the right side of the TV to fold and
close. 
 
h. At times, when trying to bring the TV
down, the TV suddenly stopped moving and was stuck at a 45 degree angle. C SEED
admits the mms froze and wasn’t able to convert any commands. 
 
i. At times, the TV failed to open - the
lid got stuck at the open position. 
 
j. At times, the TV does not have video. 
 
k. At times, the TV will not rotate left
or right.
 
                        […]
 
21. In an attempt to resolve the issues outlined
herein, Owner communicated the above issues regarding the TV after the TV was
initially attempted to be installed up to the present. Moreover, due to such
deficiencies with the TV, the Owner has allowed C SEED to visit the Property
multiple times and has allowed unlimited access to the TV to make repairs;
unfortunately, C SEED has not been able to resolve the deficiencies and defects
to this day. Accordingly, the delivery of the product and the installation was
never completed to this day. 
 
22. Additionally, due to the failure to complete
the repairs by C SEED, Owner, on or around December 9, 2021, sent a
comprehensive notice containing a detailed timeline outlining all the issues
encountered and the subsequent attempts made to remedy them. Accordingly, in
the alternative, the December 9th notice served as proper written notice under
Cal. Civ. Code § 1795.6 which tolls the warranty period. A true and correct
copy of the email dated December 9, 2021, is attached hereto as Exhibit C and
is fully incorporated herein by reference. 
 
23. In fact, Owner and its representatives had
sent notices to C SEED prior to December 9, 2021 and the December 9, 2021,
notice contains a comprehensive list of all the deficiencies, with dates,
experienced by the Owner with its operation of the TV that C SEED was
previously notified of. In fact, on or around June 4, 2021, PLUS Development,
the project manager at the time, had notified C SEED indicating that the TV’s
sensors to open and close the TV and audio were not working.
 
[…]
 
30. Moreover, the deficiencies in the TV were not
readily apparent at the time of purchase and only manifested over an extended
period, constituting a concealed defect
 
[…]
 
50. The only express warranty provided by C SEED
to Plaintiff is as follows: “Warranty; 2 Years”. 
 
51. C SEED failed to include the statutory and
mandatory express warranty language as outlined in Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.02(a)
which is as follows: “all new and used assistive devices sold at retail in this
state shall be accompanied by the retail seller's written warranty which shall
contain the following language: “This assistive device is warranted to be
specifically fit for the particular needs of you, the buyer. If the device is
not specifically fit for your particular needs, it may be returned to the seller
within 30 days of the date of actual receipt by you or completion of fitting by
the seller, whichever occurs later. If you return the device, the seller will
either adjust or replace the device or promptly refund the total amount paid.
This warranty does not affect the protections and remedies you have under other
laws.” In lieu of the words “30 days” the retail seller may specify any longer
period.” (emphasis added). 
 
52. More importantly, the express warranty
period, as provided by C SEED, is tolled; “(a)(1) Except as provided in
paragraph (2) warranty1 period relating to an implied or express warranty
accompanying a sale or consignment for sale of consumer goods selling for fifty
dollars ($50) or more shall automatically be tolled for the period from the
date upon which the buyer either (1) delivers nonconforming goods to the
manufacturer or seller for warranty repairs or service or (2), pursuant to
subdivision (c) of Section 1793.2 or Section 1793.22, notifies the manufacturer
or seller of the nonconformity of the goods up to, and including, the date upon
which (1) the repaired or serviced goods are delivered to the buyer, (2) the
buyer is notified the goods are repaired or serviced and are available for the
buyer's possession or (3) the buyer is notified that repairs or service is
completed, if repairs or service is made at the buyer's residence. Cal. Civ.
Code § 1795.6 (a)(1).As indicated above, there was a sale of goods,
specifically a new and “revolutionary” product, in which Defendant C SEED was
the seller of the TV to Plaintiff and Plaintiff was the buyer of the TV. 
 
53. Moreover, because this was a sale of goods,
California Code, Commercial Code Section 2313 states the following: “(1)
Express warranties by the seller are created as follows: (b) Any description of
the goods which is made part of the basis of the bargain creates an express
warranty that the goods shall conform to the description.” Additionally,
California Code, Commercial Code Section 2313 continues to state that “(2) It
is not necessary to the creation of an express warranty that the seller use
formal words such as “warrant” or “guarantee” or that he have a specific
intention to make a warranty, but an affirmation merely of the value of the
goods or a statement purporting to be merely the seller's opinion or
commendation of the goods does not create a warranty.” 
 
54. In fact, until present, Plaintiff has
continually communicated the deficiencies and defects of the TV and has
attempted to informally resolve the deficient TV sold to Plaintiff by C SEED. 
 
55. Despite such communications, C SEED continues
to fail and refuse, to cure said issues, which is in direct violation, amongst
other things, with Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.02(2)(A)(c), which provides as
follows: “If the buyer returns the device within the period specified in the
written warranty, the seller shall, without charge and within a reasonable
time, adjust the device or, if appropriate, replace it with a device that is
specifically fit for the particular needs of the buyer. If the seller does not
adjust or replace the device so that it is specifically fit for the particular
needs of the buyer, the seller shall promptly refund to the buyer the total
amount paid, the transaction shall be deemed rescinded, and the seller shall
promptly return to the buyer all payments and any assistive device or other
consideration exchanged as part of the transaction and shall promptly cancel or
cause to be canceled all contracts, instruments, and security agreements
executed by the buyer in connection with the sale. When a sale is rescinded
under this section, no charge, penalty, or other fee may be imposed in
connection with the purchase, fitting, financing, or return of the device.” 
 
56. Since February 2021 and until present, C SEED
failed to deliver to Plaintiff a TV that is functional and operable, as
indicated by the numerous defects outlined in this Complaint. 
 
57. As indicated above, Plaintiff issued notice
of each and every issue with the TV, prior to and including the notice on
December 9, 2021, in which Plaintiff sent C SEED a comprehensive email
containing a detailed timeline outlining all the issues encountered and the
subsequent attempts made to remedy them 
 
58. In bringing this Complaint, C SEED did not
suffer any discernible prejudice from the Plaintiff. Over several months,
Plaintiff actively collaborated with C SEED by promptly communicating issues
and affording sufficient time for C SEED to undertake necessary repairs. 
 
59. Despite the TV’s repeated failures, Plaintiff
consistently provided opportunities for C SEED to resolve the situation,
demonstrating a commitment to resolution through cooperation rather than
resorting to litigation. 
 
60. As such, there was a breach of express
warranty by C SEED and such breach of warranty caused Plaintiff to suffer
damages and C SEED is estopped from asserting any statute of limitations as
alleged above as a defense to Plaintiff’s claim.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 12-13, 16, 19, 21-23, 30, 50-60.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiff has alleged (1) an
express warranty (FAC ¶¶ 13, 50); (2) defects (FAC ¶ 19); (3) Plaintiff’s
notice (FAC ¶¶ 21-23): (4) Defendants’ failure to cure (FAC ¶¶ 55-59); and (5)
Plaintiff’s damages (FAC ¶¶ 60; see also Prayer at ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
            C Seed argues that Plaintiff must
provide notice within a reasonable time, and it was not reasonable for
Plaintiff to wait until February 9, 2022 to send a demand letter.  But Plaintiff alleges that although the purchase
agreement was entered into in May 2019, the television was not actually
delivered and installed until February 2021. 
(See FAC ¶¶ 12, 16.)  It is
axiomatic that Plaintiff would be unable to detect any defect prior to actually
receiving the television.
 
            Further, Plaintiff alleges that it
informally notified C Seed of the defects, and on December 9, 2021 sent C Seed
formal written notice of the defects. 
Moreover, Plaintiff alleges the defects were latent, and did not become
apparent until sometime after Plaintiff began using the television on a regular
basis.
 
            C Seed argues that demurrer is
proper because Plaintiff does not specify exactly when Plaintiff discovered the
defects.  But there is no heightened
pleading requirement, and the only case law upon which C Seed relies on this
point are non-binding federal district court cases.
 
            Thus, Plaintiff has adequately
alleged that it provided C Seed notice within a reasonable time.  Whether the delay was in fact reasonable
is a factual question to be determined at later stages of the litigation.
 
            Accordingly, the Court overrules C
Seed’s demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
3.                 Fourth
Cause of Action – Breach of Implied Warranty
 
Commercial Code section 2314
provides, “a warranty that the goods shall be merchantable is implied in a
contract for their sale if the seller is a merchant with respect to goods of
that kind.”  Further:
 
(2) Goods
to be merchantable must be at least such as
 
(a) Pass
without objection in the trade under the contract description; and
 
(b) In
the case of fungible goods, are of fair average quality within the description;
and
 
(c) Are
fit for the ordinary purposes for which such goods are used; and
 
(d) Run,
within the variations permitted by the agreement, of even kind, quality and
quantity within each unit and among all units involved; and
 
(e) Are
adequately contained, packaged, and labeled as the agreement may require; and
 
(f)
Conform to the promises or affirmations of fact made on the container or label
if any.
 
(Ibid.)  “Thus, a breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability means the product did not possess even the most basic degree of
fitness for ordinary use.”  (Mocek v.
Alfa Leisure, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 402, 406.)
 
            Plaintiff lists the defects as
follows:
 
19. In fact, the below is a true and
accurate list of defects involving the TV at the Property: 
 
a. At times, the TV will not go down fully
 
b. At times, the C SEED remote does not
operate. 
 
c. At times, the TV would not open and
rotate. 
 
d. At times, the TV audio would not work. 
 
e. The sensor needs to be replaced. 
 
f. C SEED admitted they failed to make
updates to their software. 
 
g. The Power supply was defective and
needed to be replaced. It won’t allow the right side of the TV to fold and
close. 
 
h. At times, when trying to bring the TV
down, the TV suddenly stopped moving and was stuck at a 45 degree angle. C SEED
admits the mms froze and wasn’t able to convert any commands. 
 
i. At times, the TV failed to open - the
lid got stuck at the open position. 
 
j. At times, the TV does not have video. 
 
k. At times, the TV will not rotate left
or right.
 
(FAC
¶ 19.)
 
            Thus, although some of the alleged
defects, if analyzed in a vacuum, may not be enough in and of themselves to
rise to the level of a defect impeding ordinary use, Plaintiff has adequately
alleged that the TV would not reliably open, play video, or play audio, which
is unquestionably the basic degree of fitness for ordinary use of a
television.  A television must turn on
and play video and sound in order to have a basic degree of fitness for
ordinary use.  
 
            C Seed also argues that implied
warranties are limited to one year or less, pursuant to Civil Code section
1791.1, subdivision (c).  But as
discussed above, the television was delivered and installed in February 2021,
and Plaintiff provided written notice of the defects on December 9, 2021, which
is less than a year later.
 
            Finally, C Seed argues that the FAC
does not allege whether Plaintiff accepted the television, rejected it, or is
revoking its acceptance.  In support C
Seed cites to Smigel Co., Inc. v. Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC
(2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 305, 315-316, which provides that the remedy where one
has either rejected the goods or rescinded acceptance of the goods is the
entire purchase price, whereas the remedy to one who has accepted the goods is
the difference between the value they obtained and what they paid.  
 
            As a threshold matter, Smigel was
decided after a jury trial; it does not stand for the proposition that demurrer
is appropriate where the plaintiff fails to specify whether it has accepted,
rescinded, or rejected the goods.  
 
            In any event, the FAC alleges, “72.
As a proximate result of C SEED’s breach of implied warranty, Plaintiff paid in
excess $1,000,000.00 to C SEED. Plaintiff demands the recission and restitution
of all amounts paid to C SEED, as well as all other amounts allowed per law.
Cal. Civ. Code § 1794.”  Thus, the FAC
adequately alleges that Plaintiff seeks a full refund and rescission of the
contract.  This suffices at the pleadings
stage.
 
            Therefore, the Court overrules C
Seed’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action.
 
4.                 Fifth
and Sixth Causes of Action – Fraudulent and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)  Here, the FAC alleges as follows:
 
7. The TV purchased by Plaintiff and sold by C
SEED, is advertised as the world’s largest outdoor television. This TV rises
from its resting spot and unfolds to be around 17-foot of pure screen. This TV
is one of the first of its kind, using new technology for not only its lifting
features, but also its smart features. 
 
8. As found on C SEED’s website at the time of
purchase and currently, C SEED advertises its business and its TV as follows:
“In 2013, C SEED changed the course of TV history, introducing the company´s
first product and redefining “grand entrance” forever: The ground opens. A
monumental back column rises up to first-floor height. On its top, an LED
screen unfolds to a stunning, five-meter wide, dazzlingly bright display. At
long last, lounging in the open air while enjoying the very best high-end sound
and vision under the sun or the stars is available at the push of one single
button.” A true and correct copy of a screenshot of C SEED’s website is
attached hereto as Exhibit A and is fully incorporated herein by this
reference. 
 
9. Further, as advertised by C SEED, the TV
purchased by Plaintiff is advertised as follows: “The world´s first outdoor LED
TV is the literally groundbreaking success of a collaboration between C SEED
and Porsche Design. They started out with the explicit intent to introduce an
all-new luxury product category and wound up creating an award-winning style
icon with impact across generations.” (Exhibit A) 
 
10. Moreover, C SEED advertises that its TV has
won the red dot design award and states the following on its website: “The
sleek, functional look of the C SEED 201 has won the “red dot: best of the
best” product design award. Porsche Design Studio has shaped this giant outdoor
TV as a high-tech sculpture, combining elegant minimalism with a flamboyantly
crowd-pleasing performance.” (Exhibit A) 
 
11. In reliance on C SEED’s advertisement and its
exclusive collaboration with Defendant, Porsche, Owner decided to enter into
the written Contract described below with C SEED for its exclusive TV.
 
[…]
 
20. Moreover, Owner alleges on information and
belief that Owner is not the only buyer that is experiencing continued issues
and deficiency with its TV, and that there are other purchasers of the same TV,
around the world, who, to date, are experiencing similar, if not exact, issues
with the TV and C SEED’s failure to deliver a functional product to its
customers. In fact, this seems to be a trend for C SEED and C SEED’s custom and
practice is not to address the deficiencies for consumers required by law.
 
[…]
 
74. Defendants knowingly misrepresented the
functionality and sophistication of the TV bought by Plaintiff for its
Property. 
 
75. Notwithstanding this representation,
Defendants knew that its “new and innovative” TV was not yet ready to hit the
market due to its numerous deficiencies and failure to properly perform, yet it
sold the TV to Plaintiff. 
 
76. More importantly, Defendants advertised that
Defendant, Porsche, a well-known, reputable and luxury brand had designed the
TV, so that it would attract high-end and luxury-oriented clients to buy a
product from a new brand that had no well-known reputation during the relevant
time period. Specifically, C SEED advertises that its TV has won the red dot
design award and states the following on its website: “The sleek, functional
look of the C SEED 201 has won the “red dot: best of the best” product design
award. Porsche Design Studio has shaped this giant outdoor TV as a high-tech
sculpture, combining elegant minimalism with a flamboyantly crowd-pleasing
performance.” (Exhibit A) 
 
77. Plaintiff, when making its decision in 2019
to purchase C SEED’s product, relied on Defendants representations about the
TV, as marketed from 2019 (and still up until present) on C SEED’s website, and
agreed to purchase the TV based on these representations. 
 
78. Based on such representations made by C SEED
on its website (Exhibit A), Plaintiff decided to purchase the TV back in 2019. 
 
79. As a result of Plaintiff’s justifiable
reliance on Defendants’ statements and advertisements regarding the TV,
Plaintiff has suffered damages related to paying for the TV and having to deal
with maintenance issues for the last three years. 
 
80. Additionally, Defendants’ have engaged in
fraudulent conduct. In fact, Defendants’ knew that Plaintiff would justifiably
rely on Defendants’ statements and advertisements regarding the TV and such
conduct was done with the intent to cause Plaintiff to purchase a TV that
Defendants’ knew was unfit for its advertised purpose. Defendants’ were aware
that such fraudulent conduct would cause these consequences and intentionally
misrepresented and/or concealed material facts regarding the TV and did so intending
to harm Plaintiff. 
 
81. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ fraud, Plaintiff has been damaged in an amount according to proof,
which include, but are not limited to, the recovery of punitive damages against
Defendants’
 
[…]
 
83. Plaintiff has been harmed because Defendants
affirmatively and negligently misrepresented the functionality and
sophistication of the TV bought by Plaintiff for its Property and that Porsche
was involved as alleged herein. 
 
84. In fact, Defendants acted with the intent
that Plaintiff would rely on its representatives and advertisements. 
 
85. Notwithstanding this representation,
Defendants knew that its “new and innovative” TV was not yet ready to hit the
market due to its numerous deficiencies and failure to properly perform for
others, yet it sold the TV to Plaintiff. 
 
86. More importantly, Defendants advertised that
Defendant, Porsche, a well-known, reputable and luxury brand had designed the
TV, so that it would attract high-end and luxury-oriented clients to buy a
product from a new brand that had no well-known reputation during the relevant
time period. Specifically, C SEED advertises that its TV has won the red dot
design award and states the following on its website: “The sleek, functional
look of the C SEED 201 has won the “red dot: best of the best” product design
award. Porsche Design Studio has shaped this giant outdoor TV as a high-tech
sculpture, combining elegant minimalism with a flamboyantly crowd-pleasing
performance.” (Exhibit A)
 
87. Plaintiff, when making its decision in 2019
to purchase C SEED’s product, relied on Defendants representations about the
TV, as marketed from 2019 till present on C SEED’s website, and agreed to
purchase the TV based on these representations. 
 
88. Based on such representations made by C SEED,
Plaintiff decided to purchase the TV . 
 
89. As a result of Plaintiff’s justifiable
reliance on Defendants’ statements and advertisements regarding the TV,
Plaintiff has suffered damages related to paying for the TV and having to deal
with maintenance issues for the last three years. 
 
90. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ negligent misrepresentation, Plaintiff has been damaged in an
amount according to proof.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 7-11, 20, 74-81, 83-90.)
 
            Thus, the only allegation regarding
Defendants’ knowledge of the television defects at the time the representations
were made is paragraph 85, alleged in connection with Plaintiff’s negligent
misrepresentation cause of action: “Notwithstanding this representation,
Defendants knew that its “new and innovative” TV was not yet ready to hit the
market due to its numerous deficiencies and failure to properly perform for
others, yet it sold the TV to Plaintiff.” 
But this conclusory allegation is unsupported by any specific facts
about what exactly Defendants knew and when. 
An equally plausible conclusion from the facts alleged is that numerous
TVs turned out to be defective, but Defendants were unaware of those defects at
the time the alleged misrepresentations were made to Plaintiff.  
 
Thus, the FAC does not allege any specific facts demonstrating that
Defendants either knew that its representations about the television were false
or that it had no reasonable grounds to make those representations at the
time they were made.  
 
As such, the Court sustains C Seed’s demurrer to the fifth and sixth
causes of action.
 
5.                 Seventh
Cause of Action – Unjust Enrichment
 
C Seed demurs to the seventh cause of action for unjust enrichment on
the ground that there is no such cause of action for unjust enrichment.   The Court agrees.  
 
Notwithstanding Plaintiff’s allegations, the Court finds that the Seventh
Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment fails as a matter of law.  
 
[T]here is no cause of action in California for
unjust enrichment. The phrase Unjust Enrichment does not describe a theory of
recovery, but an effect: the result of a failure to make restitution under
circumstances where it is equitable to do so. 
Unjust enrichment is a general principle, underlying various legal
doctrines and remedies, rather than a remedy itself. It is synonymous with
restitution.
 
(Melchior
v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793 [cleaned up];
accord Jogani v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 901, 911 [unjust
enrichment is not a cause of action].)  
 
Consequently, the Court sustains C Seed’s demurrer to the seventh
cause of action.
 
6.                 Eighth
Cause of Action – Violations of Civil Code sections 895    et seq.
 
The Right to Repair Act encompasses Civil Code sections 895 et seq.
and governs home building defects.  As a
threshold matter, although it is not specifically alleged in the Complaint that
the structure at issue is a residential home encompassed by the Right to Repair
Act, or that Plaintiff is the “homeowner,” both parties’ briefing appears to
presume that it is Plaintiff’s home. 
Therefore, for purposes of the demurrer and motion to strike, the Court
also presumes that the structure at issue is a residence and Plaintiff is the
homeowner.
 
Civil Code section 897 provides:
 
To the extent not otherwise covered by these
standards, manufactured products, including, but not limited to, windows,
doors, roofs, plumbing products and fixtures, fireplaces, electrical fixtures,
HVAC units, countertops, cabinets, paint, and appliances shall be installed so
as not to interfere with the products’ useful life, if any.
 
[…]
 
(E) This title does not apply in any action
seeking recovery solely for a defect in a manufactured product located within
or adjacent to a structure.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 897, subd. (g)(3)(A) & (E).)
 
            C Seed argues that as an alleged
manufacturer, its liability is limited to instances where its negligent act or
omission or breach of contract caused a violation of the building standards
outlined in the Right to Repair Act, but would not cover defects solely to the
television itself contained within or adjacent to a structure.
 
            Plaintiff argues that because the
installation of the very large outdoor television at issue involved the use of
cranes, Plaintiff alleges C Seed is both a manufacturer and a builder, for
purposes of the Right to Repair Act.           The
FAC alleges:
 
95. Civil Code section 895, et seq., applies to
new residential construction built and sold subsequent to January 1, 2003, and
sets forth construction standards for actions arising out of, or related to
deficiencies in, the residential construction, design, specifications,
surveying, planning, supervision, testing, or observation of construction and
provides that a builder, general contractor, subcontractor, material supplier,
individual product manufacturer, or design professional, shall be liable for violations
of the standards expressly set forth in Title 7 of the California Civil Code. 
 
96. Civil Code section 895, et seq., applies to
the Property and the TV purchased by Plaintiff from C SEED because Plaintiff
and C SEED signed the Contract for the installation of the TV newly constructed
Property after January 1, 2003, as required by Civil Code section 938. Further,
C SEED performed work at the Project, specifically C SEED designed and
installed the TV at the Property. In fact, such installation of the TV required
C SEED’s creation of shop drawings, the use of cranes, specifically brought out
by C SEED for the installation of the TV, and the construction of the structure
for the TV to be placed. A true and correct copy of the pictures taken during
the installation of the TV are attached hereto as Exhibit D and are fully
incorporated herein by reference. 
 
97. Moreover, C SEED permanently constructed and
attached to a customized retractable shaft, per drawings to be provided by C
SEED. The construction portion done by C SEED included C SEED taking
responsibility for permits in reference to products provided by C SEED. 
 
98. Plaintiff represents it has fully complied
with the pre-litigation requirements set forth in Civil Code section 895 et.
seq. and C SEED received notices of the deficient TV supplied and installed by
C SEED at the Property. 
 
99. Plaintiff has also investigated and inspected
the repairs performed by C SEED representatives during Civil Code section 895,
et seq., pre-litigation repair process. 
 
100. As revealed by the investigation and
inspection, Plaintiff alleges that C SEED violated Civil Code section 895, et
seq., by failing to design, install and construct the TV at the Property in
accordance with the statutory standards for residential construction enumerated
in Civil Code section 896 and encompassed by Civil Code section 897. 
 
101. C SEED’s violations of Civil Code sections
896 and 897 have resulted in deficiencies at the Project, which have resulted
in property damage to and loss of use of the Property, which damages will be
continuing nuisances and health and safety risks until properly
repaired/replaced.
 
102. For specific deficiencies in the
installation of the TV at the Property, please refer to Paragraph 18 of this
Complaint. 
 
103. C SEED’s violations of Civil Code sections
896 and 897 have resulted in deficiencies which have resulted in property
damage to and loss of use of the Property, which damages will be continuing
nuisances and health and safety risks until properly repaired/replaced. 
 
104. As a direct and proximate result of the
above violations, Plaintiff has been damaged and will continue to be damaged
because the TV at the Property fails to meet the applicable standards of
construction as statutorily set forth in Civil Code sections 896 and 897; and,
as a result, Plaintiff has incurred and will be forced to incur expenses to
repair and replace materials that violate said construction standards, and is,
therefore, entitled to damages in accordance with Civil Code section 944, which
includes but is not limited to, the reasonable cost of repairing and rectifying
violations, the reasonable cost of repairing any damages caused by repair
efforts, reasonable relocation and storage expenses, lost business income,
reasonable investigative costs for each established violation, and all other
costs or fees recoverable by contract or statute, all far in excess of the
minimum jurisdictional amount of this Court, according to proof at the time of
trial. 
 
(FAC ¶¶ 95-104.)
 
            Thus,
regardless of whether C Seed is also a “builder” as that term is defined under
the Act, Plaintiff has adequately alleged that C Seed, as the TV’s
manufacturer, caused property damage to Plaintiff’s home as a result of its
defective installation of “a customizable retractable shaft” that involved “creation
of shop drawings, the use of cranes, specifically brought out by C SEED for the
installation of the TV, and the construction of the structure for the TV to be
placed” sufficient to state a cause of
action.
 
            Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff has not alleged it satisfied the pre-filing
requirement.  The FAC alleges, “Plaintiff
represents it has fully complied with the pre-litigation requirements set forth
in Civil Code section 895 et. seq. and C SEED received notices of the deficient
TV supplied and installed by C SEED at the Property.”  (FAC ¶ 98.) 
This allegation suffices at this stage of the litigation.  Whether Plaintiff in fact satisfied
the pre-filing requirements is a factual question to be determined at later
stages of the litigation.
 
            Therefore,
the Court overrules the demurrer to the eighth cause of action.
 
7.                 Ninth
Cause of Action – Violations of Bus. & Prof. Code § 7031(b)
 
Business
and Professions Code section 7031, subdivision (b) provides:
 
Except as
provided in subdivision (e), a person who utilizes the services of an
unlicensed contractor may bring an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction in this state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed
contractor for performance of any act or contract.
 
            Business
and Professions Code section 7045 provides:
 
This
chapter does not apply to the sale or installation of any finished products,
materials, or articles of merchandise that do not become a fixed part of the
structure, nor shall it apply to a material supplier or manufacturer furnishing
finished products, materials, or articles of merchandise who does not install
or contract for the installation of those items. The term “finished products”
shall not include installed carpets or mobilehomes or mobilehome accessory
structures, as defined in Section 7026.2.
 
This
chapter shall apply to the installation of home improvement goods, as defined
in Section 7151.
 
            Business
and Professions Code section 7151, subdivision (c) provides:
 
For
purposes of this chapter, “home improvement goods or services” means goods and
services, as defined in Section 1689.5 of the Civil Code, which are bought in
connection with the improvement of real property. Such home improvement goods
and services include, but are not limited to, carpeting, texture coating,
fencing, air conditioning or heating equipment, and termite extermination. Home
improvement goods include goods which are to be so affixed to real property as
to become a part of real property whether or not severable therefrom.
 
            C
Seed argues that the installation or repair of ordinary equipment used in the
home, such as televisions, radios, or phonographic equipment is not covered
under the law.  However, the television
at issue is “the world’s largest outdoor television” (FAC ¶ 7) costing
$1,000,000 (FAC ¶ 111), the installation of which involved the “creation of
shop drawings, the use of cranes, specifically brought out by C SEED for the
installation of the TV, and the construction of the structure for the TV to be
placed.”  (FAC ¶¶ 96, 108.)  
 
Thus, the television at issue is not alleged to be an ordinary
electronic device, and, construing the allegations of the FAC in a light most
favorable to Plaintiff, may constitute a permanent fixture to the home.
 
C Seed also argues that the claim for disgorgement under section 7031,
subd. (b) is barred by a one-year statute of limitation, to which the discovery
rule does not apply.  (See Eisenberg
Vill. Of L.A. Jewish Home for the Aging v. Suffolk Constr. Co. (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 1201, 1203.)  In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that the statute of limitations was equitably tolled while the
parties were in regular communications about ongoing repairs, until November
2023, when C Seed definitively indicated it would no longer repair or replace
the defective television.  C Seed does
not address Plaintiff’s equitable tolling argument on reply.
 
As such, the Court overrules C Seed’s demurrer to the ninth cause of
action.
 
8.                 Tenth
Cause of Action – Violations of Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200
 
Business and Professions Code section 17200, known as the Unfair
Competition Law, or “UCL,” bars unfair competition, defined as “any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions
Code.  “An ‘unlawful’ business practice
or act within the meaning of the UCL is an act or practice, committed pursuant
to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.”  (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation
of Am. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351.) 
“By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business practice, section 17200 borrows
violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices that the unfair
competition law makes independently actionable.”  (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  Moreover, “a practice may be deemed unfair
even if not specifically proscribed by some other law.”  (Ibid.)
 
            C
Seed argues that the equitable remedies of restitution and injunctive relief
available under the UCL are only appropriate where an adequate remedy does not
exist in law, which Plaintiff does not allege. 
However, C Seed only cites to federal cases, for which there are
differing pleadings standards and criteria for dismissal at the pleadings
stage.  C Seed does not cite to any
binding California authority standing for the proposition that Plaintiff may
not plead in the alternative both legal and equitable causes of action.  
 
            C
Seed also argues, and the Court agrees, that to the extent Plaintiff’s UCL
cause of action is predicated on fraudulent conduct, Plaintiff has failed to
allege fraud with requisite particularity. 
However, as discussed above, Plaintiff has adequately alleged other
predicate statutory violations to constitute “unlawful” and/or “unfair”
behavior.
 
            Therefore,
the Court overrule C Seed’s demurrer to the tenth cause of action.
 
             
II.         
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.) 
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
            Here, C Seed moves to strike the
following allegations:
 
·      
15. As such, Plaintiff is entitled to the rights
and protections afforded to consumers, including the rights and protections of
the Song-Beverly Act set forth in California Civil Code Sections 1790 et seq.
including sections 1793.02 and 1795.6.
 
·      
51. C SEED failed to include the statutory and
mandatory express warranty language as outlined in Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.02(a)
which is as follows: “all new and used assistive devices sold at retail in this
state shall be accompanied by the retail seller's written warranty which shall
contain the following language: “This assistive device is warranted to be
specifically fit for the particular needs of you, the buyer. If the device is
not specifically fit for your particular needs, it may be returned to the
seller within 30 days of the date of actual receipt by you or completion of
fitting by the seller, whichever occurs later. If you return the device, the
seller will either adjust or replace the device or promptly refund the total
amount paid. This warranty does not affect the protections and remedies you
have under other laws.” In lieu of the words “30 days” the retail seller may
specify any longer period.” (emphasis added).
 
·      
52. More importantly, the express warranty
period, as provided by C SEED, is tolled; “(a)(1) Except as provided in
paragraph (2) warranty1 period relating to an implied or express warranty
accompanying a sale or consignment for sale of consumer goods selling for fifty
dollars ($50) or more shall automatically be tolled for the period from the
date upon which the buyer either (1) delivers nonconforming goods to the
manufacturer or seller for warranty repairs or service or (2), pursuant to
subdivision (c) of Section 1793.2 or Section 1793.22, notifies the manufacturer
or seller of the nonconformity of the goods up to, and including, the date upon
which (1) the repaired or serviced goods are delivered to the buyer, (2) the
buyer is notified the goods are repaired or serviced and are available for the
buyer's possession or (3) the buyer is notified that repairs or service is
completed, if repairs or service is made at the buyer's residence. Cal. Civ.
Code § 1795.6 (a)(1).As indicated above, there was a sale of goods,
specifically a new and “revolutionary” product, in which Defendant C SEED was
the seller of the TV to Plaintiff and Plaintiff was the buyer of the TV.
 
·      
55. Despite such communications, C SEED
continues to fail and refuse, to cure said issues, which is in direct
violation, amongst other things, with Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.02(2)(A)(c), which
provides as follows: “If the buyer returns the device within the period
specified in the written warranty, the seller shall, without charge and within
a reasonable time, adjust the device or, if appropriate, replace it with a
device that is specifically fit for the particular needs of the buyer. If the
seller does not adjust or replace the device so that it is specifically fit for
the particular needs of the buyer, the seller shall promptly refund to the
buyer the total amount paid, the transaction shall be deemed rescinded, and the
seller shall promptly return to the buyer all payments and any assistive device
or other consideration exchanged as part of the transaction and shall promptly
cancel or cause to be canceled all contracts, instruments, and security
agreements executed by the buyer in connection with the sale. When a sale is
rescinded under this section, no charge, penalty, or other fee may be imposed
in connection with the purchase, fitting, financing, or return of the device.”
 
·      
66. The implied warranty period is tolled;
“(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) warranty1 period relating to an
implied or express warranty accompanying a sale or consignment for sale of
consumer goods selling for fifty dollars ($50) or more shall automatically be
tolled for the period from the date upon which the buyer either (1) delivers
nonconforming goods to the manufacturer or seller for warranty repairs or
service or (2), pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 1793.2 or Section
1793.22, notifies the manufacturer or seller of the nonconformity of the goods
up to, and including, the date upon which (1) the repaired or serviced goods
are delivered to the buyer, (2) the buyer is notified the goods are repaired or
serviced and are available for the buyer's possession or (3) the buyer is
notified that repairs or service is completed, if repairs or service is made at
the buyer's residence. Cal. Civ. Code § 1795.6 (a)(1).
 
·      
70. Despite such communications, C SEED failed
and refused, and continues to fail and refuse, to cure said issues, which is in
direct violation, amongst other things, with Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.02(2)(A)(c),
which provides as follows: “If the buyer returns the device within the period
specified in the written warranty, the seller shall, without charge and within
a reasonable time, adjust the device or, if appropriate, replace it with a
device that is specifically fit for the particular needs of the buyer. If the
seller does not adjust or replace the device so that it is specifically fit for
the particular needs of the buyer, the seller shall promptly refund to the
buyer the total amount paid, the transaction shall be deemed rescinded, and the
seller shall promptly return to the buyer all payments and any assistive device
or other consideration exchanged as part of the transaction and shall promptly
cancel or cause to be canceled all contracts, instruments, and security
agreements executed by the buyer in connection with the sale. When a sale is
rescinded under this section, no charge, penalty, or other fee may be imposed
in connection with the purchase, fitting, financing, or return of the device.”
 
·      
75. Notwithstanding this representation,
Defendants knew that its “new and innovative” TV was not yet ready to hit the
market due to its numerous deficiencies and failure to properly perform, yet it
sold the TV to Plaintiff.
 
·      
81. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ fraud, Plaintiff has been damaged in an amount according to proof,
which include, but are not limited to, the recovery of punitive damages against
Defendants’
 
·      
84. In fact, Defendants acted with the intent
that Plaintiff would rely on its representatives and advertisements.
 
·      
85. Notwithstanding this representation,
Defendants knew that its “new and innovative” TV was not yet ready to hit the
market due to its numerous deficiencies and failure to properly perform for
others, yet it sold the TV to Plaintiff.
 
·      
94. Plaintiff realleges and incorporates by
reference each and every allegation set forth in this Complaint. 
 
·      
95. Civil Code section 895, et seq., applies to
new residential construction built and sold subsequent to January 1, 2003, and
sets forth construction standards for actions arising out of, or related to
deficiencies in, the residential construction, design, specifications,
surveying, planning, supervision, testing, or observation of construction and
provides that a builder, general contractor, subcontractor, material supplier,
individual product manufacturer, or design professional, shall be liable for violations
of the standards expressly set forth in Title 7 of the California Civil Code. 
 
·      
96. Civil Code section 895, et seq., applies to
the Property and the TV purchased by Plaintiff from C SEED because Plaintiff
and C SEED signed the Contract for the installation of the TV newly constructed
Property after January 1, 2003, as required by Civil Code section 938. Further,
C SEED performed work at the Project, specifically C SEED designed and
installed the TV at the Property. In fact, such installation of the TV required
C SEED’s creation of shop drawings, the use of cranes, specifically brought out
by C SEED for the installation of the TV, and the construction of the structure
for the TV to be placed. A true and correct copy of the pictures taken during
the installation of the TV are attached hereto as Exhibit D and are fully
incorporated herein by reference. 
 
·      
97. Moreover, C SEED permanently constructed and
attached to a customized retractable shaft, per drawings to be provided by C
SEED. The construction portion done by C SEED included C SEED taking
responsibility for permits in reference to products provided by C SEED. 
 
·      
98. Plaintiff represents it has fully complied
with the pre-litigation requirements set forth in Civil Code section 895 et.
seq. and C SEED received notices of the deficient TV supplied and installed by
C SEED at the Property. 
 
·      
99. Plaintiff has also investigated and
inspected the repairs performed by C SEED representatives during Civil Code
section 895, et seq., pre-litigation repair process. 
 
·      
100. As revealed by the investigation and
inspection, Plaintiff alleges that C SEED violated Civil Code section 895, et
seq., by failing to design, install and construct the TV at the Property in
accordance with the statutory standards for residential construction enumerated
in Civil Code section 896 and encompassed by Civil Code section 897. 
 
·      
101. C SEED’s violations of Civil Code sections
896 and 897 have resulted in deficiencies at the Project, which have resulted
in property damage to and loss of use of the Property, which damages will be
continuing nuisances and health and safety risks until properly
repaired/replaced.
 
·      
102. For specific deficiencies in the
installation of the TV at the Property, please refer to Paragraph 18 of this
Complaint. 
 
·      
103. C SEED’s violations of Civil Code sections
896 and 897 have resulted in deficiencies which have resulted in property
damage to and loss of use of the Property, which damages will be continuing
nuisances and health and safety risks until properly repaired/replaced. 
 
·      
104. As a direct and proximate result of the
above violations, Plaintiff has been damaged and will continue to be damaged
because the TV at the Property fails to meet the applicable standards of
construction as statutorily set forth in Civil Code sections 896 and 897; and,
as a result, Plaintiff has incurred and will be forced to incur expenses to
repair and replace materials that violate said construction standards, and is,
therefore, entitled to damages in accordance with Civil Code section 944, which
includes but is not limited to, the reasonable cost of repairing and rectifying
violations, the reasonable cost of repairing any damages caused by repair
efforts, reasonable relocation and storage expenses, lost business income,
reasonable investigative costs for each established violation, and all other
costs or fees recoverable by contract or statute, all far in excess of the
minimum jurisdictional amount of this Court, according to proof at the time of
trial.
 
·      
105. Plaintiff realleges and incorporates by
reference each and every allegation set forth in this Complaint. 
 
·      
106. Plaintiff is informed and believes that C
SEED is an unlicensed contractor in California. 
 
·      
107. As such, a person who utilizes the services
of an unlicensed contractor may bring an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction in this state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed
contractor for performance of any act or contract. Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §
7031(b). 
 
·      
108. C SEED was hired under the Contract by
Plaintiff to provide and install the TV at the Property. In fact, such
installation of the TV required the use of cranes, specifically brought out by
C SEED for the installation of the TV and the construction of the structure for
the TV to be placed.. 
 
·      
109. Moreover, C SEED permanently constructed
and attached to a customized retractable shaft, per drawings to be provided by
C SEED. The construction portion done by C SEED included C SEED taking
responsibility for permits in reference to products provided by C SEED.
Therefore, a valid California contractor’s license was required by C SEED to
install or contract for the installation of the TV at the Project. 
 
·      
110. As such, on or around February 2021, C SEED
installed the TV at the Property. However, C SEED was not licensed as a
contractor in California to perform such installation at the Property. Further,
as alleged above, C SEED is estopped from asserting any statute of limitations
as alleged above as a defense to this claim 
 
·      
111. Thus, Plaintiff therefore demands
disgorgement and restitution in an amount no less than $1,000,000.00 and
judgment in an amount to be determined at trial, together with interest,
attorneys’ fees, and costs of this action.
 
·      
115. Plaintiff seeks to enjoin C SEED from
engaging in these fraudulent, unfair ,and unlawful business practices. As a
proximate result of the unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent business acts and
practices alleged herein, Plaintiff paid in excess of $1,000,000.00 to C SEED.
Plaintiff demands restitution of all amounts paid to C SEED, seeks to enjoin C
SEED from further unlawful conduct, and seeks punitive damages.
 
·      
Prayer, p. 20, l. 3; Prayer, p. 20, l. 18;
Prayer, p. 20, l. 22 Prayer, p. 21, l. 8.
 
To the extent C Seed seeks to strike factual allegations as
“irrelevant, false, or improper,” C Seed’s motion is denied.  Just because allegations may not rise to the
level of specificity required to allege a cause of action for fraud does not
mean the allegations do not support other causes of action or are otherwise
made irrelevant or improper.  
 
The Court is unable to discern exactly what Plaintiff seeks to strike
by “Prayer, p. 20, l. 3; Prayer, p. 20, l. 18; Prayer, p. 20, l. 22 Prayer, p.
21, l. 8” however the Court does note that Prayer paragraphs 9, 12, and 21 seek
punitive damages, which the motion seeks to strike.  
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has failed to allege fraudulent conduct
with requisite specificity to withstand demurrer or to support punitive damages
based in fraud.  Further, Plaintiff has
not alleged oppression or malice with requisite specificity, much less on the
part of C Seed’s managing agents sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  As such, the Court strikes
“punitive damages” from paragraphs 81, 115, and prayer paragraphs 9, 12, and
21.  
 
To the extent C Seed seeks to strike requests for restitution or
injunctive relief, the Court denies that request for the same reasons it
overrules the demurrer to such causes of action.  Therefore, C Seed’s motion to strike is
denied in all other respects. 
 
          
III.         
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet its burden as it does not specify
what facts could be added to the complaint to address the deficiencies
identified by the court.  Therefore,
leave to amend is denied.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains without leave to amend C
Seed’s demurrer to the second, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action, but
overrules C Seed’s demurrer to the third, fourth, eighth, ninth, and tenth
causes of action.  
 
Further, the Court grants in part and denies in part C Seed’s motion
to strike.  The Court strikes the phrase
“punitive damages” from paragraphs 81, 115 and prayer paragraphs 9, 12, and 21
without leave to amend.  C Seed’s motion
to strike is denied in all other respects.
 
The Court orders C Seed to file an Answer to the FAC on or before November
15, 2024.  
 
C Seed shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with
a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  October 24, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court