 Case Number:  23SMCV01097    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01097




MOTION


Motion
  for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Sixth Street Realty, L.P.




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff Sixth Street Realty, L.P. (“Plaintiff”) filed
the operative Second Amended Complaint alleging two causes of action for (1) breach
of lease (unpaid rents) against Defendant Alpha Real Estate Advisors, LLC
(“Alpha”) and (2) breach of written guarantee against Defendants Braden Crocket
(“Crocket”) and Dalton Barnes (“Barnes”). 

 
On August 27, 2024, the Court granted summary judgment in favor of
Plaintiff and against Defendants, jointly and severally, in the amount of
$195,792.20.  (Minute Order, Aug. 27,
2024.)  Judgment was entered on September
16, 2024.  
 
Plaintiff now moves to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees and
costs.  Plaintiff’s motion is
unopposed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, which outlines recoverable costs to a prevailing party under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, permits the recovery of attorneys’ fees
when authorized by contract, statute, or law. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)  Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure section
1021 provides “[e]xcept as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by
statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at
law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties . . . .”  
 
Similarly, Civil Code section
1717 provides “[i]n any action on a contract, where the contract specifically
provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that
contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing
party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the
contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or not,
shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other costs.”  (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)   The Code of Civil Procedure defines
the “prevailing party” as follows: 
 
[T]he party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a
dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains
any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any
relief against that defendant. If any party recovers other than monetary relief
and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing party” shall be as
determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its
discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion costs between
the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under
Section 1034.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)  Here,
paragraph 21(b) of the lease provides:
 
In the event of any default by Tenant which constitutes beyond the
expiration of applicable notice and cure periods, Landlord may promptly or at
any time thereafter, upon notice and demand and without limiting Landlord in
the exercise of any other right or remedy which Landlord may have by reason of
such default or breach:
 
(i) Terminate Tenant’s right to possession of the Premises by any
lawful means, in which case this Lease shall terminate and Tenant shall
immediately surrender possession of the Premises to Landlord.  In such event, Landlord shall be entitled to
recover from Tenant:
 
[…]
 
(D) Any other amount necessary to compensate Landlord for all
detriment proximately caused by Tenant’s failure to perform its obligations
under this Lease or which in the ordinary course of things would be likely to
result therefrom, including, but not limited to, the cost of recovering
possession of the Premises, expenses of reletting (including advertising),
brokerage commissions and fees, costs of putting the Premises in good order,
condition and repair, including necessary renovation and alteration of the
Premises, reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, all costs for
maintaining the Premises, all costs incurred in the appointment of and
performance by a receiver to protect the Premises or Landlord’s interest under
the Lease, and any other reasonable cost.
 
(Petersen
Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. A, emphasis added.)  
Similarly, paragraph 8 of the personal guaranty provides:
 
In the event any action is brought by Landlord against the undersigned
to enforce the obligations hereunder, the unsuccessful party in such action
shall pay the prevailing party therein the attorneys’ fees, which shall be
fixed by the court.
 
(Petersen Decl. ¶ 2 and Ex. B.)
 
            Thus,
by operation of contractual agreements, Plaintiff is generally entitled to
recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees from Defendants.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff requests $48,285.00 in reasonable attorneys’ fees.  In support, Plaintiff has provided a copy of
its attorneys’ time entries, itemizing the requested fees.  (Ex. E to Petersen Decl.)   Therefore, Plaintiff’s request for $48,285 in
attorneys’ fees is appropriate.
 
            Plaintiff
also seeks $5,029.41 in costs, representing $995 in filing and motion fees;
$3,267 in deposition costs, $416 in service of process, and $351.41 in
electronic filing and service fees.  (See
Memorandum of Costs; see also Ex. E to Petersen Decl.)  Because Plaintiff is the only party who
obtained a net recovery, Plaintiff is entitled to costs as the prevailing party
in this action.  Further, the costs
requested are all permissible under Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5 and
Defendants have not filed a motion to tax costs within the statutory time
period.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s request
for $5,029.41 in costs is warranted.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees and
costs in its entirety.  Plaintiff is
awarded the requested $48,285 in reasonable attorneys’ fees and $5,029.41 in
costs.  
 
Further, Plaintiff shall submit an amended judgment in accordance with
this ruling on or before November 8, 2024.
 
Further, Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
the notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
 
DATED:  October 24, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court