 Case Number:  23SMCV02791    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02791




MOTIONS


Motion
  to Compel Further Production to Request for Production set 1




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Kimberly Tucker




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  City National Bank N.A.



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from allegations that Defendant City National Bank
N.A. (“Defendant”) discriminated against Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker
(“Plaintiff”) when Plaintiff attempted to open a bank account.  
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel further production of documents in
response to her Request for Production, set one (“RPD.”)  Defendant opposes the motion and Plaintiff
replies.
 
PROCEDURAL
REQUIREMENTS
 
            Timeliness of Motion
 
            A notice of motion to compel further
responses must be given within 45 days of the service of the responses, or any
supplemental responses, or on or before any specific later date to which the
parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.310, subd. (c).)
Failure to file such a motion within this time period constitutes a waiver of
any right to compel further responses to interrogatories or requests for
production of documents. (Ibid.)
 
            In support of the Motion, Plaintiff
has provided the Declaration of Girma H. Gebriel, which indicates:
 
1. On or about February 16, 2024, I served Plaintiffs Notice to
Produce Documents to Defendant City National Bank, N.A. (hereinafter
"CNB") which contained demands in thirteen categories by serving
attorneys Gavrilov & Brooks; 
 
2.On or about March 15, 2024, I received CNB's written response to the
notice which contained objections. Not one single document was served in
response to the notice; 
 
3.Deeming the response insufficient, I then sent meet-and-confer
letters to defense counsel on March 26th, April 8th and April 11th ,
2024,(Exhibits 1-3 respectively) in order to avoid bringing a discovery motion.
These were the beginnings of an email exchange that did involve other matters;
both as to discovery and non-discovery issues and many of them were sent in
response to communications from defense counsel; 
 
4.On or about April 11th 2024, I received an amended response along
with 99 documents which I reviewed; 91 of which were not responsive to the
demands set forth in any of the categories of the notice; 
 
5.On April 12th, 2024 (Exhibit 4), I sent another meet-and-confer
letter to defense counsel, who I believed was thwarting legitimate discovery. I
noted the lack of documents in specific categories as well as lack of
production of video recordings of my client, taken by CNB;
 
6.On April 15th, 2024 (Exhibit5), I sent another meet-and-confer
letter to defense counsel as part of the constant email exchange going back and
forth; 
 
7.On April 16th ,2024(Exhibit16)1 sent another meet-and-confer letter
regarding the lack of the production of the videos and the lack of a privilege
log; 
 
8.On May 1st, 2024 (Exhibit7), after a request from defense counsel, I
granted a two week extension to provide a privilege log. In the letter granting
the extension, I noted the lack of the production of videos; 
 
9.On May 4th, 2024, I received an updated response from CNB with 53
more documents and a privilege log which listed 163 entries, the subject of
every entry being described as "email" and the bases for the
privileges asserted were: attorney-client; attorney work product; and
confidential business information. 
 
10.On May 13th, 2024(Exhibit 8), after reviewing the additional
documents and the log, I wrote another meet-and-confer letter, addressing the
deficiencies in the log and offering to sign a non-disclosure agreement to
assuage concerns about confidential business information; 
 
11.On May 23rd, 2024, CNB sent an updated privilege log with 218
entries; 21 of which were made between 2018 and 2022, the time period Plaintiff
was at the bank; as well as 54 additional documents; I reviewed the log and the
documents; 
 
12.On May 23rd, 2024(Exhibit 9), I sent another meet-and-confer letter
about the videos and defense counsel's response was that CNB did not know what
branch of the bank she was in; when she was at the branch; or what she looked
like and wanted a picture of her;
 
[…]
 
14.On June 4th, 2024, I received an amended written response to the
original notice to produce documents with no videos;
 
15.On June 7th, 2024(Exhibit 1), I sent another meet-and-confer letter
about the lack of production of the videos; 
 
16.On June 20th, 2024, I received by email, eleven verifications for
the previous discovery responses which CNB had previously sent; 
 
17.On June 21st, 2024 Exhibit 12), I sent another meet-and-confer
letter requesting the videos in question; 
 
18.On June 26th, 2024 I received an email from defense counsel stating
that he needed the exact times, dates and places of Plaintiffs visits to the
bank branches and a photograph of Plaintiff in order to look for the videos.
Based upon the eight factors listed above, I realized that these requests were
more attempts by CNB to thwart legitimate discovery; 
 
19.On July 2nd, 2024 (Exhibit13), I sent another meet-and confer
letter to defense counsel explaining to him exactly which branches of the bank
Plaintiff had visited and advising him that I would seek an in camera
inspection of those documents in his privilege log that occurred during the
time period between 2018 and 2022, the time during which Plaintiff had been to
the bank; 
 
20.On July 31st, 2024 Exhibit 4), I sent a letter to defense counsel
explaining to him where, in the documents he had sent, he could find the
information as to which branch of the bank Plaintiff was in and when she was
there, 
 
21.On July 31 51, 2024( Exhibit 15), I sent a letter to defense
counsel in order to hold a telephonic meet-and-confer conference as per the
Rules of Department 207 and suggested defense counsel look at those rules; 
 
22.On July 31st, 2024, I obtained an Informal Discovery Conference
date of September 24, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. for this motion;
 
23.On August 151, 2024, I obtained a motion hearing date of October
24, 2024 from the clerk in Department 207; 
 
24.On August 2nd, 2024 I had a telephonic meet-and-confer conference
with defense counsel, but none of the issues raised in this motion were
resolved.
 
(Gebriel
Decl. ¶¶ 1-24.)[1]
 
            Thus, Defendant last sent the
verifications for its discovery responses on June 20, 2024.  (Gebriel Decl. ¶ 16.)  Forty-five days later is Sunday, August 4,
which extends to Monday, August 5. 
Plaintiff filed the instant motion on Monday August 5.  Therefore, the Motion is timely.
 
            Separate Statement
 
            California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 requires that any motion involving the content of
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for why an order
compelling further responses is warranted.
 
            Plaintiff
has provided a separate statement with respect to the RPD in compliance with
the Rules of Court.
 
            Notice
of Motion
 
Defendant argues that the notice of motion
is insufficient, because it erroneously lists the hearing date as October 4, instead
of October 24.  Notwithstanding,
Plaintiff’s counsel communicated the correct hearing date information to
Defendant’s counsel sufficiently in advance that Defendants were able to
adequately prepare.  (Jewett Decl. ¶¶ 22-23
and Exs. 13-14.)  As such, the Court
finds that Plaintiff substantially complied with the notice requirements.
 
ANALYSIS    
 
1.    
DISCOVERY – GENERAL PRINCIPLES
 
            “The purpose of the discovery rules
is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and
eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is
designed to make a trial less a game of blindman's bluff and more a fair
contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable
extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389
[cleaned up].)   
 
            Where a party objects, or responds
inadequately, to discovery requests, a motion lies to compel further responses,
and that party has the burden to justify the objections or inadequate
responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)
[motion to compel further responses lies “[o]n receipt of a response to a
demand for inspection”].)  “A trial
court's determination of a motion to compel discovery is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.  However, when the facts
asserted in support of and in opposition to the motion are in conflict, the
trial court's factual findings will be upheld if they are supported by
substantial evidence.” (Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 [cleaned up].) 
 
2.    
RPD NO. 2
 
Plaintiff seeks “Any and all video recordings of PLAINTIFF or
containing any image, representation, or likeness of PLAINTIFF”
 
Specifically, Plaintiff requests security video footage of herself on
the bank branch premises.  Defendant has
indicated it cannot accommodate this request without knowing the precise dates
and times Plaintiff visited the bank branches and without a picture of
Plaintiff, Defendant cannot identify what footage it has of her (collectively,
the “Necessary Information.”)
 
Plaintiff has provided general dates when she visited the branch, and
has argued that the request for photographs of Plaintiff in order to identify
Plaintiff on its security footage is just a delay tactic because security guard
Albert Aguilar should remember what she looks like because she confronted him
and asked him to “step outside.”  
 
As the Court indicated at the IDC on September 24, Defendant’s request
for the dates and times of Plaintiff’s visit, as well as photographs from which
it can identify Plaintiff in its footage is reasonable and rational under the
circumstances.  Even if Plaintiff’s
encounter with security guard Aguilar was memorable, that does not necessarily
mean that he would be able to identify Plaintiff on security footage some six
years later.  Further, other individuals
who have never met Plaintiff, including lawyers, are likely to be the ones
tasked with going through the footage and preparing it for production, as
opposed to Mr. Aguilar.
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to RPD No. 2 on the grounds that the request is overbroad and burdensome[2] in
that Defendant is unable to comply without further necessary information from
Plaintiff.
 
3.    
RPD NO. 6
 
Plaintiff seeks “Any and all internal COMMUNICATIONS and/or DOCUMENTS
referring in any way to or concerning PLAINTIFF.” 
 
Plaintiff requests the Court to conduct an in camera review of the
redacted portions of redacted documents labeled CNB-TUCK0008 and CNB-TUCK0009
that were produced as well as the first 21 documents listed on the privilege
log that were withheld, as those communications occurred from 2018 and 2022,
when Plaintiff was interacting with various bank personnel.  Plaintiff also contends that some of the
attorneys wear multiple hats, and they could be sending emails in their
business capacities, as opposed to as their capacities as lawyers.
 
The privilege log itself lists the following attorneys:
 
·      
Diane Baxa, Senior Vice President & Senior
Counsel
·      
Cynthia Gruen, VP/Senior Counsel, Legal Services
Division
·      
Jenny Park, Senior Vice President and Senior
Counsel
·      
Amy Lerner-Hill, Deputy General Counsel
 
Further, the Declaration of Bradley E. Jewett provides:
 
10. Based on my ten-plus years of experience as counsel for CNB and
the numerous conversations I have participated in with CNB’s in-house counsel,
I am informed, believe, and based thereon allege that Diane Baxa was in-house
counsel for CNB prior to June 12, 2018, through and including June 20, 2018.
 
11. I am further informed, believe, and based thereon allege that
Cynthia Gruen was in-house counsel for CNB prior to October 4, 2022, and is
presently in-house counsel for CNB.
 
(Jewett
Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.)
 
            Of the first 21 documents listed on
the privilege log, all but the first document are sent by and/or from one of
the above-listed attorneys.  The
description for each of these documents is “CNB internal counsel email exchange
re: discrimination claim and litigation defense” or “CNB internal counsel email
exchange with CNB employees re: discrimination claim and litigation
defense.”  Thus these emails are privileged
and not subject to disclosure,[3]
and consequently, the Court sees no reason to conduct an in-camera review of those
documents.
 
            As for the first email, counsel
declares:
 
9. On May 23, 2024, CNB provided an updated Privilege Log with
additional detail regarding CNB’s privileged communications. The communication
identified as Document 1 on the Privilege Log does not include an attorney.
However, Document 1 is a summary of instructions received by a senior-level CNB
employee from CNB’s in-house counsel regarding Plaintiff’s discrimination claim
and CNB’s response thereto. Attached hereto as “Exhibit “4” is a true and
correct copy of a redacted version of the Privilege Log.
 
(Jewett
Decl. ¶ 9.)  Thus, Document 1 is
protected by the attorney-client and/or work product [4]privileges.  The instructions themselves are protected
attorney work product, and to the extent the dissemination of the information
was done at the behest of an attorney in anticipation of litigation, it is also
protected by the attorney-client privilege.
 
As for the redacted documents, Plaintiff has produced only
CNB-TUCK-0008, which is an email that contains minimal redactions.  Defendant has indicated the redactions in
CNB-TUCK-0008 and -0009 “contain discrete redactions regarding instructions
received from CNB’s in-house legal department that are subject to the
attorney-client privilege and/or work product doctrine.”  (Ex. 6 to Jewett Decl.)
 
In Reply, Plaintiff provides additional evidence that Defendant lied
about not knowing what dates or branches Plaintiff visited, because Defendant
produced emails in discovery where employees Jennifer Rueda and Annie Tabakian
recognized Plaintiff at the branch on various dates and told staff to be on the
lookout for Plaintiff.  
 
As a threshold matter, the Court does not generally consider evidence
offered on reply, as it deprives the opposing party of a fair opportunity to be
heard.  (See San Diego Watercrafts,
Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316 [“due
process requires a party be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be
given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see
also Wall Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171.)  
 
But even if the Court were to consider the reply evidence, it is not
persuasive.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s
request for the dates/times and branches Plaintiff visited as well as photos of
Plaintiff so that counsel can match up and produce the correct footage is a
reasonable and necessary request for Defendant to be able to produce the
requested footage.
 
Ultimately, Plaintiff has provided no basis to call into question that
the redactions and withheld documents are protected by the attorney-client
and/or attorney work product privileges for the Court to conduct an in camera
review.
 
4.    
SANCTIONS
 
            A trial court may sanction a party
for engaging in the misuse of discovery, which includes: failure to respond or
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making an evasive response to
discovery; making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious
objection to discovery; and making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without
substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.)
 
In addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (d)
provides: “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Here, because the Court has
determined that the requested documents at issue are protected from disclosure
by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product doctrine,
monetary sanctions are not appropriate.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s motion in its entirety. 

 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
the Court’s order and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  October 24, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


