


[1] The Court notes that the Declaration of Girma H. Gebriel
contained typos and other grammatical errors which the Court corrected in part
to ensure it understood what counsel was seeking to communicate.  


[2] “The objection based upon burden must be sustained by
evidence showing the quantum of work required, while to support an objection of
oppression there must be some showing either of an intent to create an
unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of the burden is incommensurate
with the result sought.”  (West Pico
Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)  The California Supreme Court further noted
that  “[s]ome burden is inherent in all
demands for discovery.  The objection of
burden is valid only when that burden is demonstrated to result in injustice.”
(Id. at p. 418.)   


[3] Per Evidence Code section 954, “[t]he client, whether
or not a party, has a privilege to refuse to disclose, and to prevent another
from disclosing, a confidential communication between client and lawyer if the
privilege is claimed by:  (a) The holder
of the privilege; (b) A person who is authorized to claim the privilege by the
holder of the privilege; or (c) The person who was the lawyer at the time of
the confidential communication, but such person may not claim the privilege if
there is no holder of the privilege in existence or if he is otherwise
instructed by a person authorized to permit disclosure.”  (Evid. Code, § 954.)  And “while attorney-client communications are
presumed to be confidential, the party claiming the attorney-client privilege
as a bar to disclosure has the burden of showing that the communication sought
to be suppressed falls within the parameters of the privilege.”  (Scripps Health v. Superior Court
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 533 [cleaned up].)
 


[4] The
attorney work product doctrine is codified under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2018.010, et seq.  
            
It is the policy of the state to do both of the
following:
 
(a) Preserve the rights of attorneys to prepare
cases for trial with that degree of privacy necessary to encourage them to
prepare their cases thoroughly and to investigate not only the favorable but
the unfavorable aspects of those cases.
 
(b) Prevent attorneys from taking undue advantage
of their adversary's industry and efforts.
 
(a) A writing that reflects an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances.
 
(b) The work product of an attorney, other than a
writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court
determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking
discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will result in an
injustice.
 
(See
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2018.020, 2018.030.) 
“Absolute protection is afforded to writings that reflect ‘an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.’ All other
work product receives qualified protection; such material ‘is not discoverable
unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice
the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will
result in an injustice.’ ”  (Coito v.
Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 485, citations omitted (hereafter Coito).)

