  Case Number:  22PSCV01193    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Summary  Judgment, or in the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication of Issues Respondent: Plaintiff Delores  Plaintiff TENTATIVE RULING Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Summary  Judgment, or in the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication of Issues is DENIED  IN PART as to the first and ninth causes of action and GRANTED IN PART as to the  second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, tenth, and twelfth causes  of action. BACKGROUND This  is an action for employment discrimination and harassment. In 1985, the Los  Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS) hired  Plaintiff Delores Plaintiff and promoted Plaintiff to children’s social worker  in 1990. From 2020 to 2022, Plaintiff alleges DCFS supervisors harassed and  discriminated against Plaintiff based on age, disability, and race. When Plaintiff  reported their conduct, Plaintiff alleges they retaliated with further  harassment, false allegations of misconduct, disciplinary actions and workload  adjustments. On  October 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against DCFS, the County of Los  Angeles (the County), and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action:  (1) harassment based on race, (2) harassment based on age, (3) harassment based  on physical disability, (4) racial discrimination, (5) age discrimination, (6)  physical disability discrimination, (7) failure to engage in the interactive  process, (8) failure to make reasonable accommodation, (9) failure to prevent  discrimination and harassment, (10) retaliation in violation of the Fair  Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), (11) retaliation in violation of Labor Code  section 98.6, and (12) whistleblower retaliation in violation of Labor Code  section 1102.5. On  April 25, 2024, the parties stipulated to dismiss Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of  action, request for punitive damages, and request for prejudgment interest. On May  3, 2024, the County and DCFS (collectively, the County) filed the present  motion for summary judgment or adjudication. On May 7, 2024, the County refiled  its motion with additions and corrections. A  hearing on the present motion is set for July 18, 2024, along with a case  management conference/status conference re: ADR. ANALYSIS The  County moves for summary judgment or adjudication on Plaintiff’s entire action.  For the following reasons, the court DENIES the County’s motion as to  the first and ninth causes of action and GRANTS the County’s motion as to the  second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, tenth, and twelfth causes  of action. Legal Standard A  motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism  to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite  their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted  “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from  the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that  there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must produce  substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if  it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim  for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Untimely Reply Filings As  an initial matter, the court notes the County filed a reply, separate  statement, supplemental evidence, and objections four (4) court days before the  hearing on the present motion. Because these filings were not submitted at  least five (5) court days before the hearing as required by code, the court  finds them to be untimely and declines to consider them. (Code Civ. Proc., §  437c, subd. (b)(4); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354, subd. (a).) Further,  the court finds there is no prejudice to the County as the Court grants their  motion as to all causes of action except for the first and ninth. As to them,  the County cannot cure the deficiencies noted below in reply filings as reply  papers are generally not permitted to introduce new evidence not raised in the  original motion, especially when the opposing party has not had an opportunity  to respond to the additional evidence. (See Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218  Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537-1538.) Harassment (First, Second, and Third Causes of Action) The  County argues Plaintiff’s first cause of action for harassment based on race,  second cause of action for harassment based on age, and third cause of action  for harassment based on physical disability in violation of FEHA fail because Plaintiff  cannot establish severe or pervasive conduct. The County also argues Plaintiff’s  third cause of action fails because Plaintiff cannot establish Plaintiff had a  physical disability. The  court disagrees as to the first cause of action, but agrees as to the second  and third causes of action. Legal Standard FEHA  prohibits harassment of an employee “because of race, religious creed, color,  national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical  condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity,  gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military status.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).) “To establish a prima facie case of  harassment, [Plaintiff] must show that (1) [Plaintiff] is a member of a  protected class; (2) [Plaintiff] was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the  harassment was based on [Plaintiff’s] protected status; (4) the harassment  unreasonably interfered with [Plaintiff’s] work performance by creating an  intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are  liable for the harassment.” (Galvan v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37  Cal.App.5th 549, 563.) A hostile  work environment is created “when the harassing behavior is¿pervasive¿or¿severe.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.) In other words, the  harassment must be “severe enough or sufficiently pervasive to alter the  conditions of employment and create a work environment that qualifies as  hostile or abusive to employees because of their [protected status].” (Miller  v. Department of Corrections (2005) 36 Cal.4th 446, 462 (Miller).)  Thus, “an employee generally cannot recover for harassment that is occasional,  isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather, the employee must show a concerted  pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine, or a generalized nature.” (Lyle  v. Warner Brothers Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283 (Lyle).) In  determining if harassment is severe enough to be actionable, “[T]he objective  severity of harassment should be judged from the perspective of a reasonable  person in the plaintiff's position, considering all the circumstances.  [Citation.]” (Miller, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 462, quoting Oncale  v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc. (1998) 523 U.S. 75, 81-82 (Oncale).)  This is an inquiry requiring “careful consideration of the social context in  which particular behavior occurs and is experienced by its target” in which  “[c]ommon sense, and an appropriate sensibility to social context, will enable  courts and juries to distinguish between simple teasing or roughhousing . . .  and conduct which a reasonable person in the plaintiff's position would find  severely hostile or abusive.” (Ibid, quoting Oncale, supra,  523 U.S. at p. 81-82.) Race-Based  Harassment The  Complaint alleges the following instances of race-based harassment. In March  2020, DCFS promoted a new assistant regional administrator, who the Complaint  alleges was rumored to not like Black people, as Plaintiff’s supervisor.  (Complaint, ¶ 12(a).) The supervisor then began to harass Plaintiff, a Black  woman, by ignoring Plaintiff, looking at Plaintiff in a “funny” manner, and criticizing  Plaintiff’s work performance. (Complaint, ¶ 10(a), 12(a).) Plaintiff’s other  Black colleagues reported the same negative treatment by the supervisor.  (Complaint, ¶ 12(a).) In addition to these instances, the Complaint also  alleges other instances of harassment where supervisors berated Plaintiff, sent  incessant emails, and made endless corrections to Plaintiff’s work. (Complaint,  ¶ 12(c).) These other allegations, however, do not allege a connection to Plaintiff’s  race. In  moving for summary judgment, the County argues the following facts are  undisputed. In  deposition, Plaintiff was  only able to identify two (2) instances of race-related comments by DCFS  employees. (Defendants’ Separate Statement (DSS), ¶ 4.) In the first instance, Plaintiff  was watching a training video with other employees when a supervisor named Livi  Blanke asked if they were watching “The Woman King.” (DSS, ¶ 4.) Blake did not  explicitly state or imply that the remark was about Plaintiff. (DSS, ¶ 5-6.) In  the second instance, another supervisor named Salvador Cazares stated “she’s  really strong” in a telephone conversation when Plaintiff approached Cazares’  cubicle. (DSS, ¶ 4, 7-9.) The  County argues these two instances are insufficient to demonstrate severe or  pervasive harassment as a matter of law. (Motion, p. 8:11-9:4.) However, these  are not the only incidents of race-base harassment alleged. As detailed above,  the Complaint also alleges Plaintiff was subjected to other forms of race-based  harassment by a supervisor that included being ignored, stared at, and criticized.  (Complaint, ¶ 12(a).) While harassment is often verbal, the court recognizes it  may also include nonverbal conduct designed to send “an offensive message to  the harassed employee.” (See Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186  Cal.App.4th 860, 877, quoting Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th  686, 706.) In Plaintiff’s deposition, County’s counsel asked Plaintiff to  “please tell me every derogatory or negative comment anyone has ever made to  you about your race.” (DSS, ¶ 4; MSJ, Ex. 2, p. 38:23-25.) The County’s counsel  also stated, “you need to tell me the comments that you claim were made to you  by anyone at the County of Los Angeles related to your race.” (DSS, ¶ 4; MSJ,  Ex. 2, p. 48:7-9.) Nowhere in the cited portions of the deposition, however,  does the County’s counsel inquire about Plaintiff’s other non-verbal allegations  of harassing conduct. The  failure to address a material allegation in the pleadings by a moving party  defendant is fatal to a motion for summary judgment or adjudication on that cause  of action or issue. (See Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173  Cal.App.4th 156, 171.) This is because the allegations in the pleading frame  the material facts at issue and the failure to address these allegations  constitutes a failure to establish an absence of triable material facts. (Id.,  at p. 172-173.) Here, the County’s motion and separate statement both avoid discussion  of Plaintiff’s other harassment allegations. Because the County does not  address them, the court finds the County cannot establish an absence of triable  material facts as to this cause of action. Accordingly,  the County’s motion is DENIED as to the first cause of action for harassment based  on race. Age-Based Harassment The  Complaint alleges Plaintiff’s supervisors frequently implied Plaintiff was  unable to carry out simple work tasks due to Plaintiff’s age. (Complaint, ¶ 12(e).)  Although the Complaint also alleges other instances of harassment where  supervisors berated Plaintiff, sent incessant emails, and made endless  corrections to Plaintiff’s work, the Complaint fails to allege any connection  to Plaintiff’s age. (Complaint, ¶ 12(c).) In  moving for summary judgment, the County argues the following facts are  undisputed. In  deposition, Plaintiff was  only able to identify one instance of comments being made about Plaintiff’s  age. (DSS, ¶ 14.) In March 2020, Plaintiff stated Plaintiff’s supervisor,  Kimberly Cardozo, told Plaintiff that Plaintiff needed to retire and provided Plaintiff  information on how to do so. (DSS, ¶ 13-14.) The  County argues this remark falls far short of stating a claim for age-based  harassment. (Motion, p. 9:7-9.) The County asserts that there can be no  arguable claim that a single request to retire constitutes pervasive  harassment. And as to severity, the circumstances of this remark do not support  such a determination. When Cardozo made the comment, Plaintiff was in Cardozo’s  office. (MSJ, Ex. 2, p. 54:14-22, 578:6-10.) Plaintiff found the comment  “disturbing” because Cardozo did not know Plaintiff. (MSJ, Ex. 2, p. 54:20-22.)  Based on these facts, however, the court   finds no reasonable factfinder could determine a single request to  retire from a supervisor to an employee constitutes severe age-based  harassment. Because the County has established an absence of triable material  facts, the burden now shifts to Plaintiff to establish the existence of a  triable issue of fact. In opposition,  Plaintiff’s separate statement notes Cardozo was aware Plaintiff had  technological issues. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement (PSS), ¶ 13.) In support  of this fact, Plaintiff cites to Cardozo’s deposition where Cardozo stated, “[f]rom  what I'm aware of, when [Plaintiff] was shown how to navigate a certain program  or go into a certain area in the computer, when she was shown, she didn't  retain the information to repeat that task.” (Opp., Ex. B, p. 259:8-11 [e.p.  125].) It is unclear to the court how this fact establishes Plaintiff was  facing age-based harassment. Because Plaintiff’s separate statement failed to  identify any other instance of age-based harassment directed at Plaintiff, the  court finds Plaintiff failed to establish an issue of triable fact that defeats  the County’s motion on the claim of age-based harassment. Accordingly,  the County’s motion is GRANTED as to the second cause of action for age-based harassment. Physical Disability-Based Harassment The  Complaint alleges Plaintiff requires a stand-up desk and special computer  screen as recommended by Plaintiff’s doctor. (Complaint, ¶ 10(c).) In January  2022, the Complaint alleges DCFS replaced Plaintiff’s desktop computer with a  Chromebook which prevented Plaintiff from utilizing the stand-up desk and  special computer screen. (Complaint, ¶ 12(h).) The Complaint does not allege  any other instance of harassment that was based on Plaintiff’s alleged physical  disability. In  moving for summary judgment, the County argues the Complaint fails to allege a  protected physical disability. (Motion, p. 9:17-10:1.) Because the pleadings frame  the issues, a moving party defendant is not required “to negate elements of  causes of action plaintiffs never pleaded.” (Melican v. Regents of  University of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 182 (Melican).)  “Physical disability under FEHA includes ‘[h]aving any physiological disease,  disorder, condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss that’ both  affects one or more of the body's major systems and ‘[l]imits a major life  activity.’” (Soria v. Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5  Cal.App.5th 570, 584, quoting Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (m)(1).) Here,  while the Complaint alleges Plaintiff needs accommodations, the court  finds the Complaint entirely fails to allege  the physical disability requiring those accommodations. Because no physical  disability is alleged, the County is not required to establish an absence of  triable material fact on this issue as this cause of action is facially  deficient. Accordingly,  the County’s motion is GRANTED as to the third cause of action for  physical-disability-based harassment. Discrimination (Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of  Action) The  County contends Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for racial discrimination, fifth  cause of action for age discrimination, and sixth cause of action for physical  disability discrimination in violation of FEHA fail because Plaintiff cannot  establish a prima facie case, the County had legitimate reasons for its  actions, and Plaintiff lacks substantial evidence of pretext. The court agrees. Legal Standard A  prima facie case of discrimination “requires a showing that: (1) the plaintiff  was a member of a protected class; (2) the plaintiff was qualified for the  position sought or was performing competently in the position held; (3) the  plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action; and (4) the adverse action  occurred under some circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive.” (Hoglund  v. Sierra Nevada Memorial-Miners Hospital (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 56, 74.) If  an employee establishes a prima facie case of discrimination, the employer must  then establish “its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory  reason.” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355-356.) Once  it has done so, “plaintiff must then have the opportunity to attack the employer's  proffered reasons as pretexts for discrimination, or to offer any other  evidence of discriminatory motive.” (Id., at p. 356.) It is insufficient  to “simply show the employer’s decision was wrong, mistaken, or unwise. Rather,  the employee ‘must demonstrate such weaknesses, implausibilities,  inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer’s proffered  legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable factfinder could rationally  find them unworthy of credence, [citation], and hence infer that the employer  did not act for the [ ... asserted] non-discriminatory reasons.’ [Citations.]”  (Horn v. Cushman & Wakefield Western, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th  798, 807, quoting Hersant v. Department of Social Services (1997) 57  Cal.App.4th 997, 1005.) Discussion Despite  alleging three separate causes of action for discrimination, the Complaint only  uses the word “discrimination” once in its factual allegations. (See Complaint,  ¶ 8-16.) In paragraph 12(k), the Complaint alleges DCFS retaliated, harassed,  and discriminated against Plaintiff when they investigated Plaintiff for  allegedly working overtime without authorization. (Complaint, ¶ 12(k).) The  Complaint fails, however, to draw any nexus between the investigation and Plaintiff’s  race, age, or physical disability. Since the pleadings frame the issues, a  moving party defendant is not required “to negate elements of causes of action  plaintiffs never pleaded.” (Melican, supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at  p.182.) Accordingly, the court finds the Complaint fails to allege a prima  facie case as to these causes of action, and the County is not required to  establish an absence of triable material fact. Therefore,  the County’s motion is GRANTED as to these causes of action. Failure to Accommodate (Seventh and Eighth Causes of  Action) The  County maintains Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for failure to engage in  the interactive process and eighth cause of action for failure to make  reasonable accommodations in violation of FEHA fail because Plaintiff cannot  establish the existence of a physical disability. As noted above, the Court has  found the Complaint failed to adequately allege Plaintiff suffered from a  physical disability that would entitle Plaintiff to accommodations pursuant to  FEHA. Accordingly,  the County’s motion is GRANTED as to these causes of action. Failure to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination  (Ninth Cause of Action) The  County argues Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for failure to prevent  harassment and discrimination in violation of FEHA fails because Plaintiff’s  underlying harassment and discrimination claims lack merit. The court finds  this argument fails for the same reasons noted above since the court has found that  a viable cause of action for race-based harassment remains. Accordingly,  the County’s motion is DENIED as to this cause of action. Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Tenth Cause of  Action) The  County contends Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action for retaliation in violation  of FEHA fails because Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case and has no  evidence of pretext. The court agrees. Legal Standard A  cause of action for retaliation pursuant to FEHA requires that “(1) the  plaintiff establish a prima facie case of retaliation, (2) the defendant  articulate a legitimate nonretaliatory explanation for its acts, and (3) the  plaintiff show that the defendant's proffered explanation is merely a pretext  for the illegal termination.” (Flait v. North American Watch Corp. (1992)  3 Cal.App.4th 467, 476.) “To establish a prima facie case, the plaintiff must  show that [plaintiff] engaged in a protected activity, his employer subjected  him to adverse employment action, and there is a causal link between the protected  activity and the employer's action.” (Id., at p. 476.) Plaintiff’s Prima Facie Case The  Complaint alleges Plaintiff engaged in protected activity by reporting the  alleged harassment and discrimination that was committed by DCFS supervisors.  (Complaint, ¶ 11(a).) The Complaint also alleges Plaintiff engaged in protected  activity by reporting DCFS supervisors to law enforcement for forging Plaintiff’s  name on court documents. (Complaint, ¶ 11(b).) The Complaint then alleges the  following adverse employment actions. First, after Plaintiff reported a  supervisor’s alleged race-based harassment in 2020, Plaintiff alleges the  supervisor retaliated against Plaintiff by increasing Plaintiff’s workload with  difficult cases to paint a false picture of incompetence. (Complaint, ¶ 12(b).)  In May 2021, Plaintiff was transferred to another DCFS section where new  supervisors allegedly continued to harass Plaintiff by berating Plaintiff,  sending incessant emails, and making endless or meritless corrections to Plaintiff’s  work. (Complaint, ¶ 12(c), (d).) When Plaintiff reported this additional  harassment, Plaintiff alleges DCFS supervisors retaliated by falsely accusing Plaintiff  of fraudulently signing reports and disciplining Plaintiff with desk duty.  (Complaint, ¶ 12(f), (g).) In  January 2022, Plaintiff alleges DCFS further retaliated against Plaintiff by  replacing Plaintiff’s desktop computer with a Chromebook which prevented Plaintiff  from using a stand-up desk and special screen that were recommended by Plaintiff’s  doctor. (Complaint, ¶ 12(h).) In May 2022, Plaintiff alleges DCFS suspended Plaintiff  without pay for thirty (30) days in retaliation for Plaintiff making  complaints, reporting fraudulent reports to law enforcement, and resisting  ongoing harassment. (Complaint, ¶ 12(j).) Finally, in the summer of 2022, DCFS  allegedly retaliated against Plaintiff by subjecting Plaintiff to an internal  affairs investigation for alleged misconduct and working unauthorized overtime.  (Complaint, ¶ 12(j), (k).) While the Complaint fails to allege a causal  connection between Plaintiff’s protected activity and the alleged harassment  that occurred after being transferred in May 2021, the Complaint does allege  the other adverse employment actions were the result of Plaintiff’s complaints.  (Complaint, ¶ 12(b), (f)-(k).) In  moving for summary judgment, the County contends Plaintiff cannot establish a  prima face case because the above alleged actions do not constitute adverse  employment actions as a matter of law. (Motion, p. 12:9-14:15.) “[A]n adverse  employment action must materially affect the terms, conditions, or privileges  of employment to be actionable.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)  36 Cal.4th 1028, 1052.) This “determination of whether a particular action or  course of conduct rises to the level of actionable conduct should take into  account the unique circumstances of the affected employee as well as the  workplace context of the claim.” (Ibid.) The first instances of alleged  adverse employment actions the County addresses are Plaintiff’s claims of  increased workload after the first complaints of race-based harassment and the  alleged fraudulent signing of a report. (Motion, p. 12:25-13:9.) The  County contends these are insubstantial acts, citing to McRae v. Department  of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 142 Ca.App.4th 377 (McRae).  In that case, the court noted an employer’s retaliatory actions must have a “have  a substantial and material adverse effect on the terms and conditions of the  plaintiff's employment.” (Id., at p. 387.) The court in McRae goes  on to note “that in many cases, the employee is affected by a series of  employment actions, at least some of which might not, in and of themselves,  constitute a material change in the terms or conditions of employment. In such  cases, it is appropriate to consider the plaintiff's allegations collectively  under a totality of the circumstances approach.” (Id., at p. 387-388.) Here,  even if these individual actions were insufficient to change the terms and  conditions of Plaintiff’s employment, the court declines to consider them in a  vacuum and considers them further below. While the County also addresses the  claims that DCFS staff frequently corrected Plaintiff’s work and overruled Plaintiff’s  recommendations, the court notes these allegations need not be addressed since the  Complaint fails to allege how they were the result of any protected activity by  Plaintiff. Next,  the County contends Plaintiff’s transfers were not adverse employment actions. (Motion,  p. 13:10-18.) The Complaint does not allege, however, that they were, but instead  suggests the transfers were requested by Plaintiff to remedy the ongoing  alleged harassment. (Complaint, ¶ 12(b), (c), (f).) The County also contends  the replacement of Plaintiff’s desktop computer with a Chromebook was not adverse  because Plaintiff requested the Chromebook and continued to be accommodated.  (Motion, p. 13:21-28.) While the undisputed material facts establish Plaintiff  requested and received the Chromebook at issue, they do not establish Plaintiff  consented to the removal of the desktop computer. (DSS, ¶ 60-62.) Instead, they  established Plaintiff was under the impression that Plaintiff could have both  devices when Plaintiff made the request. (DSS, ¶ 62.) Thus, the court finds there  are no undisputed material facts to suggest Plaintiff consented to the removal  of the desktop computer. The  County also suggests the County accommodated Plaintiff because Plaintiff was  able to use the laptop in conjunction with a large screen and thus was still  able to use the stand-up desk and special screen. (DSS, ¶ 63.) But while the  evidence cited in support of this statement of fact establishes Plaintiff was  able to connect the Chromebook to a large screen, there is nothing about  whether (1) the Chromebook was compatible with the special screen and (2)  whether this set up worked with Plaintiff’s desk. (MSJ, Ex. 2, p. 36:10-21.) Last,  the County contends DCFS’s investigations of Plaintiff were not adverse  employment actions because Plaintiff did not suffer any actionable consequences.  (Motion, p. 14:3-15.) As to the first instance of Plaintiff being placed on  desk duty for the allegation that Plaintiff fraudulently signed court reports, the  County notes there is no allegation that Plaintiff was disciplined because of  the allegation and investigation. (Complaint, ¶ 12(f).) In support, the County  cites Brown v. City of Syracuse (2d Cir. 2012) 673 F.3d 141, 150.) But  while the court in that case held suspension with pay was not an adverse  employment action in that case, the court’s holding was based on the fact the  employer “acted ‘in a reasonable manner.’” (Ibid.) In support of its  holding, the court cited the following rule: “The relevant question is therefore whether the  employer has simply applied reasonable disciplinary procedures to an employee  or if the employer has exceeded those procedures and thereby changed the terms  and conditions of employment. Paid suspension during an investigation could  thus potentially be adverse if the employer takes actions beyond an employee's  normal exposure to disciplinary policies.” (Ibid, quoting Joseph v.  Leavitt (2d Cir. 2006) 465 F.3d 87, 92, fn. 1.) Thus,  the Complaint’s failure to allege Plaintiff was disciplined as a result of  DCFS’s first investigation does not prevent Plaintiff from alleging the  investigation and suspension itself was an adverse employment action. While the  County’s argument here does not address the allegation that Plaintiff was  suspended for thirty (30) days without pay in May 2022, the County last  contends DCFS’s investigation of Plaintiff’s alleged overtime violation was  also not actionable because it did not lead to discipline. But as noted above,  a lack of discipline does not bar an adverse employment action finding if the  investigation was conducted in an unreasonable manner. Here, the Court finds Plaintiff  adequately alleged a prima facie case of whistleblower retaliation.  As a result, the burden shifts to the County  to establish legitimate and non-retaliatory reasons for the adverse employment  actions taken above. The County’s Legitimate, Non-Retaliatory Reasons and Plaintiff’s  Response First Alleged Act of Retaliation: Increased Caseload In  contending DCFS had legitimate and non-retaliatory reasons for increasing Plaintiff’s  case load after Plaintiff filed complaints against Plaintiff’s supervisor for  alleged race-based harassment, the County points to the following material  facts. At issue are two different types of DCFS cases: continuing services (CS)  cases and AB-12 cases.  CS are cases in  which DCFS supervises children in the care of parents or reunification  proceedings. (DSS, ¶ 20.) AB-12 cases are cases in which DCFS helps prepare  young people for adulthood by providing services for budgeting, housing,  cooking skills, and education. (DSS, ¶ 21.) When  Kimberly Cardozo became Plaintiff’s supervisor in March 2020, Plaintiff’s caseload  consisted of AB-12 cases. (DSS, ¶ 23.) In the County’s separate statement, the  County states Plaintiff worked on CS cases and AB-12 cases before Cardozo  became Plaintiff’s supervisor. (DSS, ¶ 22.) This fact, however, omits relevant  details from the supporting evidence it cites. In Plaintiff’s deposition, Plaintiff  acknowledged handling CS cases in the past but stated Plaintiff had not been  handling them since 2012 or 2013 when Plaintiff began to handle AB-12 cases.  (MSJ, Ex. 2, p. 380:13-23.) Further, Cardozo’s declaration does not contradict Plaintiff  as Cardozo merely acknowledges Plaintiff had experience with both case types and  is silent as to when Plaintiff last handled a CS case. (Cardozo Suppl. Decl., ¶  7.) In  April 2020, Plaintiff accused Cardozo of assigning cases unfairly by giving Plaintiff  CS cases. (DSS, ¶ 24.) At the time, Plaintiff did not know the relative  workload of the other DCFS employees. (DSS, ¶ 26.) In March 2020, Plaintiff had  nine (9) AB-12 cases while the average caseload was eighteen (18) to  twenty-four (24) cases. (DSS, ¶ 28; Cardozo Suppl. Decl., ¶ 8.) Cardozo  assigned Plaintiff CS cases from another probationary DCFS employee who was  struggling because Plaintiff had the lowest case count. (DSS, ¶ 29-30.) Because  assigning CS cases to Plaintiff based on Plaintiff’s caseload is a legitimate  and non-retaliatory reason, the burden shifts back to Plaintiff to establish  this justification was a pretext for retaliation. In  opposition, Plaintiff contends Cardozo’s characterization of Plaintiff’s case  load is misleading and points to Cardozo’s deposition where Cardozo stated two  other case workers had cases in the mid-teens prior to Cardozo’s assignment of  the CS cases. (PSS, ¶ 28; Opp., Ex. B, 97:21-98:5.) This statement does not  contradict Cardozo’s statement about the average number of cases as Cardozo  also repeats in the same deposition that this was the average for Plaintiff’s  unit which consisted of at least thirty (30) case workers. (Opp., Ex. B, p.  97:1-6.) And the two case workers with cases in the mid-teens also had  additional cases assigned. (Opp., Ex. B, p. 97:12-19.) While Plaintiff contends  Cardozo’s testimony is misleading that the number of children in a case affects  its assignment, Plaintiff fails to establish how this statement is misleading. Plaintiff  argues Cardozo did not have to distribute cases assigned to the probationary  employee.  Instead, Plaintiff claims Cardozo  did so as part of a plan to save the probationary employee from being fired  which included assigning problematic cases to Plaintiff out of the unit’s  thirty employees. (PSS, ¶ 30.) The court finds these facts defeat Plaintiff’s  retaliation claim on this issue since it establishes Cardozo’s actions were taken  to manage a probationary employee’s workload, and not overburden Plaintiff. To  the extent Cardozo selected Plaintiff out of thirty other employees, Cardozo  justified this selection by claiming Plaintiff had the smallest workload. Plaintiff  failed to contradict this fact with evidence to the contrary. Accordingly,  the court finds there was a legitimate, non-retaliatory reason for Cardozo’s  case assignments and, as a result, Plaintiff failed to demonstrate these  actions were a pretext for retaliation. Second Alleged Act of Retaliation: Placing Plaintiff on Desk Duty and  Investigating Plaintiff for Allegedly Fraudulent Signatures on Reports In  contending DCFS had legitimate and non-retaliatory reasons for placing Plaintiff  on desk duty and investigating Plaintiff for alleged fraud after Plaintiff made  additional complaints of harassment and discrimination, the County points to  the following material facts. The County states Plaintiff filed two court  reports without authorization from Plaintiff’s supervisor, Christina Golan, and  also filed a court report without authorization that falsely stated a father  had a positive drug test within the last six months. (DSS, ¶ 53-54.) Filing an  inaccurate or incomplete court report is a breach of a case worker’s  responsibilities and could lead to the court making decisions that put a child  in danger or improperly deny reunification. (DSS, ¶ 55-56.) The Court finds  these facts sufficient to establish a legitimate and non-retaliatory reason for  placing Plaintiff under investigation. In  opposition, Plaintiff admits to filing court reports without authorization  because Golan refused to sign them. (PSS, ¶ 53.) But in support of the County’s  material facts, the County pointed to DCFS’s Procedural Guide which required  case workers to submit their case plan to their supervisor for approval. (MSJ, Ex.  25.) Plaintiff does not point to any separate authority that allowed Plaintiff  to bypass Golan’s approval. Thus, Golan’s refusal to sign Plaintiff’s reports  did not provide justification for Plaintiff to proceed. Plaintiff also contends  Plaintiff’s report about a father’s drug use was correct. (PSS, ¶ 54.) But even  if that one report was correct, DCFS’s investigation is still justified by other  reports Plaintiff filed without approval. Accordingly,  the court finds there was a legitimate, non-retaliatory reason for DCFS’s investigation,  and that Plaintiff failed to demonstrate this reason was a pretext for  retaliation. Third Alleged Act of Retaliation: Removing Plaintiff’s Desktop Computer Outside  of contending Plaintiff consented to the removal of the desktop computer by  requesting a Chromebook, the County fails to point to any material facts  establishing a legitimate and non-retaliatory reason for limiting Plaintiff to  one computer device. (See DSS, ¶ 58-63.) In fact, the County fails to  point to any policy that imposed such a requirement in their separate  statement. In opposition, Plaintiff presented evidence establishing other  employees were allowed to utilize a laptop and desktop computer. (PSS, ¶ 62.)  Accordingly, the court finds the County has failed to demonstrate there was a legitimate  and non-retaliatory reason for removing Plaintiff’s desktop computer. Fourth Alleged Act of Retaliation: Thirty-Day Suspension In  contending DCFS had legitimate and non-retaliatory reasons for imposing a  thirty-day suspension on Plaintiff, the County points to the following material  facts. On April 18, 2022, DCFS issued a notice of suspension to Plaintiff for  discourtesy, unprofessional conduct, failure to follow instructions given by  management, and submission of court reports without supervisor approval,  knowledge, or signature. (DSS, ¶ 74.) The Court finds DCFS’s notice of  suspension is sufficient to establish legitimate and non-retaliatory reasons  for Plaintiff’s thirty-day suspension. In  opposition, Plaintiff disputes the alleged conduct occurred. (PSS, ¶ 74.) Plaintiff  failed, however, to provide specific evidence and respond to each of the  allegations in DCFS’s notice. And as noted above, it is undisputed that Plaintiff  violated DCFS procedures by submitting case reports without a supervisor’s  signature. Because this is one of the grounds for the thirty-day suspension, the  court finds there was a legitimate, non-retaliatory reason for Plaintiff’s  suspension, and that Plaintiff failed to demonstrate this reason was a pretext  for retaliation. Fifth Alleged Act of Retaliation: Unauthorized Overtime Investigation In  contending DCFS had legitimate and non-retaliatory reasons for investigating Plaintiff  for alleged unauthorized overtime, the County points to the following material  facts. On June 8, 2022, Plaintiff’s supervisor, Lori Hirota, assigned Plaintiff  the “A.M. case” which involved a hospitalized newborn baby. (DSS, ¶ 79; MSJ,  Hirota Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff then conducted an after-hours investigation of  the baby’s location without Hirota’s authorization. (DSS, ¶ 80.) Hirota did not  authorize overtime for Plaintiff because there was no urgency as the baby was  already hospitalized and receiving medical care. (DSS, ¶ 81.) Plaintiff claimed  overtime for the investigation and was paid even though it was not approved.  (DSS, ¶ 82.) The County states Plaintiff was investigated for filing inaccurate  time sheets and an unauthorized overtime form. (DSS, ¶ 83.) The Court finds  these facts sufficient to establish DCFS has legitimate and non-retaliatory  reasons for investigating Plaintiff’s alleged unauthorized overtime claims. In  opposition, Plaintiff contends Plaintiff was not required to obtain Hirota’s  approval because an emergency had come up. (PSS, ¶ 80-82.) In a deposition, Plaintiff  states there was an emergency because the newborn “was not around when I got  the information regarding the welfare and the safety of a newborn child in the  hospital.” (Opp., Ex. A, p. 482:12-16.) But even if there was an emergency, Plaintiff  failed to point to any procedure or rule that allows Plaintiff to claim  overtime without a supervisor’s authorization. Furthermore, while Plaintiff’s  actions may be a defense to any discipline, there is nothing to suggest DCFS  was unjustified or unreasonable in investigating Plaintiff’s unauthorized  overtime claim. Accordingly, the court finds there was a legitimate,  non-retaliatory reason for DCFS’s investigation, and that Plaintiff failed to  demonstrate this reason was a pretext for retaliation. Conclusion Of  all acts of retaliation alleged by Plaintiff, the court finds the only act  without a legitimate and non-retaliatory reason was the County’s removal of Plaintiff’s  desktop computer. But the court finds that as a matter of law, this act alone  is insufficient to constitute adverse employment action. “A change that is  merely contrary to the employee's interests or not to the employee's liking is  insufficient” to establish an adverse employment action. (Akers v. County of  San Diego (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1455.) Instead, “plaintiff must show  the employer’s retaliatory actions had a detrimental and substantial effect on  the plaintiff's employment.” (McRae, supra, 142 Cal.App.4th at p.  377.) Here, no reasonable factfinder could find replacing a desktop computer  with a Chromebook had a detrimental and substantial effect on Plaintiff’s  employment. While Plaintiff may have preferred the desktop computer, DCFS’s  failure to comply with or to honor Plaintiff’s preferences alone do not rise to  the level of an adverse employment action that justified a retaliation lawsuit. Accordingly,  the County’s motion is GRANTED as to the tenth cause of action for retaliation in  violation of FEHA. Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5  (Twelfth Cause of Action) The  County maintains Plaintiff’s twelfth cause of action for retaliation in  violation of Labor Code section 1102.5 fails because Plaintiff did not comply  with claim presentation requirements. The court agrees. Legal Standard Pursuant  to the Government Claims Act, “no suit for money or damages may be brought  against a public entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to  be presented in accordance with Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 900) and  Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) of Part 3 of this division until a  written claim therefor has been presented to the public entity and has been  acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the board,  in accordance with Chapters 1 and 2 of Part 3 of this division.” (Gov. Code, §  945.4.) “A claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to  person or to personal property” must be within six months of the accrual of the  cause of action. (Gov. Code, § 911.2, subd. (a).) With certain exceptions,  “[t]he filing of a claim is a condition precedent to the maintenance of any  cause of action against the public entity and is therefore an element that a  plaintiff is required to prove in order to prevail.” (Del Real v. City of  Riverside (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 761, 767.) Discussion In  this case, it is undisputed that Plaintiff failed to file a claim for damages  with the County and did not allege compliance with the Government Claims Act in  the Complaint. (DSS, ¶ 97-98.) Plaintiff also failed to dispute these facts and  did not address this ground in the opposition. Accordingly,  because Plaintiff failed to comply with the claim presentation requirement, the County’s motion is GRANTED as to the twelfth cause of  action for retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the court  DENIES the County’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication as to  the first and ninth causes of action and GRANTS it as to the second,  third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, tenth, and twelfth causes of  action.