  Case Number:  23SMCV01268    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  P  
Tentative Ruling
Hannley, et al. v.
Mann, et al., Case No. 23SMCV01268
Hearing Date March
6, 2024 
Defendant Cabo’s
Demurrer to and Motion to Strike Portions of the Third Amended Complaint 
 
Plaintiffs allege
defendants engaged in a campaign of harassment and intimidation, targeting
plaintiff Paul Edalat, by sending a package to his mother plaintiff Mali
Saatchi, who sues demurring defendant Cabo, alleging Cabo conspired with other
defendants and/or is an alter ego of defendant Blaine Labs. 
 
On November 2,
2023 the court sustained Cabo’s demurrer to the first amended complaint due to failure
to adequately allege conspiracy or alter ego liability. He now demurs to the
third amended complaint (TAC), arguing plaintiffs still have not adequately
alleged conspiracy or alter ego liability. 
 
Conspiracy allegations against Cabo have not been
amended since the FAC. This is a tacit admission that Cabo cannot be held
liable as a co-conspirator of the other defendants. 
The TAC alleges Cabo “obtained actual shares and
control of Alternate Health in 2019 in return for allowing defendant Alternate
Health (AH) to publicly claim an association with Cabo[.]” TAC, pgs. 14-15. The
TAC alleges this was done to allow Cabo to claim AH was associated with his
Mexican business operations, thereby inflating its stock price. This allegation
is insufficient to establish any unity of ownership and interest between AH and
Cabo. 
The TAC includes no non-conclusory allegations showing
comingling of personal and corporate assets, use of corporate assets for
personal purposes, disregard of corporate formalities or other alter ego
prerequisites. Eleanor Licensing, LLC, et al. v. Classic Recreations, LLC (2018)
21 Cal.App.5th 599, 615. The TAC alleges AH was insolvent but acknowledges the
insolvency predated Cabo’s involvement with the company. The TAC alleges no
specific acts or omissions by Cabo that would allow the court to disregard the
corporate form and treat him as liable for AH’s conduct. 
Even if the TAC adequately alleged facts showing Cabo
was AH’s alter ego, the claims against Cabo are not based on any alleged
conduct by AH. They are based on a package allegedly sent by defendant Blaine Labs,
AH’s subsidiary. FAC ¶¶94-99, 135-138. The TAC contains no allegation that Cabo
was Blaine Labs’ alter ego, nor any authority that a corporation’s alter ego
can also be treated as alter ego of all that corporation’s subsidiaries. SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
Motion to Strike 
Because the demurrer has been sustained without leave
to amend as to all causes of action alleged against defendant Cabo, the motion
to strike is MOOT. 