 Case Number:  23NWCV01610    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  C China Auto Parts vs Wei Xu, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01610
Hearing Date: May 7, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#4
Tentative Ruling 
Defendants Wei Xu and Yanping Li’s Motion to
Set Aside Default is GRANTED.  The
Proposed Answer attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Edward Lu is not
deemed filed as of this date.  Defendants
are ORDERED to separately file the Proposed Answer within 5 court days.  
Defendants to give notice. 
 
Defendants Wei Xu and Yanping Li (“Defendants”) move to set
aside entry of default on the grounds that there was no actual notice of the summons
(CCP § 473.5) and that the defaults were entered as a result of surprise,
mistake inadvertence or excusable neglect. (CCP § 473(b).)
Background 
On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff China Auto Parts (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint alleging breach of contract and related claims pertaining to
unpaid invoices.
Legal Standard 
CCP
§ 473.5(a)
“When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice
to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has
been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a
notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to
defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a
reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after
entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service
on him or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been
entered.”  (CCP § 473.5(a).)
Discussion 
On October 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Request for Entry of
Default against “Wei Xu, an individual, and Yanping Lim, and individual.”  Default was entered by the Court on the same
day.  On or about October 13, 2023,
Defendants received copies of the Request for Entry of Default, but because the
envelopes were incorrectly addressed to “Wei Xe” and “Yanping Lim,” Defendants did
not open the letters thinking they were not addressed to them. (Xu Decl., ¶ 6,
Ex. B; Li Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. B.) Defendants first received actual notice of the
lawsuit on or about November 1, 2023 when they received copies of the Application
for Default Judgment in the mail. (Xu Decl., ¶ 7, Li Decl., ¶ 7.)  The instant motion to set aside default was
filed on December 19, 2023.  
Because the motion was filed within 180 days of entry of
default, the motion is timely made. (CCP § 473.5(a).)
Plaintiff argues that it is unreasonable to believe that
Defendants did not open the mail containing the Request for Entry of Default
because the names on the envelopes were similar to the actual names of the
Defendants.  Plaintiffs also argue that
there is evidence Defendants evaded service because the Non-Service Report
indicates noises were heard inside the residence when service was
attempted.  Defendants counter that the
Non-Service Report indicates a driveway at the residence, but they do not have
a driveway. (Xu Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A; Li Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) 
The policy of hearing cases on their merits is
well-established. (See, e.g., Berman v. Klassman (1971) 17 Cal.App.3d
900.) Given the liberality associated with Motions to Set Aside Defaults, the
Court finds the Declarations of Wei Xu and Yanping Li are sufficient to warrant
relief. The law favors trials on the merits. (Rappleyea v. Campbell
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion to set aside default is
GRANTED.  
 
 
 
 
 