 Case Number:  19STCV19908    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  C Gilbert Dominguez, et al. vs Estes Terminals of
California, LLC, et al.
Case No.: 19STCV19908
Hearing Date: May 7, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#1
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Estes Terminals of California, LLC’s
demurrer to the third cause of action in Plaintiff’s Fifth Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendant Estes Terminals of California,
LLC’s Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Defendant, Estes Terminals of California, LLC (“Defendant”)
demurs to the Third Cause of Action for Violation of California Code of
Regulations, Title 8, § 1592(a) of the Construction Safety Orders on the
grounds that it fails to allege facts sufficient to establish a valid cause of
action.
Background
This is a wrongful death action. The operative Fifth
Amended Complaint alleges that on or about December 4, 2017, Decedent Gilbert
Dominguez (“Decedent”) was working at a trucking terminal owned and operated by
Defendant when, without warning, a tractor began to reverse towards
Decedent.  Because the tractor was not
equipped with a back-up safety alarm or other safety measures as required by
law, Decedent was entirely unaware of the reversing tractor.  The tractor struck Decedent, resulting in severe
and life-altering injuries which ultimately resulted in his death. (Fifth
Amended Complaint, ¶ 8.) 
The Fifth Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for:
(1) Negligence; (2) Premises Liability; and (3) Violation of California Code of
Regulations, Title 8, § 1592(a) of the Construction Safety Orders.  The newly added Third Cause of Action is
alleged against Defendants Estes Express and Estes Terminals.  
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a
complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading DOEs not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings which are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words,
phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (CCP §§ 435, 436 & 437.) A motion to
strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter,
or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (C.C.P. § 436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (C.C.P. § 437.)
Discussion 
The Third Cause of Action in Plaintiff’s Fifth Amended
Complaint alleges Defendant violated California Code of Regulations, Title 8, §
1592 relating to Warning Methods. 
Section 1592(b) requires vehicles operating in areas where their
backward movement would constitute a hazard to employees working in the area on
foot, and where the operator's vision is obstructed to the rear of the vehicle
shall be equipped with certain safeguards. 

8 CCR § 1502, which governs 8 CCR § 1592, states: “(a)
These Orders establish minimum safety standards whenever employment exists in
connection with the construction, alteration, painting, repairing, construction
maintenance, renovation, removal, or wrecking of any fixed structure or its
parts.”
Defendant Estes Terminals argues that Plaintiffs have failed
to allege an employment relationship between Decedent and Estes Terminals.  Plaintiffs do not dispute this.  Therefore, the demurrer is sustained on this
basis, and the Court need not address Defendant’s other contentions.  Because this is Plaintiffs’ Fifth Amended
Complaint, the Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.  
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the Third Cause of
Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
