 Case Number:  23NWCV00642    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  C Enriquez Materials & Quilting, Inc. vs
Esperanza Padilla, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV00642
Hearing Date: May 7, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#3
Tentative Ruling 
Counsel Debra Grimalia’s Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel for Plaintiff Enriquez Materials & Quilting, Inc. is GRANTED. 
Counsel to give notice. 
 
This motion to be relieved as counsel is brought by Debra
Grimaila, Esq., presently counsel of record for Plaintiff Enriquez Materials
& Quilting, Inc.
This is a breach of contract matter. 
As of April 29, 2024 this motion is unopposed. 
Good cause
exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may
withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon
presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and
cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct,
or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or
that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other
conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the
employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal,
that the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice
of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f)
breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2)
The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or
of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates
that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or
(4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and
freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in
good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will
find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal. 
The
attorney declaration demonstrates good cause for withdrawal based on a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. Counsel states that Plaintiff
was served via email at the same email address Counsel has been using to
communicate with Plaintiff for the last year, and as recently as a week before
the motion was filed.  Counsel indicates
that Plaintiff does not oppose the motion. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.