 Case Number:  23NWCV03158    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  C Novi Sohn, et al. vs Kia America, Inc.
Case No.: 23NWCV03158
Hearing Date: May 7, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#6
Tentative Ruling
Plaintiffs Novi Sohn and Rhiekyu Sohn’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production (Set One) is CONTINUED to
June 18, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Department SE-C. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
This action alleges that Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc.
(“Defendant”) violated California’s Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“Song-Beverly Act”) by failing to repair Plaintiffs Novi Sohn and Rhiekyu Sohn’s
(“Plaintiffs”) 2022 Kia Telluride vehicle (the “Subject Vehicle”). During the
warranty period, the Subject Vehicle contained or developed numerous defects
that Defendant’s authorized repair facility was unable to conform to warranty.
On November 23, 2023, Plaintiffs propounded Request for
Production of Documents, Set One. (Beck Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. 5.) 
The Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted
their meet and confer obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised
that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at informal
resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level of effort
at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith
attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more complex
discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be warranted. In
a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort may suffice. The
history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the
nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery requested, the
prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant. Judges have
broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and procedures are
appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
In Opposition, Defendants contend that Plaintiffs filed the
instant motion before the parties had an opportunity to the meet and confer.
Defendants assert that they requested Plaintiff’s availability to further meet
and confer, but that Plaintiffs instead filed the instant motion. (Beck Decl.,
Ex. 15 p. 3.)
Counsel are ORDERED to make further efforts to resolve the
issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court intervention is
needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the continued hearing date.
If counsel are unable to informally resolve their discovery disputes, then
counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT with a detailed outline of
the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is required. Counsel are also strongly
advised to review the standing CMC order issued in Department F for guidance on
the manner to handle disputed items. The joint statement must be FILED on or
before June 4, 2024.
 