 Case Number:  23NWCV03081    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  C Express Restoration Corp. vs Jamin Xu
Case No.: 23NWCV03081
Hearing Date: May 7, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m.
 
#5
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Jasmin Xu’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 30 days leave to amend. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background 
The Complaint alleges Plaintiff Express Restoration Corp.
(“Plaintiff”) possessed a “General Building Contractor”
license at all relevant times and is duly licensed by the California
Contractors State License Board to enter into construction contracts in the
State of California. (Complaint ¶ 3.) Between March 31, 2023 and April 12,
2023, pursuant to a written work authorization contract dated April 4, 2023,
Plaintiff performed work of improvement consisting of demolition, water
remediation, dryout, and mold mitigation work at Defendant Jasmine Xu’s
(“Defendant”) property. (Complaint ¶ 8.) Plaintiff has substantially completed
all work it was required to perform, but Defendant has refused to pay
Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶¶ 9-10.) The reasonable value of the work performed by
Plaintiff is $29,771.11. (Complaint ¶ 11.) 

Based thereon, Plaintiff brings causes of action for: (1) Foreclosure
of Mechanic’s Lien; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Work, Labor, and Materials Furnished;
and (4) Unjust Enrichment.  
Defendant demurs to all causes of action set forth in the
Complaint on the grounds that 1) Plaintiff was not licensed to perform the work
for which it is seeking compensation; 2) recovery is barred because Plaintiff
commenced work before providing Defendant a mandatory notice of consumers’
rights to cancel; 3) the contract is unenforceable because it fails to include
essential terms necessary for the formation of a home improvement contract; and
4) as to the First Cause of Action, Plaintiff lacks capacity to sue because the
Mechanic’s Lien was not timely filed and not properly served.
Judicial Notice 
Defendant requests judicial notice of 1) Plaintiff’s verified
certificate of licensure as it appeared on July 31, 2023, and 2) the Contractor’s
State License Board’s License Detail for License No. 1084141 for Plaintiff as
it appeared on December 15, 2023.  
The Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a complaint has been filed may
object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground
that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an entire complaint, or to any
causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion 

The
Contractors’ State License Law prohibits unlicensed contractors from
maintaining any action or recovering in law or equity in any action for
compensation for performance of any act or contract where a license is
required.  Under Business and Professions Code § 7031, “no person
engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of a contractor, may bring or
maintain any action, or recover in law or equity in any action, in any court of
this state for the collection of compensation for the performance of any act or
contract where a license is required by this chapter without alleging that they
were a duly licensed contractor at all times during the performance of that
act or contract …” (Bus. & Prof. Code §¿7031(a),
italics added.) 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff is barred from seeking compensation because Plaintiff was not licensed
at all times Plaintiff performed work for Defendant.  Plaintiff’s verified certificate of licensure
indicates Plaintiff’s contractor license has lacked a qualifying individual
since January 1, 2023, was suspended as of April 1, 2023, and has remained
suspended as of July 31, 2023. (RJN, Exhibits 1-2.) According to Defendant, the
demurrer should be sustained because Plaintiff’s assertion that “[a]t all relevant times, Plaintiff possessed a
“General Building Contractor” license” is contradicted by publicly available
records. (CCP § 430.30.) Plaintiff disputes that the nature of the work
performed required a contractor’s license. 
Plaintiff argues it performed no demolition work, structural
alterations, or reconstruction work requiring a contractor’s license. 
Under Business
and Professions Code § 7026, “a contractor is any person who undertakes to
or offers to undertake to, or purports to have the capacity to undertake to, or
submits a bid to, or does himself or herself or by or through others, construct,
alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish
any building, highway, road, parking facility, railroad, excavation or other
structure, project, development or improvement, or to do any part thereof …” (Bus. & Prof. Code §¿7026, italics added.) 
As alleged in the Complaint,
the nature of the work performed by Plaintiff requires a contractor’s
license.  Plaintiff performed “certain
labor, services, equipment and materials, to be used and which were actually
used in that certain work of improvement consisting demolition [sic],
water remediation, dryout, and mold mitigation work at the Property …”
(Complaint ¶ 8, italics added.) Plaintiff also alleges, “The whole of the
Property described herein upon which said construction work is located
is necessary and required for the convenient use of said work of improvement.”
(Complaint ¶ 16, italics added.) Therefore, as alleged, Plaintiff’s recovery is
barred because Plaintiff was not licensed at all times Plaintiff performed work
which required a contractor’s license. 
Because the demurrer to the Complaint is sustained on this basis, the
Court need not address Defendant’s remaining contentions.  
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer Is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.  