

Hearing
Date:              June 3, 2024
Case
Name:                 Bob Mizer
Foundation, Inc. v. CultureEdit, LLC
Case
No.:                    24STCV06756
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving Party:             Defendant CultureEdit, LLC

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Bob Mizer Foundation, Inc.

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending resolution of the arbitration.

 
In this breach
of contract action filed on March 18, 2024, Plaintiff Bob Mizer Foundation, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed
a complaint against
Defendant CultureEdit, LLC (Defendant). The
Complaint seeks relief based on the parties’ contract wherein Defendant CultureEdit was to
act as Plaintiff’s agent in securing licenses for the use of Plaintiff’s intellectual
property. 
 
            On
May 6, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
parties’ arbitration agreement. In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant
failed to carry its burden of showing the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement and that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. 
 
            The
motion to compel arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending the
outcome of arbitration. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
Existence of a Valid Agreement
 
In ruling on
a motion to compel arbitration, a court must determine two threshold matters:
first, whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists; and second, whether that
agreement encompasses the dispute at issue. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)   
 
            On September
29, 2017, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into an agreement under which Defendant
CultureEdit was appointed as Plaintiff’s agent and agreed to perform certain
services related to Plaintiff’s intellectual property. (Andreasson Decl., ¶ 4;
Compl., ¶ 8, Ex. A.) Under the Agreement, Defendant CultureEdit was given the
authority “to solicit and negotiate all offers from third parties” relating to
the licensing/use of Plaintiff’s intellectual property, and “to seek to obtain
agreements with third parties” relating to the licensing/use of such works. (Andreasson
Decl., ¶ 4; Compl., ¶ 8, Ex. A, ¶ 2.) In exchange, Defendant CultureEdit was
compensated in the form of commissions on these royalties and revenues, and was
“entitled to deduct and retain the commission[s] from the revenues [it]
collected” under these third-party agreements before forwarding the remainder
to Plaintiff. (Andreasson Decl., ¶ 4; Compl., ¶ 8, Ex. A, ¶ 4(a) & (c).)
The Complaint alleges that Defendant failed to perform on this Agreement. 
 
            Relevant to
this motion, Paragraph 9 of the Agreement provides that that “all disputes
arising hereunder [are] to be resolved by binding arbitration in accordance
with the JAMS Streamlined Arbitration Rules and Procedures.” (Andreasson Decl.,
¶ 4; Compl., ¶ 8, Ex. A, ¶ 9.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has failed to present any evidence of
existence of the Agreement and thus failed to carry its initial burden on this
motion to compel arbitration. In making this argument, Plaintiff first argues
that Defendant has failed to attach any Agreement or quote the specific
language. However, the moving papers adequately demonstrate the existence of an
arbitration agreement, which the papers note is attached to Plaintiff’s
Complaint and forms the basis of Plaintiff’s claims. (Andreasson Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiff also relies on the holding
in Domestic
Linen Supply Co., Inc. v. L J T Flowers, Inc. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 180 to argue
that there was no meeting of the minds on the arbitration provision because the
arbitration provision hidden
in tiny font, in the middle of a very large section labeled “Miscellaneous” and
buried in a prolix of legal terms. (Opp., 5:5-6.) 
 
            In Domestic
Linen Supply Co., Inc. v. L J T Flowers, Inc., the court
held no arbitration agreement had been formed where arbitration clause was
buried in a “thicket of fine print” on the back page of the contract, after the
signature line. (Id. at 185.)
 
            The
facts here are entirely distinguishable. Unlike in Domestic
Linen Supply, the arbitration provision is directly above the
signature lines in the same font size as all the other provisions. In contrast,
in Domestic Linen Supply Co., Inc. v. L J T Flowers, Inc., the
arbitration provision was
located on the back side of the contract whereas the parties’ signatures were
located on the front; further, the back page was “filled from top to bottom
with closely spaced lines of small type” and with nothing to distinguish that
provision from any other provision. (Id. at 185.) 
 
             Based on the foregoing, Defendant
has carried its initial burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid,
binding arbitration agreements and that Plaintiff’s claims fall
within the scope of the Agreement. 
 
The Court next considers the
enforceability of this Agreement. 
 
Contract Enforceability 

 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the contract is unenforceable because it is both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. 
 
If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive unconscionability
must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they need not be present
in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are evaluated on ‘ “sliding
scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to’ conclude that
the term is unenforceable. [Citation.] Conversely, the more deceptive or
coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is
required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive fairness ‘must be considered in
light of any procedural unconscionability’ in its making. [Citation.] ‘The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party
asserting it.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the Agreement was offered on a take
it or leave it basis. (Bell Decl., ¶ 6 [“Like many consumer contracts that the
Foundation is presented, there was no negotiation as to any of the terms of
this contract. I do not have any background or training in the law. It was my
impression that this contract was being presented by Cultureedit as a “take it
or leave it contract.”].)
 
            This
argument is not well taken. The Agreement is not an employment contract or a
consumer contract. Most importantly, the reply evidence demonstrates Plaintiff
was in fact involved in the negotiations of this contract. (Andreasson Reply
Decl., ¶¶ 3-5, Exs. A-B.) 
 
            Plaintiff
also notes that the JAMS Streamlined Rules were incorporated but not attached
to the Agreement. However, standing alone, the failure to attach the
arbitration rules to an agreement is of minor significance in analyzing
procedural unconscionability. (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 676, 691–692.) In Lane, the court concluded that the
failure to attach the American Arbitration Association (AAA) rules did not
render an agreement procedurally unconscionable where the rules were readily
available on the internet, and the plaintiff had the means to access them.
Further, in Zullo v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 485–486,
the court concluded that the failure to attach the AAA rules added “a bit to
the procedural unconscionability” of the agreement. 
 
            Generally,
such an omission is unconscionable only when “the failure would result in
surprise to the party opposing arbitration.” (Id. at 690-91 [collecting
cases and distinguishing Harper v. Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal. App. 4th
1402].)
 
            The
remaining procedural unconscionability arguments are not well taken.[1]
While admittedly the arbitration provision is not clearly separated from other
provisions without its own heading, the Agreement is only three pages and all
one size font – that is, not hidden. Further, the parties were sophisticated
and the contract was negotiated. Therefore, Plaintiff’s argument of surprise is
unpersuasive. 
 
            Accordingly,
contrary to the argument in the opposition, there is not a high degree of procedural
unconscionability. Rather, Plaintiff has not identified any procedural unconscionability
in the Agreement and Plaintiff’s unconscionability argument fails for this
reason. (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243.)
 
Nonetheless, the Court will address
the substantive unconscionability argument, as well. 
            
With respect to substantive
unconscionability, Plaintiff argues the Agreement was substantively
unconscionable because it “forces” Plaintiff to pay arbitration fees it cannot
afford, citing Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77. 
 
Pointing to the streamlined JAMS
rules, Plaintiff notes that under Rule 26(a), “Each Party shall pay its pro
rata share of JAMS fees and expenses as set forth in the JAMS fee schedule in
effect at the time of the commencement of the Arbitration, unless the Parties
agree on a different allocation of fees and expenses. JAMS' agreement to render
services is jointly with the Party and the attorney or other representative of
the Party in the Arbitration.”
 
Plaintiff contends that streamlined
rules would require an initiation fee from the Plaintiff of $1,000 and likely
arbitration and administration fees that would “easily” cost over $100,000.
(Henning Decl., ¶ 3.) 
 
In Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc., 114
Cal.App.4th 77, the court held that “where a consumer enters into an adhesive
contract that mandates arbitration, it is unconscionable to condition that
process on the consumer posting fees he or she cannot pay.” (Id. at p.
89.) 
 
Outside of
employment claims, however, neither Gutierrez nor any other California
decision has found that an arbitration clause requiring a plaintiff to pay
arbitration costs is per se unconscionable. Instead, in Gutierrez and
Parada v. Superior Court (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1554, the courts held
that the substantive unconscionability of provisions in consumer (Gutierrez)
and financial (Parada ) agreements requiring the claimant to pay his or
her own arbitration costs must be evaluated on a “case-by-case basis,” with the
outcome dependent on the ability of the claimant to pay, the anticipated costs
of the arbitration, and the amount at issue in the arbitration. (Gutierrez,
at pp. 97–98; Parada, at pp. 1580–1581.) The consumer has the burden of
demonstrating the clause unconscionable on these grounds, necessarily by
submitting evidence on the relevant issues. (Gutierrez, at p. 97.)
 
As preliminary
matter, Plaintiff provides no legal authority that this agreement between two
business constitutes a “consumer contract.” 


Moreover, Plaintiff provides no
direct evidence of its financial condition. Rather, the evidence shows that – in
2017 – it had limited financial resources and only operated by volunteers
out of the basement of Plaintiff’s President, Dennis Bell. (Bell Decl., ¶¶ 1-5;
see also Henning Decl., ¶ 4 [asserting that he took the case pro bono “because
the Bob Mizer Foundation made clear that they were unable to pay for an
attorney in this litigation”].) This evidence is insufficient to show an
inability to pay arbitration costs. The evidence as to the likely amount of
arbitration costs and the amount at issue was equally speculative and
unsubstantiated. (Bell Decl., ¶¶ 1-5; see also Henning Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)
 
Based on the
foregoing,
Plaintiff has failed to meet its burden of showing the Agreement is
unenforceable based on either procedural or substantive unconscionability. 


CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. The motion to compel
arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration.


