  Case Number:  20STCV09554    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    September 9, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   20STCV09554 [consolidated case:
20STCV35557]
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Maria Lopez; Martin Gonzalez v. Matrix Service, Inc., et
al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Matrix Services, Inc. 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           September 9, 2024 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  Motions in Limine
 
Tentative Rulings:                     See below
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
              Plaintiffs
filed 9 motions in limine for the September 9, 2024 jury trial of this wrongful
death case.  Two of the motions are
unopposed.  Defendant Matrix filed 26
motions in limine, five of which are stipulated to by Plaintiffs.  Here are brief tentative rulings on those 35
combined motions, which the Court has abbreviated “MIL,” below:
 
1.      
On MIL P-1, grant in part to exclude the citation
and Cal-OSHA analysis / EE testimony (and Sanchez bars experts from
publishing what Cal-OSHA cited), but Deny MIL as to admissibility of the reg(s)
as a standard of care for comparative fault
              Reasoning:
Labor Code § 6304.5 bars admission of Cal-OSHA violations in WD actions (except
suits by EE vs ER), and bars evidence of Cal-OSHA EE testimony as expert
opinion or as to applicability of occupational health & safety standards.  Elser v. Uveges (2004) 34 C4th 915,
935-36 permits evid of a Cal-OSHA statute or regulation as a std of care for
neglig per se.  Matrix argues it can use
8 CCR §§3203 and 3328 to show Thorpe and Decedent were comparatively at fault.  The Ct finds Elser applies to any
party, not just a PL, who seeks to rely on statute or reg as standard of
care.  Experts on both sides can opine on
application of the regs to the facts in this case, consistent with Ev. Code §§
452 and 669.
 
2.           On
MIL P-2, Provided PLs stipulate that Christian is a well-adjusted child for his
age, GRANT MIL P-2 on 352 grounds
              Reasoning:
Matrix stipulates not to mention family law case or Sonia Soto's allegations of
sexual abuse of minor PL Christian G by Martin Gonzalez.  The Ct has 352 concerns about parsing out
bits and pieces of visitation and therapy sessions if both sides concur
Christian is well adjusted for a child his age , especially given the waiver of
non-economic damages.  
  Ct has Qs: (1) will
therapist be testifying at trial?  (2)
will grandparents or Sonia be testifying about how Christian acts in
visitations where grandparents are present?
 
3.           Grant
MIL P-3 per Ev Code § 1151
Reasoning:  Steps that ATC took after the death occurred,
to change what had tragically failed before, are a subsequent remedial measure,
which is excluded in negligence actions even if performed by a non-party. (Santilli
v. Otis Elevator (1989) 215 CA43d 210, 213-14.)  Magnante is a strict liab case, not a
negligence case, and compliance with industry custom is a negligence
concept.  If Matrix' expert relies on
ATC's manuals or its PRE-accident use of a jack stand plus bottle jack as
evidence of industry custom, such reliance is permissible as long as the Sanchez
issue and any Kennemur issue are overcome and (a) no mention is made of
ATC working on or completing the project Thorpe began at TORC, nor (b) that ATC
used a bottle jack with a jack stand at TORC after the subject incident.
 
4.           Grant
MIL P-4 in part and deny in part
Reasoning:  The fact that TORC vetted its subcontractor
JT Thorpe, its vetting process that resulted in Thorpe's selection, and
Thorpe's prior experience in lifting tank roofs are all admissible, but the
post-accident change in the grade or the grading system itself are
excluded.  There are negligence claims
and cross-complaints pending, and comparative fault of various actors is at
issue.
 
5.           Grant
MIL P-5 
Reasoning:  The lack of any detailed specifics bearing on
the reason project steward Madison was temporarily terminated 3 weeks before
the subject incident makes the vague conclusions of "lackluster
performance" and "not performing" to needs and standards a matter
of Section 352 concern to the Court.  The
Court finds the more prejudicial impact of speculation and confusion on
unspecified performance issues to substantially outweigh the marginal probative
value of such a vague basis for the brief layoff.  It appears Madison was not asked about the
details of the layoff or "lackluster performance" in his
deposition.   Since Madison was rehired
and was on the job on the day of the incident, having the jury wonder if
Madison was a generally "good" or "marginal" or
"poor" supervisor or was rehired solely because of union pressure
would be confusing and misleading, and his self defense of the collateral issue
of his own pre-incidence general job performance would unduly consume trial
time
6.           Grant
MIL P-6
Reasoning:  CACI 3965 will be given to the jury in this
case.  The facts, as distinct from
amounts paid or liened, that were addressed in the WCAB case may be presented
in the civil trial, but the basic principles of the collateral source rule bar
admissibility of the existence of workers comp coverage, payments, benefits,
lien, or proceedings.  Are death benefits
paid a set off against non-economic damages when economic damages are waived?  If so, the Court, not the jury, will address
the reduction of any jury award in a post-trial motion.
 
7.           Deny
MIL P-7
Reasoning:  A professional engineer for over 3 decades,
Bayles testified that he has training and experience in the design of petroleum
storage facilities and equipment that may be helpful to the jury on the design
defect claim.  He has been deposed so
both sides have advance information bearing on what he does and does not opine
about.  While plaintiffs are free to
challenge his qualifications and the factual basis for any opinions he may
give, on the record presented to the Court he should not be barred from giving
opinion testimony as he limited in his deposition and per Kennemur.
 
8.           Grant
MIL P-8
Reasoning:  The motion is unopposed and on its face the
motion presented prima facie proof that Mr. Marlowe lacks personal knowledge
and that he has no basis for laying the foundation for the business records
exception to the hearsay rule for the purported records of defunct company
Savatech.
9.           MIL
P-9 appears mooted by Plaintiffs' waiver of economic damages
Reasoning:  The motion is unopposed and appears to be
mooted by the Plaintiffs' decision to refrain from seeking or offering any
evidence of economic damages.  Since Mr.
Munson appears to have been designated to opine solely on economic damages, the
Court will seek confirmation from Matrix that Mr. Munson will not be testifying
at trial.
 
Defense MILS.
1.      
Grant MIL D-1 in part, deny in part
 
Reasoning:  27
photographs and 3 videos are excessive, cumulative, and the probative value is substantially
outweighed by the prejudicial impact such exhibits would likely have on the
jury.  The Court will consider allowing
up to 3 still photos and a single video, but the Court will not permit the
display to the jury of any video or still photo that shows the minor plaintiff
kissing a headstone or kissing a photographs of his late father
 
 
2.      
MIL D-2 re reptile theory / Golden Rule is
denied without prejudice.  
Reasoning:  The Ct will order both sides NOT to ARGUE
during Voir Dire or Mini Openings nor full Opening statements.   As for specific Voir Dire Qs, Ct will rule
on objections if, as, and when raised. 
Closing argument cannot be ruled on prospectively or in vacuum.  With no punitive damages claim in this trial
the Court will likely sustain an objection to voir dire questions or argument
by either side such as to "send a message" or that invites jurors to
personalize how they would feel or how much they would pay if a parent or son
in the juror's own family were lost
 
3.      
MIL D-3 is stipulated to by the parties.  The Court will permit voir dire as to
qualitative, not quantitative, measures of what a prospective juror could or
could not award were the evidence show plaintiffs' entitlement to a
"large" amount, or "big bucks," or similar characterizations.
4.      
MIL D-4 is stipulated to by the parties.  The Court will inquire if any lay witnesses
gave opinion testimony in deposition so the Court can be prepared in advance of
such witness' or witnesses' testimony
5.      
MIL D-5 is stipulated to by the parties, to
exclude reference to any “manufacturing defect”
 
6.      
MIL D-6 is denied without prejudice.  
Reasoning: The motion to
exclude exhibits or witnesses who were not disclosed in discovery fails to
address what specific evidence is sought be excluded, or what specific evidence
is sought to be offered, that is the subject of this motion.  No exhibit number, no identified witness, no
specific testimony is specified to be excluded. 
See Kelly v. New West Federal Savings (1996) 49 CA4th 659,
670.  If trial objection is raised on
thsi subject, counsel will need to be prepared with the SROG, FROG, and
verified response to lay foundation that the information was asked about and
was not provided 
7.      
MIL D-7 is stipulated to by the parties, to
refrain from offering testimony or argument about Matrix choosing profits over
safety
8.      
MIL D-8 is denied without prejudice, the hitch
ball connection motion.
Reasoning: While the Court
will sustain objections or grant motions to strike that an expert or lay
witness' proffered testimony calls for speculation, foundational facts for
expert opinions and for jurors to draw inferences which counsel can argue in
closings are permissible.  
9.      
MIL D-9 is stipulated to by the parties that
Plaintiffs will not have rebuttal witnesses or evidence.  The Court will reserve discretionary
authority to address this stipulation depending on developments during trial.
 
10.  
Mostly deny MIL D-10.  Granted as to Bates number TOPRC-1015 and
1016
Reasoning: The Court has
discretion to exclude particularly gruesome or inflammatory photographs, which
in the Court's judgment Bates numbered close-up photos 1015 and 1016 are.  But photographs depicting the jack stand
location before and after the incident that show blood on the floor of the tank
are not so inflammatory as to substantially outweigh their probative value in
showing Decedent's location viz-a-viz jack stand B, the support leg, the
airbag, and perhaps the top plate. 
Plaintiff must select a finite number of these photos to use in
connection with percipient and expert testimony; the Court is inclined to
permit two bloody photographs in color to display to the jury, such as one used
by expert Deyerl in his presentation and another to be used with another
witness.  
Court Q: is there a severed body
part such as a hand or a finger in any of the photos?
11.  
Deny MIL D-11 without prejudice as to inanimate object
comparisons like Mona Lisa
Reasoning: The Court will
rule on objections if, as, and when they are made during closing argument.  Argument is not evidence and the CACI on
non-economic damages instructs jurors that there is no anchor, no tether and
measurement to use in determining the amount of any award.  If PL's counsel elects to make an argument
that is contrary to the jury instruction, DEF counsel can point that out in his
closing
12.  
Deny  MIL
D-12
Reasoning:  Industry custom and usage are admissible
in negligence causes of action, regardless of whether the custom or use is by a
trade association, party or a non-party, and may bear on the foreseeability
element of the strict liability cause of action and the superseding cause
defense.  The Court addressed this issue
previously during the hearing on Matrix' MSJ. 
Matrix can offer evidence of the corporate structure, of the time
periods involved in the claimed prior use by a non-party that shares a similar
corporate name, and evidence of dissimilarity in jack stand designs.  It is for the jury to decide what weight if
any to give to the proffered evidence.
13.  
Deny MIL D-13 in part and grant in part
Reasoning:  Plaintiffs will be permitted to present
testimony from a finite number of persons who are witnesses to the relationship
between the remaining Plaintiffs and the Decedent.  The Court will likely grant Ev. Code §352 objections
to cumulative testimony from "me too" witnesses and to grant motions
to strike maudlin speeches from non-parties testifying to their own, rather
than the named Plaintiffs', 
relationships with the Decedent. 
Former plaintiffs will be barred from testifying as to their OWN lost
relationships with the Decedent.
14.  
Deny MIL D-14
Reasoning:  No precedent in California since 1966
prohibits a per diem argument.  Argument
is not evidence and CACI 3921 on wrongful death damages instructs jurors as
noted in the Court's tentative as to MIL D-11. 
The California Supreme Court reversed a trial court's refusal to permit
a per diem argument on general damages nearly 60 years ago, where the Court
indicated the converse argument is available to defendant's counsel "who
may employ the technique of dividing plaintiff's total demand into time
segments in order to illustrate how exaggerated or ludicrous the claim may
be."  (Beagle v. Vasold
(1966) 65 Cal.2d 166, 181.)  Justice
Traynor's dissent, while appealing, is not the law in this State.
 
15.  
Grant MIL D-15 in part, deny in part.  
Reasoning: Both parties may
offer evidence bearing on the relationship of Matrix Service Inc. to Matrix
NAC, perhaps as the Court characterized them (i.e., "sister"
companies) or in some other way to be discussed at the hearing.  Neither side may offer evidence of Matrix'
wealth, size, or financial condition, nor that Matrix Service Corp. is a
publicly traded company unless at a sequestered voir dire an individual juror
is questioned about her or his ownership of its stock.  With respect to Matrix PDM, the Court will
discuss with counsel whether that entity should simply be referred to as the
"engineering arm" of Matrix to avoid juror confusion as to corporate structure
and undue prejudice as to Matrix' size. 
But several witnesses referred to Matrix NAC and its claimed historical
use of the airbag-jack stand combination years ago, which bears on the
foreseeability issues discussed in MIL D-12.
 
16.  
Deny MIL D-16, with qualifications
Reasoning:  The Court generally allows use of PowerPoint
slides and exhibits that the parties stipulate to be admissible, during
openings.  The qualification to be
discussed at the hearing is that a party wishing to use Power Point slides,
diagrams, charts, easel pads, and the like must first show the demonstrative
item to the opposing side who will have an opportunity to object out of the
jury's presence.  If the item needs to be
edited to comply with the Court's ruling, the same shall be done before the
item is displayed.
17.  
Discuss MIL D-17
Reasoning:  Although this does not appear to be an
evidence preclusion motion, the Court will discuss what symbolic or other forms
of communication are intended to be used at counsel table or in the
gallery.  Certainly, a button with the
Decedent's photo on it would not be permissible.  What does the defense have reason to believe
might be done here?  How does Matrix
suggest the Court measure the level of crying by family members that the
defense considers to be excessive?
18.  
Deny  MIL
D-18
Reasoning: The Court will
allow witnesses from both sides to testify as to the design roles of the
participants in the subject product, and allow Plaintiffs to offer evidence
bearing on the role Plaintiffs contend that Matrix occupied with respect to the
products at issue.  The law imposes on
Plaintiffs the burden of proving the defendant's role, whether that be
manufacturer, designer, fabricator, retailer distributor or other role or
roles.  Defendants are at liberty to
offer competing or conflicting evidence with that proffered by Plaintiffs.  
19.  
Deny MIL D-19 re 3 witnesses’ testimony about prior
use of an airbag-jack stand combination
Reasoning: The points raised
by the defense motion all pertain to the weight, not the admissibility, of the
objected-to evidence. Evidence of industry custom and usage are admissible in
negligence causes of action, regardless of whether the custom or use is by a trade
association, party or a non-party, and may bear on the foreseeability element
of the strict liability cause of action and the superseding cause defense.  The Court addressed this issue previously
during the hearing on Matrix' MSJ.
20.  
Deny MIL D-20 without prejudice
Reasoning: The defense
motion to anticipate what Plaintiffs’ counsel may argue after 8-10 days of
testimony is premature, but helpful to alert the Court to a potential closing
argument objection.   If all  witnesses testify exactly as they did in
deposition, and if no reasonable inference can be drawn as to Matrix' actual or
constructive knowledge on what configuration JT Thorpe was using at the TORC
project, then the Court will rule if, as, and when such an objection is made during
closing argument.  If a witness testifies
differently at trial than he or she did in deposition, the opposing party is at
liberty to impeach the witness with the prior testimony.  
21.  
Deny MIL D-21  
Reasoning: There is no
specific witness testimony sought to be excluded by this MIL, and the motion
presupposes that despite comparative fault jury instructions and a special
verdict form that will include Austin, JT Thorpe, PLs' counsel might argue that
Matrix bears responsibility for Austin or Thorpe, and the Decedent.  If Matrix has a vicarious liability
instruction to propose the Court will consider that, but the Court will not bar
PLs from arguing that Matrix bears all or a lion's share of responsibility,
because it is the jury's role rather than the Court's to apportion liability
among the various actors
22.  
Deny MIL D-22 

Reasoning: This is a jury
instruction issue, not an evidence limiting motion.  The thrust of the motion to limit the parents’
recovery in a wrongful death case is a quote from a 1973 case, Riley v.
California Erectors, Inc. (1973) 36 Cal.App.3d 29, 32, from prior to the 1975
amendment of the wrongful death statute. 
In Riley, the limited issue on appeal was the admissibility of evidence
of the subsequent marriage of the mother of a deceased son.  A sentence from Riley was quoted in Perry
v. Medina (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 603, 608, a case where the issue on appeal
was the standing of the parent of an adult decedent, i.e., whether they had
shown financial dependency on the Decedent. 
Neither of these cases addresses the question of whether the jury should
be instructed that the parents of an adult decedent are limited in their
recovery of non-economic damages to a reasonable relationship to their “pecuniary”
loss.  Neither the BAJI nor the CACI instructions
on wrongful death damages include such a reasonable relationship test.  In the absence of further authority on this point,
the Court will not give such an instruction here.
23.  
Grant MIL D-23, which is unopposed
24.  
Discuss MIL D-24
Reasoning: The still photos and
video clips of Decedent with former plaintiffs have some marginal relevancy and
marginal prejudicial effect since the former plaintiffs are not parties and
thus their loss of relationship with Decedent is not compensable in this trial.  The Court will discuss with Plaintiffs'
counsel at the hearing a selected few of the videos and/or stills to display to
the jury as bearing on Decedent's involvement with children older than the 9 or
10 months of age that Christian Gonzalez was at the time of his father's death.
25.              
Discuss MILs D-25 and D-26, which were both filed
and served on Sept. 4, a mere 5 calendar days before the trial.  Have Plaintiffs been given adequate time to
file opposition?  Should the hearing on
this motion be held during the trial and before Deyerl testifies?  
 