  Case Number:  23CHCV01444    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  11/20/24




Case
  Name: Juan Mendoza and Elizabeth Iniguez Marquez v. FCA US LLC, San
  Fernando Motor Company d/b/a Rydell Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram, and Does 1
  through 10




Case No.
  23CHCV01444



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

NOVEMBER 20, 2024
 

MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV01444

 
Motion
filed: 8/9/24 
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant FCA US LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Defendant FCA US LLC’s Motion
for Summary Judgment as to Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action in the Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Juan
Mendoza and Elizabeth Iniguez Marquez (“Plaintiffs”) filed this Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act lawsuit over alleged defects in their 2020 Jeep Gladiator
with VIN: 1C6JJTEG1LL208648 (the “Subject Vehicle”), which was manufactured by
Defendant FCA US LLC (“FCA”). Plaintiffs
allege that they purchased the Subject Vehicle on March 12, 2022, entering into
a warranty contract with FCA. (Compl. ¶ 15.)
 
On May 16, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against Defendants FCA, San Fernando Motor
Company d/b/a Rydell Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram (“SFMC”),
and Does 1 through 10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Violation
of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty (against FCA), and (2)
Negligent Repair (against SFMC). Subsequently, both FCA and SFMC filed their
respective Answers to the Complaint on June 21, 2023.
 
            On August 9,
2024, Defendant FCA filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (the
“Motion”). On November 15, 2024, Defendant FCA filed its Reply Re Plaintiff’s
Non-Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
            No
Opposition papers have been received by the Court.       
 
ANALYSIS
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“A party may move for summary judgment in an action or
proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In
determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
“[I]f the moving papers establish a prima facie
showing that justifies a [ruling] in the [moving party’s] favor, the burden
then shifts to the [opposing party] to make a prima facie showing of the
existence of a triable material factual issue.’ [Citation.]" (See's
Candy Shops, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900,
quoting Rehmani v. Superior Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 945,
950.) “The defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
 
A.   
First Cause
of Action: Violation of Song-Beverly Act - Breach of Express Warranty
 
Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(1), provides, in
pertinent part, that “[i]f the manufacturer or its representative in this state is
unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle ...  to conform to the applicable express
warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either
promptly replace the new motor vehicle in accordance with subparagraph (A) or
promptly make restitution to the buyer in accordance with subparagraph (B).”
For the purpose of this section, “‘New motor vehicle’ means a new motor vehicle
that is bought or used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. ‘New motor vehicle’ also means a new motor vehicle
with a gross vehicle weight under 10,000 pounds that is bought or used
primarily for business purposes by a person ... or any other legal entity, to
which not more than five motor vehicles are registered in this state. ‘New
motor vehicle’ includes the chassis, chassis cab, and that portion of a motor
home devoted to its propulsion, ... [and] a dealer-owned vehicle and a
‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car
warranty .... A demonstrator is a vehicle assigned by a
dealer for the purpose of demonstrating qualities and characteristics common to
vehicles of the same or similar model and type.” (Civ. Code § 1793.22, subd.
(e)(2).) (Underlines added.)
 
In Rodriguez v. FCA
US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, review granted July 13, 2022,
S274625 (Rodriguez), the Court of Appeal upheld the trial court’s
finding that a two-year-old Dodge truck purchased from a used car dealership,
with 55,000 miles on it and a remaining unexpired limited powertrain warranty, did
not qualify as a ”new motor vehicle” within the definition of Civil Code
section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2). (Ibid.) The Rodriguez Court
determined that the phrase “other motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new
car warranty” applies to cars sold with a full warranty, not to previously sold
cars accompanied by some balance of the original warranty.” (Rodriguez, supra,
at p. 225.)
 
Here, FCA argues that
Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action fails because the Subject Vehicle was purchased
used, and therefore, following Rodriguez, no remedies are afforded under
the Song-Beverly Act for Breach of Express Warranty. (Mot. at p. 3.) FCA
submits evidence that Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle with 15,243 miles
on it at the time of the purchase from retail seller Autonation Chrysler Dodge
Jeep Ram Valencia on March 12, 2022. (Undisputed Material Facts “UMF” No. “1.”)
The CarFax Report for the Subject Vehicle indicates that it was previously
owned by an individual in Texas and does not indicate that it was sold to
Plaintiffs as a Certified Pre-Owned vehicle. (UMF No. “2.”) 
 
Moreover, FCA states
that it did not issue any new warranties with the sale of the Subject Vehicle
to Plaintiffs. (UMF No. “3.”) Similarly, Plaintiffs’ responses to its Special
Interrogatories, Nos. 10 and 11, did not allege any facts supporting any new
warranties were issued by FCA, nor include any documents indicating the same.
(UMF, Nos. “6,” “7.”) 
 
The Court finds that FCA has provided undisputed evidence
demonstrating that the Subject Vehicle was sold to Plaintiffs as a used
vehicle. The Court further determines that undisputed material facts support
the finding that no new warranties were issued by FCA to Plaintiffs at the time
of the sale of the Subject Vehicle. 
 
The Court acknowledges that, although Rodriguez is pending
review by the California Supreme Court, it remains citable for its persuasive
value and to establish the existence of a conflict of authority, thereby allowing
trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456. 
 
The Court finds the Rodriguez decision to be directly
applicable to the present facts. Based on Rodriguez, the Court concludes
that the Subject Vehicle does not qualify as a “new motor vehicle” under the
Song-Beverly Act. Consequently, any remedies sought by Plaintiffs against FCA
are unavailable. 
 
Accordingly, the Court determines that FCA has met its
initial burden to establish a prima facie showing that Plaintiffs cannot
establish their First Cause of Action. As a result, the burden now shifts to
Plaintiffs to demonstrate a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable
material factual issue.
            
            Plaintiffs,
however, have failed to submit an Opposition to the Motion, thereby waiving any
arguments in response to FCA’s claims. Furthermore, the Court has not received any
evidentiary objections to FCA’s UMFs, which the Court has thoroughly reviewed
and considered in reaching its conclusion. 
 
            Therefore,
the Court concludes that Plaintiffs have entirely failed to satisfy their
burden, as no Opposition to the Motion for Summary Judgment was filed.
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 

CONCLUSION
 
Defendant FCA US LLC’s unopposed Motion for Summary Judgment as to Plaintiffs’
First Cause of Action in the Complaint is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party to provide notice. 