 Case Number:  21STCV38636    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JOSEPH GLYZEWSKI, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  STEPHEN R DIXON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV38636  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DEPOSITION AND FURTHER PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 13, 2023  I.  Background  Plaintiff Joseph Glyzewski (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Stephen R Dixon (“Dixon”) and Stephen R. Dixon Trust (collectively, “Defendants”) for injuries Plaintiff suffered while on Defendants’ premises to repair the air conditioners located on the roof. Plaintiff alleges that as he walked down the ladder from the roof to the floor below, the door hatch immediately slammed shut onto Plaintiff’s body causing him to suffer injuries.  Plaintiff now moves to compel Dixon to provide answers to questions Dixon refused or was directed to not respond to, and to produce responses to Plaintiff’s demand for production of documents with the deposition notice. Defendants oppose the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply.  II.  Motion to Compel Deposition Answers and Production of Documents Timeliness Defendants, in opposition, contend the motion is untimely because it was filed 61 days after completion of Volume II of Dixon’s deposition. CCP § 2025.480(b) provides that motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. Defendants argue completion is the date the transcript was signed by the court reporter on March 3, 2023, and that because Plaintiff filed the motion 61 days later, the Court has no jurisdiction to order any further testimony or production of documents. Plaintiff, in reply, argues that the court reporter emailed notice that the transcript was available for review on March 6, 2023, and that the transcript should not be deemed closed when the court reporter may sign the transcript and not immediately send it to the parties. Plaintiff further contends the cases cited by Defendants are misplaced because it involved a subpoena of business records.  Where a party does not obtain trial court relief from the statutory deadline for filing a motion to compel further production regarding a deposition notice or subpoena, failure to move for further answers within the statutory time forecloses further relief. (Weinstein v. Blumberg (2018) 25 Cal. App. 5th 316.) Although discovery deadlines are mandatory and the court treats them as jurisdictional, a trial court may grant relief from deadlines to file motions to compel. (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code §§ 1005(b), 1010, 2025.480(b).) The Court finds no substantial or obvious prejudice from a 1-day delay. The Court therefore will consider the motion on the merits.   Deposition Answers If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document under its control, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.  (CCP § 2025.480(a).)  If the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.  (CCP § 2025.480(i).) The Court will address the issues in the order presented in Plaintiff’s separate statement.     Issues 1 - 3 Here, Issue 1 asked Dixon whether Plaintiff could have noticed that the springs were missing when he went up the hatch.  Issue 2 asked about Dixon’s maintenance program, and whether the door hatches required periodic inspection to see if they were in working order. Issue 3 asked whether Dixon felt that with proper inspection, somebody would have determined the safety springs were missing. Defense counsel objected the same to the above questions on grounds of speculation, expert opinion, and incomplete hypothetical. At a discovery deposition, all objections except as to the form of the question and privilege are preserved, and the testimony is to be taken subject to those questions.  A proper objection states the legal ground for the objection.  If the questioner wants an explanation of why the objection was made, counsel may ask.  If not asked, the objector should not explain objections, and the witness should answer.  If the objection is proper, it can be sustained, and the answer will not be used.  If it is overruled, the answer stands.  Instructions not to answer, ordinarily should only be made for privilege, work product, some privacy and trade secret objections.   The motion is granted as to Issues 1, 2 and 3.   Issue 4 Issue 4 asked whether Plaintiff’s counsel could ask Dixon, as the owner of the building, about safety and things that could have been done to prevent the incident, and anything that has to do with the door hatch at issue. Defense counsel did not lay any objections, and instructed Dixon to not answer the question. As explained in the Rutter Guide:  Objections: Because the permissible scope of examination is so broad (¶ 8:703 ff.), the grounds for objection to deposition questioning are limited; and those that exist must be pursued properly or are waived. [CCP § 2025.460(b); see Boler v. Sup.Ct. (Everett) (1987) 201 CA3d 467, 472, 247 CR 185, 187, fn. 1 (citing text)]  Again, there are no proper grounds for Dixon to refuse to respond to the call of the question. Furthermore, questions regarding the door hatch and any actions related to the management of the door hatch is relevant to the subject matter of this action. The motion is granted as to Issue 4.   Issue 5 Issue 5 asked a hypothetical of whether Dixon would still assume there was a problem with the door hatch if the hatch had a lock, was open, and no one told him to be careful. Defense counsel objected on the grounds that the question was argumentative, and instructed Dixon to not answer the question. For the same reasons provided in Issues 1-3, the motion is granted as to Issue 5.  Issue 6 Issue 6 asked about whether the rest of Dixon’s property was not considered to be Faith Air Conditioning or Wes’ jobsite. Dixon began his response, and defense counsel interrupted the response, instructing Dixon that there was no requirement for him to communicate that information.  As explained in the Rutter Guide:  Civility Guidelines:  — Once a question is asked, an attorney should not interrupt a deposition or make an objection for the purpose of coaching a deponent or suggesting answers;  …  — An attorney should not direct a deponent to refuse to answer a question or end the deposition without a legal basis for doing so;  — An attorney should refrain from self-serving speeches and speaking objections. [State Bar California Attorney Guidelines of Civility and Professionalism § 9(a)] (Cal. Prac. Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial Ch. 8E-12, §8:719.)   The motion is granted as to Issue 6.  Issue 7 Issue 7 asks whether Dixon agreed that Plaintiff could reasonably assume the door hatch was working when he went up through the roof and came down. Defense counsel objected on the grounds that it called for an expert opinion and legal conclusion, and instructed Dixon to not answer. The Court agrees that the call of the question asked for legal reasoning and sustains the objection here. The motion is denied as to Issue 7.  Issue 8 Issue 8 asks whether Dixon agrees that, based on Dixon’s conversation with Wes, the door hatch had nothing to do with Plaintiff’s scope of work on the day of the incident. Defense counsel stated “same objections” and instructed Dixon to not respond.  For the same reason as in issue 4, the motion is granted as to Issue 8.  Production of Documents As to the production of documents included in the deposition notice, Plaintiff sets forth good cause for the production of documents.  (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1) [“The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”].)   At issue are objections and a lack of production as to document requests 10-13 and 15-18. Defendant provided boilerplate objections each request and failed to provide code-compliant responses pursuant to 2031.230 and 2031.240.   Defendant is ordered to produce code-compliant responses by ______________and to produce all non-privileged requested documents in his possession on the resumption of the deposition.  (CCP § 2025.480(i).)   III.  Sanctions Plaintiff requests sanctions of $3,210 against Defendant and defense counsel pursuant to CCP § 2023.030. CCP § 2023.030(a) states: “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…”   As analyzed above, defense counsel’s conduct prevented the deposition from being completed, and his actions were not reasonable. Because the conduct of defense counsel, and not Dixon who was merely following the instructions of his counsel, is at issue, the Court will impose monetary sanctions on defense counsel only. However, a court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)  The Court awards Plaintiff two hours for the motion, one hour for the reply, and one hour to appear at the hearing at the reduced rate of $250 per hour, for a total attorney’s fees award of $1,000. Further, Plaintiff is awarded $60 for the motion filing fee as costs.  Sanctions are imposed against Defendant’s attorney of record only. Defense counsel is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through his attorney of record, in the total amount of $1,060, within twenty days.    IV.  Conclusion Plaintiff’s motion is granted as to Issues 1-6, and Issue 8 in terms of compelling Dixon’s responses. Plaintiff’s motion is also granted as to the production of documents request, 10-13 and 15-18, included in Dixon’s deposition notice. Because all the specific contentions were addressed, the Court declines at this time to consider Plaintiff’s request for a protective order preventing defense counsel from making objections other than privilege or form or any protective order in terms of conduct.  The parties must meet and confer to schedule the resumption of the deposition to be taken within 30 days. Plaintiff must give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service).    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 9th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   