 Case Number:  22STCV13226    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JAVIER GARCIA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  HAROLD H. PENA, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV13226  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 13, 2023  Plaintiff Javier Garcia (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, Carol D. Kellogg of Law Office of Carol D. Kellogg (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel. Counsel’s declaration does not provide the reason Counsel seeks to be relieved. Counsel only declares that her last communication with Plaintiff was on June 16, 2023, and that Plaintiff’s telephone number is now out of service. Without disclosing any attorney-client privilege information, Counsel must specify the basis for relief.  Further, Counsel declares she has been unable to confirm Plaintiffs’ address or locate a more current address after mailing the moving papers on Plaintiffs’ last known address with return receipt requested, calling the last known telephone number, and conducting an internet search. Counsel declares on previous occasions, her office would send correspondence at the address listed on the proof of service, and Plaintiff would respond to said correspondence. (Kellog Decl. ¶ 4.) However, counsel never received the signed return receipt from the U.S. Post Office in terms of correspondence mailed on July 26, 2023. (Id. at ¶5.) Aside from providing the reason for Counsel’s request to withdraw representation, if Counsel is unable to serve Plaintiff at a confirmed address, Counsel must serve the moving papers on Plaintiff and on the Clerk of the Court- located at Stanley Mosk Courthouse- pursuant to CCP §1011 and California Rules Court, rule 3.1362(d).   The motion is denied without prejudice.   Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 9th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    