

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed as of January 10, 2024                           [   ] Late          [   ] None 
REPLY:                     Filed late as of January 17, 2024                    [X] Late          [   ] None 
 
BACKGROUND
A. Factual

Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint alleges that at various times within one-year before
filing of this complaint, Defendant contacted Plaintiff, with its authorized
agent AWA Collections, in attempt to collect an alleged debt and reported
derogatory information on Plaintiff’s credit report regarding the alleged debt.
Around September of 2019 Plaintiff canceled his insurance policy with Defendant
in writing. Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant insisted that Plaintiff
provide proof of new insurance, and notwithstanding Plaintiff’s compliance,
Defendant continued to charge Plaintiff monthly premiums without notice.
Finally, the complaint alleges that Plaintiff did not owe the money to
Defendant which Defendant and its authorized agent, AWA Collections, were
attempting to collect from him. 
 
B. Procedural
On April 13, 2022, Plaintiff John Sloatman III (“Plaintiff”) filed a
cause of action against Defendant American Automobile Association, Inc. for alleged
violation of the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. 
On October 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint. 
On December 22, 2023, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff files in opposition. Defendant
writes in reply. 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant prays
for the Court to sustain its demurrer and dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint without
leave to amend. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s complaint fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendant as the
action is time barred under Civ. Code § 1788.30(f), that Defendant is not a
debt collector as defined under Civ. Code § 1788.2(c), and the insurance policy
is not a consumer credit transaction. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs prays for the Court to overrule the demurrer because Plaintiff
states sufficient facts to state a cause of action against the Defendant, the amended
complaint sufficiently alleges Defendant as a debt collector and that the
complaint was filed within the statute of limitations. In the alternative,
Plaintiff requests leave to amend if the demurrer is sustained. 
 
REPLY
 
            In reply,
Defendant continues to assert that Plaintiff has failed to provide evidence of
sufficient facts in support of his single cause of action because the statute
of limitation has run under the statute, that Defendant is not a debt collector,
and that collection of overdue premiums is not a consumer credit transaction
within the meaning of Civ. Code § 1788.2(e). 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
 “The primary function of a pleading is to give the other
party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise
properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa
Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.) As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 128.)
However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state
a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
II.        Discussion 
 
            A. Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
The
demurring party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading to resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.
(CCP § 430.41(a).) 
 
Here,
Defendant provides the Court with a declaration from its counsel, who states
that counsel for the parties engaged in a good faith meet and confer attempt
with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding areas of dispute with Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint. (Mark P. Lascola Decl. ¶ 4.) Specifically, Defendant’s
counsel states that, 
 
Following multiple telephonic
attempts to speak with Plaintiff’s counsel, I served and filed the Declaration
under Section 430.41 to obtain the 30-day extension of time to meet and confer
with counsel, on or about November 9, 2023. Plaintiff’s counsel, David B.
Levin, Esq., reached out to me on November 15, 2023, and we were able to begin
our meet and confer communications directly with one another via telephone on
November 21, 2023. 
 
On December 07,
2023, Plaintiff provided Defendant an additional 2-week extension to file a
responsive pleading. (Id. ¶ 6.) Subsequently, on December 21, 2023, Defendant’s
counsel communicated why they would be unable to informally resolve the issue
with Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint thereby necessitating the Demurrer. (Id.
¶ 7.) Thus, based on Defendant’s counsel’s declaration, the Court finds the
Defendant to have satisfied the meet and confer requirement under CCP §
430.41(a). 
 
The
Court now moves to the merits of the demurrer. 
 
B.
Cause of Action – Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. 
 
Plaintiff
brings a cause of action against Defendant for violations of the Rosenthal Fair
Debt Collection Practices Act. 
 
Section 1788.17 of the RFDCPA
states in relevant part: “Notwithstanding any other provision of this title,
every debt collector collecting or attempting to collect a consumer debt shall
comply with the provisions of Sections 1692b to 1692j, inclusive, of, and shall
be subject to the remedies in Section 1692k of, Title 15 of the United States
Code.” (Cal. Civ. Code, § 1788.17.) A violation of the underlying statute, 15
U.S.C. section 1692f, subdivision (1), occurs when a debt collector collects or
attempts to collect “any amount (including any interest, fee, charge, or
expense incidental to the principal obligation) unless such amount is expressly
authorized by the agreement creating the debt or permitted by law.” (15 U.S.C.,
§ 1692f, subd. (1).)  
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint lays out the following claims: Around
September of 2019 Plaintiff canceled his insurance with Defendant in writing. (Id.
¶ 5.) At various times within one-year before filing this complaint,
Defendant contacted Plaintiff, with its authorized agent AWA Collections, in
attempt to collect an alleged debt and reported derogatory information on Plaintiff’s
credit report regarding the alleged debt (First Amend. Compl. ¶¶ 4, 9.) The
alleged debt was for automobile insurance coverage services provided by
Defendant to Plaintiff after Plaintiff had cancelled his policy with Defendant
and stopped making payments towards it, yet Defendant continued to provide
insurance coverage. (Id. ¶ 11.) Defendant, in the ordinary course of its
business, regularly engages in the collection of alleged debts on its own
behalf, (Id. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant insisted
that Plaintiff provide proof of new insurance, and notwithstanding Plaintiff’s compliance,
Defendant continued to charge Plaintiff monthly premiums without notice. (Id.
¶ 7.) Finally, the complaint alleges that Defendant did not owe the money
to Defendant which Defendant and its authorized agent, AWA Collections, were
attempting to collect from him. (Id. ¶ 8.) 
 
In
support of its demurrer, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s complaint fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendant as the
action is time barred under Civ. Code § 1788.30(f), that Defendant is not a
debt collector as defined under Civ. Code § 1788.2(c), 
 
However,
Defendant appears to misunderstand the purpose of a demurrer.  “A
demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As
such, the Court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or
implied factual allegations. (Id.) 
In other words, the Court cannot enter a factual dispute over the
contents of the pleading. Defendant’s arguments regarding violation of the statute
of limitations or that the complaint misidentifies Defendant as a “debt
collector” are factual inquires that are not proper for the purpose of a demurrer.
Here, the Court can only evaluate whether the complaint sufficiently alleges a
cause of action for a violation of Civ Code § 1788.17.
 
Here,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges he has a valid claim under Civ Code § 1788.17.
First Plaintiff claims that Defendant and its authorized collection agency contacted
Plaintiff to collect an alleged debt of previous car insurance premiums.
Plaintiff then alleges in his complaint that Defendant continued to charge him
premiums despite terminating his car insurance, and that he did not owe the
money that Defendant had allegedly claimed they were attempting to collect.
This would be sufficient to have a cause of action because Plaintiff has
alleged a collection of debt that violates 15 U.S.C. section 1692 (f)(1) and
therefore would violate Civ. Code 1788.17
 
Accordingly,
the Court OVERRULES Defendant’s Demurrer.  Defendant is ordered to file its answer within
20 days of the Court’s ruling. 
 
 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED.  
 
Defendant is ordered to file its answer within 20 days of
this Court’s ruling. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  