

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None
filed as of November 28, 2023              [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     None filed as of December 06,
2023              [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 03, 2023, Plaintiff Enterprise
Rent-A-Car Center (“Plaintiff”) filed an action against Defendant Maceo Green
aka Maceo L. Green Sr (“Defendant”) for breach of contract. 
 
On June 07, 2023, Defendant filed
an answer. 
 
On October 06, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. No opposition was
filed. 
 
On December 11, 2023, the Court on
its own motion continued the hearing on the instant motion to January 24, 2024.
 
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
Plaintiff prays for the Court to grant its motion on the pleadings
and enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that Defendant does
not provide any defenses in his answer to the complaint. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition has been filed. 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1205, 1216.)  Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may
be treated as part of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the
parties. Matters which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be
specified in the notice of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as
the court otherwise permits. (Id.)  The motion may not be supported
by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a
plaintiff, he or she must demonstrate that the complaint states sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action against the defendant and that the answer
does not state sufficient facts to constitute a defense to the complaint. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).)  
 
Additionally, a motion for judgment on the pleadings must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
meet and confer in person or by telephone, at least five days before the date a
motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.)  
II.        Discussion
            A. Meet
and Confer Requirement 
 
Before addressing the merits, the Court notes that the
Motion is not accompanied by a “meet and confer” declaration as required by
Code of Civil Procedure Section 439(a). However, the Court may not deny a
motion for judgment on the pleadings due to the moving party’s insufficient
effort to “meet and confer.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(4).) That does not mean
that Plaintiff in this action can wholly ignore the requirement. The purpose of
the “meet and confer” requirement is to encourage the parties to resolve their
issues without judicial intervention. Failure to meet and confer undermines
that purpose and encourages parties to ignore these
requirements. 
 
 
            B. Cause
of Action
 
Plaintiff brings a cause of action
for breach of contract between the parties. 
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract claim “is
based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out
verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must
be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299,
307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of
the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges in its
complaint that the parties entered into a written rental car agreement on
September 19, 2020 (“Agreement), pursuant to which Defendant rented a Nissan
Maxima, bearing the license plate number 8NDD926 (“Vehicle 1”). (Compl. ¶¶ 7, 9,
Ex.1.) The terms and conditions of the Agreement state in relevant part:
 
9a. Indemnification by Renter:
Renter shall defend, indemnify and hold Owner harmless from all losses,
liabilities, damages, injuries, claims, demands, costs, attorney fees and other
expenses incurred by Owner in any manner from this rental transaction, or from
the use of Vehicle or Optional Accessories by any person, including claims of,
or liabilities to, third parties. Renter may present a claim to Renter’s
insurance carrier for such events or losses; but in any event, Renter shall
have final responsibility to Owner for all such losses. This obligation may be
limited if Renter purchases optional DW and/or optional SLP.
 
(Complaint, ¶ 9, Ex. 1 ¶ 9a.) Plaintiff alleges Vehicle 1
was involved in a collision while still under the rental agreement. (Id. ¶
12.) Plaintiff alleges that on September 24, 2020, Defendant rearended a parked
car owned by a third party (Vehicle 2). (Id. ¶ 12.) Importantly, Plaintiff
alleges that it “suffered property damages to VEHICLE 1 in the sum of $7,797.29,
plus $420 in incidental damages.” (Id. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges that it
paid its policy limit of $5,000 and then demanded payment of $5,000 from
Defendant, but Defendant refused to pay. (Id. ¶¶ 13-15.)
 
Defendant, in its answer, admits that
all statements made in the complaint are true except paragraph 10. (Ans. ¶ 3.) However,
in the section of the answer for affirmative defenses, Defendant states:
 
On September 19, 2020. I rented a
Nissan Maxima from Alamo rent a car, which I purchased full coverage insurance
through Alamo. The night of the accident, on September 24th, 2020. I
had full coverage insurance at the time of the accident, about an hour later
after the accident, Alamo gave me a replacement rental car to drive, because it
was included in the full coverage insurance rental agreement. 
 
(Ans. ¶ 4.) 
 
 Plaintiff concedes, in its moving papers, that
Defendant did purchase the optional damages waiver, which covered all damages
to Plaintiff’s rental vehicle (Vehicle 1). 
However, Plaintiff argues that Defendant did not purchase liability
insurance or Optional Damage Waiver and/or Supplemental Liability
Protection/SLP, which would have covered damages to a third-party vehicle. (Motion
p. 6, Jay Smith Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff claims, in its memorandum, that
Defendant’s accident resulted in damages to a third-party vehicle in the amount
of $7,797.29. And that Plaintiff had to pay $5,000 as a result. (Id.)  But in the complaint, Plaintiff alleges that
it “suffered property damages to VEHICLE 1 in the sum of $7,797.29.” (Complaint
¶ 13.) Nowhere in the complaint does Plaintiff allege any damage to VEHICLE 2
or what, if anything, Plaintiff paid as a result of that damage.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint appears to
only seek amounts paid as a result of damage to Vehicle 1. (Complaint ¶¶ 13-15.)
However, by Plaintiff’s own evidence, Defendant would not be liable for damages
sustained to Vehicle 1. Plaintiff’s evidence shows that Defendant paid to
receive the optional collision damage waiver. (Complaint Ex. 1.) The Car Rental
Terms and Conditions provide in relevant part: 
 
If Renter purchases [an Optional Collision
Damage Waiver (DW)], Owner agrees, subject to the actions that invalidate DW
listed below, to contractually waive Renter’s responsibility for all or part of
the cost of damage to Vehicle or any part or accessory and related costs
regardless of fault or negligence up to the amount initialed on the Rental
Agreement Summary.
 
(Complaint Ex 1, ¶ 17.) Here, the Court finds there would be
no breach by the Defendant as the terms of the parties’ agreement stipulates
that damages sustained to Plaintiff’s vehicle would be covered under the Optional
Collision Damage Waiver for which Defendant paid to have. Thus, based on the
allegations in the complaint, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate it is entitled to
judgment on the pleadings in so far as Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
demonstrating breach or damages. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Plaintiff’s Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings is DENIED.
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.