 Case Number:  23STCV12007    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Specially-Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.’s Motion to Quash Service of
Summons.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs JAIME BLANCO MACIEL and HELEN ORTIZ-BLANCO filed
suit against over 50 defendants for injuries sustained by Plaintiff JAIME
BLANCO MACIEL by inhaling dust from working with defendants’ products
containing crystalline silica. Specially-Appearing Defendant COSENTINO GROUP,
S.A. (“Cosentino”) moves to quash service of the Summons and Complaint based on
insufficient service under the Hague Convention and lack of personal
jurisdiction. Plaintiffs oppose the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
When a defendant moves to quash based on insufficient
service, the plaintiff has the burden to demonstrate valid statutory service of
a summons and complaint. Dill v. Berquist Const. Co., Inc. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439-40. 
When a defendant files a motion to quash for lack of
personal jurisdiction, “the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to
establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148
Cal. App. 4th 556, 568. Personal jurisdiction may be general or
specific. Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal. 4th
434, 445. 
General jurisdiction exists when the defendant has “substantial,
continuous, and systematic contacts with California.” DVI, Inc. v. Superior
Ct. (2002) 104 Cal. App. 4th 1080, 1099. Specific jurisdiction exists when
a defendant’s “minimum contacts” with California shows that the defendant
purposefully directed its acts to the state, “that the cause of action [is]
related to or arise or result from the acts or contacts in the forum, and that
the exercise of personal jurisdiction by the forum would be reasonable.” Muckle
v. Superior Ct. (2002) 102 Cal. App. 4th 218, 227–28. 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial
notice in their entirety.  
ANALYSIS
1.     Validity
of Service
On 9/13/23, Plaintiffs personally served a copy of the
Summons and Complaint to Cosentino Executive Vice-President of Global Corporate
Sales, Eduardo Cosentino, while he was present in Vancouver, British Columbia,
Canada. (Metzger Decl., ¶ 18, Ex. 4.) Cosentino contends that this does not constitute
proper service.
Code of Civil Procedure Section 413.10 provides the
law governing service of a summons and complaint when service is done outside
the United States. Specifically, Section 413.10 provides that a person (which
is defined to include a corporation pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
17(b)(6)) shall be served:  
(c) Outside the United
States, as provided in this chapter or as directed by the court in
which the action is pending, or, if the court before or after service
finds that the service is reasonably calculated to give actual notice, as
prescribed by the law of the place where the person is served or as
directed by the foreign authority in response to a letter rogatory. These
rules are subject to the provisions of [the Hague Convention]. 
Code Civ. Proc. § 413.10 (emphasis added). 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 416.10(b) authorizes
service on a corporation like Cosentino by serving a vice president. Cosentino
does not dispute that Eduardo Cosentino was a proper person to serve under
Section 416.10(b). Acceptable methods of service on such a person includes
personal service, substitute service, service by mail with acknowledgement of
receipt, or mailing a person outside of California in compliance with the
requirements set forth in the statute. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 415.10, 415.20,
415.30, 415.40. This means that personal service on Executive Vice President Eduardo
Cosentino while he was in Canada comports with California law, including Section
413.10’s requirements.  
The laws governing service in British Columbia also
support finding proper service. The laws regarding service in British Columbia permit
personal service to be effectuated by personal delivery to an individual such
as Mr. Cosentino. (RJN, Ex. A, British Columbia Supreme Court Rule 4-3(2)(b).) Plaintiffs
therefore complied with Section 413.10’s requirement that service outside the
U.S. also comply with “the law of the place where the person is served.”
Pursuant to Section 413.10, Plaintiffs’ service
outside the U.S. is also “subject to” the Hague Convention. Relevant here,
Article 10(b) of the Hague Convention provides, in part, that if the “state of
destination” does not object, the Convention shall not interfere with the
ability of persons of the “state of origin” (i.e., California) to effectuate
service of judicial documents through competent persons “of the state of
destination.” (RJN, Ex. A.) The Court concludes that in this case the “state of
destination” is Canada because that is the state where service was effected.
(See RJN, Ex. E.) Canada never objected to Article 10(b) and so its terms apply
in this case. An agent of a Canadian firm, who is authorized to serve process
in British Columbia, personally served Eduardo Cosentino. This means that a
person competent to serve legal documents in Canada effectuated service, and
thus Plaintiffs also complied with the relevant portion of the Hague
Convention. For all these reasons, Cosentino was validly served in Canada. 
2.     Whether
Court Has Personal Jurisdiction Over Cosentino 
Cosentino contends that even if it was properly
served, the Court cannot exercise general or specific personal jurisdiction
over it. 
“A trial court has the discretion to continue the
hearing on a motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal
jurisdiction to allow the plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional
issues.” HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 1160,
1173. A “plaintiff is generally entitled to conduct discovery with regard to a
jurisdictional issue before a court rules on a motion to quash,” but it lies
within the sound discretion of the judge. Goehring v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 62
Cal. App. 4th 894, 911. “In order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for
jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is
likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing
jurisdiction.” In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135
Cal. App. 4th 100, 127.
Plaintiffs have described voluminous evidence that
they believe support exercising jurisdiction over Cosentino. Plaintiffs
acknowledge, however, that the evidence is not admissible without obtaining
jurisdictional-related discovery from Cosentino to authenticate the exhibits. Cosentino
does not dispute that it has refused to respond to any of the
jurisdictional-related discovery propounded by Plaintiffs. Under these
circumstances, the Court exercises its discretion to continue the motion to
allow Plaintiffs to obtain the discovery they have sought. 
CONCLUSION
The motion is continued to 5/31/24 at 8:30 a.m. to
allow Plaintiffs to complete jurisdictional-related discovery. Plaintiffs may
file and serve supplemental opposing papers at least 14 days before the continued
hearing date. Cosentino may file and serve supplemental reply papers at least 7
days before that date. The Court declines to rule on the parties’ evidentiary
objections currently. The parties shall either (1) file amended evidentiary
objections that replace the current objection with their supplemental briefs,
or (2) inform the Court in the supplemental briefs that they intend to stand on
the evidentiary objections they have already filed. The Court will then rule on
the relevant objections at the next hearing. 