 Case Number:  23PSCV02924    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Financial Partners Credit Union
v. Robert Lonnie Angles III aka Robert Lonnie Angles aka Robert L Angles 
Joseph
G. Sweeney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Joseph G. Sweeney’s motion to be relieved as
counsel. Counsel is directed to submit a revised proposed order addressing the
issues discussed herein for the Court’s signature. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract action. On September 21, 2023, plaintiff
Financial Partners Credit Union (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant
Robert Lonnie Angles III aka Robert Lonnie Angles aka Robert L Angles
(Defendant) and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for breach of written
loan agreement, money had and received, money lent, account stated, breach of
written contract, money had and received, money lent, and account stated. 
On
April 18, 2024, Joseph G. Sweeney, counsel for Defendant, moved to be relieved
as counsel. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
The Court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 403-407.) 
A motion to
be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of
Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite
forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have appeared in
the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Joseph
G. Sweeney (Counsel) moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendant. Counsel
indicates that the attorney-client relationship essentially terminated in
February 2024, that there has been a breakdown in communication, and that
Counsel attempted to obtain Defendant’s consent to a substitution of attorney
to no avail. (Sweeney Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court finds these to be proper grounds
for withdrawal. 
Grounds for permitting an attorney to withdraw from representation
include the client’s conduct that “renders it unreasonably difficult for the
lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]” (Cal. Rules of
Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4).) A breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship is also grounds for allowing the attorney to
withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) 
Counsel has provided the appropriate Judicial Council forms,
namely forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053, and has properly completed them. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) Counsel has also provided
proof of service of these documents on Counsel. (Proof of Service (4/18/24).)
The Court also accepts Counsel’s efforts in attempting to confirm Defendant’s
current address as sufficient. (Sweeney Decl., ¶ 3, subds. (b)-(c).) 
The Court notes that the proposed order needs a couple of revisions,
namely, completion of paragraph 5, subdivision (a), indicating that the order
is effective upon the filing of the proof of service upon Defendant, and a
correction to the description of the hearing on July 15, 2024, as it is both a
Case Management Conference and a Status Conference re ADR. The Court further
notes that, given Counsel’s inability to confirm Defendant’s current address,
Counsel must complete service of the signed order upon Defendant per Code of
Civil Procedure section 1011, subdivision (b), and Rule 3.252 of the California
Rules of Court. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved
as counsel, and directs Counsel to submit the revised proposed order, with the
above-mentioned revisions, for the Court’s signature. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Joseph G. Sweeney’s motion to be relieved as
counsel. Counsel is directed to submit a revised proposed order addressing the
issues discussed herein for the Court’s signature. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days of this order. 