  Case Number:  23PSCV02476    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Weijun  Zhang v. Bolun Zhang, et al. 1.      Defendant All  Good Escrow, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories to  Plaintiff, Set One; and 2.      Defendant All  Good Escrow, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of  Documents and Electronically Stored Information to Plaintiff  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s motions to  compel responses to Special Interrogatories to Plaintiff, Set One, and Request  for Production of Documents and Electronically Stored Information to Plaintiff,  Set One. Plaintiff Weijun Zhang must provide verified, code-compliant  responses, without objection, and produce all responsive documents, to All Good  Escrow, Inc.’s Special Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents  and Electronically Stored Information within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s requests for  monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $435.00 per motion, for a total of $870.00. Plaintiff  Weijun Zhang and Plaintiff’s counsel of record must pay the monetary sanctions  to Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s counsel within 20 days of the Court’s  order.               Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc. is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.  BACKGROUND  This is a  real property dispute. On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Weijun Zhang (Plaintiff)  filed this action against Defendants Bolun Zhang (Bolun), Jinghan Zhang  (Jinghan), All Good Escrow, Inc. (All Good), Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. (Taikoo)  (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 20. On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff  filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the same Defendants,  alleging causes of action for promissory fraud, breach of oral contract,  rescission of contract pursuant to Civil Code § 1689(b), breach of covenant of  good faith and fair dealing, conversion, actual fraudulent conveyance,  constructive fraudulent conveyance, quiet title, common count: money had and  received, breach of fiduciary duty, imposition of constructive trust, and civil  theft under Penal Code section 496(c).  On May 7, 2024, Defendant All Good filed motions to compel  responses to Special Interrogatories to Plaintiff, Set One, and Request for  Production of Documents and Electronically Stored Information to Plaintiff, Set  One. The motions are unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  When a party  fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories, the party propounding the  interrogatories may move for an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives  any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §  2030.290, subd. (a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd.  (c).)  When a party  fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party making the  demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely  response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work  product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a  monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully  makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection,  copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the  sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make  the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although meeting and conferring is generally not required before  bringing a motion to compel, (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific  Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404), this Court does require  that parties attempt to meet and confer before filing a motion. (Dept. 6  Courtroom Information, p. 1 [“Parties are required to meet and confer prior to  filing any motion.”]) All Good does not indicate having attempted to meet and  confer before filing these motions. (See Kinney Decls., ¶¶ 2-3.) The Court admonishes  All Good going forward to attempt to meet and confer, i.e., by phone, in  person, or video conference, before bringing any motion.              Analysis  All Good moves to compel responses to a set of Special  Interrogatories to Plaintiff, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents and  Electronically Stored Information to Plaintiff, Set One, served on Plaintiff on  March 28, 2024. (Kinney Decls., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff provided no responses. (Id.,  Kinney Decls., ¶ 3.) The Court finds All Good’s motions to be well taken.  Accordingly, the Court GRANTS All Good’s motions.  With respect to monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS the requests  in the reduced amount of $435.00 per motion, comprised of 1.5 hours preparing  the motions and appearing at the hearing on the motions, multiplied by the  hourly rate of $250.00, plus $60.00 for the filing fees.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s motions to  compel responses to Special Interrogatories to Plaintiff, Set One, and Request  for Production of Documents and Electronically Stored Information to Plaintiff,  Set One. Plaintiff Weijun Zhang must provide verified, code-compliant  responses, without objection, and produce all responsive documents, to All Good  Escrow, Inc.’s Special Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents  and Electronically Stored Information within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s requests for  monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $435.00 per motion, for a total of  $870.00. Plaintiff Weijun Zhang and Plaintiff’s counsel of record must pay the  monetary sanctions to Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s counsel within 20 days  of the Court’s order.               Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc. is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.