 Case Number:  23PSCV03776    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Crossroads
Equipment Lease and Finance, LLC v. DDL Trucking Inc., et al. 
Crossroads
Equipment Lease and Finance, LLC’s Motion for Summary Adjudication 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Crossroads Equipment Lease and Finance,
LLC’s motion for summary adjudication as to the First Cause of Action. The
Court GRANTS the motion as to the Second Cause of Action. 
Plaintiff shall prepare for the Court's signature an order
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(g) and Cal Rule of Court rule
3.1312. 
             Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract case. On December 6, 2023, plaintiff Crossroads
Equipment Lease and Finance, LLC (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant
DDL Trucking Inc. (DDL), Dengdi Lan aka Deng Di Lan (Lan), and Does 1 through
100, alleging causes of action for breach of written agreement, breach of
guaranty, account stated, unjust enrichment, and open book account. 
On March 7, 2024, Plaintiff moved for summary adjudication as to
the First and Second Causes of Action for breach of written agreement and
breach of guaranty. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,
italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the
scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
367, 381-382.) 
“On a motion
for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make
a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A plaintiff
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has
proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on
the cause of action. Once the plaintiff ... has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the defendant ... to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
defendant … shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth
the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “[A] plaintiff bears the burden of persuasion that ‘each element
of’ the ‘cause of action’ in question has been ‘proved,’ and hence that ‘there
is no defense’ thereto.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850, citing
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1).)” 
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
PRELIMINARY ISSUES 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a)(1), provides that motions for
summary adjudication may not be made until after 60 days have elapsed since the
opposing party first generally appeared in the action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (a)(1).) On February 1, 2024, default was entered against DDL.
(Request for Entry of Default (2/1/24).) On January 8, 2024, Lan answered the
complaint. (Answer (1/8/24).) Plaintiff filed this motion on March 7, 2024,
less than 60 days after Lan generally appeared in this action. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 1014; Sadlier
v. Superior Court (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1050, 1052 (Sadlier).)
DDL has not generally appeared in this action yet. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion is premature. 
However, the Court of Appeal in Sadlier also found
that even though the moving party’s motion was prematurely filed, it was deemed
made orally at the hearing, which came after the expiration of the 60-day hold.
(See Sadlier, supra, 184 Cal.App.3d at p. 1052.) Therefore, the Court
exercises its discretion to deem this motion as having been made orally at the
hearing on this motion. To be clear, the Court will only consider this motion
as to Lan who has generally appeared, and not as to DDL who has not generally
appeared and is currently in default. The Court nevertheless admonishes
Plaintiff to comply with the requirement of the Code of Civil Procedure going
forward and otherwise avoid timing issues like this. 
DISCUSSION 
Summary of Relevant Material Facts 
On or about June 17, 2021, Plaintiff and DDL entered into a Master
Equipment Finance Agreement (the Agreement) to finance the purchase of two
tractor trucks. (SSF 1.) Plaintiff perfected its interest in the two tractor
trucks by obtaining Certificates of Title from the Department of Motor
Vehicles. (SSF 2.) Plaintiff and Lan also entered into a personal guaranty (the
Guaranty), wherein Lan agreed to personally guaranty DDL’s performance under
the Agreement. (SSF 7.) Plaintiff performed as required under the Agreement.
(SSF 3.) On or about August 7, 2022, DDL breached the Agreement by failing to
make monthly payments owing then and thereafter. (SSF 4.) Plaintiff elected to
accelerate the remaining balance due and sold the trucks, leaving a remaining
balance of $68,990.01. (SSF 5.) The Agreement provides for the recovery of
attorney’s fees. (SSF 6.) Lan is liable for the outstanding $68,990.01 balance.
(SSF 8.) The Guaranty also provides for recovery of attorney’s fees. (SSF 9.) 
First Cause of Action – Breach of
Written Agreement 
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract,
the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of
the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4)
the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) 
Plaintiff contends it has met each of the elements
required for its prima facie case for breach of written agreement against DDL.
Plaintiff contends it financed DDL’s purchase of the trucks and that DDL
breached by failing to make the required monthly payments. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to meet its moving
burden on this cause of action, but not necessarily for lack of admissible evidence.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) The complaint only names DDL to
the First Cause of Action, and DDL is the only other party to the Agreement.
(Compl., ¶¶ 6-13, Ex. A.) The problem here is that, as noted above, DDL has not
yet appeared in this action, which is necessary before one can move for summary
adjudication. (See Compl., ¶¶ Id., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).) Moreover, DDL
is currently in default, so the motion is procedurally defective. “The entry of
a default terminates a defendant's rights to take any further affirmative steps
in the litigation until either its default is set aside or a default judgment
is entered.” (Devlin v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155
Cal.App.3d 381, 385.) Thus, as DDL is "out of court" and cannot
respond to a summary adjudication motion, it is improper for Plaintiff to seek
relief against DDL through such a motion. Instead, Plaintiff must proceed
against DDL by way of an application for entry of default judgment, not a
motion for summary adjudication. (See Devlin, supra, 155 Cal.App.3d at
pp. 385-386; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 585, subd. (a).) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion for
summary adjudication as to the First Cause of Action. 
Second Cause of Action – Breach of Guaranty 
Plaintiff contends it has met each of the elements for
its prima facie case for breach of guaranty against Lan because Lan signed the
Guaranty to induce Plaintiff to enter into the Agreement. 
The Court finds Plaintiff has met its moving burden as to
the Second Cause of Action. The undisputed material facts show that Plaintiff
entered into the Agreement with DDL, that DDL breached the Agreement, and that
DDL thereby owes Plaintiff $68,990.01, plus interest thereon at the rate of 18%.
(SSF 1-5.) The undisputed material facts further show that Lan agreed to
personally guarantee DDL’s performance under the Agreement, and that Lan is
liable to Plaintiff for that outstanding balance. (See SSF 7-8.) The burden now
shifts to Lan to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact or
some defense to this cause of action. 
Lan did not oppose this motion, and therefore has failed
to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact or a defense to
this cause of action. 
The Court finds there are no triable issues of material
fact as to the Second Cause of Action for breach of guaranty, and that Plaintiff
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication as to the Second Cause of
Action for breach of guaranty. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Crossroads Equipment Lease and Finance,
LLC’s motion for summary adjudication as to the First Cause of Action. The
Court GRANTS the motion as to the Second Cause of Action. 
Plaintiff shall prepare for the Court's signature an order
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(g) and Cal Rule of Court rule
3.1312. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.