..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the Tentative Ruling:

```
Case Number: 21STCV37452
Plaintiff's Name: Esmaralda Y. Fuentes-Perez
Defendant's Name: Run D. Wu, et al.
People: Esmaralda Y. Fuentes-Perez, Run D. Wu, Dan Yuedong Wu
Company: None
Places: California
Dates: October 8, 2021, November 2020, October 12, 2023, October 29, 2023
Events: Apartment fire, discovery requests, motions to compel, motions for terminating sanctions
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff failed to provide discovery responses, disobeyed court orders
Facts: Plaintiff filed the action against defendants, but failed to provide discovery responses, disobeyed court orders, and failed to file opposition to motions
Disputes: Plaintiff's failure to provide discovery responses and disobey court orders
Acts: Plaintiff failed to provide discovery responses, disobeyed court orders, and failed to file opposition to motions
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030, Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d), (g), Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d), Evid. Code, §§ 500, 605
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, Evidence Code
Roles: Judge Kerry Bensinger, Plaintiff Esmaralda Y. Fuentes-Perez, Defendants Run D. Wu and Dan Yuedong Wu
Significant Statements:
* "Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's orders."
* "The court should consider the totality of the circumstances, including conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful, the detriment to the propounding party, and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain discovery."
* "A terminating sanction is a 'drastic measure which should be employed with caution.'"
* "A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction."
```

Summary of the Tentative Ruling:

The Court has granted the motions for terminating sanctions filed by Defendants Run D. Wu and Dan Yuedong Wu against Plaintiff Esmaralda Y. Fuentes-Perez. The Plaintiff failed to provide discovery responses, disobeyed court orders, and failed to file opposition to motions. The Court finds that Plaintiff's failure was willful and that lesser sanctions would not curb the abuse. As a result, the Plaintiff's Complaint against the Defendants is dismissed with prejudice.
