 Case Number:  22STCV29648    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 12, 2023                                         TRIAL DATE:  March 11,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Donyea Richardson v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV29648
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEMAND FOR IDENTIFICATION AND PRODUCTION AND INSPECTION
OF DOCUMENTS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Donyea
Richardson
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On March 13, 2023, Defendant, Los Angeles Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, filed these motions to compel Plaintiff,
Donyea Richardson, to provide responses to Defendant’s first set of Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demand for Identification and Production
and Inspection of Documents.  Defendant
seeks sanctions against Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff filed a consolidated opposition.  In the opposition, Plaintiff requests a
continuance for the motions until after Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be
relieved.  The motion to be relieved is
set for October 30, 2023.  
 
Defendant has filed a reply. 
 
As a threshold matter, Plaintiff’s request for a continuance
is DENIED. 
 
The Court rules on Defendant’s discovery motions as follows.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
DISCOVERY
 
If a party to
whom interrogatories and inspection demands were directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b),
2031.300, subd. (b).)  Failure to timely serve responses waives objections
to the requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300,
subd. (a).)   
 
Monetary Sanctions 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose
discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes
(without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification
making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.)  
 
If sanctions are
sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice
specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the
type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and
authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount
of any monetary sanction. 
 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made
or opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection
demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c),
2031.300, subd. (c).)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Defendant served
Plaintiff with the at-issue discovery requests on November 23, 2022.  Defendant granted Plaintiff an extension to provide
responses.  However, to date, Plaintiff
has not provided responses.  (See Sheppard Decls.)  In his consolidated opposition, Plaintiff admits
not having provided responses to Defendant’s discovery requests.  Therefore, all objections to the
interrogatories and demands for inspection are waived.  
 
As Defendant
properly served the discovery requests and Plaintiff failed to serve responses,
the Court finds Defendant is entitled to an order directing Plaintiff to
provide responses to Defendant’s First Set of
Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demand for Inspection.¿ 
 
Monetary
Sanctions
            Defendant requests sanctions against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff argues the request for sanctions
should be denied because Plaintiff did not willfully fail to respond to
discovery.[1] [2]  The Court is not persuaded.  Defendant served the at-issue discovery
requests nearly a year ago.  There is no
indication Plaintiff served, or attempted to serve, discovery responses in that
time.  Accordingly, sanctions
are imposed against Plaintiff in the amount of $750 representing 3 hours at defense
counsel’s hourly rate.
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motions are granted.  
 
Plaintiff Donyea Richardson is ordered to provide verified,
objection-free responses to Defendant’s First Set of Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Demand for Identification and Production and
Inspection of Documents.  
 
The request for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions in the
amount of $750, to be paid to Defendant, by and through its counsel.
 
Discovery responses are to be provided and sanctions are to
be paid within 30 days of this order.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   October 12,
2023                                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


