 Case Number:  21STCV23666    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 12, 2023                         TRIAL DATE:  November
28, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Kerrigan Schipske, et al. v. GNS Development
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV23666
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, 
OR
IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
GNS Development
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs
Kerrigan Schipske and Dagoberto Bribiesca
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This action arises from a go-kart collision at a
recreational go-kart track.  On July 14,
2019, Kerrigan Schipske, her spouse Dagoberto Bribiesca, and Schipske’s daughter
went to the Golf n’ Stuff Park.  While
there, Schipske was driving a go-kart at the Golf n’ Stuff Park when the go-kart
stalled.  Plaintiff was hit by an
oncoming go-kart driven by her daughter. Plaintiff sustained injuries.
 
            On June 25,
2021, Plaintiffs, Kerrigan Schipske and Dagoberto Bribiesca, filed a form
complaint against Defendant, GNS Development dba Golf n’ Stuff, asserting
causes of action for (1) Premises Liability and (2) General Negligence.  Bribiesca has also asserted a derivative Loss
of Consortium claim.
 
            On September
7, 2022, the City filed this motion for summary judgment, or in the
alternative, summary adjudication.  Plaintiffs
oppose and Defendant replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
“[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).)  A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of
plaintiff’s cause of action.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)  It is insufficient for the defendant to merely
point out the absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)  The defendant “must also produce evidence that the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” 
(Ibid.)¿ The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits,
declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters
of which judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)  “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider
what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw
from the evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court
must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than
to determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)  “Put another
way, have defendants conclusively negated a necessary element of the
[plaintiff’s] case or demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material
issue of fact that requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860.) (Internal citation omitted.)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)   
III.      JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            In its reply, Defendant requests judicial notice of (1)
a Conformed Copy of the Notice of Order Granting Motion for Summary Judgment in
the matter of Alexandria Davis v. Palace Entertainment Holdings, LLC, et al.,
Case No. BC557403 and (2) the Judgment entered in Alexandria Davis v.
Holdings, LLC, et al., Case No. BC557403. 

 
            The
unopposed requests are GRANTED.  (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
 
IV.       EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Defendant
submits fifteen (15) objections to the declaration of Plaintiffs’ expert, Murat
Okçuoglu. The first objection is aimed at the entire declaration of Mr. Okçuoglu
and the remaining fourteen are aimed at portions of the Okçuoglu declaration.  As the objections are not material to the
disposition of this motion, the Court declines to rule on them.
 
V.        DISCUSSION
 
            Undisputed
Facts
 
            On July 14,
2019, Plaintiff Kerrigan Schipske visited Golf N’ Stuff (hereinafter “Park”)
with her daughter, Brenda Bribiesca and her legal spouse, Plaintiff Dagoberto
Bribiesca (hereinafter “Bribiesca”).  (Defendant’s
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 1.)  Plaintiff and her family participated in the
go-karts attraction at the Park.  (UMF
2.)  Plaintiff testified that throughout
her lifetime she has participated in approximately 30-40 go-kart rides at the
Park and other similar facilities.  (UMF
3.)  Plaintiff was generally aware of
common rules when operating a go-kart, such as refraining from colliding with
other participants, not driving erratically, not exiting the go-kart after the
race started, and raising her hand to get a track attendant’s attention in the
event of a problem during a race.  (UMF
4.) 
 
            On July 14,
2019, while waiting in line prior to participating in her go-kart race,
Plaintiff witnessed another group of participants navigating the track.  She witnessed track attendants assist riders
whose go-karts stalled prior to her race.  (UMF 5.)  Despite seeing two other stalled go-karts, Plaintiff
had no concerns that the track attendants were not performing their job duties
prior to starting her race and had no concern for her safety.  (UMF 6.) 
While waiting in line prior to participating in her go-kart race,
Plaintiff read signs related to go-karting that instructed “No Bumping” and
read other signs related to go-karting safety.  (UMF 7.)  Plaintiff admitted to reading a sign which
states “the go-kart attraction entails fast, independently operating cars, fast
turns, and a risk of potential contact”, and “Attention to all guests: Read and
follow important safety and operating rules before riding, and always follow
the instructions of the operators.  Please do not participate if you feel you have
a condition that would be aggravated in the event of contact with another
vehicle.”  (UMF 8.)  Plaintiff also admitted that prior to her
participation in the go-karts, she read a sign which stated, “riders must be in
good health, free from any significant mental or physical ailments, including
head, back, and neck problems”.  Plaintiff
further read a portion of the same sign which indicates that anyone recovering
from a recent surgery should not participate in the go-kart attraction.  (UMF 9.) 
Prior to starting her race, Plaintiff affirmed that Park employees
verbally communicated safety instructions including an emphasis not to bump
other participants.  (UMF 10.)
 
            During the
go-kart race, Plaintiff Schipske’s go-kart stalled twice prior to the subject
collision.  (UMF 14.)  On both occasions, track attendants came to
Plaintiff’s aid after she raised her hand, and she was able to quickly re-join
the race.  (UMF 15.)  Plaintiff Schipske testified that after the
second stall she asked for a new kart and was told “No.”  (Schipske Depo., p. 102:7-12.)  After Plaintiff’s go-kart stalled a second
time, Plaintiff traveled approximately another half-lap before her go-kart
stalled a third time.  (UMF 16.)  Two
track attendants came to address Plaintiff’s stalled kart.  (UMF 19.) 
Plaintiff testified that the attendants arrived a minute and a half to
two minutes after she stalled the third time. 
(Schipske Depo., p. 106:9-21.)  One attendant stood directly in front of
Plaintiff’s go-kart and the other attendant “stood in the only open lane to . .
. [Plaintiff’s] right.”  (Schipske Depo.,
pp. 118:14-119:1; Plaintiff’s Additional Material Facts (“AMF”) 3.)  Plaintiff testified the approaching go-kart
had nowhere to go because the track attendant was standing in the only open
lane.  (Schipske Depo., pp. 119:10-18; AMF
4.)[1]
 Before the track attendants were able to
restart Plaintiff’s go-kart, Plaintiff’s daughter collided with Plaintiff’s
go-kart from the rear.  (UMF 20.)  Plaintiff heard a go-kart braking behind her
for about three seconds prior to the collision. 
(Schipske Depo., p. 119:10-23.)
 
            Analysis

 
            The sole
issue to be decided is whether Defendant’s actions increased the risk of injury
to Plaintiff, thereby breaching its duty of care.
 
            “Primary
assumption of risk arises where a plaintiff voluntarily participates in an
activity or sport involving certain inherent risks; primary assumption of risk
. . .bar[s] recovery because no duty of care is owed as to such risk.”  (Connelly v. Mammoth Mountain Ski Area (1995)
39 Cal.App.4th 8, 11.)  “[T]he primary
assumption of risk doctrine is not limited to activities classified as sports,
but applies as well to other recreational activities involving inherent risk of
injury to voluntary participants.”  (Nalwa
v. Cedar Fair, L.P. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 1148, 1156.)  This doctrine “rests on a straightforward
policy foundation: the need to avoid chilling vigorous participation in or
sponsorship of recreational activities by imposing a tort duty to eliminate or
reduce the risks of harm inherent in those activities.”  (Id.) 
Under the doctrine of primary assumption of risk, a participant in an
inherently dangerous recreational activity is not owed a duty of ordinary care,
only a duty not to increase the inherent risks of the activity. (Id. at
p. 1162 [“Where the doctrine applies to a recreational activity, operators,
instructors, and participants in the activity owe other participants only the
duty not to act so as to increase the risk of injury over that inherent in the
activity.”]; Knight v Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 296, 315-316 [a
defendant has “a duty to use due care not to increase the risks to a
participant over and above those inherent in the sport.”].)  An inherent risk is one that cannot be
eliminated without altering the nature of the sport.  (Id. at p. 317.)  
 
            The parties
do not dispute that the doctrine of primary assumption of risk applies to the
recreational activity of go-karting.  The
issue turns upon whether Defendant increased Plaintiff’s risk of injury.  The Court finds there is a triable issue of
material fact.  Plaintiff testified that
two attendants came to assist her when her go-kart stalled for a third time.  One of the attendants stood to Ms. Schipske’s
right in the only open lane.  Ms.
Schipske testified that she heard braking behind her for up to three seconds
immediately prior to the collision. 
(Schipske Depo., pp. 118:2-119:23.) 
As Plaintiff testified, the approaching go-kart had nowhere to go because
the attendant was standing in the only open lane.  A fair inference to be drawn from the facts.  The attendant’s presence in the only open
lane prevented other drivers, such as Plaintiff’s daughter, from passing
Plaintiff’s stalled vehicle on the right side of the track.  In other words, the attendant’s conduct increased
the risk that drivers would collide with Plaintiff’s stalled go-kart by standing
in and blocking the only open lane on the racetrack.  
 
            Defendant argues
Ms. Schipske’s testimony is speculative, hearsay, and lacking foundation
because she did not observe her daughter collide with her go-kart.  However, Ms. Schipske observed the attendant’s
presence on the racetrack in the only open lane and heard braking behind her
immediately before the collision.  That
Ms. Schipske did not observe her daughter collide into her from behind does not
undo what she did see and hear.  Defendant
also points out that Plaintiff has not cited the deposition testimony of Ms.
Schipske’s daughter, Brenda Bribiesca, to establish whether Brenda collided
with Ms. Schipske’s go-kart to avoid the attendant.  However, Defendant does not cite Brenda’s testimony
either.  Indeed, neither party has submitted
the testimony of Brenda Bribiesca.  Based
on the evidence submitted to the Court, it is undisputed the attendant blocked
the racetrack.  Whether Defendant’s
conduct increased the risk of harm over and above that inherent in the
recreational activity is a triable issue of material fact to be decided by a
jury. 
 
            No doubt collisions
with other go-karts are a risk inherent in this recreational activity.  An attendant standing in the only open lane
while a go-kart is stalled is not, or at least, no evidence has been presented
to the Court that it is.  As such, the Court
cannot find as a matter of law that the primary assumption of risk doctrine
bars Plaintiffs’ claims given the foregoing factual issues and disputes.  Further, as the elements of a negligence claim
and a premises liability claim are the same, (see Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158), and upon which the loss of consortium claim is based,
Defendant does not show summary adjudication is proper. 
 
VI.       CONCLUSION
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary
adjudication, is denied.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 12,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


