 Case Number:  24STCV19647    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SASOUN MAHGEREFTE 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
REFINED HOME CONSTRUCTION INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV19647  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 7, 2025




 
 
Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
            On
8/6/2024, Plaintiff Sasoun Mahgerefte (Plaintiff) filed suit against Refined
Home Construction, Inc. and Dan Azran (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1)
negligence; (2) breach of implied covenant to perform work in a good and competent
manner; (3) breach of contract; (4) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; and (5) unjust enrichment. 
 
            On
9/20/2024, Defendants moved to strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support his prayer for
punitive damages. 
 
Defendants
have not challenged the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s underlying claims through
demurrer. As such, Plaintiff has an operative claim for the breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which could show that Defendants
engaged in despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
            
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to strike is denied.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 
 
             