 Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-
RODRIGUEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08440  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 7, 2025




 
Plaintiff’s
motion to quash is DENIED.
 
On 4/17/2023,
Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara Sanchez (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against 39 Defendants, alleging: (1) negligence; (2)
strict liability—warning defect; (3) strict liability—design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of
consortium. 
 
            On
10/28/2024, Plaintiffs moved to quash service of summons on Dominguez Marble,
LLC for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. 

 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs
seek to quash service of Caesarstone’s Cross-Complaint on Dominguez Marble,
LLC, on the basis that it is barred under California Labor Code § 3602(b),
which prohibits all civil actions regarding workplace injuries against
employers as long as they secure and maintain workers’ compensation insurance
coverage. 
 
            In
opposition, Caesarstone argues that motion must be denied because: (1) the
motion violates CCP section 418.10(b); (2) there was no meet and confer; and
(3)  workers compensation exclusivity
does not apply. 
 
            After review, the Court agrees the
motion should be denied. 
 
            First, CCP section 418.10 requires
that the notice for a motion objecting to
jurisdiction shall designate, as the time for making the motion, a date not
more than 30 days after filing of the notice. Here, the notice was filed on
October 28,2024, yet designates January 7, 2025 as the time for making the
motion. While Plaintiff contends this was the earliest date for which counsel
could get a reservation, counsel did not bring an ex parte application
to advance the motion. Plaintiff contends that the “matter did not appear
urgent and Plaintiffs would not suffer irreparable harm having their
motion heard on that date,” an inability to comply with statutory requirements
would constitute irreparable harm, especially where it would result in a waiver
of argument. (Reply, 3: 21-22.)  
 
            While the Court finds Plaintiff’s
motion to be untimely, the Court still
addresses the merits in the interest of thoroughness. 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that Dominguez Marable secured and maintained workers’ compensation
insurance at all time. However, Caesarstone submitted evidence that Dominguez
Marble did not secure some form of Workers Compensation insurance until April
2012 despite obtaining their contractor’s license in November of 2004 (See
Motion, Ex. A and Ex. B). As such, there are triable issues as to whether or
not workers compensation exclusivity applies, such that the claim against
Dominguez Marble would be barred. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to quash is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 