 Case Number:  23STCV30116    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHAEL DEEMING 
  
        
  vs.
 
AIDS HEALTHCARE FOUNDATION, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV30116    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 7, 2025




 
The motion to
substitute Sharon Hirsch in place of deceased Plaintiff is GRANTED.
 
On 12/8/2023,
Plaintiff Michael Deeming filed suit against AIDS Healthcare Foundation and
Golden Hills Towers, LLC. On 4/23/2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) against the same parties, alleging: (1) negligence; (2)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; (3) breach of the implied
warranty of habitability; (4) tortious breach of the warranty of habitability;
(5) private nuisance; (6) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (7) violation
of Civil Code section 1942.4; and (9) violation of the UCL.
 
On 10/9/2024,
the Estate of Michael Deeming moved to be substituted for deceased Plaintiff
Michael Deeming. 
 
The motion is
unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            The
Estate of Michael Deeming seeks an order substituting Sharon Hirsch (Decedent’s
sister) in her capacity as successor in interest of the estate of Michael
Deeming, given Plaintiff’s death. 
 
            The
authority for the continuation of the survival action is found in California
Code of Civil Procedure § 377.20 § 377.31. CCP § 377.20 states: “A cause of
action for or against a person is not lost by reason of the person’s death...” CCP
§ 377.31 provides:
 
On motion,
after the death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court
shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued
by decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s
successor-in-interest.
 
            Here,
the parties have begun discovery and have tentatively reached a settlement with
Plaintiff’s proposed successor. As such, appointment of Plaintiff’s successor
is necessary to effectuate the tentative settlement reached by the parties.
 
            Here,
given the facts set forth by Plaintiff’s proposed successor, alongside
Defendant’s non-opposition, the Court finds good cause to grant the
substitution.  
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the motion to substitute Sharon Hirsch in place of deceased
Plaintiff is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 