 Case Number:  24STCV08719    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



FREDRICK WOOLEY 
  
        
  vs.
 
SHERMAN GAY SENIOR et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV08719   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 5, 2024




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. Accordingly, the motion to
strike is MOOT.
 
            On
4/8/2024, Plaintiff Fredrick Wooley, Dave Gay, Darrell Gay, Phillip Gay and
Emma Gay (collectively, Plaintiff) filed suit against Defendant Sherman Gay
Senior (Defendant)
 
            On
5/3/2024, Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Defendant also moves to
strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to state a claim and is uncertain. 
 
            The
Court agrees. 
 
            First,
Plaintiffs’ Complaint uncertainly alleges a cause of action for “the
inheritance of Patsy Ruth Gay” which is not a cause of action recognized in
California. Plaintiffs do not allege any facts which could show that this
matter is appropriately brought in this Unlimited Jurisdiction Court, as
opposed to Probate Court.
 
            Second,
Plaintiffs’ Complaint is handwritten in difficult-to-read cursive, leaving the
Court unable to determine much of the substance of the Complaint. However, what
is clear is that an allegation that “Plaintiffs are "suing for the total
amount of $640,000, the inheritance from Patsy Ruth Gay half” is insufficient
to state a claim.
 
            Plaintiffs
are urged to consult an attorney. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to
amend. Accordingly, the motion to strike is moot. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  June   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 