 Case Number:  23STCV13556    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BENJAMIN
  ZUBKOFF 
                           
         vs.
 
GENERAL
  MOTORS, LLC
 


 Case No.: 23STCV13556 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: June 5, 2024



 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED IN
PART, DENIED IN PART, consistent with the ruling set forth below. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED IN
PART, DENIED IN PART, consistent with the ruling set forth below. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court declines to award sanctions in connection with either motion. 
 
            On
6/13/2023, Plaintiff Benjamin Zubkoff (Plaintiff) filed suit against General
Motors, LLC, alleging: (1) fraud concealment; (2) negligent misrepresentation;
(3) Business and Professions Code section 17200; (4) breach of express
warranty; (5) breach of implied warranty; (6) violation of Civil Code section
1793.2(b.)
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to his Requests for Production
(RFPs) and his Special Interrogatories 
 
Discussion
 
I.                  
RFPs
 
Plaintiff
argues that good cause exists to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 28-29,
37-50, 52-64, 67-86.
 
After review,
the Court finds Plaintiff’s requests to be overbroad in scope. For example,
Plaintiff requests all documents related to Defendant’s policies or
procedures regarding recalls and technical service bulletins. Plaintiff
requests all documents evidencing, relating, or referring to complaints by
owners and lessees of vehicles beyond that of same
year, make, and model as the subject vehicle.
 
In addition
to all documents concerning the subject vehicle, the Court generally finds the
following documents to be discoverable: 
 
1.     
Defendant shall produce the “Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its
authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of
the purchase date to present.
 
2.     
Defendant shall produce any internal
analysis or investigation concerning the alleged electrical defect in vehicles
for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.
 
3.     
 Defendant shall produce any customer
complaints relating to defects that are similar to the alleged defects claimed
by plaintiff in vehicles within California for the same year, make, and model
of the subject vehicle, for the period of the purchase date to present.
 
4.     
 Defendant shall produce all documents
evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for
repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period
of the purchase date to present.
 
5.     
 Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices
for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle. 
 
6.     
  All other requests for further
production are DENIED.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is denied.
Accordingly, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
II.              
Special Interrogatories
 
Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 14, 20, 23,
25, 26, 39, 41, and 43.
 
After review,
the Court finds some of Plaintiff’s requests to be overbroad or irrelevant. For
example, Plaintiff requests that Defendant identify all persons “responsible
for the customer relations department in the district or region having
jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s complaints during the relevant period.” (SROG
25.) However, some of Defendant’s objections are unfounded. For example,
Defendant directs Plaintiff to review documents already produced in lieu of a
direct response, citing CCP section 2030.230. However, section 2030.230 refers
to instances where a response would require a compilation of documents, not
where it would require communicating information which is also contained in the
document production. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court rules as follows:
 
-        
SROG No. 14: Grant 
-        
SROG No. 20: Grant 
-        
SROG No. 23: Grant 
-        
SROG No. 25: Deny 
-        
SROG No. 26: Grant 
-        
SROG No. 39: Deny
-        
SROG No. 41: Grant
-        
SROG No. 43: Grant 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to special
interrogatories is granted in part, denied in part, consistent with the ruling
set forth above. Accordingly, the Court declines to award sanctions at this
time. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 