 Case Number:  23VECV02329    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  T LALEHZARI V STATE FARM 23VECV02329
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant State Farm General Insurance
Company’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED in Part and OVERRULED in
Part.  The demurrer to the second cause
of action for bad faith and to Plaintiff Behzad Lalehzari’s third cause of
action for financial elder abuse is OVERRULED. 
The demurrer to Plaintiff Farideh Lalehzari’s third cause of action for
financial elder abuse is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.
Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company is ORDERED to file an Answer to the Complaint within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiffs Farideh and Behzad
Lalehzari’s (Plaintiffs) Complaint. 
Defendant’s demurrer placed into issue the second cause of action (COA)
for breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing and the third COA for
financial elder abuse.  Defendant further
moved to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages, “bad faith damages,”
and restitutionary disgorgement of all profits. 

Discussion  
Defendant argued that the second
COA for bad faith does not allege facts to show unreasonable conduct because
the only alleged viable dispute is over the amount of coverage.  However, Defendant’s argument is based upon a
narrow reading of the allegations.  In
addition to the dispute over amount in repair costs and additional living
expenses, Plaintiffs expressly alleged an unreasonable delay in adjusting the
claim (i.e., December 2021 through February 2023); failures in
communicating/responding to Plaintiffs; and failures to diligently
search/investigate the claim (i.e., failing to consider the estimate to repair
presented by Plaintiffs’ contractor.) 
(See Compl. pars. 19-39.)  Despite
Defendant’s contention otherwise, Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged facts to
plead unreasonable conduct on Defendant’s review of the claim.  The demurrer’s argument based upon a failure
to plead unreasonable conduct is not persuasive.  
Defendant further argued that the
reliance on the alleged violation of California Code of Regulations, tit. 10,
sec. 2695.9 is misplaced and inapplicable because (1) Plaintiffs did not allege
that the losses were settled on the basis of a written scope and/or estimate
prepared by or for the insurer; (2) Plaintiffs are not seeking any “replacement
cost” benefit but merely seeking repair costs; and (3) Plaintiffs submitted
that they no longer sought to pursue the claim and instead filed the instant
action.  Preliminarily, Defendant’s
argument is solely against a single part of the claim for bad faith.  As reviewed above, there are multiple other
claims of alleged misconduct at issue. 
Even if the Court were to agree with the argument against the regulation
violation, the demurrer cannot be sustained for only part of a COA.  In that Plaintiffs’ bad faith COA
sufficiently alleged facts to support the COA, as reviewed above, the second
COA survives the general demurrer despite Defendant’s argument against the single
claim based upon the regulation violation. 

The demurrer to the second COA is
OVERRULED.
As to the financial elder abuse
COA, Defendant argued that there is no factual allegations showing that
Plaintiff Farideh Lalehzari is an elder (i.e., aged over 65); and Plaintiffs’
allegations merely show the exercise of their rights under the policy and/or
there are insufficient fact allegations showing wrongful conduct.  
The financial elder abuse claim
asserted by Plaintiff Farideh Lalehzari is sustainable because she did not
allege that she was over 65 years old. 
Plaintiff Farideh Lalehzari did not dispute the contention or present
facts/argument to show that the pleading defect could be cured.  The demurrer to Plaintiff Farideh Lalehzari’s
financial elder abuse COA is SUSTAINED WIHTOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
As to Plaintiff Behzad
Lalehzari’s financial elder abuse COA, Defendant’s argument that Plaintiffs
insufficiently alleged misconduct that caused harm because Defendant was
exercising a contract right/a genuine dispute as to coverage.  However, the argument presumes facts not
alleged in the Complaint and/or presumes facts contrary to Plaintiff’s factual
allegations.  The allegations, as
reviewed above, do not merely allege a dispute over repair cost amount but
allege misconduct related to unreasonable delays; failure to
communicate/respond and failures to diligently search/investigate the
claim.  (See Compl. pars. 19-39.)  Defendant’s argument presumes that these
allegations are false or narrowly read the Complaint so as to only read the
misconduct related to the dispute over repair costs and living expenses.  Because Defendant’s argument either
incorrectly presumed facts not alleged in the Complaint, disputed the veracity
of the allegations, and/or relied upon a narrow reading of the facts, the
demurrer to Plaintiff Behzad Lalehzari financial elder abuse COA is OVERRULED.
On the motion to strike punitive
damages, Defendant argued that there are insufficient facts pled to support the
malice, oppression, or fraud elements. 
However, Plaintiff alleged facts to support the requirement as to a
conscious disregard for the rights and safety of Plaintiffs based upon the
allegations that Defendant unreasonably delayed in adjusting the claim; failed
to communicate/respond and failed to diligently search/investigate the claim.  (See Compl. pars. 19-39.)  Additionally, Plaintiffs alleged that the
delays/failures spanned almost a year and a half which made Plaintiffs live in
a house that was allegedly unreasonable to reside at.  To support the claim as to Defendant’s
unreasonable conduct, Plaintiffs alleged that the water damage occurred on
December 30, 2021 and Plaintiffs filed their claim.  (Compl. par. 10-13.)  On January 18, 2022, Defendant inspected the
property and concluded that the cost to repair was below the policy deductible
and made no payment.  (Compl. par.
15.)  At some point in time after July
11, 2022 and a little over half a year after making the claim, Defendant
assigned a field inspector to set up an inspection. (Compl. par. 21.)  Defendants allegedly conducted a virtual
inspection on August 9, 2022 and again inspected property on September 7,
2022.  (Compl. pars. 24, 27.)  On September 26, 2022, Defendant supplemented
payment by paying an additional $816.00 and Plaintiffs disputed the
amount.  (Compl. pars. 28 and 29.)  Plaintiffs then allege that the next
interaction with Defendant occurred in May 2023 involving a dispute over
whether Plaintiffs would be proceeding with their claim.  (Compl. pars. 30-33.)  After the interaction, Plaintiffs filed the
Complaint on May 25, 2023.  The
allegations of unreasonableness  combined
with time span that passed between filing the claim and the complaint is
sufficient to allege specific facts to plead Defendant’s conscious disregard of
Plaintiffs’ rights or safety.  
The motion to strike the request
for punitive damages is DENIED.
Defendant’s notice to the motion
to strike also identified the prayer for “bad faith damage” and “restitutionary
disgorgement of profits.”  (Compl. Prayer
pars. 4-5.)  However, the motion was
silent as to these requests for relief in the Prayer.  A judge in a civil case is not “'obligated to
seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to articulate for him that
which … [a party] has left unspoken.'” (Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992)
9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)  “Contentions
are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and
citations to authority.” (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  To the extent
Defendant sought to strike these two requests for relief, the motion is DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.