  Case Number:  20VECV00369    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  T WALKER V HYUNDAI
20VECV00369
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to
Tax Costs is GRANTED.  The Cost Memo is
stricken in its entirety. 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s
Alternative Motion to Tax Item 16 is MOOT.
Introduction 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America
(Defendant) moved to tax Plaintiff Richard Walker’s (Plaintiff) Memorandum of
Costs (Memo).  Defendant’s motion placed
into issue the entirety of the Memo and alternatively Item 16 “Other Costs” of
the Memo.  
Discussion  
Defendant argued that the entire
Memo should be stricken because the parties' Settlement Agreement included a
provision requiring Plaintiff to seek attorneys’ fees, costs, and expenses “in
a single motion.”  (Sasha Bassi Decl.,
par. 3-4, Exh. A: Settlement Agreement, par. 2(b).)  Defendant asserted that Plaintiff had their
chance to seek costs in the prior Motion for Attorneys’ Fees heard on April 7,
2023.  The Court noted that the parties
are not prohibited “from stipulating to alternative procedures for awarding
costs in the litigation pursuant to rules adopted under Section 1034.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1032(c).)  Because the parties stipulated to seeking
fees, costs, and expenses in a single motion which was already heard, there is
good cause to strike the entire Memo.  
Plaintiff argued that he “did not
waive his right to recover costs by the terms of the parties’ settlement
agreement.”  However, Plaintiff’s
argument misconstrues the provision at issue. 
Nothing in the provision denies Plaintiff’s right to costs.  In fact, the provision expressly requires
Defendant to pay Plaintiff reasonable fees, costs, and expenses.  At issue is the procedure in which the amount
of costs is to be determined by the Court. 
Under the California Rules of Court, costs are to be sought by filing a
Memo and are to be disputed by filing a Motion to Strike/Tax Costs.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a) and
(b).)  However, based upon the
stipulation in the Settlement Agreement and Code of Civil Procedure, section
1032(c), the parties agreed to have costs determined by a single motion that
was already heard.  Waiver of the right
to costs is not at issue.
Plaintiff argued that the
provision in the Settlement Agreement was not a proper waiver of rights because
it did not specify the statutory protection to be waived or the statute
itself.  (Trizec Properties, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1616, 1619 (Trizec); Choate v. Celite Corp. (2013)
215 Cal.App.4th 1460, 1467 (Choate); 
Vasquez v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 430, 435 (Vasquez).)  These cases involved express rights.  The Trizec case involved the Constitutional
right to jury trial.  The Choate case
involved rights in vested vacation pay under Labor Code, section 227.3.  The Vasquez case involved the right to a
judicial forum.  However, in our case,
there is no right at issue.  As explained
above, there is no dispute as to Plaintiff’s right to costs.  At issue is the procedure in which Plaintiff
was to seek those costs.  Per
stipulation, Plaintiff was required to seek fees, costs, and expenses in a
single motion.  Plaintiff failed to seek
costs within the previously filed motion for attorneys’ fees.  Because Plaintiff filed the prior motion for
attorneys’ fees without also seeking costs therein, Plaintiff failed to comply
with the parties’ stipulation.  The Memo
is improperly filed and in violation of the parties’ stipulation.  
The Motion to Tax the Memo in its entirety is GRANTED. CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.  