 Case Number:  22VECV01540    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  T   22VECV01540 KHALILI V GM Tentative ruling: Plaintiff's motion to compel further  responses from defendant GM and sanctions Ruling on objections to the Declaration of Huizen Lu:   All objections are sustained.  Lacks foundation and personal  knowledge.  Improper lay opinion.  Hearsay.  Irrelevant to the  extent it was signed in 2018 and was not directed to the specific facts of this  case which was filed in 2022. The parties shall cooperate to prepare a definition which is  more specific for BATTERY DEFECTS. All preliminary statements and general objections are  stricken as improper. Whenever the request has directions in parentheses, such as in  36."[This request requires the responding party to provide the  underlying investigation, report, and/or analysis that resulted in the issuance  of any such notice, letter, campaign, warranty extension, technical service  bulletin, and recall, concerning the BATTERY DEFECT(S). Thus, such information  shall pre-date the issuance of any such notice, letter, campaign, warranty  extension, technical service bulletin, and recall]", the court does  not enforce that language. Monetary sanctions:   No amount was stated in the notice of motion nor against whom the  sanctions were requested.  Denied. 1.           The court  overrules the objections: overbroad, burdensome, oppressive, irrelevant.  The response is not Code compliant.  It fails to identify all responsive documents  and whether any responsive documents are being withheld pursuant to privilege,  or they are no longer in existence and why, or whether they are in the  possession of another and identification of the other. (Whenever the court says  Code Compliant below, it incorporates this language.) Verified further Code  compliant response and production with compliance statement and privilege log  due within 20 days. 3.           The court  overrules the objections: vague and ambiguous, irrelevant.  The response is not Code compliant.  It fails to identify all responsive documents  and whether any responsive documents are being withheld pursuant to privilege,  or they are no longer in existence and why, or whether they are in the  possession of another and identification of the other.  Verified further Code compliant response and  production with compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 7.           The court  overrules the objections: vague, ambiguous, overbroad, burdensome, oppressive,  irrelevant.  The response is not Code  compliant.  It fails to identify all  responsive documents and whether any responsive documents are being withheld  pursuant to privilege, or they are no longer in existence and why, or whether  they are in the possession of another and identification of the other.  Verified further Code compliant response and  production with compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 17.        The court  sustains the objections: overbroad. Defendant is ordered to produce responsive  documents relating to this same model battery as to the issues raised in this  case.  Code compliant response and  production with compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 23.        The court  sustains the objections: overbroad.  Defendant  is ordered to produce responsive documents relating to this same model battery  as to the issues raised in this case.  Code  compliant response and production with compliance statement and privilege log  due within 20 days. 24.        The court  sustains the objections: overbroad.  Defendant  is ordered to produce responsive documents relating to this same model battery  as to the issues raised in this case.    Code compliant response and production with  compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 25.         The court  sustains the objections: overbroad.  Defendant  is ordered to produce responsive documents relating to this same model battery  as to the issues raised in this case.    Code compliant response and production with  compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 36.        The court  sustains the objections: overbroad. Defendant is ordered to produce responsive  documents relating to this same model battery as to the issues raised in this  case.    Code compliant response and production with  compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 37.         The court  sustains the objections: overbroad.  Defendant  is ordered to produce responsive documents relating to this same model battery  as to the issues raised in this case.  Code  compliant response and production with compliance statement and privilege log  due within 20 days. 38.         The court  overrules the objections: overbroad, burdensome, oppressive, irrelevant.  The response is not Code compliant.  It fails to identify all responsive documents  and whether any responsive documents are being withheld pursuant to privilege,  or they are no longer in existence and why, or whether they are in the  possession of another and identification of the other.  Verified further Code compliant response and  production with compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 39.         The court  sustains the objections: overbroad.   Defendant is ordered to produce responsive documents relating to this  same model battery as to the issues raised in this case.  Code compliant response and production with  compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 40.         The court  will hear argument specifically as to the Analytical Warranty System. 41.         The court  sustains the objections: overbroad. Defendant is ordered to produce responsive  documents relating to this same model battery as to the issues raised in this  case.  Code compliant response and  production with compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 42.        The court  sustains the objections: overbroad and vague as to fixes. 43.        The court  sustains the objection: overbroad.  44.         The court  sustains the objection: overbroad. 45.         The court  sustains the objection: overbroad. Also vague as to "the problems." 50.        The court  sustains the objection: overbroad. Also vague as to "corrective action." 51.        The court  sustains the objection: overbroad.  Also  vague as to "software release notes." 52.        The court  sustains the objections: burdensome and overbroad. 53.        The court  sustains the objections: overbroad.  58.         The court  will hear argument. 59.        The court  sustains the objections: burdensome and overbroad.  68.        The court  sustains the objections: burdensome and overbroad.   76.        The court  sustains the objections: burdensome and overbroad.  Defendant is ordered to produce responsive  documents relating to this same model battery as to the issues raised in this  case.  Code compliant response and  production with compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 78.        The court  sustains the objections: burdensome and overbroad.  D Defendant is ordered to produce responsive  documents relating to this same model battery as to the issues raised in this  case.  Code compliant response and  production with compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 79.        The court  sustains the objections: burdensome and overbroad. Defendant is ordered to produce  responsive documents relating to this same model battery as to the issues  raised in this case.    Code compliant response and production with  compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 86.        Improper  discovery per Civil Code section 3295(c).   Neither Santana nor Donlen pgs. 143-144 stand for this proposition for  pre-trial discovery of financial condition for punitive damages. 91.        The court  sustains the objections: burdensome and overbroad.  Defendant is ordered to produce responsive  documents relating to this same model battery as to the issues raised in this  case.  Code compliant response and  production with compliance statement and privilege log due within 20 days. 92.        Grant. Code  compliant response and production with compliance statement and privilege log  due within 20 days as to this model and year vehicle. 93.         Grant. Code  compliant response and production with compliance statement and privilege log  due within 20 days as to this model and year vehicle. 94.         Grant. Code  compliant response and production with compliance statement and privilege log  due within 20 days as to this model and year vehicle. 95.         Grant. Code  compliant response and production with compliance statement and privilege log  due within 20 days as to this model and year vehicle. 96.        Grant. Code  compliant response and production with compliance statement and privilege log  due within 20 days as to this model and year vehicle. Request for declaration: Unclear where in Zagarian this  language is referenced.  The court  requires explanation from plaintiff counsel.   [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant General Motors LLC’s Demurrer to  the Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.  Defendant General Motors LLC’s  Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the  first through fourth causes of action; and DENIED as to the fifth cause of  action. Defendant General Motors LLC is  ordered to file an Answer to the Second Amended Complaint within 20 days. Introduction  Defendant General Motors LLC  (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Kiumars Khalili’s (Plaintiff) Second Amended  Complaint (SAC).  Defendant demurred to  Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action (COA) for fraudulent inducement-concealment.  Defendant moved to strike Plaintiff’s request  for punitive damages. Discussion   Defendant argued that the  concealment claim failed to allege specific facts to plead fraud against a  corporation – names of persons making the representations, their authority to  speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or  written.  However, the specificity  pleading requirement as to corporations applies to actual/active  misrepresentation claims.  The instant  COA is for concealment and no actual fraud is alleged.  The argument is unpersuasive and the demurrer  made on this argument is OVERRULED. Defendant argued that there are  insufficient facts alleging Defendant’s knowledge of the defects in Plaintiff’s  vehicle at the time of purchase.  This  pleading defect was previously reviewed at the prior demurrer to the First  Amended Complaint’s (FAC) fraud COA.   Plaintiff cured the defective pleading to expressly allege that  Defendant knew of the battery defect since 2016 that the model year 2017 or  newer Chevrolet Bolt EV, including Plaintiff’s vehicle, contained the battery  defect and that Defendant knew of the defect in Plaintiff’s vehicle based upon  “pre-production and post-production testing data, early consumer complaints  about the Battery Defect made directly to GM and its network of dealers,  aggregate warranty data compiled from GM’s network of dealers, testing  conducted by GM in response to these complaints, as well as warranty repair and  part replacements data received by GM from GM’s network of dealers, amongst  other sources of internal information.”   Plaintiff further alleged that the battery in 2017-2022 Chevrolet Bolt  vehicles, including Plaintiff’s vehicle, shared common battery system  components and lithium-ion battery which included the battery defect.  Plaintiff also alleged that Defendant made  communications to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)  relating to the battery components in the Chevrolet Bolt EV.  (SAC pars. 23-24, 26, 28-31.)  These new allegations plead sufficiently  specific facts as to Defendant’s knowledge of the defect and that the knowledge  of the defect was inclusive of Plaintiff’s vehicle.   Defendant then argued that there  are insufficient facts to plead the element of intent to defraud.  Plaintiff’s SAC alleged that Defendant  concealed the defect from Plaintiff prior to and at the time of entering the lease  based upon the allegation that Defendant informed consumers that the vehicles  were functioning properly and/or concealed from consumers that the conducted  repairs only masked the defect.  Further,  Plaintiff alleged that Defendant failed to inform and/or concealed from  consumers of the defect in sales materials, advertisements, publications,  online marketing, television, radio, and other marketing campaigns” and  concealed the defect with ineffective repair procedures published to its  dealerships.  (SAC pars. 34-36.)  These fact allegations are sufficient to  plead supportive facts as to the intent to defraud element.   Defendant argued that there is  insufficient fact pleading to allege that Defendant had a duty to  disclose.  Defendant asserted that  Plaintiff failed to allege any transaction involving “direct dealings.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7  Cal.App.5th 276, 311-312.)  This argument  was reviewed at the prior demurrer to the FAC.   The Court agreed with the argument raised previously.  However, Plaintiff presented case law both  then and in opposition to the instant demurrer to show that the duty to  disclose, as to the manufacturer of a vehicle, is imposed if there is (1) an  affirmative misrepresentation, or, (2) if plaintiff alleges “physical injury or  . . . safety concerns posed by the defect” at issue.  (Daugherty v. Am. Honda Motor Co. (2006) 144  Cal.App.4th 824, 836.)  As reviewed  previously, the prior FAC, as well as the instant SAC, sufficiently pled facts  to allege “safety concerns posed by the defect”   (i.e., loss of propulsion, catastrophic fire, no crank, reduced range,  thermal runaway, and/or spontaneous combustion.   (See SAC pars. 23-25, 38-39, 44, 46, and 87.))  As reviewed previously and reviewed now,  Plaintiff sufficiently pled facts to allege a duty to disclose within the SAC. In response to arguments in the  Opposition, Defendant’s Reply added that the SAC failed to allege sufficient  facts as to the pleading element of a concealment and failed to plead facts to  allege the element of damages.  Despite  Defendant’s argument otherwise, Plaintiff sufficiently pled facts to allege  that Defendant concealed the battery defect.   (SAC pars. 23-26, 85-87.)  Factual  pleading as to the element of damages is also sufficiently alleged because  Plaintiff pled that he would not have entered into the lease had he known of  the defect.  (SAC pars. 8-9, 36, 89, and  94.)  The arguments as to the elements of  concealment and damages are not persuasive. The Demurrer to the SAC is  OVERRULED. Defendant moved to strike the  request for punitive damages made in Prayer, par. d.  Defendant argued that punitive damages are  not recoverable under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  This issue was resolved at the prior motion  to strike against the FAC, wherein the Court reviewed the case law authority  and arguments presented by both parties.   The parties again asserted the same legal authority and argument  previously raised.  Re-asserting the same  argument and legal authority previously raised did not change the Court’s  position on the issue.   Defendant argued that punitive  damages is not proper under the first four COAs for violation of the  Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civ. Code, sec. 1790 et seq.; The Act)  because civil penalties are “akin to punitive damages.”  (Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc.  (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 184-185; Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Industries,  Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218, 228 (Troensegaard.))  Damages under The Act included a refund of  the purchase price or replacement of the vehicle and, under certain  circumstances, a civil penalty not to exceed two times Plaintiff’s actual  damages.  (Civ. Code, sec. 1794.)  Civil penalties are awarded if the trier of  fact finds Defendant willfully violated its obligations.  (Civ. Code, sec. 1794(c).)  Plaintiff cited to several federal cases to  dispute Troensegaard.  (See Brilliant v.  Tiffin Motor Homes, Inc. (N.D. Cal. July 7, 2010) 2010 WL 2721531; Clark v. LG  Elecs. U.S.A., Inc. (S.D. Cal. Oct. 29, 2013) 2013 WL 5816410;  Romo v. FFG Ins. Co. (C.D. Cal. 2005) 397  F.Supp. 2d 1237, 1240.)  Although the  federal cases may have opined otherwise, the Court exercised its discretion in  finding the federal cases to be unpersuasive.   Because our California Courts of Appeal opined that civil penalties  under The Act are “akin to punitive damages” and there is no California case  law opining that punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294 can be pled or  awarded under The Act, the Court finds Defendant’s argument persuasive.   Plaintiff asserted that punitive  damages and civil penalties may be sought simultaneously at the pleading  stage.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998)  67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1256-1257 (Clauson.))   However, Clauson is distinguishable from the allegations in the instant  action.  The Court opined that James  Clauson could plead punitive damages under the common law tort claim of  invasion of privacy and simultaneously plead civil penalties under the  statutory claim for unlawful wiretapping pursuant to Penal Code section 637.2,  subdivision (a).  The Court of Appeal did  not opine that punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294 could be pled  under the statutory claim for unlawful wiretapping.  Plaintiff is attempting to argue that Civil  Code section 3294 punitive damages can be pled under The Act.  However, Plaintiff’s argument is without any  supportive legal authority.   The motion to strike punitive  damages is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first through fourth  COAs.   As to the request for punitive  damages under the fifth COA for fraud, the Court finds that the fifth COA is  sufficiently pled to survive the general demurrer, as reviewed above, and thus  the claim is sufficient to support the fraud element required for punitive  damages.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.  3294.)  The Court does not find  Defendant’s argument against punitive damages to be persuasive. The motion to strike punitive  damages is DENIED as to the fifth COA.                