 Case Number:  22STCV16892    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  14 Rivera vs. City of Los AngelesCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was
fired as a police cadet because she was disabled and pregnant.
 
            On July 26,
2022, Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Pregnancy
Discrimination, (2) Harassment, (3) Sex Discrimination, (4) Failure to Prevent,
(5) FEHA Retaliation, (6) Disability Discrimination, (7) Failure to Engage, and
(8) Failure to Accommodate against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”), Aaron
McCraney (“McCraney”), Susanna Kazarian (“Kazarian”), Catherina Emestica,
erroneously sued as “Katherine Emestica” (“Emestica”), Norma Zamora (“Zamora”),
and DOES 1-50.
 
            On August
19, 2022, Defendants City, McCraney, Kazarian, Emestica, and Zamora filed their
joint Answer.
 
            Jury trial
is currently set for April 15, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
            
Plaintiff
now moves this court for an order that Defendant City produce:
 
“1.
Each and every report, memorandum, statement and item of correspondence (including
reports of any internal investigation, administrative, or criminal investigation),
prepared by, or in the possession of, any employee of Defendant and/or Los
Angeles Police Department concerning Plaintiff. 
 
2.
Each and every report, memorandum, statement and item of correspondence
(including reports of any internal investigation, administrative, or criminal
investigation), prepared by, or in the possession of, any employee of Defendant
and/or Los Angeles Police Department reflecting any disciplinary action imposed
against Captain Aaron McCraney (“McCraney”), or any other employee of
Defendant, arising out of Plaintiff’s request for accommodation and/or
termination. 
 
3.
Each and every report, memorandum, statement and item of correspondence
(including reports of any internal investigation, administrative, or criminal
investigation), prepared by, or in the possession of, any employee of Defendant
and/or Los Angeles Police Department reflecting any disciplinary action imposed
against Officer Katherine Emestica (“Emestica”), or any other employee of
Defendant, arising out of Plaintiff’s request for accommodation and/or
termination. 
 
4.
Each and every report, memorandum, statement and item of correspondence
(including reports of any internal investigation, administrative, or criminal
investigation), prepared by, or in the possession of, any employee of Defendant
and/or Los Angeles Police Department reflecting any disciplinary action imposed
against Detective Norma Zamora (“Zamora”), or any other employee of Defendant,
arising out of Plaintiff’s request for accommodation and/or termination. 
 
5.
Each and every report, memorandum, statement and item of correspondence
(including reports of any internal investigation, administrative, or criminal
investigation), prepared by, or in the possession of, any employee of Defendant
and/or Los Angeles Police Department reflecting any disciplinary action imposed
against Officer Suzanna Kazarian (“Kazarian”), or any other employee of
Defendant, arising out of Plaintiff’s request for accommodation and/or
termination. 
 
6.
Each and every report, memorandum, statement and item of correspondence
(including reports of any internal investigation, administrative, or criminal
investigation), prepared by, or in the possession of, any employee of Defendant
and/or Los Angeles Police Department reflecting any disciplinary action imposed
against Police Officer and Injured on Duty (“IOD”) Coordinator, Claire Smith
(“Smith”), or any other employee of Defendant, arising out of Plaintiff’s
request for accommodation and/or termination.
 
7.
Each and every report, memorandum, statement and item of correspondence
(including reports of any internal investigation, administrative, or criminal
investigation), prepared by, or in the possession of, any employee of Defendant
and/or Los Angeles Police Department reflecting any disciplinary action imposed
against Sargent Lawrence Martinez (“Martinez”), or any other employee of
Defendant, arising out of Plaintiff’s request for accommodation and/or
termination. 
 
8.
Any and all communications (including but not limited to e-mails) between
Plaintiff and any member of Defendant and/or Los Angeles Police Department
regarding providing Plaintiff reasonable accommodation, which is the subject of
this civil case. 
 
9.
Any and all communications (including but not limited to e-mails) between
Plaintiff and any member of Defendant and/or Los Angeles Police Department
regarding Plaintiff’s termination, which is the subject of this civil case. 
 
10.
Any and all communications (including but not limited to e-mails) between
Plaintiff and any member of Defendant and/or Los Angeles Police Department
regarding Plaintiff’s pregnancy, which is the subject of this civil case. 
 
11.
Any and all communications (including but not limited to e-mails) between
Plaintiff and any member of Defendant and/or Los Angeles Police Department
regarding Plaintiff’s retaliation, which is the subject of this civil case. 
 
12.
Any and all communications (including but not limited to e-mails) between
Plaintiff and any member of any member of Defendant and/or Los Angeles Police
Department regarding Plaintiff’s applications to become a sworn police officer.

 
13.
Any and all written complaints or concerns raised by any of Defendant’s
employees concerning Plaintiff. 
 
14.
Any and all documents concerning Defendant’s investigation into Plaintiff’s
termination. 
 
15.
Any and all documents concerning Defendant’s efforts to provide reasonable
accommodation to Plaintiff. 
 
16.
Any and all Internal Affairs reports or documents concerning Plaintiff’s
termination. 
 
17.
Any and all documents concerning Defendant’s investigation into Plaintiff’s
complaints regarding her termination. 
 
18.
Any and all Internal Affairs reports or documents concerning Plaintiff’s
contention that her termination was retaliatory. 
 
19.
Any and all documents used by or relied on by Defendant and/or Los Angeles
Police in hiring Plaintiff as an Associate Community Officer. 
 
20.
Any and all documents concerning why Plaintiff was asked to resign on or about
May 5, 2021. 
 
21.
The Los Angeles Police Department Manual referenced in the applicable Associate
Community Officer Program Manual governing Plaintiff’s employment regarding
disciplinary procedures, including the Department Manual sections 3/816, 3/820,
3/825. 
 
22.
The Los Angeles Police Department Manual referenced in its response to FORM
Interrogatory 200.4 section (a). 
 
23.
Any and all documents relating to, including the location and job duties
related to Plaintiff’s performance for the COVID task force. 
 
24.
The LAPD IA Complaint Form No. 21-001438 and any documents related thereto. 
 
25.
Any and all Internal Affairs reports or documents related to LAPD IA Complaint
Form No. 21-001438. 
 
26.
Any and all documents related to Plaintiff’s application to become an Associate
Community Officer. 
 
27.
Any and all documents reflecting the background check Defendant conducted
regarding Plaintiff at the time she applied to become an Associate Community
Officer. 
 
28.
Any and all documents reflecting the background check Defendant conducted
regarding Plaintiff at the time she applied to become a sworn police officer. 
 
29.
Any and all documents reflecting the background check Defendant conducted
regarding Plaintiff at the time she was terminated, or any time thereafter. 
 
30.
Any and all documents related to the “soft denial” of Plaintiff’s application
to become a sworn police officer. 
 
31.
Any and all documents or manuals used to reach the determination that
Plaintiff’s application to become a sworn police officer was a “soft denial.” 
 
32.
Any statements obtained by any witnesses as part of Defendant and/or Los
Angeles Police Department investigation of Plaintiff’s complaints regarding her
termination. 
 
33.
Any and all Internal Affairs investigation reports and documents concerning
Plaintiff.
 
Decision
 
            As to Category Nos. 8-13, 15, 19, and 21-31, the motion
is DENIED.
 
            As to Category Nos. 1-7, 14, 16-18, 20, and 32-33, the
motion is CONTINUED to Tuesday, February 27, 2024, at 8:30 am.
 
            Counsel are ORDERED to meet and confer in person or by
video conference and reach a stipulation regarding a more particular
description of the materials within each remaining category that Defense would
withhold based on Pitchess. The meeting and conference should include a
representative from Defendant City’s “Pitchess department.” That stipulation
should be filed with this court by noon on Tuesday, February 20, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
            This motion first came on for hearing on January 23,
2024. The court found that the motion was properly served, and that discovery
deadlines are pegged to the current trial date of April 15, 2024. ordered
counsel to meet and confer to discuss what materials Plaintiff seeks that Defense
would withhold, and also to file a stipulation describing those materials by
noon on January 26, 2024.
 
            Counsel filed a stipulation a day early, on January 25,
2024. The court thanks counsel for their expeditious action. Having documents
earlier rather than later is a significant aid to the court.
 
            The stipulation does not precisely comport with the order
of the court. Rather than providing a description of the materials covered by Pitchess
and withheld on that basis, the document contains a list of the requested
categories which counsel agree might contain Pitchess materials. The
categories not included on that list are not proper subjects of a Pitchess
motion, and do not require further consideration by this court in this context.
 
            The stipulation was accompanied by the Declaration of Deborah
P. Gutierrez, counsel for Plaintiff. In that declaration, Ms. Gutierrez explains
why counsel have not directly followed the instructions of the court.
Apparently, the City has a specific department which handles Pitchess
documents. The City’s own counsel, Ms. Raymond, does not have access to that
department, and therefore has no idea what specific documents might be there.
 
            Additionally, and somewhat disturbingly, paragraph 5 of Ms.
Gutierrez’s declaration suggests that the City’s Pitchess department would not
honor the court’s finding that the Pitchess motion had been properly served.
The court remains confident that its orders will meet with compliance. However,
to avoid any issue, counsel ought to contact the Pitchess department
immediately, and include a representative from that department in their
discussions. 
 
            In paragraphs 5-7 of her declaration, Ms. Gutierrez seems
to suggest that Defense counsel have refused discovery on the basis of Pitchess
objections, but are themselves ignorant of, and therefore unable to describe
the evidence that lies behind their objections. That inability has left the
Plaintiff unable to provide the sort of tailored descriptions that are proper
to a Pitchess motion. This motion was counsel’s attempt to shake those issues
loose. 


The
court is not presently accepting or rejecting any of the representations
summarized in the preceding paragraph, nor is it making any findings on the
subject. However, fundamental fairness requires that any party which refuses discovery
based on a statutory privilege must also provide some basic description of the
information being withheld. And the courts are empowered to prevent exactly
that sort of prejudice. See e.g. Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.240
(authorizing the production of privilege logs).
 
            Plaintiff complains that her deadline to oppose Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is on February 6, 2024, and that she cannot do that
without this evidence. She requests a continuance of the motion for summary
judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(h), and a concomitant
continuance of the trial. The court cannot rule on that request at this time for
two reasons: (1) Defendant City has not had a proper chance to respond, and (2)
it is not clear when counsel will be able to secure the participation of the
Pitchess department, or what input they may have. Code of Civil Procedure
§ 437c(h) affords Plaintiff a statutory right to raise this issue via a
separate ex parte application.
 
Conclusion
 
            Counsel have agreed that Category Nos. 8-13, 15, 19, and 21-31
do not seek items covered by Pitchess. Therefore, the motion is DENIED as to
those categories.
 
            The motion is otherwise CONTINUED to Tuesday, February 27,
2024, at 8:30 am.
 
            Counsel are ORDERED to meet and confer in person or by
video conference and reach a stipulation regarding a more particular
description of the materials within each remaining category that Defense would
withhold based on Pitchess. The meeting and conference should include a
representative from Defendant City’s “Pitchess department.” That stipulation
should be filed with this court by noon on Tuesday, February 20, 2024.