  Case Number:  22STCLC08525    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  14  

HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, January 31, 2024

 Selby vs. Butler
Case Background
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
subleased part of her unit to them, falsely representing that she did not need
the consent of the landlord to do so. Defendant alleges that Plaintiffs broke
their sublease because she would not let them make unpermitted modifications to
the building.
 
Complaint
 
            On December
24, 2022, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint for (1) Rescission (Fraud), (2)
Rescission (Mistake), (3) Rescission (Failure of Consideration), (4)
Constructive Trust, and (5) Declaratory Relief against Defendants Lori Butler
aka Sammy Butler (“Butler”) and DOES 1-20. 
 
            On March
27, 2023, Judge Katherine Chilton ordered the case reclassified to unlimited
civil. The case was assigned to Judge Stephanie Bowick, sitting in Department
19. On April 24, 2023, pursuant to a peremptory challenge filed by Defendant
Butler, the case was assigned to this department.
 
            On August
11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint for (1) Rescission
(Fraud), (2) Rescission (Mistake), and (3) Rescission (Failure of
Consideration) against Defendant Butler and DOES 1-20.
 
            On
September 19, 2023, Defendant Butler filed her General Denial.
 
Cross-Complaint
 
            On
September 19, 2023, Defendant Butler filed her Cross-Complaint for (1) Breach
of Contract, (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant, (3) Fraudulent Inducement, (4)
Interference with Contract, and (5) Attempted Civil Extortion against Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants.
 
Trial Date
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for October 7, 2024.
 
(1)        Demurrer
 
            Cross-Defendants
now demur, per Code of Civil Procedure §§ 430.10(e)-(f), to the Cross-Complaint,
on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and is uncertain.
 
Evidentiary Rulings
 
            Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) is GRANTED.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer to the first and third causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
            The
demurrer to the second, fourth, and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED, with
20 days leave to amend. 
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
            “’A cause
of action for damages for breach of contract is comprised of the following
elements: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.’ (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 C.A.3d 1371, 1388).” Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 228.
 
            Cross-Complainant
has alleged the existence of two contracts – a sublease and a non-disclosure
agreement concerning the sublease. (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 8, 13). She has
alleged her own performance. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 8). Cross-Complainant
claims that Cross-Defendants breached that sublease by terminating it without
proper notice (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 11-12), and breached the non-disclosure
agreement by discussing terms of the sublease with the landlord
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 13). Finally, Cross-Complainant has alleged damages in the
form of lost rent, physical damage to the apartment, and failure to pay
contractual fees. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 14). 
 
Breach of contract has been
properly pled. Cross-Defendants argue that the contracts are unenforceable, as
their original complaint is one for rescission of those contracts. But that
defense does not appear on the face of the allegations in the cross-complaint.
The court cannot resolve the enforceability of the contracts on demurrer; it is
sufficient for present purposes that they exist and both parties know what they
are.
 
Second Cause of Action: Breach of the Implied Covenant
 
Breach of the implied covenant may
be either a tort or a contract claim. See Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395. If it is pled in tort, it is a claim that the defendant
had an improper motive for breaching some express provision of the contract. If
it is pled in contract, it is a claim that the defendant did something was not (in and of itself) a violation of
their contract but which did prevent Cross-Complainant
from reaping the benefit of the contract. 
 
To plead the claim as a tort, Cross-Complainant
must identify a legally recognized “special relationship” between the parties. Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1395. To plead the claim in
contract, Plaintiffs must identify the conduct that frustrated the purpose of
the contract without breaching it. Id.
 
Cross-Complainant has not made
clear whether this claim is pled in tort or in contract. She has not identified
a legally recognized “special relationship” between herself and Defendants that
would allow a tort claim – she submits no authority to suggest that the sublessor-sublessee
relationship qualifies. Nor has Cross-Complainant identified any conduct which
has deprived her of the benefit of the contract without actually breaching the
contract.
 
Third Cause of Action: Fraudulent Inducement
 
            “Fraudulent
inducement” is a descriptive label used to refer to fraud that occurs in the
formation of a contract. See Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 289, 294-295. The elements and pleading requirements are
the same ones that apply to any other fraud claim. See Id. In this case,
Cross-Complainant is asserting concealment rather than affirmative
misrepresentation. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 21).
 
            To plead
fraud on a concealment theory, Cross-Complainant must plead that
Cross-Defendants (1) concealed a material fact (2) which they had a duty to
disclose (3) with intent to deceive, (4) that Cross-Complainant was unaware of
the fact, and (5) resulting damage. Lovejoy
v. AT & T Corp. (2004)
119 Cal.App.4th 151, 157-158. While fraud must ordinarily be pled
with specificity, a concealment claim need not be. Alfaro v. Community
Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384. Concealment is sufficiently pled when the complaint as
a whole provides sufficient notice of the particular claims against defendants.
Jones v. ConocoPhillips (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1200.
 
            The
Cross-Complaint alleges, at paragraphs 9-11 and 19-22, that Cross-Defendants
planned to modify the apartment to include a sauna, but did not tell
Cross-Complainant about these plans until after the contracts had been
executed. It further alleges that Cross-Complainant would not have entered into
the contracts had she known about these plans, thereby losing the chance to
rent to someone else. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 22). Fraudulent inducement, on a
concealment theory, has been properly pled.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Interference with Contract
            
            The
elements of a claim for interference with contract are: “(1) a valid contract
between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant's knowledge of this
contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.
 
            Cross-Complainant’s
theory is that Cross-Defendants have caused a disruption in her relationship
with the landlord. The Cross-Complaint does not plead “actual breach” of
Cross-Complainant’s lease. But neither does it identify what the disruption is.
A “disruption” may include the termination of a contract according to its
terms, or, more broadly, anything that makes enjoyment of the benefits of the contract
more expensive or burdensome. Pacific Gas, supra, 50 Cal.3d at
1126-27. However, it may only include litigation if the litigation was brought
without probable cause and has terminated in the cross-complainant’s favor. Id.
at 1137.
 
            Insofar as
she alleges a disruption, Cross-Complainant claims that Cross-Defendants “caused
the landlord to take an adverse position against her in this matter.”
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 26). It is not clear what exactly this means, as the
landlord is not a party to this case. But legal action by the landlord cannot
be a basis for this claim, until and unless Cross-Complainant not only wins,
but can allege that the claim had no reasonable basis.
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Attempted Civil Extortion
 
            There is no civil cause of action for “attempted
extortion.” Neither Penal Code § 519, nor Penal Code § 524, authorize
any sort of civil action for extortion. And the common law of torts does not
permit a person to be sued for the mere attempt to do harm. Even the law of
civil conspiracy requires the actual completion of the underlying tort. Thompson
v. California Fair Plan Assn. (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 760, 767.
 
            It is not clear, in fact, that there
is even a civil cause of action for completed extortion, as such. Nor is it
clear what the elements of such a claim would be. State and federal courts have
grappled with the issue over the years, producing a potpourri of conflicting precedents.
See Tran v. Eat Club (2020) 2020 WL 4812634 at *13-20 (cited only for
its comprehensive identification and summary of the relevant decisions).
Plaintiff may be able to state an actionable claim of some type under these
facts, but she cannot base that claim on Penal Code sections that do not
expressly authorize civil actions.
 
Conclusion
 
            Cross-Complainant has properly pled
claims for breach of contract and fraudulent inducement. The claims for breach
of implied covenant and interference with contract are not clear. And attempted
extortion is not a civil tort. 
 
            The demurrer to the first and
third causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
            The
demurrer to the second, fourth, and fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED, with
20 days leave to amend. 
 
(2)        Motion to
Strike
 
            Cross-Defendants
now move this court for orders striking (1) the claims for punitive damages and
(2) the claims for consequential damages.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED, in part and DENIED, in part, without prejudice.

 
The request for punitive damages in
paragraph 14 of the Cross-Complaint is STRICKEN. 
 
The motion is MOOT as directed to
allegations contained in the fourth and fifth causes of action.
 
Discussion
 
            Punitive
damages are not available on contract claims. Purcell v. Schweitzer
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 969, 976. Therefore, Cross-Complainant may
not recover them in connection with the first cause of action. However,
Cross-Complainant has properly pled the third cause of action for fraud, and
may recover punitive damages based on that claim. Civil Code 3294(c).
 
            Cross-Defendants
argue that consequential damages must be pled with particularity. But their two
citations do not direct the court to any specific page number within the cases
cited. Neither case appears to address consequential damages, or offer any helpful
discussion for this case beyond the general need to plead damages as an element
of a contract claim. Cross-Defendants have failed to meet their burden of
persuasion with respect to this issue.
 
 