  Case Number:  24AHCV00170    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING DEFENDANTS
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINTI.         INTRODUCTION
Plaintiffs Ting Zhao and Yong Sun
(“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Weixin Fu and Xian Ge
(“Defendants”), alleging that the parties entered into a loan agreement which
subsequently defaulted. Following the default, Plaintiffs obtained a judgment from
a Chinese court, holding Defendants liable for RMB 18,855,071.00 yuan
(approximately $2,620,981.35). Plaintiffs now seek recognition and enforcement
of this foreign judgment in California.
Plaintiffs filed the First Amended
Complaint (FAC) on August 30, 2024. On September 30, 2024, Defendants filed a
demurrer challenging the FAC. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the demurrer on
October 28, 2024.
 
Meet and Confer
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the
responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video
conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.
Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing
the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to
meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer
or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.
(a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).)
Here, Defense counsel has filed a
declaration stating that the meet-and-confer process was conducted by email.
(Chen Decl., ¶ 2.) However, the Code requires that the meet-and-confer process
be conducted in person, by telephone, or via video conference. Thus, Defense
has not complied with this requirement. Nevertheless, while the meet-and-confer
process may have been insufficient, this does not provide a basis for granting
or denying the demurrer.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations
must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”
they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be
accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.) 
Pleadings are to be broadly
construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the
facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f)
provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible
a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,
Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
III.      ANALYSIS
A.   
General Demurrer – Failure to State Facts
Sufficient to Constitute a Cause of Action
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s FAC
for Recognition of Foreign Judgment as it fails to state facts sufficient to
support a cause of action. The Uniform Foreign-Country Money Judgments
Recognition Act (“UFCMJRA”) authorizes the recognition of any foreign judgment
that is final and conclusive.  See Manco Contracting Co. (W.L.L.) v.
Bezdikian (2008) 45 Cal.4th 192, 195 [discussing former Uniform Foreign
Money-Judgments Recognition Act, which the UFCMJRA replaced].  CCP section
1716 provides that “[e]xcept as otherwise provided in subdivisions (b), (c),
(d), and (f), a court of this state shall recognize a foreign-country judgment
to which this chapter applies.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 1716(a). 
Pursuant to section 1715, the UFCMJRA applies to a foreign-country judgment to
the extent that the judgment (1) grants or denies recovery of a sum of money,
and (2) is final, conclusive, and enforceable under the law of the foreign
country where it is rendered.  See id., § 1715(a).  For
purposes of the UFCMJRA, a “foreign-country judgment” is defined as “a judgment
of a court of a foreign country.”  See id., § 1714(b).  
Defendants contends that Plaintiffs’
FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to establish that the Chinese judgment is
enforceable under Chinese law. (Demurrer, p.6) First, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
have not met their burden, as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
1715(c), to establish that the foreign-country judgment is entitled to
recognition. (Id.)  Second, Defendants contends that Plaintiffs
allegations merely assert conclusions without factual support, which is
insufficient to meet the requirements under UFCMJRA. Specifically, Defendants
reference Article 269 Chinese civil law, suggesting that additional procedural
steps may be necessary to render judgment enforceable under Chinese law.
(Demurrer, p.9)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argues
that the FAC meets the requirements for recognition of a foreign-country
judgment, alleging that the Chinese judgment is final, conclusive, and
enforceable. Plaintiffs’ claim that Defendants’ assertions are unsupported and
that the FAC includes detailed allegations of compliance with Chinese law.
(Opposition, p. 3.) Plaintiffs further submit that Defendants’ reliance on
Article 269 of Chinese civil law is misplaced, arguing that Plaintiffs’
allegations satisfy the requirements for an enforceable judgment under Chinese
law. (Opposition, pp. 3-4.)
Upon review, the Court finds that Plaintiffs
has sufficiently alleged facts to meet the requirements for recognition under
the UFCMJRA. Plaintiffs assert that, pursuant to Article 158 of the Civil
Procedure Law of the People’s Republic of China, the Chinese judgment became
effective, final, conclusive, and enforceable as of August 25, 2023. (FAC ¶
24.) Additionally, Plaintiffs alleges that Defendants has not filed any appeal
challenging the Chinese judgment up to the present date. (Id.)
At the pleading stage, Plaintiffs
is required only to allege, not prove, the necessary elements for recognition.
On its face, the FAC sufficiently alleges facts to establish that the judgment
is final, conclusive, and enforceable under UFCMJRA. Accordingly, Defendants
demurrer is overruled.       IV.       ORDER
            The Court OVERRULES
the demurrer to the FAC.
            Defendants are
to give notice and provide an answer within 10 days of this hearing. 
            
Dated: November 8, 2024                                                                  
 
 
 
 
             
 JARED D. MOSES  
          JUDGE OF
THE SUPERIOR COURT 