 Case Number:  24NNCV01200    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
DEFENDANTS' MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINTI.               
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Linda Barajas
(“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against Defendants HMRTJ LLC dba Villa
Valencia Apartments, Gerald Tom, Ronald Tom, and Rodolfo Campos (“Defendants”),
seeking damages arising from two slip-and-fall incidents at the Villa Valencia
Apartments in Arcadia, CA. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to repair a
broken rain gutter, which created a hazardous condition and ultimately led to
Plaintiff’s injuries. Plaintiff brings claims for (1) premises liability and
(2) general negligence.
On June 21, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint. The motion is
unopposed.
 
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. §436: “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
            Code Civ. Proc. §431.10:
“(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or
defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it
insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to
the statement of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an
otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’ means irrelevant matter’ as that term is
used in Section 436.”              
“‘In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint
must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute,
Civil Code section 3294.’ (Citation.)” Today IV’s Inc. v. Los Angeles County
MTA (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193. 
            Civ. Code §3294: 
(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision
(a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had
advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with
a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or
ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was
personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate
employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
(c) As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.
 
III.          
ANALYSIS
Defendants move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint, contending
that several allegations are improper, immaterial, and irrelevant, warranting
removal under California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 431 et seq., 435, 436, and
437. (Motion, pg.2) Defendants argue that the challenged allegations lack
necessary factual support, are conclusory, and are insufficient to sustain
claims for punitive and exemplary damages. Therefore, Defendants maintain that
these allegations should be stricken from the complaint.
Defendants seek to strike the following: (1) page 3, paragraph 14a.(2),
where Plaintiff requests punitive damages; (2) page 4, paragraphs L-3 and L-4,
which allege “Willful Failure to Warn” and “Dangerous Condition of Public
Property”; (3) page 5, paragraphs L-3 and L-4, which repeat the allegations of
“Willful Failure to Warn” and “Dangerous Condition of Public Property”; and (4)
the exemplary damages attachment on page 8, including EX-2, which asserts a
“conscious disregard for the safety of the public and of Plaintiff.”
Page 3, paragraph
14a.(2)
Defendants
seek to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages in Paragraph 14a(2),
arguing that Plaintiff’s allegations do not satisfy the pleading requirements
for punitive damages, which mandate specific factual support demonstrating
malice, oppression, or fraud. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages lacks the necessary factual foundation to establish malice,
oppression, or fraud, as it consists only of conclusory statements without
specific instances of intentional misconduct. 
Therefore,
the motion to strike Paragraph 14a(2) is GRANTED, and the punitive damages
request is stricken.
Page 4, paragraphs L-3 and L-4
and page 5, paragraphs L-3 and L-4
Defendants
moves to strike Plaintiff’s allegations of “Willful Failure to Warn” and
“Dangerous Condition of Public Property” on pages 4 and 5, paragraphs prem L-3
and L-4, on the grounds that these claims lack necessary factual support. The
“Willful Failure to Warn” claim is a statutory claim under Civil Code section
846. Consequently, Plaintiff must plead specific facts with reasonable
particularity to satisfy the statutory elements of this claim (see Khoury v.
Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 612, 619). However,
Plaintiff does not allege any facts showing intentional conduct or knowledge
that serious injury would probably result, nor does Plaintiff allege reckless
disregard for possible consequences. Therefore, the motion to strike this
allegation is GRANTED.
Regarding
the “Dangerous Condition of Public Property” allegation, Defendants argue this
claim is conclusory and unsupported by any factual basis in the law. The Court
agrees that the complaint lacks any factual support to establish a public
property condition and finds this allegation similarly conclusory. As such, the
motion to strike is GRANTED as to the “Dangerous Condition of Public Property”
references in L-3 and L-4 on both pages 4 and 5.
 
Page 8 - exemplary damages
attachment
Defendants seeks to strike the exemplary damages attachment in its
entirety, including EX-2, which alleges that “Defendants’ lack of action after
stating they would take action several times and being made aware of a tenant
injury was a conscious disregard for the safety of the public and of
Plaintiff.” The Court finds that while Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted
with a “conscious disregard for the safety of the public and of Plaintiff,” the
complaint lacks sufficient factual detail to support this claim. To warrant
exemplary damages, the claim must contain specific facts to demonstrate willful
or malicious intent, beyond mere inaction or negligence. Here, Plaintiff’s
allegations do not meet this standard as no facts are provided to show
intentional conduct or malice required for exemplary damages.
The exemplary damages attachment is stricken from the complaint.
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION
& ORDER
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion
to strike (1) page 3, paragraph
14a.(2), where Plaintiff requests punitive damages; (2) page 4, paragraphs L-3
and L-4, which allege “Willful Failure to Warn” and “Dangerous Condition of
Public Property”; (3) page 5, paragraphs L-3 and L-4, which repeat the
allegations of “Willful Failure to Warn” and “Dangerous Condition of Public
Property” and (4) the exemplary damages attachment on page 8.
            Plaintiff
has 20 days leave to amend. 
            Defendants are
to give notice.
 
Dated: November 8, 2024
 
 
 
                                                                        
                                                                                                 JARED D. MOSES  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                                 