  Case Number:  22PSCV00733    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  K Plaintiff Yolanda
Jauregui’s unopposed Motion for an Order to Release Phone Records from
Verizon is GRANTED. 
Background   
Plaintiffs Yolanda Jauregui
(“Yolanda”) and Francisco C. Barba (“Francisco”) (together, “Plaintiffs”)
allege as follows:
Yolanda and Francisco Barba (“Franky”)
are siblings; Francisco Sr. is their father. Diana Barba (“Diana”) is Franky’s
wife. Franky’s and Yolanda’s mother and Francisco’s wife, Maria C. Barba
(“Maria”), died in October 2009. Maria promised Yolanda that once Francisco
died, the property located at 4253-4261 Maxson Rd. in El Monte (“Maxson
Properties”), which Maria and Francisco owned as joint tenants, would be split
between Franky and Yolanda. Francisco agreed with Maria’s wishes. After Maria
died, Francisco went into a depression and exhibited strange mental behaviors.
During the pandemic, Franky began to isolate Francisco from some of his family.
On or around January 8, 2021, Franky had Francisco sign a grant deed
transferring the Maxson Properties to Franky. Franky also took the money in
Francisco’s bank account. Francisco died in February 2022. Franky subsequently
filed a Revocable Transfer on Death Deed naming Diana as his beneficiary.
On July 18, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed a complaint, asserting a cause of action against Franky, Diana and Does
1-10 for:
1.                 
Financial Elder Abuse 
The Final Status Conference is set for April 23, 2023. Trial
is set for May 7, 2024.
Legal Standard
A motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena may
be sought under either Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1987.1 or 2025.480. “If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), .
. . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) “The following persons
may make a motion pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. . .” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (b).)
Additionally, “if a deponent fails to answer any question or
to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)
“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion
to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a
document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.” (California Rules of Court [“CRC”] Rule
3.1346).
Discussion
Yolanda moves the court for an order compelling nonparty
Verizon to comply with Yolanda’s subpoena for production of business records.
Plaintiff’s counsel Matthew Alden (“Alden”) represents as
follows:
On or about August 22, 2023, the
subject subpoena was served. (Alden Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) The subject subpoena
seeks Francisco’s phone records from the February 1, 2020 to February 1, 2021
time frame. (Id.) Verizon provided a letter to Alden dated August 25,
2023, advising therein that it would not produce any responsive records absent
a signed consent from the account holder or a court order. (Id., ¶ 5,
Exh. 1). On August 30, 2023, Alden spoke with Verizon’s agent, Andrea, and
advised her that the owner of the phone number was dead and that no parties had
objected to the subpoena. (Id., ¶ 6). Alden was told that a court order
would be needed. (Id.) 
Plaintiff represents that the records from this time frame
are relevant because they were made shortly before and around the time
Francisco transferred his house to Franky.
At the outset, the court determines that Yolanda has
sufficiently complied with CRC Rule 3.1346, inasmuch as Alden attests that he was
given a fax number of (888) 667-0028 where Verizon wished to be served with the
instant motion. (Alden Decl., ¶ 6). The accompanying proof of service reflects
that service was made to Verizon via facsimile with the aforesaid number
listed.
Code of Civil Procedure § 1985.3, subdivision (f) provides
that “[a]
subpoena duces tecum for personal records maintained by a telephone corporation
which is a public utility, as defined in Section 216 of the Public Utilities
Code, shall not be valid or effective unless it includes a consent to release,
signed by the consumer whose records are requested, as required by Section 2891
of the Public Utilities Code.” Here, however, no consent can be obtained, as
Francisco is deceased.
The unopposed motion, then, is granted.