  Case Number:  21CHCV00215    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  F43 MOTION TO DISMISS THE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Ryan Canning and Patricia Bogarin
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs have
requested that the Court dismiss Cross-Complainant’s Cross-Complaint for failure
to prosecute.
 
RULING: Motion
to dismiss is denied without prejudice.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On July 2,
2024, Plaintiffs Ryan Canning and Patricia Bogarin (Plaintiffs) filed a motion
to dismiss Defendant and Cross-Complainant Shawn Kerwin’s (Kerwin)
cross-complaint for failure to prosecute. The only argument in Plaintiffs’
motion is that the cross-complaint should be dismissed because Kerwin filed for
bankruptcy in the Eastern District of California on or about November 2023, and
this action was stayed as result. Plaintiffs provided no authority that would
allow them to dismiss Kerwin’s case for failure to prosecute in such an
instance.
 
The Court will
also note that on May 22, 2024, this Court found that Kerwin’s bankruptcy had
been discharged and the stay on the case was lifted. A case management
conference was scheduled for November 5, 2024. Additionally, in his status
report filed prior to that hearing, Kerwin indicated that he wishes to proceed
on his cross-complaint against Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs’ July 2 motion makes no
mention of this.
 
On July 10,
2024, Plaintiffs filed an amended motion to dismiss. In that motion, Plaintiffs
indicated that at the hearing on May 22, this Court requested Plaintiffs’
counsel to address the issues of preemption and standing by the bankruptcy
court in a written noticed motion. In this motion, Plaintiffs also cite several
cases indicating that the cross-complaint should be dismissed because the
bankruptcy trustee had taken control of the case, but none of these cases cited
by Plaintiffs are binding upon this Court.
 
It appears,
perhaps, that Plaintiffs are attempting to argue that Kerwin no longer has
standing in this case and that his standing now belongs to the bankruptcy
trustee. However, that is not clear from their motion, nor have they supported
their motion with any binding authority. Plaintiffs have also not addressed
what effect, if any, the discharge of Kerwin’s bankruptcy has on his ability to
proceed. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion to dismiss without prejudice.
 
CONCLUSION
The motion to
dismiss is denied without prejudice.
 
Moving party to
give notice.