 Case Number:  22CHCV00276    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  F43 Iris Arnold, et al. vs. Brian Bauer, et al.
Trial
Date: 11-4-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Granada Hills Charter
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Iris Arnold, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
RULING: Motion is granted
in part and denied in part.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
April 22, 2022, Plaintiffs Iris Arnold, et al. (Plaintiffs) filed their
original complaint. Plaintiffs filed this action because they were fired from
their jobs at Defendant Granada Hills Charter (Defendant). Plaintiffs were
teachers and other employees at Defendant’s school. Plaintiffs were terminated
because they refused to get the COVID-19 vaccine as required by LAUSD.
 
In
the fall of 2021, Defendant required all of its employees to get the COVID-19
vaccine in order to keep its school open and prevent outbreaks of the virus
that might force the school to close again. Defendant’s administrators were
concerned that if they did not enforce this mandate, then they could lose their
charter based on the terms of that charter. Defendant provided an interactive
process by which employees who wanted an exemption from the mandate could
provide information to the administration for consideration. The five
Plaintiffs in this case used that process. However, during that process
Defendant determined that Plaintiffs’ essential job functions required them to
be in person on Defendant’s campus. Defendant determined that because of the
terms of the vaccine mandate, it could not allow Plaintiffs to be on campus
without being vaccinated, so Plaintiffs were terminated. Defendant also
determined that any attempts to accommodate Plaintiffs’ requests would lead to
undue hardship for Defendant because it would either require Defendant to hire
more employees if Plaintiffs attempted to work remotely or were placed on
leave, or it could lead to Defendant losing its charter if they were on campus
without vaccinations.
 
Defendant
argues in its motion for summary judgment that the submissions by Plaintiffs to
Defendant confirmed that Plaintiffs cannot make a prima facie case of religious
or disability/medical discrimination. Defendant also argues that Plaintiffs
cannot seek emotional distress damages because four of the five Plaintiffs
signed a release of these claims in exchange for payment in the settlement of
Worker’s Compensation claims that they had filed against Defendant. Plaintiffs
oppose Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.
 
Because
there was more evidence and testimony that the parties wished to gather, the
Court reset this MSJ hearing for October 10 and set a supplemental briefing
schedule. The parties addressed the additional evidence and testimony in their
supplemental briefs.
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections:
Declaration of Kim Vu:
            Sustained:
None
            Overruled:
1, 2, 3
Declaration of Brian Bauer:
            Sustained:
3, 6, 9, 14
            Overruled:
1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13
Declaration of Nicholas Weber:
            Sustained:
2
            Overruled:
1
Declaration of David Bensinger:
            Sustained:
4, 5, 8, 9
            Overruled:
1, 2, 3, 6, 7
Declaration of Tammy Stanton:
            Sustained:
None
            Overruled:
1, 2, 3
Declaration of Gina Corpus:
            Sustained:
None
            Overruled:
1, 2
Declaration of Karla Diamond:
            Sustained:
None
            Overruled:
1
 
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections:
            Declaration of Scott J. Street:
                        Sustained: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9
                        Overruled: 3
            Declaration of Maribel Campos:
                        Sustained: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8
                        Overruled: None
            Declaration of Lisa Benest, M.D.:
                        Sustained: None
                        Overruled: 1
            Declaration of Margarit Mooney
Clayton:
                        Sustained: 1, 2, 3
                        Overruled: None
            Declaration of Brandon Zaslow:
                        Sustained: 2, 3
                        Overruled: 1
            Declaration of Carmen Velasquez:
Sustained: 4, 8
(only the sentence that begins with “I was told…”), 10, 11, 12, 13
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 5,
6, 7, 9
            Declaration of Iris Arnold:
                        Sustained: 3, 5, 6, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 4, 7
            Declaration of Laurie Peachey:
                        Sustained: 3, 6, 8, 9
                        Overruled:
1, 2, 4, 5, 7
            Declaration of Sarah Olczak:
                        Sustained: 3, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 4
            Declaration of Angela Karapetyan:
                        Sustained: 3, 5, 7, 8,
10
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 4, 6, 9
            Declaration of Setiwan Beckman:
                        Sustained: 4, 7, 9, 10,
12, 13
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 5,
6, 8, 11
            Declaration of Sean Kaufman:
                        Sustained: 1, 2
                        Overruled: None
 
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Supplemental Declaration of Scott J. Street:
            Sustained: 1, 2, 3
            Overruled: None
 
ANALYSIS
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon
Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inference that may be drawn
form that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at
467; see also CCP § 437c(c).) “An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
Issue
1
Defendant
argues that the First Cause of Action for religious discrimination in violation
of California’s FEHA fails as a matter of law because Plaintiffs have failed to
show a sincerely held religious belief that conflicts with Defendant’s
vaccination policy and because Defendant could not reasonably accommodated
Plaintiffs without undue hardship.
 
When
evaluating whether an employer failed to accommodate an employee’s religious
beliefs, first “the employee must establish a prima facie case that he or she
had bona fide religious belief, of which the employer was aware that conflicts
with an employment requirement.” (Soldinger v. Northwest Airlines, Inc.
(1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 345, 370.) “Once the employee establishes a prima facie
case, then the employer must establish it initiated good faith efforts to
accommodate or no accommodation was possible without producing undue hardship.”
(Id.)
 
In
this case, there is no dispute that the majority of the Plaintiffs told
Defendant that they had bona fide religious beliefs that conflicted with the
vaccine requirement. Because questioning the sincerity of beliefs is fraught
with potential bias, it is presumed as a matter of law that religious beliefs
are sincere. (Friedman v. Southern Cal. Permanent Medical Group (2002)
102 Cal.App.4th 39, 69.) Therefore, it is not for the Court to question whether
Plaintiffs’ beliefs were sincere. Furthermore, there is no dispute that
Defendant was aware of Plaintiffs’ beliefs when Plaintiffs explained their
reasons for not getting the COVID-19 vaccine. In fact, Plaintiffs described
their beliefs to Bauer three years ago, and Bauer testified that he did not
have any reason to doubt Plaintiffs’ sincerity. 
 
Also,
though Defendant argues that it is relevant that Plaintiffs’ religions do not
require them to abstain from the vaccine, it does not matter whether everyone
in Plaintiffs’ particular religious sects hold the same beliefs because the
U.S. Supreme Court has held that “a person’s belief can be religious even if it
is not shared by all of the members of [their] religious sect.” (Thomas v.
Review Bd. of Ind. Emp’t Sec. Div. (1981) 450 U.S. 707, 715-716 (quotations
omitted).)
 
The
issue then becomes whether Defendant has established that it initiated good
faith efforts to accommodate Plaintiffs and that no accommodations were
possible without undue hardship to Defendant. “The extent of undue hardship on
the employer’s business is at issue only where the employer claims that it is
unable to offer any reasonable accommodation without such hardship.” (Soldinger,
51 Cal.App.4th at 371 (quotations omitted).) The law “requires that an employer
reasonably accommodate an employee’s practice of religion, not merely that it
assess the reasonableness of a particular possible accommodation or
accommodations.” (Groff v. DeJoy (2023) 600 U.S. 447, 473.)
 
As
to whether the accommodations that were proposed by Plaintiffs and rejected by
Defendant would have placed an undue hardship on Defendant, as will be
discussed, the only one that would have certainly caused a hardship is allowing
the Plaintiffs to work on-campus. 
 
Defendant
has argued that the LAUSD mandate required all on-campus employees of LAUSD
schools, including charter schools, to be vaccinated. In response, Plaintiffs presented
evidence that another area charter school, Vaughn, allowed staff with religious
objections to vaccinations to work in person during the 2021-2022 school year
while testing weekly for COVID-19. (PAOE 232.) That being said, Defendant
submitted a declaration from the CEO of Vaughn with its reply indicating that
Vaughn did not authorize any unvaccinated employees to enter or access
LAUSD-owned property while the vaccine policy was operative. (Ramirez Decl., ¶
4.) The deposition testimony of Ramirez submitted with the parties’
supplemental briefing confirms that Vaughn did not authorize unvaccinated
employees to work on campus because of its charter with LAUSD. It appears that
there was distinction between Vaughn’s LAUSD-owned campus and a separate,
privately owned Vaughn campus that may have caused this difference in testimony.
No unvaccinated employees were allowed on Vaughn’s LAUSD-owned campus.
 
Furthermore,
the Chief Human Resources Officer for LAUSD, Dr. Francisco Serrato, stated in
his September 5 deposition that unvaccinated charter school employees could not
remain on campus even with accommodations. (Roth Decl., Ex. A, pp. 57:10-58:1.)
When asked whether an on-campus accommodations that involved masking, social
distancing, and weekly COVID testing could have been granted, he explicitly
answer no because on-campus employees were required to be vaccinated. (Roth
Decl., Ex A, pp. 40:12-41:8.) 
 
However,
Serrato also said that this did not prohibit charter schools from granting
other accommodations with respect to the vaccine mandate for qualified
employees. (Roth Decl., Ex. A., p. 34:2-17.) This is in line with Serrato’s
Declaration, submitted with Plaintiffs’ opposition, which states that “The
District expected independent charter schools to comply with all applicable laws
in providing reasonable accommodations to their qualified employees…Additionally,
the District never prohibited any independent charter school from providing
reasonable accommodations to its qualified employees, nor did the District ever
prohibit independent charter school employees from participating in their
employer’s reasonable accommodation process. (Serrato Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) All of
these things are evidence for the finder of fact to weigh when deciding whether
Defendant could have provided reasonable accommodations for Plaintiffs that did
not involve them being on campus.
 
Based
on the testimony of Ramirez and Serrato, the question in this case becomes
whether Defendant could have made some kind of remote accommodations or other
accommodations for Plaintiffs, rather than taking the extreme measure of
terminating their employment. This is a question of fact for the finder of fact
to weigh and not appropriate for a motion for summary judgment, as Defendant
has not presented evidence that the off-campus options would produce
significant hardship for it. (See Ruiz v. Paradigmworks Grp., Inc. (S.D.
Cal. Jan. 13, 2020) No. 16-CV-2993-CAB-BGS, 2020 WL 133905, at *4.) Instead, Defendant
only offers speculation of what might have happened had it tried to accommodate
Plaintiffs.
 
Defendant
simply decided that people should work in-person. Plaintiffs’ original
opposition mentions remote work or administrative leave as potential
alternatives to working on-campus. (Plaintiffs’ Opposition, p. 26, fn. 5; Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement ¶¶ 29, 30, 38, 86.) Those types of accommodations would have
been possible under LAUSD’s rules. (Roth Decl., Ex. A., p. 34:2-17.)
Accordingly, whether Defendant could have made other accommodations for
Plaintiffs that did not involve them remaining on-campus remains a question for
the finder of fact. The purpose of the interactive process is to find an
arrangement that works for all parties. Even if Plaintiffs would have preferred
to work on-campus and Defendant would have preferred for them to be there and
vaccinated, there could potentially have been a compromise that did not involve
the termination of Plaintiffs’ employment.
 
While
the other Plaintiffs’ reasons for not getting the vaccine were religious, Plaintiffs
Beckman and Olczak’s primary basis for not getting the vaccine was their
medical conditions, though Beckman also cited religions reasons in her
deposition and declaration. For Olczak, her reasons were almost entirely
medical and were not based on the teachings of any church or religion. (UMF
64.) Her decision not to get the vaccine was based on her personal beliefs
about vaccination, not on any religious beliefs. (Crochetiere Decl., Ex. A.,
20:7-16.) Based on these statements from Olczak, Olczak cannot claim religious
discrimination as a matter of law because her decision to not get the vaccine
was not based on any religious beliefs or convictions.
 
Accordingly,
there are triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendant could have
made off-campus accommodations for Plaintiffs’ religious beliefs. Defendant’s
motion is denied on this issue for most of the Plaintiffs, but it is granted
for Olczak.
 
Issue
2
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs Olczak and Beckman’s Second Cause of Action for
disability discrimination in violation of FEHA fails as a matter of law because
they have not established a disability or qualifying medical condition and
because Defendant could not reasonably accommodate them without undue hardship.
 
An
employer cannot fire somebody because of her “medical condition ….” (Gov. Code
§ 12940(a).) FEHA requires that employers “engage in a timely, good faith, interactive
process with the employee or applicant to determine effective reasonable accommodations,
if any, in response to a request for reasonable accommodation by an employee or
applicant with a known physical or mental disability or known medical
condition.” (Gov. Code § 12940(n).)
 
“‘Medical
condition’ means … (1) Any health impairment related to or associated with a
diagnosis of cancer or a record or history of cancer.” (Gov. Code § 12926(i)(1).)
California courts have held that “medical condition” as used in FEHA covers
“any health impairment related to or associated with a diagnosis of cancer, for
which a person has been rehabilitated or cured, based on competent medical
evidence.” (Gosvener v. Coastal Corp. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 805, 812-813
(emphasis added) (quotations omitted).) FEHA covers both cancer and other
health impairments not related to cancer. (See Jensen v. Wells Fargo Bank
(2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 257.)
 
Despite
Plaintiffs Beckman and Olczak claiming that they could not take the COVID-19
vaccine due to their particular medical conditions, a skin condition and prior
cancer respectively, these Plaintiffs were fired. Defendant is claiming that
there was no disability discrimination because Plaintiffs have not established
a disability or qualifying medical condition. However, it should be noted that
at the time, Plaintiff’s provided medical records, including doctors’ notes, to
support their requests for disability accommodations. (PAOE, 67, 164.)
 
Rather
than present medical evidence, Defendant has questioned the veracity and
seriousness of Plaintiffs’ claimed conditions and has argued that as a matter
of law, it had no duty to even consider accommodating the Plaintiffs’
conditions. That does not change the fact that Defendant fired Plaintiffs
despite their claimed medical impairments that they believed were preventing
them from getting the vaccine. 
 
Whether
Defendant’s firing of Plaintiffs amounted to disability discrimination because
they did not want to get the vaccine because of their medical conditions is a
question of fact for the jury. Defendant’s motion is denied for this issue.
 
Issue
3
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs Olczak and Beckman’s Third Cause of Action for failure
to engaged in the interactive process fails as a matter of law because there
were not available reasonable accommodations for any of the Plaintiffs.
 
Similar
to the religious discrimination cause of action, no accommodations were made
for Plaintiffs’ claimed medical conditions. Defendant has also not produced any
evidence that engaging in the interactive process or accommodating Plaintiffs’
medical conditions would have caused it undue hardship.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion is denied for this issue.
 
Issue
4
Defendant
argues that the claims by Plaintiffs Olczak, Beckman, Arnold, and Karapetyan
for emotional distress damages fail as a matter of law because these Plaintiffs
released Defendant for these damages in their worker’s compensation settlements
with Defendant.
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their opposition that Defendant cannot raise this issue for the first
time in its motion for summary judgment. However, Defendant cites a case in its
reply that demonstrates that courts generally have allowed an affirmative
defense to be asserted for the first time in a motion for summary judgment
“absent a showing of prejudice.” (Nieto v. Blue Shield of California Life
& Health Ins. Co. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 60, 75.) “Given the
long-standing California court policy of exercising liberality in permitting
amendments to pleadings at any stage of the proceedings ... we believe that a
party should be permitted to introduce [a] defense ... in a summary judgment
procedure so long as the opposing party has adequate notice and opportunity to
respond.” (Cruey v. Gannett Co. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 356.)
 
Given
that case law, the Court will allow Defendant to make this argument in its
summary judgment motion.
 
As
for the merits of Defendant’s argument, in 2004, the California Supreme Court
clarified that “the standard language of the preprinted form used in settling
workers’ compensation claims releases only those claims that are within the
scope of the workers’ compensation system, and does not apply to claims
asserted in separate civil actions.” (Claxton v. Waters (2004) 34
Cal.4th 367, 376.) To release the other claims, the parties must “execute
another document expressing that agreement.” (Id. at 378). And they must
demonstrate their intention “in clear and non-technical language.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that no separate agreement exists, and the only one Defendant can point
to is Addendum A to the pre-printed release form. However, courts have rejected
arguments based on similar addenda before. (See Camacho v. Target Corp.
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 291, 312 (reversing summary judgment on this issue based
on similar addendum).) Moreover, each release executed by the plaintiffs here
states specifically that they were not releasing any claims related to the
facts being litigated in this action. (PAOE 44, 50, 96, 134, 196, 200.)
 
Defendant
argues in its reply that the workers’ compensation settlements broadly release Defendant
“from all claims and causes of action, whether now known or ascertained or
which may hereafter arise or develop as a result of the above-referenced
injury(ies).” (UMF 47-54.) Defendant further argues that this broad language defeats
Plaintiffs’ after-the-fact effort to claim that they were only releasing clams
for emotional distress before a certain date. (POAE 13, 56 -57, 103-104, 146.)
 
The
only carve-out in the releases was for “Claims outside the jurisdiction of the
WCAB,” and Defendant argues that it is not contending that the release
precludes Plaintiffs from asserting a discrimination claim in Superior Court.
The issue thus is whether Plaintiffs carved-out their right to seek emotional
distress damages a second time here, after Plaintiffs agreed that claims for
that injury were within the WCAB’s jurisdiction. Defendant argues that there is
no such carve-out in the releases. (See Jefferson v. California Dept. of
Youth Authority (2002) 28 Cal.4th 299, 303-304 (“We have been particularly
rigorous about strictly releasing broad release language in workers’
compensation settlements, because, in that context, WCAB oversight helps ensure
fairness”).)
 
However,
it should be noted that in the worker’s compensation releases, they were for
specific dates and were for injuries “arising out of and in the course of
employment.” (See, e.g., Vu Decl., Ex. E, Arnold Release.) The emotional
damages in Plaintiffs’ current complaint appear to be for all emotional damages
that Plaintiffs have allegedly suffered, including those that they have
suffered after their employment was terminated. (See Plaintiffs’ Fourth Amended
Comp.) The worker’s compensation settlements were only for injuries arising
during the course of their employment, while their current complaint and claim
for damages is for emotional damages arising from their terminations.
 
Because
Plaintiffs’ claim for emotional damages is for damages beyond those covered by
their worker’s compensation settlements, summary judgment is not appropriate.
Defendant’s motion is denied for this issue.
 
Conclusion 
The motion for summary judgment is denied for all
issues except the religious discrimination issue, which is granted as to
Plaintiff Olczak only.
 
Trial remains set for November 4, 2024.
 
Moving
party to give notice.