  Case Number:  23SMCV05402    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Sokolow v. Rexford Flats, LLC, Case
no. 23SMCV05402
Hearing date November 27, 2024
Defendants’
Motion to Admit Attorney Rachael Bandeira Pro Hoc Vice
Plaintiff
Shannon Sokolow sues defendants Rexford Flats, LLC, Rexford 52, LLC, Shiva
Mehrdad, and related real estate brokers for negligence and trespass arising
from defendants’ alleged forced entrance into plaintiff’s apartment and the
subsequent death of plaintiff’s dog. Defendants move to admit Rachael Bandeira
as counsel pro hac vice. The motion is unopposed.
A
person who is not a licensee of the State Bar of California but is an attorney
in good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of state and who
has been retained to appear in a case pending in California may be permitted to
appear as counsel pro hac vice, provided an active licensee of the State Bar of
California is associated as attorney of record. No person is eligible to appear
as counsel pro hac vice under this rule if the person is: (1) a resident of
California; (2) regularly employed in California; or (3) regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional or other activities in California. Cal.
Rules of Court 9.40(a). Absent special circumstances, repeated appearances by
any person under this rule is a cause for denial of an application. Cal. Rules
of Court 9.40(b).
The
application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office address; (2)
the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; (3) that the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those
courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any
court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed
an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number
of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of
record. Cal. Rules of Court 9.40(d).
Defendants
offer the declarations of Bandeira and counsel of record Arron Nesbitt in
compliance with Cal. Rules of Court 9.40. Nesbitt will associate with Bandeira.
Decl. Nesbitt para. 5. GRANTED.