 Case Number:  21STCV37524    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  October 12, 2021, Plaintiff Blanca Canales (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Joshua Medical Center, Cerritos Prop Holdings, AMPAC  Management Group Inc., Cerritos Property Holdings, and Does 1-50 for  negligence.  On  May 25, 2023, Defendant Cerritos Property Holdings LLC, erroneously sued as  Joshua Medical Center, Cerritos Prop Holdings, and Cerritos Property Holdings (“Cerritos  Property Holdings LLC”), filed a motion for change of venue to be heard on  October 11, 2023.  No opposition has been  filed.  No trial  date is currently scheduled.  PARTY’S REQUEST  Cerritos  Property Holdings LLC requests that the Court transfer the case to the Superior  Court of the State of California, Orange County.  LEGAL STANDARD            Code of Civil Procedure section 395, subdivision (a),  provides in part:  “Except as otherwise provided by law and subject to  the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this  title, the superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them  reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of  the action. If the action is for injury to person or personal property or for  death from wrongful act or negligence, the superior court in either the county  where the injury occurs or the injury causing death occurs or the county where  the defendants, or some of them reside at the commencement of the action, is a  proper court for the trial of the action. . . . If any person is improperly  joined as a defendant or has been made a defendant solely for the purpose of  having the action tried in the superior court in the county where he or she  resides, his or her residence shall not be considered in determining the proper  place for the trial of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 395,  subd. (a).)            Code of Civil Procedure section 397 provides in part:  “The court may, on motion, change the place of trial  in the following cases:  “(a) When the court designated in the complaint is not  the proper court.  * * *  (c) When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of  justice would be promoted by the change. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 397,  subds. (a), (c).)            “A motion for transfer on the ground that the action was  filed in an ‘improper’ court (mandatory transfer) must be made within the time  permitted to plead; i.e., 30 days after service, unless extended by stipulation  or court order.”  (L. Edmon & C.  Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶  3:564, p. 3-170, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 396b (Cal. Practice Guide).)  DISCUSSION  In her  complaint, Plaintiff alleges that on or about October 21, 2019, at the “subject  location,” Defendants negligently, carelessly, and recklessly owned, operated,  maintained, supervised, cleaned and managed the “premises” by failing to  provide safe flooring, creating a dangerous and hazardous condition.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew or  should have known about the dangerous condition but did not warn Plaintiff or  remedy the condition, causing Plaintiff to suffer injuries.  The  complaint states that “the subject location” was in Los Angeles County but does  not provide an address.  In  its motion for a change of venue, Cerritos Property Holdings LLC argues that Plaintiff  was injured in Orange County, not Los Angeles.   Cerritos Property Holdings LLC also argues that Orange County is the  location of the “only proper defendant” in the case, itself.  According to Cerritos Property Holdings LLC,  it “appears that” Plaintiff named AMPAC Management Group Inc. solely to create  venue in Los Angeles County.  “The  burden is on the moving party to establish whatever facts are needed to justify  transfer.  Normally this requires declarations  containing admissible evidence.”  (Cal. Practice  Guide, supra, ¶ 3:573, p. 3-172.)   “As the moving party, defendant must overcome the presumption that  plaintiff has selected a proper venue . . . .”   (Id., ¶ 3:574, p. 3-172.)  The Court finds that Cerritos  Property Holdings LLC has carried its burden of proving (1) Plaintiff was injured at a  location in Orange County, not Los Angeles as the complaint alleges and (2) AMPAC Management Group Inc. is not a proper defendant in this case and its inclusion in the complaint does not create venue in Los Angeles County.   Venue in Los  Angeles is improper.  Venue in Orange County is appropriate  The  Court grants the motion and transfers the case to Orange County.  The Court orders Plaintiff to pay the transfer fee.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Defendant Cerritos Property Holdings LLC's motion for change of venue.  The Court TRANSFERS the case to Orange County and orders Plaintiff to pay the transfer fee.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.