  Case Number:  24VECV02137    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  T             
24VECV02137 Chernega v Gasparian
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Armen and Karine Gasparian’s Motion
to Strike is GRANTED in Part and DENIED in Part.  The motion is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to punitive damages and DENIED as to treble damages
under Civil Code, section 3346.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the
pleading defect identified and not to add any new causes of action or claims.
Defendants Armen and Karine Gasparian’s Request for Judicial Notice is
GRANTED but not as to hearsay or facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Defendants Armen and Karine Gasparian (collectively, Defendants) moved to
strike the request for punitive/exemplary damages and treble damages under
Civil Code, section 3346 from Plaintiffs Boris and Janetta Chernega’s
(collectively, Plaintiffs) Complaint.
Discussion 
Defendants argued that the Complaint failed to allege facts to plead
malice/conscious disregard for the rights and safety of others or
oppression/conscious disregard.  Defendants argued that the claims and
facts alleged by Plaintiffs only amount to general negligence.  Plaintiffs
alleged that neighbors had concerns “due to the lack of professional
construction presence and continuous hauling of dirt by various people” and
that Defendants obtained the necessary permits but the Los Angeles County
Department of Building and Safety (LADBS) “confirmed that the permit … obtained
was simply for a decorative block wall and not a retaining wall.”  (Compl.
par. 12.)  At most, the allegation provides facts showing that the
neighbors were concerned and Defendants obtained a permit and performed work
that may have exceeded the scope of the permit.  Plaintiffs argued that
these facts showed that Defendants continued with the excavation of the base of
the hill over the complaints from neighbors and an attempted investigation by
LADBS.   However, Plaintiffs argument is not supported by the actual
fact allegation in paragraph 12.  Plaintiffs’ contention is only seen as
an inference from the facts alleged in the Complaint.  Inferences are
insufficient to plead the elements of punitive damages; specific fact pleading
is required.  Plaintiffs lack specific fact pleading to show any malicious
or oppressive conduct and/or conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights, let
alone malicious or oppressive conduct levied directly against Plaintiffs. 
At most, the factual allegations only amount to claims for general
negligence.   The factual allegations in the Complaint do not provide
specific facts to support malice, conscious disregard, or oppression. 
The motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED.
As to treble damages, Defendants argued that Plaintiffs failed to allege
facts pleading the wrongful removal of timber with the intent to vex, harass,
or annoy or injure the plaintiff and the intent to act willfully or
maliciously.  (Salazar v. Matejcek (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 634, 646 (Salazar).) 
The Salazar
case does not opine that wrongful intent is a pleading
element to support treble damages under Civil Code, sec. 3346.  The Salazar case
only opines that the issue of intent is an issue for the trier of fact.  (Id.) 
At most, the element of intent is an element of proof.  At this pleading
stage, Defendants failed to show legal authority to support their contention
that intent is a pleading element of treble damages under Civil Code, sec.
3346.  Without legal authority, Defendants’ contention is unpersuasive.
Defendants argued that treble damages should not be awarded if punitive
damages are awarded.  (Baker v. Ramirez (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d
1123, 1128-1129 (Baker).)  However, the Baker case involved
an election of remedies after trial.  Defendant’s citation to Baker
does not support their contention that Plaintiffs are prohibited from pleading both
punitive and treble damages.  Defendants’ argument is unpersuasive because
it is not supported by legal authority.
The motion to strike as to treble damages under Civil Code section 3346 is
DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.