 Case Number:  22STCV16359    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  50  
                                                                
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




MEIR
  LEVY,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
TOVA FAGAN, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV16359




Hearing
  Date:


August 2,
   2024




Hearing
  Time:   2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 




            
Background
Plaintiff Meir Levy
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on May 17, 2022 against Defendants Tova Fagan
and Yael Sima Wintner. 
On July 11, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action
for (1) extortion, (2) conspiracy to commit fraud, (3) intentional infliction
of emotional distress, and (4) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
On July 11, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint naming Pinchas (Paul) Wintner in
place of Doe 1. 
Tova Fagan and Yael Sima
Wintner demurred to each of the causes of action of the FAC, and moved to
strike portions of the FAC. On February 16, 2024, the Court issued an Order sustaining
Tova Fagan and Yael Sima Wintner’s demurrer to
the first and second causes of action of the FAC, with leave to amend. The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action of the FAC was sustained, without leave
to amend. The demurrer to the third cause of action of the FAC was overruled. In
addition, the Court denied the motion to strike paragraph 29 of the FAC as moot, and denied the motion to strike
paragraph 47 of the FAC and paragraph 3 of the
Prayer for Relief. (See February 16, 2024 Order.) 
On March 7, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), alleging causes
of action for (1) extortion, (2) conspiracy to commit fraud and/or extortion,
and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
Tova Fagan, Yael Sima
Wintner, and Pinchas (Paul) Wintner (collectively, “Defendants”) now demur to
the first and second causes of action of the SAC. Plaintiff opposes. 
Discussion 
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.     Allegations of the SAC 
In the SAC, Plaintiff
alleges that he and the Defendants’ mother Sarah Wintner were married on
December 25, 1983. (SAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants Tova Fagan,
Yael Wintner and Paul Wintner are the stepchildren of Plaintiff Meir Levy and
the biological children of Decedent, Sarah Wintner.” (SAC, ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about December 12, 2018, Defendants
discovered Plaintiff and Sarah Wintner were preparing a new trust. The
Defendants discovered they were not going to inherit the maternal home and
other assets.” (SAC, ¶ 17.) “On or about July 2, 2019, Plaintiff and Decedent
Sarah Wintner executed The Meir Levy and Sarah C. Wintner 2019 Trust (‘2019
Trust.’).” (SAC, ¶ 19.) “When the Defendants discovered the contents of the
2019 Trust, they became irate, irrational, volatile and angry. They began to
harass Plaintiff and their dying mother Sarah.” (SAC, ¶ 20.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant Yael Wintner became increasingly
angry, threatening to buy a gun and shoot Plaintiff Meir Levy in the head. She
also threatened to kill David Levy, the son of Plaintiff and decedent Sarah
Wintner, and his then girlfriend.” (SAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n or
around December, 2019, after discovering the distribution of assets per the 2019
Trust, the Wintner Defendants threatened Plaintiff Meir Levy with criminal
accusations of childhood rape if Plaintiff Levy did not change the 2019 Trust
to give the Wintner Defendants more assets.” (SAC, ¶ 24.) 
C.     First Cause of Action for Civil Extortion 
Defendants assert that the first cause of action for civil extortion
fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
Defendants cite to Fuhrman v. California Satellite Systems (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d
408, 426, disapproved of on other grounds by Silberg
v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205,
219. In Fuhrman, the Court of Appeal noted that “[h]owever denominated (e.g.,
extortion, menace, duress), our Supreme Court has recognized a cause of action
for the recovery of money obtained by the wrongful threat of criminal or civil
prosecution. It is essentially a cause of action for moneys obtained by
duress, a form of fraud. To be actionable the threat of prosecution must be
made with the knowledge of the falsity of the claim. In her first cause of
action, plaintiff does not allege defendants knew their claims were false,
other than a general statement that their conduct amounted to fraud. This can
be cured by amendment. The fatal flaw in plaintiff’s action is
that she apparently never paid the
money defendants demanded in their letters. The only actual damages plaintiff
alleges are her emotional distress and attorney fees.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted, emphasis in
original.) Defendants assert that here, Plaintiff “has not, and cannot
possibly, allege that he paid anything to any Defendant. Therefore, he has no
cause of action for extortion…” (Demurrer at p. 6:18-19.) 
Defendants also assert that “Plaintiff made an amendment to the SAC
stating explicitly that he did not suffer any loss of money or property, and
neither did the family Trust…” (Demurrer at p. 7:8-9.) Defendants point to
paragraph 27 of the SAC, which alleges that “Defendants used threats of
violence and criminal prosecution, and malicious fraudulent allegations in an
effort to coerce Plaintiff Meir Levy to amend or alter the terms of the 2019
Trust to allow each Defendant to inherit an even larger portion of the 2019
Trust than was originally intended by their deceased Mother and Plaintiff Meir
Levy, their Stepfather. They sought to have Plaintiff Meir Levy change the
Trust to provide them more assets from both Plaintiff and their mother to the
detriment of Plaintiff and resulting in him retaining less assets upon his wife’s
death. Such actions as demanded by Defendants would have amounted to Plaintiff
losing money, losing items of value and losing interests in real property that
he and his wife owned or controlled and which they had placed into the Trust.” (SAC, ¶ 27.)
Defendants emphasize that this paragraph alleges that “[s]uch actions as
demanded by Defendants would have amounted to Plaintiff losing money…”
(SAC, ¶ 27, emphasis added.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff
asserts that “Defendants argue that because Plaintiff did not pay
anything to Defendants, there is no extortion. However, this argument is belied
by the case law…” (Opp’n at p. 6:6-7.) Plaintiff cites to Flatley v.
Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 305, where “Plaintiff
Michael Flatley…sued
defendant D. Dean Mauro, an
attorney, for civil extortion, intentional infliction of emotional distress and
wrongful interference with economic advantage. Flatley’s action was based on a demand letter Mauro sent to Flatley on behalf of Tyna Marie Robertson, a
woman who claimed that Flatley had
raped her, and on subsequent telephone calls Mauro made to Flatley’s attorneys, demanding a seven-figure
payment to settle Robertson’s claims.” The Court of Appeal concluded that “Mauro’s communications constituted criminal
extortion as a matter of law and, as such, were unprotected by constitutional
guarantees of free speech or petition.” (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff notes that the Flatley Court cited Penal Code section 523, which provides that “[e]very
person who, with intent to extort any money or other property from another,
sends or delivers to any person any letter or other writing, whether subscribed
or not, expressing or implying, or adapted to imply, any threat such as is
specified in Section 519, is punishable in the same
manner as if such money or property were actually obtained by means of such
threat.” (Flatley v. Mauro, supra,
39 Cal.4th at p. 326, citing Pen. Code, § 523.) Defendants did not
file any reply in support of the demurrer and thus do not address the Flatley case or Penal Code section 523.

In their prior demurrer to the FAC, Tova Fagan and Yael Sima Wintner
asserted that “it is unclear if any changes in the ‘2019 Trust’ would have
amounted to Plaintiff losing any money or items of value to begin with. This
was not an alleged threat for Plaintiff to pay anything out of his own pocket,
and it was never alleged that Plaintiff himself will ever lose money or
anything of value.” (February 16, 2024 Order at p. 4:21-24, citing Demurrer at
p. 7:25-28.) Now, the SAC alleges that “Defendants used threats of violence and
criminal prosecution, and malicious fraudulent allegations in an effort to
coerce Plaintiff Meir Levy to amend or alter the terms of the 2019 Trust to
allow each Defendant to inherit an even larger portion of the 2019 Trust than
was originally intended by their deceased Mother and Plaintiff Meir Levy, their
Stepfather. They sought to have Plaintiff Meir Levy change the Trust to provide
them more assets from both Plaintiff and their mother to the detriment of
Plaintiff and resulting in him retaining less assets upon his wife’s death.
Such actions as demanded by Defendants would have amounted to Plaintiff
losing money, losing items of value and losing interests in real property
that he and his wife owned or controlled and which they had placed into the
Trust.” (SAC, ¶ 27, emphasis added.) 
In Flatley, the Court of Appeal noted that “[e]xtortion is the obtaining of property from another, with
his consent…induced by a wrongful use of force or fear…Every person who, with
intent to extort any money or other property from another, sends or delivers to
any person any letter or other writing, whether subscribed or not, expressing
or implying, or adapted to imply, any threat such as is specified in Section 519, is punishable in the same manner as if
such money or property were actually obtained by means of such threat.” (Flatley v. Mauro, supra,
39 Cal.4th at p. 326 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action of the SAC.  
D.    Second Cause of Action for Conspiracy to Commit Fraud and/or Extortion

In the second cause of
action for conspiracy to commit fraud and/or extortion, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “[t]he mere fact that the Wintner Defendants would use
fabricated lies, such as childhood rape, verbal threats of violence to
Plaintiff and maliciously and intentionally threaten to kill Plaintiff if they
(the Wintner Defendants) did not get exactly what they desired or deemed to be
fair as their inheritance is a definitive example of Conspiracy to Commit Fraud
and/or a Conspiracy to Commit Extortion.” (SAC, ¶ 35.) 
The Court notes that in AREI II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004,
1021-1022, the Court of Appeal found that “[c]onspiracy is not a cause of action, but a legal doctrine
that imposes liability on persons who, although not actually committing a tort
themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors a common plan or design in its
perpetration. A civil conspiracy must be activated by the commission of an
actual tort. In
this case, the underlying tort is common
law fraud. The elements of common law fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(or scienter); (3) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage. Morgan Keegan does not dispute that the
complaint adequately states a cause of action for fraud against AREI. Instead, Morgan Keegan argues that the conspiracy allegations
are insufficient to establish that it should bear liability for the actions
of AREI. To support a conspiracy
claim, a plaintiff must allege the following elements: (1) the formation and
operation of the conspiracy, (2) wrongful conduct in furtherance of the
conspiracy, and (3) damages arising from the wrongful conduct.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
In the demurrer, Defendants
cite to Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631,
645, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[i]n California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice…This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered.” (Internal quotations,
citations, and emphasis omitted.) Defendants appear to assert that the SAC does
not meet this standard, but do not provide analysis on this point. In addition,
as discussed, Plaintiffs allege “[i]n or around December, 2019, after
discovering the distribution of assets per the 2019 Trust, the Wintner
Defendants threatened Plaintiff Meir Levy with criminal accusations of
childhood rape if Plaintiff Levy did not change the 2019 Trust to give the Wintner
Defendants more assets…Defendant Yael Wintner sent Plaintiff Meir Levy a text
message stating that the Wintner Defendants were ‘entitled to the same as
David!!!’ and ‘I will put u in jail for raping us and all the abuse before I
allow this to happen.’” (SAC, ¶¶ 24-25).[1]
Defendants also assert that
Plaintiff “makes zero allegation of detrimental reliance upon a
misrepresentation.” (Demurrer at p. 8:6-7.) Plaintiff now alleges that “[a]lthough
Plaintiff knew that the underlying allegations of childhood rape were false, he
believed that the Defendants would carry out their threats of reporting him to
authorities. Defendants made these threats to induce Plaintiff to change the
terms of the Trust so they would receive a larger share to the detriment of
Plaintiff. Plaintiff relied on the seriousness of the threats, and as a result,
Plaintiff changed his estate planning and made defendants the beneficiaries
under his term life insurance policy with his wife, who previously was the only
beneficiary.” (SAC, ¶ 41.) Defendants assert that “a plaintiff cannot claim
justifiable reliance on representations that he or she knows to be false.”
(Demurrer at p. 8:21-22.) Defendants cite to Rochlis v.
Walt Disney Co. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 201, disapproved of
on other grounds by Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238.
In Rochlis, “[t]he
plaintiff and appellant, Jeffrey A. Rochlis (Rochlis) appeal[ed] from a summary judgment entered
against him on his four-count first amended complaint. He had sued the
defendants and respondents, The Walt Disney Company
(Disney), Walt Disney Imagineering (WDI) and Martin A.
Sklar…for damages arising out of his employment by Disney and WDI and the
subsequent termination of that employment in 1989.” (Rochlis v. Walt
Disney Co., supra, at p.
206.) The Rochlis Court noted that “Rochlis admittedly was under contract to Disney
until April 1988. He went to WDI in October 1987 based on what he now claims
were fraudulent misrepresentations concerning WDI’s condition and the status of
its various pending projects. By January 1988, while he was still under his
term contract, he had discovered the truth and had become familiar with all of
the problems which WDI had and which he was being asked to solve. Yet, in spite
of such knowledge, he stayed on for nine months beyond the expiration of his contractual
commitment. Indeed, during this period he continued to press for, and
ultimately obtained, the substantial bonus and salary increase previously
described. Before he took the WDI position he had expressed the view that he
was not interested in renewing my contract. Since, by April of 1988, he had
become fully aware of all of the problems which he argues were previously
not disclosed to him, but nonetheless decided to remain, we conclude, as did
the trial court, that he did not detrimentally rely on any misrepresentations
as a matter of law.” (Id. at p. 215 (internal quotations and emphasis omitted).) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that here, “the detrimental
reliance lies in believing the threat that Defendants would move forward with
false criminal charges to get what they wanted…which resulted in Plaintiff
changing beneficiaries on life insurance policies.” (Opp’n at p. 8:21-24.) As
discussed, Plaintiff alleges that he “believed that the Defendants would carry
out their threats of reporting him to authorities.” (SAC, ¶ 41.) Plaintiff
alleges that he “relied on the seriousness of the threats, and as a result,
Plaintiff changed his estate planning and made defendants the beneficiaries
under his term life insurance policy with his wife, who previously was the only
beneficiary.” (SAC, ¶ 41.) 
Lastly, the Court notes that the
second cause of action is for “conspiracy to commit fraud and/or extortion.”
Defendants’ arguments concerning the second cause of action do not appear to challenge
the claim for conspiracy to commit extortion. The Court notes
that “¿¿a demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained
to part of a cause of action or to a particular type of damage or remedy.¿¿” (Kong ¿v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002)
108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047¿¿; ¿see also
¿PH II, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of
action.”]¿¿.) “¿¿[W]hen a
substantive defect is clear¿from the face of a complaint . . . a defendant may
attack that portion of the cause of action by filing a motion to strike.¿¿” (PH II,
Inc. v. ¿Superior Ct., supra¿, ¿¿33 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1682-1683¿¿.)¿¿¿
 Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action of the SAC.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the first
and second causes of action of the SAC is overruled. 
The Court orders
Defendants to file and serve their answer(s) to the SAC within 10 days of the
date of this Order.¿¿
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  August 2, 2024                         ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


