 Case Number:  23BBCV02555    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
ADRIANA
  ALVARADO,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LYFT, INC.;
  ERNIE DOE; and DOES 1 TO 50, 

                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02555
 
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Motion to strike portions of plaintiff’s complaint



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations
of Complaint
Plaintiff
Adriana Alvarado (Plaintiff) alleges on September 8, 2023, at the Northbound
101 offramp for Lankershim Boulevard, she was in the rear passenger seat of
Defendant Ernie Doe’s (Doe) vehicle. Plaintiff had hired Doe through the
ride-share app owned by Defendant Lyft. While in the vehicle Doe collided with
the rear end of another vehicle and fled the scene with Plaintiff still in the
vehicle. Doe continued to drive recklessly by driving at an excessive and
dangerous speed and by running several red lights. On information and belief,
Plaintiff alleges Doe was intoxicated while driving. As a result, Plaintiff was
injured. Plaintiff filed suit against Defendants Doe and Lyft.
The complaint,
filed October 31, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle
Negligence, (2) General Negligence, (3) Common Carrier Negligence, and (4)
Negligent Hiring, Retention and Supervision. 
B.     Relevant
Background 
On March 15,
2024, the court granted Lyft’s motion to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her
claims. The court did not stay the claims against Doe. 
On August 13,
2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to change fictious Doe 1 to Defendant
Ernest Morales (Morales).  Plaintiff
subsequently served with the complaint. 
C.     Motion
on Calendar
On October 8,
2024, Morales filed a motion to strike without a demurrer. 
On November 21,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. 
On November 16,
2024, Morales filed a reply brief.  
DISCUSSION                                                                                               
A.    Legal
Standard
Morales moves to
strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages in the prayer and the exemplary
damages attachment to the complaint.
Punitive damages
are available in non-contract actions where a defendant is guilty of malice,
fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is
“despicable conduct with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or
safety of others.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
3294, subd. (c)(1).)  Malice is “conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
3294, subd. (c)(2).) Malice may be proved either expressly through direct
evidence or by implication through indirect evidence from which the jury draws
inferences. (Angie M. v. Superior Ct. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 (Angie
M.) Fraud is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) The mere
allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)
Where the
complaint hinges on driving well intoxicated the parties primarily rely on Dawes
v Super. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82 (Dawes) and Taylor v. Super
Ct. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890 (Taylor). 
In Dawes,
the Court of Appeal was considering the sufficiency of the allegations in a hit
and run case to support a claim for punitive damages. The allegations included
that plaintiff was walking in an area with heavy vehicular and pedestrian
traffic, that defendant was intoxicated, that defendant was driving more than
65-mph in a 35-mph zone, and that defendant had the knowledge that probable
serious injury would result to persons in the are as a result of defendant’s
conduct. (Dawes, supra, 111 Cal.App.3d at p. 86.) In reversing the trial
court’s order striking the allegations as insufficient, the court reasoned that
if “these allegations were proved at trial, the factfinder could reasonably
find that [defendant] acted with ‘malice’ – with a conscious disregard of
safety and the probable injury of others as a result of his conduct.” (Id.
at pp. 88-89.) However, the court explicitly noticed that 
 
we
do not agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and
decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as
the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of
traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the
afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary
driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily
probable.
(Id. at
p. 89.) This language supports that alleging that an individual was driving
while intoxicated—and nothing more—would not support a claim for punitive
damages. Yet, a plaintiff may allege “specific facts from which the conscious
disregard of probable injury to others may reasonably be inferred.” (Id.
at p. 90)
            In Taylor, the plaintiff
alleged that defendant hit plaintiff’s car and caused serious injury, that
defendant had a history of alcoholism, that defendant had a habit of during
under the influence, and that defendant was aware of the dangerousness of
driving while intoxicated. (Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d at
p. 893.) The Supreme Court reversed the
trial court order granting the motion to strike after finding the allegations
sufficient to show a conscious disregard for safety. The court noted that,  
 
[o]ne who willfully consumes alcoholic beverages to
the point of intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor
vehicle, thereby combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with
a vehicle capable of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a
conscious disregard of the safety of others. 

(Id. at
p. 897.)
Here, the court finds the present allegations insufficient to support
punitive damages under both Taylor and Dawes. Even the
allegations of intoxication are made “on information and belief” and have no
specifics. There are no other instances of intoxicated driving, or specific
facts to support the allegation. The allegations regarding his subsequent
conduct are likewise alleged in the vaguest of terms. 
             The motion is granted with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Ernest
Morales’ Motion to Strike is Granted with 20 days leave to amend.  
Defendant  shall provide notice of this order.
 
                                                     
DATED: December 6, 2024                                       ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court