 Case Number:  24NNCP00237    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
SRBUI
  KHOROZYAN, et al.,
                        Petitioners,
            v.
 
AMERICAN
  GUARANTEE AND LIABILITY INSURANCE COMPANY, 
                        Respondent.


 
  Case No.: 
  24NNCP00237
 
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
PETITION TO OPEN COURT FILE FOR THE
  PURPOSE OF ESTABLISHING SUPERIOR COURT JURISDICTION OVER UNDERINSURED
  MOTORIST ARBITRATION MATTER  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Motion on Calendar
On May 24, 2024, Petitioners Srbui
Khorozyan and Sarkis Antonyan (collectively
“Petitioners”)
filed the instant petition against Respondent American Guarantee and Liability
Insurance Company (“Respondent”) to open a superior court file for the purpose
of establishing superior court jurisdiction over an underinsured motorist
arbitration matter. According to the petition, “[t]his action is proceeding by
way of a binding arbitration pursuant to underinsured provisions of the
insurance policy as between Petitioners and Respondent, which policy was in
full force and effect on June 5, 2021, the date of the underlying accident.”
(Pet. at p. 1:19-21.) 
            On June 20, 2024, Respondent filed a
response to the petition. 
            As of December 3, 2024, no reply has
been filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
A.    Applicable
Law/Legal Standard
            “A
written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a
controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon
such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.) “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party
thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines
that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).)
            “The
policy or an endorsement added thereto shall provide that the determination of
whether the insured shall be legally entitled to recover damages, and if so
entitled, the amount thereof, shall be made by agreement between the insured
and the insurer or, in the event of disagreement, by arbitration. The
arbitration shall be conducted by a single neutral arbitrator.” (Ins. Code, §
11580.2, subd. (f).) “Any proper court to which application is first made by
either the insured or the insurer . . . for any discovery or other relief or
remedy, shall thereafter be the only court to which either of the parties shall
make any applications under . . . the Code of Civil Procedure with respect to
the same accident, subject, however, to the right of the court to grant a
change of venue after a hearing upon notice, upon any of the grounds upon which
change of venue might be granted in an action filed in the superior court.”
(Ins. Code, § 11580.2, subd. (f)(2).) 
B.    
Analysis 
Petitioners seek an order that the Court take this matter under its
jurisdiction for purposes of determining discovery motions and/or motions to
compel the appointment of an arbitrator and arbitration competition date. (Pet.
at p. 2:1-4.) 
In response to the petition, Respondent admits that there is a policy of
written insurance that was issued by Respondent to Petitioner Sarkis Antonyan with
coverage for uninsured and underinsured motorist bodily injury, and Respondent
admits that such policy provides for arbitration of controversies as to whether
a claimant is an “insured,” whether that “insured” is legally entitled to
recover damages from the owner or driver of an uninsured or underinsured motor
vehicle, and the amount of damages that are recoverable by that insured.
(Response, ¶ 1.) Respondent lacks sufficient information as to whether
Petitioners were involved in an accident on June 5, 2021, as well as to whether
the owner or operator of the adverse vehicle allegedly involved in that
accident was uninsured or underinsured, and therefore denies such allegations
at this time. (Response, ¶ 2.) Respondent indicates that it does not believe
this Court is the appropriate venue for the issues pled at this time because,
under the policy, there are conditions precedent to a claim for uninsured or
underinsured motorist bodily injury benefits which Petitioners have not
complied. (Response, ¶ 5.) 
Further, Respondent indicates that it disagrees with the allegation of the
petition that this Court has a legal duty to determine discovery motions and
motions to compel the appointment of an arbitrator and arbitration completion
date because the policy expressly provides that “the arbitration shall be
conducted by a single neutral arbitrator” and provides further that the only
issue reserved to the Court is to determine disputes concerning coverage under
the policy. (Response, ¶ 6.) The response also sets forth 36 affirmative
defenses. 
The Court notes that the response to the petition does not set forth any
citations to legal authority as to why this Court should not bring this matter
under its jurisdiction. Given that it appears that Petitioners, in part, seek
to compel arbitration, the Court finds it appropriate to grant the instant petition.
Respondent has presented no evidence of the policy terms in the form of a
declaration or exhibits. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Petitioners’
Petition to Open Superior Court File for the Purpose of Establishing Superior
Court Jurisdiction Over Underinsured Motorist Arbitration Matter is GRANTED.   
            Petitioners shall provide notice of
this order. 
 
DATED: 
December 6, 2024                                      ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge of
the Superior Court