 Case Number:  23GDCV00781    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
FRANCISCO ROMAN
  CERVANTES,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
FORD MOtor
  company,
  et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23GDCV00781
 
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Motion to compel further responses



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations
of Complaint
This is a lemon
law action. Plaintiff Francisco Roman Cervantes (“Plaintiff” or “Mr. Cervantes”)
alleges that, on September 30, 2021, he purchased a 2021 Ford Explorer bearing
the vehicle identification number 1FMSK7DH1MGB70954 (the “Subject Vehicle”). At
the time of purchase, the Subject Vehicle was covered by a written warranty
contract issued by Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Ford”), the manufacturer
and/or distributor of the Subject Vehicle. Mr. Cervantes contends that the
Subject Vehicle was delivered to him with serious defects and nonconformities
with the applicable warranty and, through regular use, developed other serious
defects and nonconformities with the applicable warranty. However, Ford was
unable to conform the Subject Vehicle to the applicable warranty after a
reasonable number of repair attempts. Mr. Cervantes contends that, to date,
Ford has failed to either promptly make adequate restitution or replace the
Subject Vehicle, in accordance with Ford’s duties under the Song-Beverly Act.
The complaint,
filed April 19, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of
Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly
Act – breach of implied warranty; (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act section
1793.2; and (4) negligent repair.
B.     Motion
on Calendar
            On
October 30, 2024, Mr. Cervantes filed a motion to compel Ford’s further
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two (“RPD”).
            On
November 21, 2024, Ford filed an opposition brief. 
            On
November 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.  
DISCUSSION                                                                                               
Mr. Cervantes
moves to compel Ford’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1-83. Mr. Cervantes does
not seek any monetary sanctions.
In opposition,
Ford argues that the motion is substantively moot because Mr. Cervantes failed
to meet and confer in good faith. 
On August 29,
2024, Mr. Cervantes served on Ford its RPD, which sought documents in Ford’s
possession that fall under the Addendum to Case Management Conference Order for
Song-Beverly Litigation.
Ford contends
that it initially provided responses to Mr. Cervantes’s RPD on September 30,
2024, and provided verifications on October 3, 2024. (Declaration of Gregory
Sogoyan (“Sogoyan Decl.”), Exh. 4.) Ford contends that it agreed to produce all
remaining documents responsive to Case Management Order request but would only
do so subject to a Protective Order, which it attached in its response to Mr.
Cervantes’s Meet and Confer correspondence on October 15, 2024. (Sogoyan Decl.,
Exh 6; Declaration of Natalie Cabibi (“Cabibi Decl.”) ¶ 3.) Ford contends that,
after another exchange of Meet and Confer correspondence, and without signing
the Protective Order, Mr. Cervantes filed the instant motion on October 30,
2024. (Cabibi Decl., ¶ 4.)
On November 14,
2024, after Mr. Cervantes filed the instant motion, the Stipulated Protective
Order, signed by both parties, was filed with the Court.
In its Reply,
however, Mr. Cervantes notes that even after the Protective Order was filed
with this Court, Ford has still failed to produce sufficient discovery
responses and documents.
Accordingly, the
Court declines to deny the motion to compel further responses as moot.
However, a
motion to compel further responses to an RPD, unlike other motions to compel
further responses, requires the party propounding discovery and moving for
further responses to meet an initial burden of “set[ting] forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand[.]” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.310(b).) Essentially, the burden is initially on the moving party
to show both relevance to the subject matter (e.g., how the information in the specific
discovery request would tend to prove or disprove some issue in the case), and
specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why such information is necessary
for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial). (Id., §
2031.310(b)(1).)
To satisfy this
fact-specific inquiry, the movant must identify a disputed fact that is of
consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in
reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend
to prove or disprove the fact. (Calcor Space Facility v. Super. Ct.
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224 (“Calcor”) (directing trial court to
vacate its order compelling the defendant to produce records because the
plaintiff failed to provide specific facts showing good cause for their
production).)
Here, Mr.
Cervantes has failed to set forth specific facts justifying the Court to compel
further responses to each of the objected discovery responses. In fact, Mr.
Cervantes’s Separate Statement facially states that it does not set forth such
specific facts to demonstrate good cause by stating “Plaintiff groups and
addresses the RFPs by category to significantly reduce the length of the
Separate Statement in the interest of judicial efficiency. Plaintiff takes this
approach in an effort to state the reasons to compel further responses and
production in only a single time for each category of documents.” (Separate
Statement in Support of Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two (“Plaintiff’ Separate
Statement”), p. 2:15-18.) 
Further, Mr.
Cervantes’s separate statement only lays out his reasons to compel further
response and production once, in response to request No. 1; in response to
every other request, Mr. Cervantes’s statement merely “incorporates by
reference the Reasons to Compel Further Response and Production set forth under
RFP No. 1, supra.” Despite Mr. Cervantes’s purported attempt to preserve
judicial efficiency, such a generalized and unspecific separate statement
cannot satisfy his initial burden to demonstrate specific facts supporting
further responses to each discovery request. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b)(1); Calcor, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at p. 224; TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
Accordingly, the
Court denies the motion to compel Ford’s further responses to RPD based on Mr.
Cervantes’s failure to identify good cause for such further responses.
In its
opposition, Ford also requests monetary sanction against Mr. Cervantes and his
counsel for no less than $1,000.00. Ford contends that the actions of Mr.
Cervantes and his counsel demonstrate a willful misuse of the discovery
process; by refusing the withdraw the instant motion after Ford produced and
agreed to produce, subject to a protective order, the materials Mr. Cervantes
sought in his motion, Mr. Cervantes failed to meet and confer in good faith. 
Here, the Court
finds that the imposition of monetary sanctions is not warranted. Ford filed
its opposition on November 21, 2024, a week after the Stipulated Protective
Order was filed with this Court. However, Ford did not file any evidence of the
supplemental responses that Ford purportedly agreed to produce subject to the
Protective Order. Further, as of the time of that the Reply was filed, Mr.
Cervantes contends that no further responses were received. Accordingly, the
Court finds that Mr. Cervantes did not misuse the discovery process by failing
to withdraw the instant motion as Ford seemingly has not provided the responses
justifying the motion.
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiff
Francisco Roman Cervantes’s motion to compel Defendant Ford Motor Company’s
further responses to RPD Nos. 1-83 is denied.
No sanctions
will be awarded.
Plaintiff shall provide notice of
this order.
 
                                                     
DATED: December 6, 2024                                       ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court