 Case Number:  24BBCV00258    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Milagro
  hernandez,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
costco
  wholesale corporation,
  et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00258
 
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer to plaintiff’s complaint



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations
of Complaint
This case arises
from allegations of sexual misconduct. On January 30, 2024, Milagro Hernandez,
in pro. per., (“Plaintiff”), filed a complaint on Judicial Council form
PLD-PI-001, alleging causes of action for (1) intentional tort (intentional
infliction of emotional distress) and (2) general negligence against Defendants
Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”), “Miguel”, and DOES 1-100. 
On February 2,
2022, Plaintiff completed her purchase at the Costco store located at 1051 W.
Burbank Bl., Burbank, CA 91501. (Complaint, ¶ IT-3.) Plaintiff alleges that
while checking her receipt, Miguel, an employee of Costco, held Plaintiff’s
receipt directly over his private parts. (ibid.) Plaintiff also
alleges that when she inquired what he was doing with her receipt, Miguel
responded incoherently. (ibid.) 
B.     Motion
on Calendar
            On
November 1, 2024, Defendant Costco filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike
Plaintiff’s complaint. As of December 2, 2024, the demurrer and motion to
strike remain unopposed.
 
C.    
Meet and Confer
Before filing a
demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an
agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer. (Civ. Code § 430.41(a).) 
On review of the
Declaration of Jessica L. Ortega, the Court notes that Costco has satisfied its
meet and confer obligation prior to filing the instant motion, as Civ. Code §§
430.41(a), 435.5(a), require meeting and conferring “in person or by telephone.”
On October 29, 2024, Defense counsel and Plaintiff discussed the merits of this
demurrer by telephone. (Ortega Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Demurrer       
Legal Standard
When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)
 
A.   
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (First Cause of Action)
 
1.     
Vicarious
Liability
Costco demurs to
the first cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged a viable IIED cause of action. (Demurrer, p. 5:8-11.) Moreover, Costco
primarily argues that Plaintiff did not sufficiently allege a basis for
vicarious liability for its employee’s actions because the tort was not
committed in the scope of employment. (Demurrer, p. 4:18-20.)
An employer may
be vicariously liable for an employee’s tort, even if it was malicious,
willful, or criminal if the employee’s acts was an “outgrowth” of his
employment, “inherent in the working environment,” “typical of or broadly
incidental to” the employer’s business, or, in a general way, foreseeable from
his duties.¿ (Yamaguchi v. Harnsmut (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th
472, 482.¿ See also Flores v. Autozone West, Inc. (2008) 161 Cal. App. 4th
373, 379; Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.
4th 291, 300-301.)
“The rule of
respondeat superior is familiar and simply stated: an employer is vicariously
liable for the torts of its employees committed within the scope of the
employment.¿ (Perez v. Van Groningen & Sons, Inc. (1986) 41 Cal. 3d
962, 967.)¿ Equally well established, if somewhat surprising on first
encounter, is the principle that an employee’s willful, malicious and even
criminal torts may fall within the scope of his or her employment for purposes
of respondeat superior, even though the employer has not authorized the
employee to commit crimes or intentional torts.”¿ (Lisa M., supra, 12
Cal. 4th at 296-97.)¿ “While the employee . . . need not have intended to
further the employer’s interests, the employer will not be held liable for an
assault or other intentional tort that did not have a causal nexus to the
employee’s work.”¿ (id. at 297.)¿ “The nexus required for respondeat
superior liability—that the tort be engendered by or arise from the work—is to
be distinguished from ‘but for’ causation.¿ That the employment brought
tortfeasor and victim together in time and place is not enough. . . . [T]he
incident leading to injury must be an ‘outgrowth’ of the employment; the risk
of tortious injury must be ‘inherent in the working environment’ or ‘typical of
or broadly incidental to the enterprise [the employer] has undertaken.’”¿ (id.
at 298 [citations omitted].)¿ “California courts have also asked whether the
tort was, in a general way, foreseeable from the employee's duties. Respondeat
superior liability should apply only to the types of injuries that ‘as a
practical matter are sure to occur in the conduct of the employer’s
enterprise.’ The employment, in other words, must be such as predictably to
create the risk employees will commit intentional torts of the type for which
liability is sought.”¿ (id. at 299.)¿ 
The
determination of whether an employee was acting within the scope of their
employment is a question of fact to be decided by a jury.¿ However, when the
facts are undisputed, it becomes a question of law.¿ (ibid.)¿ 
Here, Plaintiff alleges
that the behavior of Costco’s employee fell within the scope of the employee’s
employment. (Complaint, ¶ IT-2.) Plaintiff alleges that as Miguel checked her
receipt, he touched the area of his clothing directly over his private parts
with the receipt and held it there for a few moments. (id., at ¶
IT-3.) Plaintiff alleges that when she asked Miguel what he was doing, and why,
Miguel responded incoherently. (ibid.) This is a dispute that arose
during the course of Miguel’s employment with Costco, and on Costco’s behalf, since
the issue arose during Miguel’s verification of the items Plaintiff purchased
from Costco. 
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the
acts arose out of the course of employment and thus vicarious liability.
 
2.     
Sufficiency of
Pleading
            Costco
also argues that Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently state a claim for IIED. (Demurrer,
p. 4:18-20.) 
“‘[T]o state a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff
must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant's
intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct.’ [Citation] ‘Conduct, to be ‘outrageous’
must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized society.’ [Citation]” (Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop
Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1259.)
Plaintiff’s IIED
claim is based on the following allegations: While checking Plaintiff’s receipt
upon exit, a Costco employee touched the area of his clothing directly
over his private parts with Plaintiff’s receipt. (id., at ¶ IT-3.)
When
Plaintiff asked the employee what he was doing with the receipt and why he did
that, the employee mumbled something incoherently. (ibid.)  Plaintiff
asserts that the employee intended to cause Plaintiff’s emotional distress because
the employee knew that Plaintiff was present when he touched himself with her
receipt. (id., at ¶ IT-5.) To this bare statement of facts,
Plaintiff has added the legal conclusions necessary to assert a claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
So far, the
Plaintiff has alleged only a momentary, ambiguous gesture in which a receipt
touched a part of the employee’s clothing near his sexual organs. There could
be any number of innocent explanations for this event—which apparently lasted
only a moment. Without more context, there insufficient pleading to establish a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. The general
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
            General
Negligence (Second Cause of Action)
Costco demurs to
Plaintiff’s second cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to
allege any facts to establish that Costco owed Plaintiff a duty, or that a duty
arose due to a special relationship. (Demurrer, p. 6:1-6.) Moreover, Costco
argues that the conduct of its employee was not foreseeable. (Demurrer, p.
6:8-13.)
The elements for
negligence are: (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to use due care; (2)
breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to the plaintiff. (County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)  
Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for negligence incorporates Plaintiff’s IIED cause of
action by reference. (Complaint, ¶ GN-2.) Plaintiff’s negligence cause of
action is also based on the allegation that Costco negligently hired Miguel.
(Complaint, ¶ GN-3.) Plaintiff alleges that Costco had “or should have known” its
employee was unfit and unsuitable for the job. (ibid.) Plaintiff alleges
that as a result of Costco’s negligence, Plaintiff suffered emotional distress.
(Complaint, ¶ GN-4.)
            Plaintiff’s
allegation that Costco should have known of its employee’s bad acts and failed
to act is insufficiently pled. Plaintiff makes no allegation that the incident
was reported, or whether any prior complaints were made about Miguel to Costco.

A complaint must
contain “a statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary
and concise language.” (CCP § 425.10(a)(1).) A demurrer accepts as true all
well pleaded and judicially noticeable facts, but not deductions, contentions,
or conclusions of law or fact. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) While the test for allegations of facts or conclusions
of law is not absolute, the court looks to whether the pleading as a whole
apprises the defendant of the factual basis of the claim, and the particularity
of facts required depends on the extent to which the defendant needs detailed
information. (See Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714,
718–721.)
Plaintiff has
not sufficiently alleged that Costco knew of prior bad acts by the employee, as
Plaintiff has not alleged any similar bad acts have occurred and been reported
before. The Court should therefore sustain the demurrer to this cause of action
with leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
Legal Standard
Civ. Code §436
provides that the Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Civ. Code §435, or
at any time within its discretion and upon terms it deems proper, “strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading” and/or
“strike out all or part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.”   
Defendant moves
to strike the complaint’s prayer for punitive damages. (Motion to Strike, p.
3:10-12.)
Given that the
Court has sustained the demurrer to the cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, the court will do likewise with the motion to
strike. The motion is granted with leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Costco
Wholesale Corporation’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained with 20
days leave to amend. The motion to strike is granted with 20 days leave
to amend. 
Defendant Costco
Wholesale Corporation shall provide notice of this order.
 
                                                     
DATED: December 6, 2024                                       ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court