 Case Number:  24NNCV01942    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
DENGCHENG
  YU,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
tesla
  motors, inc. and
  does 1 through 10,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24NNCV01942
 
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel binding arbitration
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Dengcheng Yu (“Plaintiff”) purchased
a 2023 Tesla Model Y on January 30, 2023, for which Defendant Tesla Motors,
Inc. (“Defendant”) issued a written warranty. On May 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
Complaint against Defendant, alleging (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act –
breach of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
implied warranty. Plaintiff alleges the vehicle had the following defects at
the time of sale: car computer defect; GPS defect; USB port defect; and a
defect in the wood trim door. (Compl., ¶ 12-16.) Plaintiff also alleges that
Defendant made representations through its authorized repair facility
technicians that the vehicle was repaired on multiple occasions. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to disclose and fraudulently concealed the
existence of the defects and its inability to repair the vehicle. (Compl., ¶ 19.)

B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On July 16, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
to compel arbitration.
On November 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
As of November 27, 2024, there has been no
reply or response. 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            With the moving papers, Defendant
submitted a request for judicial notice of the complaint. The request is
granted. (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  
DISCUSSION

            Defendant moves to
compel arbitration against Plaintiff.  
A.   
Terms
of the Arbitration Agreements
Defendant provides
a copy of the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement, which includes an agreement to
arbitrate. (Kim Decl., Ex. 1 [Order Agreement].) The Order Agreement was entered
between Plaintiff and Tesla, Inc. (Order Agreement, at p.1.) The Order
Agreement is 6 pages in length. Defendant also provides a copy of the Retail
Installment Sale Contract, which includes an agreement to arbitrate. (Kim
Decl., Ex. 2 [Retail Installment Sale Contract].) The Retail Installment Sale
Contract was entered between Plaintiff and Tesla, Inc. and is 6 pages in
length. (Retail Installment Sale Contract, at p.1.) 
            Defendant
provides the declaration of Raymond Kim, Manager, Business Resolution at
Defendant. He states that when Plaintiff ordered the subject vehicle from
Defendant on June 27, 2023, Plaintiff agreed to the terms of the Order
Agreement, which included the arbitration agreement. (Kim Decl., ¶3.) Mr. Kim
states that Plaintiff placed the order by clicking a Place Order button on
Defendant’s website and that Plaintiff could not have placed an order without
clicking the button or authorizing someone to do so on his behalf. (Id.,
¶4.) Mr. Kim states that customers may opt out of the arbitration agreement within
30 days of execution of the Order Agreement by sending a letter to Defendant, but
Plaintiff did not do so.  (Id., ¶7.)  
Page 3
of the Order Agreement includes a box with the bolded term: “Agreement to
Arbitrate.”  It states: 
“Agreement
to Arbitrate.
Please carefully read this provision, which applies to any dispute between you
and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates, (together “Tesla”). If you have a concern
or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and your desired
resolution to resolutions@tesla.com. If not resolved within 60 days, you agree
that any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship
between you and Tesla will not be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a
single arbitrator in an arbitration administered by the American Arbitration
Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules. This includes claims
arising before this Agreement, such as claims related to statements about our
products. You further agree that any disputes related to the arbitrability of
your claims will be decided by the court rather than an arbitrator,
notwithstanding AAA rules to the contrary. To initiate the arbitration, you
will pay the filing fee directly to AAA and we will pay all subsequent AAA fees
for the arbitration, except you are responsible for your own attorney, expert,
and other witness fees and costs unless otherwise provided by law. If you
prevail on any claim, we will reimburse you your filing fee. The arbitration
will be held in the city or county of your residence. To learn more about the
Rules and how to begin an arbitration, you may call any AAA office or go to
www.adr.org. The arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla,
and may not consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator
cannot hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on behalf of
others purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may
bring claims against the other only in your or its individual capacity and not
as a plaintiff or class member in any class or representative action. If a
court or arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot
be enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy, then that claim or
remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in court and any other
claims must be arbitrated. If you prefer, you may instead take an individual
dispute to small claims court. You may opt out of arbitration within 30 days
after signing this Agreement by sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box
15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your name, Order Number or Vehicle
Identification Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If
you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different
arbitration agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement in a
lease or finance contract.” 
(Order Agreement at p.3.)  
Mr. Kim states
that Plaintiff took delivery of the vehicle on or about June 30, 2023, at which
time Plaintiff executed a Retail Installment Sale Contract for the purchase of
the vehicle on credit, which also contains an arbitration provision. (Id.,
¶7; Ex. 2 [Retail Installment Sale Contract].) Page 5 of the Retail Installment
Sale Contract provides:
ARBITRATION PROVISION 
PLEASE REVIEW - IMPORTANT - AFFECTS YOUR
LEGAL RIGHTS
1.
EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY
ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. 
2.
IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A
CLASS REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US
INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL
ARBITRATIONS. 
3.
DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN
IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE
AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION. 
 
Any
claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including
the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the
arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. […]
 
(Retail
Installment Sale Contract at p.5.) 
            In
the opposition brief, Plaintiff does not raise any arguments regarding the
existence of the arbitration agreement, whether he signed the agreement, or the
scope of the arbitration agreement. 
Rather, he argues that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable, void
against public policy, and that Defendant waived the right to arbitrate. As the
parties do not dispute the existence or scope of the arbitration agreement, the
Court will discuss whether the terms of the arbitration agreement are
unconscionable, whether the agreement is void against public policy, and whether
Defendant waived arbitration.
B.    
Unconscionability 
i. Procedural
Unconscionability 
First, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable because Plaintiff, like
every other consumer, was required to agree to the terms in the Order Agreement
such that Plaintiff had no meaningful opportunity to negotiate the terms,
citing Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77, The Court
disagrees. 
Unlike the plaintiff in Gutierrez, who
was never offered an opportunity to negotiate, the arbitration agreement
here provides: “If you have a concern or dispute, please send a written notice
describing it and your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com.” (Order
Agreement, at p.3.) There is no evidence that the Order Agreement or the
arbitration clause were non-negotiable, or that Plaintiff made any attempt to negotiate such terms and was denied. Also,
unlike Gutierrez, where the arbitration clause was particularly
inconspicuous (printed in eight-point typeface on the opposite side of the
signature page), the Order Agreement includes an inconspicuous box with bolded
terms “Agreement to Arbitrate” on page 3 of 6. Lastly, unlike Gutierrez,
the Order Agreement expressly allowed Plaintiff 30 days after signing the
arbitration agreement to opt out of the arbitration provision by sending a
written letter to Defendant. 
Plaintiff argues that the 30-day opt out
provision does not preclude procedural unconscionability, citing Gentry v.
Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443. The Court agrees that the opt-out
clause does not necessarily sway the analysis one way or the other. (Gentry
v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443, 466-467.) Still, Gentry is
distinguishable, as there was evidence that the employer’s pro-arbitration
stance likely caused employees to feel pressure to not opt out of the
arbitration agreement. (Id. at p. 472.) In contrast, no evidence has
been presented that would indicate that Plaintiff felt similar pressure to not
opt out of arbitration. Thus, although the op out provision does not insulate
the agreement from procedural unconscionability, there is no evidence that
Plaintiff did not feel free to opt out, or that Plaintiff was unable to
negotiate the terms of the agreement. 
            Plaintiff also argues that there is
procedural unconscionability because Defendant failed to disclose relevant
arbitration rules. However, the arbitration agreement stated that the American Arbitration Association
(“AAA”) would be the chosen arbitrator and that rules may be found by calling
the AAA office or going on the www.adr.org website.  The failure to attach or provide the AAA
rules to the arbitration agreement is not, in itself, a sufficient ground to
support a finding of procedural unconscionability.  For example, in Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676,
690, the Court of Appeal concluded: “[T]he failure to attach a copy of the AAA
rules did not render the agreement procedurally unconscionable. There could be
no surprise, as the arbitration rules referenced in the agreement were easily
accessible to the parties—the AAA rules are available on the Internet.”
            Thus, there are no indications of
procedural unconscionability.  
ii. Substantive
Unconscionability
First, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because the requirement
that Plaintiff arbitrate via Consumer Rules under the AAA precludes adequate
discovery. Specifically, Plaintiff asserts that AAA Rule-22 does not expressly
allow for written discovery or depositions, which precludes plaintiff adequate
discovery to vindicate his statutory rights under Song-Beverly and Magnuson
Moss, citing to Davis v. Kozak (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 897, 911. However, Davis
is not analogous. There, the arbitration agreement provided for discovery
different than that allowed under the AAA rules. (Id. at 911-912.) Davis
also noted that where the arbitrator can permit discovery on a showing of need,
the arbitration agreement is not substantively unconscionable. (Id. at
911.) Here, AAA Rule 22 permits additional discovery if “an arbitrator
determines further information exchange is needed to provide for a
fundamentally fair process.” Moreover, Davis is distinguishable because
it involved an employment dispute which is factually complex and is often
determined by testimony of multiple percipient witnesses. In contrast, this is
a simple lemon law case.
Second,
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable
because the inadequate discovery in AAA arbitration will prevent Plaintiff from
vindicating Statutory Rights under Song-Beverly, again citing Davis, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th 897. As stated above, Davis is distinguishable from the
present case. Here,
AAA Rule 22 permits additional discovery on a showing of need and there is no
evidence that Plaintiff will be prevented from vindicating his rights. Accordingly,
there is no indication of substantive unconscionability. 
In sum, the Court does not find procedural
or substantive unconscionability. 
//
C.      Void Against Public Policy
Plaintiff
argues that the arbitration agreement contravenes Plaintiff’s substantive
rights under Civ. Code § 1790.1 and thus is void and unenforceable as against
public policy, citing Rheinhart v. Nissan North America Inc. (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 1016. The Court disagrees. The arbitration agreement does not
affect Plaintiff’s substantive right to seek relief under the Song-Beverly Act.
In Rheinhart, the court held that the release signed by plaintiff (that
released the defendant from all claims of every kind, whether currently known
or unknown, and whether arising in the past or present which relate to the
plaintiff’s car) contravened the plaintiff’s right to elect the Song Beverly
Act’s substantive remedies of replacement or restitution and was void as it
violates public policy. (Rheinhart v. Nissan North America Inc. (2023)
92 Cal.App.5th 1016, 1020-21.) In contrast, this case does not involve a
release. There is no evidence that the arbitration provision limits the causes
of action or remedies available under the Song Beverly Act. Accordingly, the
Court finds that the agreement is enforceable. 
D.    Waiver
Lastly, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant waived its right to arbitration by failing to compel
arbitration within 30 days after service of the Complaint, citing Hoover v. American
Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 206 Cal. App.4th 1193, 1203. The Court
disagrees. In Hoover, arbitration was not pursued for almost a full
year, and the party seeking to compel arbitration conducted litigation in a
style inconsistent with the right to arbitrate. (Id. at p. 1205.)
In sharp contrast, here, the Complaint was filed on May 31, 2024, and Defendant filed a
motion to compel arbitration less than two months later on July 16, 2024. The
Court does not find that Defendant’s delay was unreasonable. Also, unlike Hoover,
Defendant has not conducted any litigation inconsistent with the right to
arbitrate. 
The Court also finds Plaintiff’s reliance
on Adolph v. Coastal Auto Sales, Inc. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1443 and Augusta
v. Keehn & Associates (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 331 to be misplaced. In Adolph,
the defendant delayed seeking arbitration by six months, engaged in discovery,
and did not produce the arbitration agreement until after the second demurrer—which
substantially impaired plaintiff's ability to obtain the cost savings provided
by arbitration. (Adolph v. Coastal Auto Sales, Inc. (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1443, 1451-1452.) Similarly, in Augusta, there was extensive
discovery, and the defendant sought arbitration over six months after the
complaint was filed. (Augusta v. Keehn & Associates (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 331, 338-342.) In contrast, here no discovery has been conducted,
there is no indication that Defendant acted inconsistently with the right to
arbitrate, the delay was less than two months, and there is no evidence that Plaintiff
would suffer prejudice. Accordingly, the Court does not find that Defendant
waived the right to arbitration. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.  The action shall be stayed pending the
outcome of the arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc. §1281.4.) A Post Arbitration Status
Conference is set on October 14, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. 
Defendant
shall
give notice of this order.  
 
 
DATED:  December 6, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 