 Case Number:  23BBCV01018    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
NICOLE
  DE LAS ALAS, et al, 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.46777
 
general motors,
  llc,
et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01018
 
  Hearing Date: December 6, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel the deposition of the
  person most knowledgeable 
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Nicole de Las Alas and Humble
Haven RCFE LLC (“Plaintiffs”) allege that they bought a 2021 Chevrolet Tahoe on
September 20, 2021. The vehicle was delivered to them with serious defects and
noncomformities to warranty, including electrical and engine system defects.  On May 5, 2023, they sued General Motors LLC
(“Defendant”) for the following causes of action: (1) violation of Song-Beverly
Act – breach of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
implied warranty; and (3) violation of Song-Beverly Action section 1793.2 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On October 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
motion to compel the deposition of GM’s person most knowledgeable (“PMK”).  
On November 21, 2024, GM filed an
opposition brief. 
On November 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs move to compel the
deposition of GM’s PMK and for the production of documents requested in the
deposition notice.  
            Plaintiffs served the deposition
notice of GM’s person most knowledgeable on October 5, 2023, setting the PMK’s deposition
for November 2, 2023. (Decl. Yowarski, ¶ 17.) The deposition notice includes 34
topics of examination and 17 requests for production of documents (“RPD”).  (See id.)  On July 30, 2024, Defendant sent a meet and
confer letter, which stated that it would serve as a written objection to all
notices of deposition by Plaintiffs’ counsel. 
(Decl. Yowarski, ¶ 19, Ex. 4.)  On
July 31, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a responsive meet and confer letter
about the scheduling of the depositions and stated that the parties had
addressed the scope of examination.  (Decl.
Yowarski, ¶ 20, Ex. 5.)  The parties
further met and conferred at the beginning of August 2024. (Decl. Yowarski, ¶
21, Ex. 6.) 
            The parties’ moving, opposition, and
reply papers chiefly contend the scope of discovery regarding the documents
requested for the deposition. For example, Defendant argues that the requests
infringe on trade secrets. From reviewing the arguments, the Court finds that
the parties did not sufficiently meet and confer on the scope of discovery. An
attempt at informal resolution requires something more than bickering with
opposing counsel; rather, the law requires that counsel attempt to talk the
matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate. (Clement v.
Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294.) The declaration shall state
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) Here,
the declarations do not reflect the parties discussed each issued presented in
the motion. Plaintiffs’ July 31, 2024 responsive meet and confer letter starts
the discussion about the scope of discovery, but Defendant does not continue
it. (Decl. Yowarski, ¶¶ 20, 21, Ex. 5, 6.) 

            With respect to documents, the court
will usually order that the plaintiff and defendant provide copies of the
following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody, and/or
control, to the opposing side:  

Defendant
     shall produce the “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual” published by
     Defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the
     State of California, for the period of [date of purchase] to the
     present.  This should be limited to the manuals used to address
     the vehicle in this litigation.  


Defendant
     shall produce any internal analysis or investigation regarding defects
     alleged in plaintiff’s complaint in vehicle for the same year, make, and
     model of the subject vehicle. This includes Recall Notices and Technical
     Service Bulletins.  Defendant is not required to do a search of
     emails.  This type of information should only be produced for a
     defect that can be specifically defined, and related to a specific
     customer concern during the repairs, or where there is an existing recall
     notice or technical service bulletin.  Also, it should be limited to
     the Los Angeles area.   


Defendant
     shall produce any customer complaints relating to defects alleged in
     plaintiff’s complaint in vehicles purchased in California for the same
     year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.  Plaintiff should
     specifically define the defect, be able to relate it to a specific
     complaint that this driver made at a repair facility, and be limited, at
     least in a first round, to the Los Angeles area.  


Defendant
     shall produce all documents evidencing policies and procedures used to
     evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly
     Consumer Warranty Act, for the period between the date of purchase and the
     present.  This should be limited to those policies and
     procedures that were used or referred to in the consideration of the
     repurchase request for this particular automobile.  


Repair orders
     and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.  


Communications
     with dealer, factory representatives, and/or call center concerning the
     subject vehicle.  


Warranty
     claims to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject
     vehicle. 


Purchase
     and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle.  


Repair order
     and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.  


Any documents
     supporting plaintiff’s claim for incidental and/or consequential damages.

Here it seems that the parties have
indicated many more requests. It is also not clear whether the documents
requested at the deposition are duplicative of other document requests. The
Court generally believes that 35 non-duplicative requests are sufficient for a
case of this nature. The parties should meet and confer in light of these
guidelines prior to the deposition. 
            The Court also believes that requesting
a PMK on 34 topics is patently excessive for a case of this nature. 
            The motion is granted under the
following conditions: 
1.       The parties are to meet and confer at
Defendant’s attorneys’ offices within 30 days of this order to attempt to agree
on production of documents and topics of discovery within these parameters. Defendant’s
law firm is to provide coffee.  motion is
granted. 
2.      A
PMK deposition shall be scheduled within 60 days within the agreed
parameters.  
3.      If
items 1 and 2 do not result in the completion of the PMK deposition, the
parties can bring further motions. 
The Court declines to award sanctions.  
 
///
///
///
///
///
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the
deposition of Defendant General Motors LLC’s person most knowledgeable is
granted in part and denied in part.  
No sanctions shall be awarded on this
motion. 
Plaintiffs shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
 
DATED: December 6,
2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik 
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court     