 Case Number:  24NNCV03026    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B



 
ADENA
  INVESTMENT LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
JOSE
  PRADO, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24NNCV03026
 
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to deem cases related and to
  consolidate cases 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations in the 24NNCV03026 Action
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff Adena
Investment LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed an unlawful detainer complaint against
Defendants Jose Prado, Adelina Prado, and Does 1-10, inclusive in Adena
Investment LLC v. Jose Prado, et al., LASC Case No. 24NNCV03026 (the
“Prado Action”). 
            Plaintiff alleges that it is the
owner of the premises located at 357 B Adena Street, Pasadena, California 91104
(the “Premises”). (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff alleges that the parties entered
into a written lease agreement on or about September 1, 2017. (Compl., ¶ 6; Ex.
A.) Plaintiff issued a written Notice of Termination of Tenancy to Defendants
Jose and Adelina Prado on April 18, 2024; however, Defendants remain in
possession of the Premises without Plaintiff’s consent. (Compl., ¶¶ 9, 10; Ex.
B.) The complaint alleges a single cause of action for unlawful detainer. 
B.    
Relevant Background 
On August 7, 2024, Defendants Jose and
Adelina Prado filed an answer in the Prado Action. 
On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed and
served a notice of related case seeking to relate the Prado Action with the
following actions: (1) Adena Investment LLC v. Francisco Hernandez, et
al., LASC Case No. 24NNCV03024 (the “Hernandez Action”); (2) Adena
Investment LLC v. Esteban Chaco, et al., LASC Case No. 24NNCV03064
(the “Chaco Action”); (3) Adena Investment LLC v. Armando Torres, et
al., LASC Case No. 24NNCV03082 (the “Torres Action”); and (4) Adena
Investment LLC v. Jaime Balderas, et al., LASC Case No. 24NNCV03097
(the “Balderas Action”).
The Hernandez, Chaco, and Torres actions
were all filed on July 24, 2024. The Balderas Action was filed on July 25,
2024. 
Initially, the Court notes that only the
Balderas Action is pending in this department. The Hernandez Action, Chaco
Action, and Torres Actions are all currently pending other departments. 
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On November 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion to deem cases related and to consolidate cases. Plaintiff seeks an order
deeming the Prado Action, Hernandez Action, Chaco Action, Torres Action, and
Balderas Action as related, and also seeks an order consolidating such cases.
Plaintiff requests that the Prado Action be deemed the lead and controlling
matter.  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. According to the proof of service filed with the motion, only
counsel for Defendants Jose Prado and Adelina Prado was served with the motion.
Upon further review, the Court notes that the named defendants in each of the
actions are all represented by the same counsel, which is the Law Office of
Alberto Munoz. Thus, the Court deems that all defendants have received proper
notice of the motion given that they are all represented by the same counsel. 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiff requests judicial notice
of: (1) the complaint filed in the Hernandez Action; (2) the complaint filed in
the Chaco Action; (3) the complaint filed in the Torres Action; (4) the
compliant filed in the Balderas Action; (5) the answer filed in the Hernandez
Action; (6) the answer filed in the Chaco Action; (7) the answer filed in the
Torres Action; (8) the answer filed in the Balderas Action; and (9) the webpage
printed from the City of Pasadena Rent Stabilization Department explaining
Measure H. The request is granted. (Evid. Code, §§ 452, 453.) 
DISCUSSION
A.    Applicable
Law/Legal Standard
            Cases
are related when they (1) involve the same parties and are based on the same or
similar claims, (2) arise from the same or substantially identical
transactions, incidents, or events requiring the determination of the same or
substantially identical questions of law or fact, (3) involve claims against,
title to, possession of, or damages to the same property, or (4) are likely for
other reasons to require substantial duplication of judicial resources if heard
by different judges. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(a).)
            When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).) “The court, in furtherance of
convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to
expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action,
including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate
issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of a
trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the
United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).) 
            A
motion to consolidate “[i]s deemed a single motion for the purpose of
determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and
other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest numbered case.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(2)(A).) Moreover, a motion to consolidate “[m]ust
be served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented partes in all of
the cases sought to be consolidated.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350(a)(2)(B).)¿¿ 
            There
are two types of consolidation. (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. (2000)
22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147.) There is “a consolidation for purposes of trial only,
where the two actions remain otherwise separate; and a complete consolidation
or consolidation for all purposes, where the two actions are merged into a
single proceeding under one case number and result in only one verdict or set
of findings and one judgment.” (Ibid., citations omitted.)¿¿ 
Los Angeles County
Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1) provides that “[c]ases may not be consolidated
unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more
cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different
departments, have been related in a single department, or if the cases were
already assigned to that department.”
B.    
Appropriateness of Relating the Cases 
The Court has reviewed the complaints filed in the Prado Action, the
Hernandez Action, the Chaco Action, the Torres Action, and the Balderas Action.
The Court notes that all of the actions concern premises located on Adena
Street in Pasadena, CA, which are all allegedly owned by Plaintiff. Further,
each of the complaints alleges that a written notice of termination of tenancy
was issued to each of the respective defendants on the grounds that Plaintiff
intended to withdraw the premises from the rental market. Moreover, each
complaint alleges that Plaintiff complied with all the relevant provisions of
the California Tenant Protection Act and the Pasadena Fair and Equitable
Housing Charter Amendment. 
While there is not complete identity of the parties and different premises
are at issue, the Court finds that each of the five actions arise from the same
or substantially identical transactions, incidents, or events requiring the
determination of the same or substantially identical questions of law or fact.
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(a)(2).) Here, in each of the actions, the Court will
have to ascertain whether each notice to terminate tenancy was valid and
whether Plaintiff complied with the California Tenant Protection Act and the
Pasadena Fair and Equitable Housing Charter Amendment. Further, it follows that
not relating the actions runs the likelihood of substantial duplication of
judicial resources if heard by different judges. (Cal. R. Ct., rule
3.300(a)(4).) 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to relate the Prado Action,
the Hernandez Action, the Chaco Action, the Torres Action, and the Balderas
Action under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.300(a)(2) and
3.300(a)(4).
C.   
Appropriateness of Consolidating the Cases 
Here, the Court finds that consolidation of the five actions is
appropriate. The Court finds that given that the complaints in each of the
actions concern common issues of law and fact, the Court finds that
consolidation would promote efficiency and economy. The defendants in each of
the actions share the same counsel. Moreover, the cases share common factual
allegations. 
Moreover, given that the instant motion is unopposed, the Court notes that
the lack of opposition “may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.”
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 8.54(c).)
The Court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to consolidate the Prado
Action, the Hernandez Action, the Chaco Action, the Torres Action, and the
Balderas Action. The Court deems the Prado Action (LASC Case No. 24NNCV03026)
as the lead case. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Plaintiff
Adena Investment LLC’s motion to deem cases related and to consolidate cases is
GRANTED.    Plaintiff shall provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED: 
December 6, 2024                                      ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge of
the Superior Court