 Case Number:  23SMCV03707    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03707




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  RSG Group USA Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Joseph Robert Giannini 



 
BACKGROUND
 
In August 2023, Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini (“Plaintiff”) sued
Defendants Gold’s Gym California, LLC and Gold’s Gym Club, Holding, LLC
(“Defendants”) for refusing to honor his prior gym contract at $29 per month,
and refusing to let Plaintiff enter the Gold’s Gym in Venice without paying
either $900 per year or $100 per month. 
(See generally First Amended Complaint.) 

 
On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff voluntarily requested dismissal of
Defendant Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC, which the Court entered on November 9,
2023.  
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”), which added several new defendants, including defendant RSG Group USA,
Inc. (“RSG.”)  
 
RSG now moves to quash service of the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
on the grounds that (1) the SAC was not filed in conformity with the Court’s
December 14, 2023 Minute Order; and (2) the summons served is technically
defective because the “Notice to Person Served” section was left blank.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and RSG replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
A summons may be served on a corporation by delivering a copy of the
summons and the complaint by any of the following methods:
 
(a) To the person designated as agent for service of process […]
 
(b) To the president, chief executive officer, or other head of the
corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer
or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, a general
manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to receive service of
process.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 416.10, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
A state may also exercise jurisdiction over an individual who consents
to such jurisdiction.  (Nobel Floral,
Inc. v. Pasero (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 654, 658.)  “Express consent to a court's jurisdiction
will occur by generally appearing in an action or by a valid forum-selection
clause designating a particular forum for dispute resolution regardless of
residence.”  (Ibid. [cleaned
up].)  “Consent to a court's jurisdiction
may also be implied by conduct.”  (Ibid.)  For example, a nonresident plaintiff who commences
an action thereby submits to that court’s personal jurisdiction on any
cross-complaint filed against him by the defendant.”  (Ibid.)  “Similarly, a
nonresident plaintiff who has filed a suit in California against particular
parties has consented to jurisdiction in California when these same parties
later sue him in a related action.”  (Sea
Foods Co., Ltd. v. O.M. Foods Co., Ltd. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 769, 786, as
modified (May 23, 2007).)  “By choosing a
particular forum, [the] plaintiff is considered to have voluntarily submitted
to the court's jurisdiction ‘for all purposes for which justice to the
defendant requires his presence.”  (Sea
Foods Co., supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at p. 786.)

 
ANALYSIS
 
Impropriety of SAC
 
On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff brought suit against Defendants Gold’s
Gym California, LLC and Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC.  (See Complaint.)  Four days later, on August 14, Plaintiff
filed a first amended complaint, as permitted by Code of Civil Procedure
section 472 (“A party may amend its pleading once without leave of the court at
any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed[.]”)  The FAC alleges three causes of action: (1)
Breach of Business & Professions Code section 17200; (2) Breach of the
Unruh Act; and (3) Bad Faith Denial of the Existance [sic] of a Contract.  (Ibid.)
 
On December 14, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings as to the first and third causes of action, granting
leave to amend the first cause of action only, and ordering Plaintiff to “file
and serve a second amended complaint in conformity with the Court’s ruling on
or before January 11, 2024.”  (December
14, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
On January 16, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint, which
 
·      
Substantially revised the allegations.
 
·      
Added five new defendants: 
o   (1)
RSG Group USA, Inc.; 
o   (2)
Gold’s Gym Club California, LLC; 
o   (3)
Sebastian Schoepe; 
o   (4)
Jeff Suender; and 
o   (5)
Tivity Health Inc. (DBA Silver Sneakers); and
 
·      
Added five new causes of action:
o   Breach
of contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing; 
o   Breach
of civil code § 3345; 
o   Breach
of corporate code § 1507;
o   Bad
faith denial of insurance contract benefits; and
o   “Request
for Declaration That the Defendants are a Single Enterprise “Gold’s Gym.”
 
The SAC was not filed pursuant to stipulation.  Plaintiff has filed a motion for leave to
amend the complaint, which is currently scheduled to be heard on April 17.  
 
While the Court agrees that the SAC does not appear to have been filed
in conformance with the Court’s December 14, 2023 Minute Order, as to both the
timing and substance, or pursuant to stipulation or other leave from the Court,
RSG does not cite any authority supporting its proposition that Plaintiff’s
failure to first obtain a stipulation or proper leave of the court to add
defendants deprives the Court of jurisdiction, or that the alleged defects in
the complaint can serve as a basis to quash service of the summons and
complaint as to RSG.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot grant RSG’s motion to quash on this basis.
 
Defects in the Summons
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 412.30 provides:
 
In an action against a corporation or an unincorporated association
(including a partnership), the copy of the summons that is served shall contain
a notice stating in substance:  “To the
person served:¿ You are hereby served in the within action (or special
proceeding) on behalf of (here state the name of the corporation or the
unincorporated association) as a person upon whom a copy of the summons and of
the complaint may be delivered to effect service on said party under the
provisions of (here state appropriate provisions of Chapter 4 (commencing with
Section 413.10) of the Code of Civil Procedure).”  If service is also made on such person as an
individual, the notice shall also indicate that service is being made on such
person as an individual as well as on behalf of the corporation or the
unincorporated association.
 
If such notice does not appear on the copy of the summons served, no
default may be taken against such corporation or unincorporated association or
against such person individually, as the case may be. 
 
            Here, the “To the person served”
portion of the summons served on RSG was left blank, violating the clear
language of section 412.30. (See Alexis Decl. at ¶ 11 and Ex. B.)  As such, the summons is defective, and service
of the defective summons is “insufficient to confer” jurisdiction as to RSG.  (Carol Gilbert, Inc. v. Haller (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 852, 866 [“it is not enough that the process inform the
defendant of the fact of a lawsuit, or even of a lawsuit in which his name
appears. Due process requires notice of ‘the duty to defend’ ”].)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court grants RSG’s
motion to quash service of the summons and second amended complaint.  
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
DATED:  March 25, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 