


[1] The court also requested briefing
on whether the action should be stayed
as to Defendants Bryan Fuller and Steakhaus Productions, Inc. if the motion to
compel is granted.  Plaintiff does not
address this issue in his supplemental brief and therefore concedes the
point.  The court does not address it
further.


[2] Referred to in the Complaint as
“Steak House” and “Ms. House”.


[3] On April 24, 2023, Wineman filed a
complaint against Fuller and Steakhaus with the California Civil Rights
Department[3]
(CRD).  On the same day, the CRD issued a
right to sue letter to Wineman.


[4] The arbitration provision states
that the “Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts entered into and fully
performed therein.”  (Maheran Decl., Ex.
2, § 8(b).)  The Agreement does not state
that the FAA applies.  AMC Defendants
nonetheless argue in favor of the FAA’s applicability to this Agreement because
it involves commerce.  With the exception
of employment contracts for transportation workers, the United States Supreme
Court has broadly defined “commerce” as set forth in the FAA to apply to
employment contracts.  (See Circuit
City Stores v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S. 105, 113-114.)  The Agreement, here, is an employment
contract for creative work, not transportation. 
(See Maheran Decl., Ex. 2.)  Given
the foregoing authority and no argument to the contrary, the court finds the
FAA applies.


[5] Defendants submit an additional declaration
of Nick Lazo along with their supplemental brief.  Based upon Lazo’s Declaration, Defendants
raise a new fact-based argument that the dispute over credit issue arose in
February 2022, before the passage of the Act. 
Courts will generally not consider new evidence submitted in a reply
brief as doing so would be unfair to the opposing party.  Here, Defendants did not seek leave to file the
additional declaration or request that the hearing be continued to allow
Plaintiff the opportunity to respond.  Consequently,
the court will not consider Lazo’s Declaration and similarly, does not address
Defendants’ new fact-based argument raised for the first time in its
supplemental brief.       


[6] Wineman cites California authority
in discussing the applicability of equitable estoppel to his claims.  However, as New York law and California law set
forth the same grounds for invoking the doctrine of equitable estoppel, the
court would arrive at the same conclusion. 
(Compare, e.g., Goldman v. KPMG LLP (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209,
217-18 with Merrill Lynch Int’l Fin., Inc. v. Donaldson (Sup. Ct. 2010)
895 N.Y.S.2d 698, 702-03.) 


[7] The delegation clause states:  “Any and all controversies, claims or
disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement or the interpretation,
performance or breach thereof, including, but not limited to, alleged violations
of state or federal statutory or common law rights or duties, and the
determination of the scope or applicability of this agreement shall be handled
through arbitration.” (Agreement, § 8(b).)

