  Case Number:  21VECV01391    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  T ROVENGER V MARTINGALE 21VECV01391 [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Gregory Geiser’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the identified pleading defects and not to add new causes of action.  The Declaration of Coyner was with respect to the motion to quash and not the demurrer.  It is disregarded. Introduction Defendant Gregory Geiser (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Gregory Rovenger’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  Defendant placed into issue all five causes of action (COA): negligence, breach of contract, breach of implied warranties, fraud, and negligent misrepresentation. Procedure The Court notes that Defendant’s Demurrer asserted status as “specially appearing.”  There is no legal authority where a defendant can appear by special appearance on a demurrer.  The concurrent motion to quash being denied results in Defendant making a general appearance on the instant demurrer.  The Court does not recognize Defendant by special appearance. Plaintiff asserted that a motion to compel arbitration is forthcoming and to overrule the demurrer based upon the future motion.  However, demurrers are not reviewed based upon future law and motion.  Any future motion work is irrelevant to a demurrer.  Further, any arguments to compel arbitration made in the opposition to the demurrer are not considered.  An opposition to a demurrer is improper to raise a request for arbitration because Defendant was not given proper notice and opportunity to be heard on the issue.  Further, compelling arbitration requires a noticed motion.  Arguments as to arbitration are not considered in the review of the instant demurrer. Discussion Defendant asserted that the claims are all time-barred under the relevant statute of limitations (SOL).   However, the SOL argument is unpersuasive because it relies upon the impropriety of Plaintiff’s Doe Amendment adding Defendant in 2024.  However, as reviewed in the concurrent motion to quash, the Doe Amendment was determined to be proper.  Because Doe Amendment was proper, the claims relate back to the filing of the Complaint.  Defendant’s SOL argument is unpersuasive. Defendant then asserted that each COA failed to allege sufficient facts and that each COA is uncertain.  The negligence COA fails to allege facts to plead any misconduct by Defendant personally so that duty and causation are pled.  The contract-based claims in the second and third COAs fail to allege how the contracts at issue create obligations as to Defendant.  The fraud-based claims in the fourth and fifth COAs fail to allege fraud with specificity and particularity.  The Court is persuaded by the arguments in the demurrer.  However, Plaintiff provides additional facts to show that the pleading defects can possibly be cured.  The demurrer is persuasive and Plaintiff’s request for leave to amend is also persuasive. The demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  IT IS SO ORDERED, MOVING PARTY TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE.  