 Case Number:  23VECV04806    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04806 TAWIL V GALPIN
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.  Defendant to answer within 20 days.
Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.
Introduction
Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc. (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Tony Robert Tawil’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).  Defendant’s demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for fraud and deceit.  Defendant concurrently moved to strike the request for punitive damages.      
Discussion
Defendant argued that the fraud COA failed to allege sufficient facts because the allegations fail to plead the element of justifiable reliance.  Plaintiff again alleged fraud based upon the fraudulent advertised price of the vehicle.  Plaintiff added that the fraud based upon the advertised price of the vehicle was again made at Defendant’s dealership.  (FAC pars. 58.c. and e. and 61-63; Opposition pg. 6:3-5.)  Plaintiff also added a claim of fraud based upon the inclusion of an optional theft deterrent device ($695.00).  (FAC pars. 27-30.)  The issue raised in the instant demurrer as to justifiable reliance is the same issue raised in the prior demurrer to the original complaint.  Defendant re-asserted that Plaintiff’s entry into the Retail Installment Sales Contract (RISC) shows that Plaintiff was aware of the actual price of the vehicle and that the anti-theft device was optional.  (FAC pars. 22-23, Exh. A.)    With the provisions of the RISC being known to Plaintiff and Plaintiff still entering into the RISC, the pleading presents undisputed facts precluding a reasonable difference of opinion on the element of justifiable reliance. 
However, at the prior demurrer, Plaintiff was given leave to add allegations that Defendant stated “that he [Plaintiff] would not have been able to obtain a lower price since all of the dealers were charging the additional charges.”  (Court’s Order dated February 13, 2024.)  Plaintiff alleged in the FAC:  “Defendant contended that “all dealers are doing this” and that “it was the norm to charge markups” regardless of what was advertised on the website.”  (FAC par. 61(3).)   Inferring the allegation in Plaintiff’s favor, the allegation is read to plead that Defendant could not get the advertised price at other dealerships.  The statements present facts to support that Plaintiff reasonably relied upon Defendant’s misrepresentation because the statements as to other dealers pricing is seen as a material fact that would have influenced a reasonable person and was a contributing cause of Plaintiff’s harm.  It is noted that Defendant’s position as a dealership would have superior knowledge of what it’s competition is doing.  With the additional fact that other dealers are marking up the price and/or markups are the norm, there is sufficient pleading of facts to support the element of justifiable reliance, at least as to the misrepresentation on price. 
The additional allegation/statement that other dealers are marking up the price is insufficient to plead facts as to justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation on the optional anti-theft device.  Plaintiff’s new misrepresentation as to the optional product is insufficiently supported with factual allegations on the justifiable reliance element.  As stated above, the RISC expressly provided that the product was “optional”.  However, demurrers do not work to attack only part of a COA.  The allegations as to the price misrepresentation is sufficient to get the pleading passed the pleading stage. 
Defendant asserted that the allegations failed to plead facts with particularity and Specificity (i.e., “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered), especially as to a corporate defendant (i.e., names of persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written).  However, the Court finds that the facts pled in FAC pars. 57 thru 58 are sufficient to comply with the pleading requirement.  Defendant’s argument is not persuasive.
Defendant argued that new factual allegations presented in the opposition to the demurrer are improper when reviewing a demurrer.  However, Defendant failed to present legal authority to support the contention.  It is noted that Plaintiff can present new facts in the opposition to support their contention that there is possibility to cure a pleading defect.  In any event, the Court’s review of the issues were limited to the factual allegations in the FAC.
Plaintiff asserted that fraud is sufficiently pled based upon the sufficient pleading of the other COAs alleged in the FAC (i.e., the violations of statutes).  However, the demurrer did not place the other COAs into issue.  Further, the sufficient pleading of the statutory claims is not a pleading element of misrepresentation.  Whether Plaintiff sufficiently pled the statutory claims is irrelevant to the review of the misrepresentation COA.  The Court did not consider the other statutory COAs when reviewing the fraud COA.
The demurrer to the first COA is OVERRULED. 
Defendant moved to strike the request for punitive damages.  Defendant argued that the request failed to plead facts to support malice, oppression, or fraud.  However, with the pleading sufficiently pleading the first COA for fraud, there is sufficient pleading to support the fraud element for punitive damages.  As reviewed in the demurrer, the FAC sufficiently alleged specific facts to support the fraud COA. 
The elements of malice, oppression, or fraud in the statute are listed in the disjunctive.  Plaintiff need not plead facts to allege malice/despicable conduct or oppression when fraud is the grounds alleged to support the request for punitive damages.
Defendant’s arguments as to punitive damages is unpersuasive.
The motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.