 Case Number:  23STCV03609    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARIA L. TORRES
 
        
  vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS,
  LLC 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV03609  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: February 26, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel initial responses to her Requests for Admission is MOOT. The Court
declines to award sanctions at this time.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel initial responses to her Demands for Inspection is MOOT. The
Court declines to award sanctions at this time.
 
            On
2/17/2023, Plaintiff Maria L. Torres Gil (Plaintiff) filed suit against General
Motors, LLC (Defendant), alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Act.
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel initial responses to her Requests for Admission and Demands
for Inspection. 
 
            For
ease, the Court has consolidated its analysis into a single ruling. 
 
Discussion  
 
            On
6/26/2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with Requests for Admission. On 8/1/2023,
Plaintiff served Defendant with Demands for Inspection. No timely response was
provided. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant indicated that it has since served responses to both sets
of discovery. Moreover, Defendant indicated that it did not receive a single
correspondence about the discovery requests from Plaintiff, and served its
responses only a few days after receipt of the subject motion. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds Plaintiff did not satisfy her meet and confer obligations with
regard to this motion, and sanctions are not appropriate.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motions to compel initial responses are moot. The
Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 