 Case Number:  24TRCV00451    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling HEARING DATE:                 July 10, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00451CASE NAME:                        Raul Rubio; Noemi Rubio v. American Honda  Motors Co., Inc., et al.  MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc.     RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs, Raul and Noemi Rubio   TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set.    MOTION:                           (1) Demurrer               Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAIN with leave  to amend.  More than mere conclusions are  required for a successful assertion of the discovery rule to overcome a  demurrer based on the statute of limitations where the suit alleges an event  more than four years before the suit was filed but lacks any detail on what  happened thereafter and when.                                                      I. BACKGROUND  A. Factual   On February 2,  2024, Plaintiffs, Raul Rubio and Noemi Rubio (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed  a Complaint against Defendants, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., and DOES 1  through 10. On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint  (“FAC”) alleging causes of action (1) Violation of Civil Code section  1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil  Code section 1793.2(a)(3); and (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of  Merchantability (Civil Code §§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795.5).    Defendant,  American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“AHM”) now files a demurrer to the FAC.    B. Procedural  On May 20, 2024, AHM filed its Demurrer. On June 26,  2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. On July 2, 2024, AHM filed a reply  brief.    II. ANALYSIS     A.     Legal Standard    A demurrer can be used only to challenge  defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters  outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan  (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only  allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that  might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.  v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City  Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit  contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab  Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)   A pleading is uncertain if it is  ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders  the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to  respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d  135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,  even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can  be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿    B.     Discussion   Preliminarily, this Court notes that Plaintiffs’ opposition brief  does not argue against AHM’s contention that the FAC fails to allege sufficient  facts for each cause of action, but only addresses the statute of limitations  issue.    i.                  Meet and Confer Requirement                          The  declaration of Leanna L. H. Vault, Esq., is offered in support of counsel’s  compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Vault declares that she  met and conferred telephonically with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the  demurrer. However, Vault contends that the parties’ respective counsels were  unable to come to an agreement regarding the grounds for which AHM brings this  demurrer. (Declaration of Leanna L. H. Vault (“Vault Decl.”), ¶¶  2-3.) Thus, this Court finds that the meet and confer requirements have been  met.    ii.                Statute of Limitations                          AHM  first argues that each of Plaintiffs’ Song-Beverly claims are time barred.  The  statute of limitations for breach of implied warranty of merchantability is  four years. (CCP § 337, Comm. Code § 2725, Montoya v. Ford Motor Co.  (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 493, 495; Mexia  v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1297,  1306.) “A breach of warranty occurs when tender of delivery is made,  except that where a warranty explicitly extends to future performance of the  goods and discovery of the breach must await the time of such performance the  cause of action accrues when the breach is or should have been discovered.”  (Comm. Code § 2725(b).)  While the Song-Beverly Act supplements rather than supersedes the  provisions of the UCC, the same four-year statute of limitations applies to  claims brought under either statute.   (Krieger v. Nick Alexander Imports, Inc.  (1991) 234 Cal.App.3rd 205, 213-24.)  The  discovery rule of Section 2725(2) also applies to claims under the SBA, such  that a cause of action accrues not on the date of sale, but rather when the  plaintiff discovers or should have discovered that the warrantor or its  authorized repair facility was unable to fix the warranty-covered defects after  a reasonable number of attempts.  (Krieger, supra, 234 Cal.App.3rd at p.  218.) Plaintiffs allege they purchased  the 2017 Acura ILX on October 31, 2016. Plaintiffs did not file their complaint  until February 7, 2024, and did not file this FAC until April 19, 2024. As  such, AHM argues that on its face, all four causes of action are time-barred. The  FAC attaches the Honda warranty, which includes a 5-year, 60,000-mile warranty  on the powertrain, which per page 10 of the warranty booklet includes the engine  and internal parts of the transmission.  The  FAC alleges two specific repair history events in paragraphs 22 and 23, both of  which mention powertrain concerns at 16,585 and 53,701 miles respectively.  Both of these events were alleged to have  occurred within the first 3 years after sale, but are more than four years  before this lawsuit was filed   In their opposition to  the demurrer, Plaintiffs argue that the statute of limitations does not begin  to run from the date of the sale of the subject vehicle, but instead, is  tolled. California’s discovery rule delays  the start of the statute of limitations until the plaintiff discovers, or is on  inquiry notice (i.e., has reason to discover) facts supporting a cause of  action. (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797,  807.)  “The discovery rule only delays accrual until the plaintiff  has, or should have, inquiry notice of the cause of action. The discovery rule  does not encourage dilatory tactics because plaintiffs are charged with  presumptive knowledge of an injury if they have “ ‘ “information of  circumstances to put [them] on inquiry ” ’ ” or if they have “ ‘ “the  opportunity to obtain knowledge from sources open to [their] investigation.” (Id.  at 808; fn. 2 provides: “At common law, the term “injury,” as used in  determining the date of accrual of a cause of action, “means both ‘a person's physical  condition and its “negligent cause.” ’ ” ”(emphasis in original).)  The  discovery rule applies to Lemon Law claims.  (Krieger,  supra, 234 Cal.App.3rd at p. 218.) “In  order to rely on the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a cause of action,  ‘[a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred  without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show  (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier  discovery despite reasonable diligence.’ ” (Fox, supra, 35 Cal.4th at  808, citing (McKelvey v. Boeing North American, Inc. (1999) 74  Cal.App.4th 151, 160 (superseded on limited grounds by Code Civ. Proc. §  340.8(c))(emphasis in original).)  “When a plaintiff reasonably  should have discovered facts for purposes of the accrual of a case of action or  application of the delayed discovery rule is generally a question of fact,  properly decided as a matter of law only if the evidence (or, in this case, the  allegations in the complaint and facts properly subject to judicial notice) can  support only one reasonable conclusion.” (Broberg v. Guardian Life Ins. Co.  of America (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 912, 921.)  In this Court’s  view, Plaintiffs have failed to allege (as Fox and McKelvey  require) the specific facts to show the time and manner of discovery and the  inability to have earlier discovered the elements of their cause of  action.     Here,  Defendant argues that the alleged Song-Beverly causes of action occurred at the  time of the sale of the Subject Vehicle, on or about October 31, 2016, and that  Plaintiffs did not file this action until February 7, 2024. Defendant’s  argument ignores the discovery rule, the allegations of two powertrain  complaints within the first 5 years and 60,000 miles after sale, and the  conclusionary allegation that Plaintiffs did not discover Defendant’s wrongful  conduct until “shortly before filing this Complaint  . . . .”    Plaintiffs included vague and conclusionary  statements in their FAC that the discovery rule, Class Action Tolling, and the Repair  Doctrine delayed the accrual of their Song-Beverly causes of action. The Class Action  tolling allegations in FAC ¶27 contend that the filing of Conti v. American  Honda, Case No. 2:19-cv-2160 on March 22, 2019 tolled the statute of  limitations here.  However, the FAC contains  absolutely no details whatsoever as to whether a class was or was not  certified, what type of class action was alleged there, as to what claimed  defect or defect, and how that other lawsuit’s pendency bears on the  allegations in this case.  The Court thus  does not base its tentative ruling on the threadbare assertion of the words  “class action tolling” without any specific factual allegations to support that  assertion such as when the purported class certification was denied which would  of course ended the claimed tolling period.   However, Plaintiff has provided at least some factual allegations as to the  discovery rule and repair doctrine, as discussed below.    The  FAC alleges that AHM’s Song-Beverly violations occurred, not only at the time  of the sale, but also AHM’s violations continued as Plaintiffs continued to  experience symptoms of the defects despite Defendants’ representations that the  various defects were repaired. (FAC, ¶ 24.) Plaintiffs further allege that they  discovered Defendant’s wrongful conduct alleged in the FAC shortly before  filing the Complaint in February of 2024, as the subject vehicle continued to  exhibit symptoms of defects following AHM’s unsuccessful attempts to repair  them. (FAC, ¶ 26.)   But the FAC lacks  details as to what happened between October 18, 2019 when Plaintiffs presented  the subject vehicle for a powertrain complaint and the filing of suit more than  four years later.  For example, the FAC  lacks any allegation as to what it was that occurred “shortly before” suit was  filed that caused them to discovery AHM’s alleged wrongful conduct.  The FAC fails to allege the date and  circumstances of the claimed belated discovery.   The FAC fails to address whether the same alleged defect or symptom  reappeared on a particular date or whether that was or was not brought to AHM’s  or its dealers’ attention.  Instead, the  FAC in ¶24 vaguely alleges that Plaintiffs “continued to experience symptoms of  the defects.”  If Plaintiffs experienced  those symptoms on or before February 8, 2020, more than four years before suit  was filed, Plaintiffs will need considerably more and different allegations to  avoid the bar of the statute of limitations.   If plaintiffs allege they had no such symptoms for four years, until  “shortly before” suit was filed, they will need to make more specific  allegations as to how a claimed ongoing defect did not manifest symptoms for  such a long period of time such that AHM should be responsible for failing to  repurchase an apparently long-repaired vehicle.   iii.                 Sufficiency of Allegations    AHM  also argues that Plaintiffs’ causes of action are not alleged sufficiently.  Plaintiff alleges basic facts bearing on the core  Lemon Law duty that if a manufacturer or representative does not service or  repair the vehicle to conform with the express warranties after a reasonable  number of attempts, the manufacturer or representative must replace the vehicle  or reimburse the buyer.  (Civ. Code, § 1793.2,  subd. (d).)    Here,  the FAC alleges that the subject vehicle suffered transmission defects and  engine defects that were unable to be conformed by AHM or its representatives,  but that despite this, AHM failed to replace the vehicle or reimburse  Plaintiffs. (FAC, ¶¶  22-26.)     AHM argues that the allegations are pled  in a conclusory way. The Court agrees as discussed above.  The FAC is barely one step removed from a  lawsuit that merely recites the elements of a cause of action by quoting  CACI.  Because the Court will be  requiring Plaintiffs to amend its suit to plead the tolling allegations with  greater specificity, the Court encourages Plaintiffs to include a greater  factual development of what occurred in the subject vehicle’s repair history  after October of 2019 to support the four causes of action that are pleaded in  a vague and conclusionary way.   .     III.  CONCLUSION               For the foregoing reasons, AHM’s  demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.  AHM is ordered to give notice of the ruling  unless notice is waived.   