  Case Number:  23TRCV00346    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 July 10, 2024    CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00346  CASE NAME:                        Cecilia Tapia De Ulloa, et al. v. Michael  K. Newman, M.D., et al.    MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendants,  Michael K. Newman, M.D. and Association of South Bay Plastic Surgeons Medical  Group                                                 (2) Defendants, Michael K. Newman, M.D. and  Association of South Bay Plastic Surgeons Medical Group   RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiff, Cecilia Tapia De Ulloa (No opposition)                                                 (2) Plaintiffs,  Cecilia Tapia De Ulloa and Edwin Ulloa  TRIAL DATE:                       April 28, 2025   MOTION:                            (1) Motion to Compel the Depositions of Plaintiffs, Cecilia Tapia  de Ulloa and Edwin J. Ulloa                                                 (2) Motion to Deem  Admissions as to both Plaintiffs   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED, and the Court  awards monetary sanctions of $2,255.40.  The date and times for the depositions will  be discussed at the hearing on the motions and made part of the Court’s order                                                 (2) MOOTED by service  of verified denials of each RFA on July 1, 2024, but monetary sanctions of an  additional $855 are GRANTED The  monetary sanctions are payable by Plaintiffs and/or by their counsel to the  offices of defense counsel on or before July 30, 2024.  The awarded sanctions are expressly discovery  sanctions, for purposes of State Bar reporting concerns I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual   On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs, Cecilia Tapia De  Ulloa and Edwin J. Ulloa, as individuals and as successors in interest to  Natalia C. Ulloa filed a Complaint against Defendants, Michael K. Newman, M.D.,  South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc., Jason K. Ho, M.D., Michael Mercado, M.D.,  Providence Medical Institute Manhattan Beach Urgent Care, and DOES 1 through  100. The Complaint alleges a cause of action for Medical Malpractice/Wrongful  Death and Survival Action.    Defendants, Michael  K. Newman, M.D. and Association of South Bay Plastic Surgeons Medical Group  (erroneously sued as South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc.) now file a Motion to  Compel the Depositions of Cecilia Tapia De Ulloa and Edwin J. Ulloa. Moving  Defendants note that the initially noticed the depositions of Plaintiffs on  July 12, 2023, to occur on October 12, 2023. However, Moving Defendants  indicate the depositions were taken off calendar by moving defendants’ counsel  on October 5, 2023, because Plaintiffs’ responses to discovery on July 12,  2023, had still not been received.    Moving Defendants  contend that the Plaintiffs’ depositions were again noticed on February 23,  2024, to occur on April 24, 2024. Moving Defendants note that on April 15, 2024  and April 18, 2024, Moving Defendants’ litigation assistant sent emails to both  of Plaintiffs’ counsels to confirm the depositions of them noticed for April  24, 2024. On April 19, 2024, at 3:43 pm, Moving Defendants assert that one of  Plaintiffs’ counsel, Sonia Chaisson, sent an email to Ms. Plotkin asking to  meet and confer regarding dates for the subject depositions. On April 19, 2024,  Ms. Plotkin sent an email to Ms. Chaisson stating she had just left a voicemail  and asked for available dates for Plaintiffs’ deposition and that of a  percipient witness who Plaintiffs’ counsel had agreed to produce. Ms. Plotkin  notes she sent another email to both of Plaintiffs’ counsel on April 22, 2024,  and that an email was received from Plaintiffs’ other counsel, Ralph Rogari, on  Monday, April 22, 2024, stating that he and Ms. Chaisson would be in court for  the next few days, but that Ms. Chaisson would provide deposition dates by  Friday, April 26, 2024. Moving Defendants also note that Mr. Rogari also  requested dates for Dr. Newman’s deposition and that of Defendants’ expert,  although experts had not yet been designated.    Moving Defendants’  counsel indicates that an email was sent to Mr. Rogari on April 23, 2024,  stating the deposition could not be deferred indefinitely, and that if firm  dates were not received by Friday, the depositions would be noticed  unilaterally, and would not be taken off calendar again. Moving Defendants’  counsel indicates no response was sent and no deposition availability was  communicated by Plaintiffs’ counsel. Accordingly, Moving Defendants indicate  that on May 6, 2024, Defense counsel noticed the depositions of Plaintiffs to  occur on May 29, 2024. Defense counsel notes that no response and no deposition  availability was communicated to defense counsel’s office. On May 22, 2024,  Moving Defendants’ counsel notes that she reached out to Plaintiffs’ counsel to  confirm the depositions of Plaintiffs set for May 29, 2024, but that there was  no response. On May 24, 2024, Defense counsel notes she received from  Plaintiffs’ counsel a Notice of Deposition of Dr. Newman.    On May 29, 2024,  Defense counsel notes that the court reporter and videographer appeared for  depositions of Plaintiffs pursuant to the noticed depositions, at 10:00 am and  2:00 pm. However, Defense counsel notes that there was no appearance by  Plaintiffs or their counsels, nor was there a call. Defense counsel asserts  that certificates of non-appearance were obtained.    Further, on February 23,  2024, Moving Defendants also note that the propounded Requests for Admission,  Set One, on each of the Plaintiffs through their counsel of record. Responses  were due on or before March 27, 2024. On May 6, 2024, Defense counsel notes  that she sent a letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel requesting Plaintiffs’  outstanding responses to the Requests for Admission, Set One, without  objections, within ten (10) days of the letter. Moving Defendants contended as  of the time the motion was filed that no responses were served. Thus, they have  brought this motion to deem requests for admission as admitted.      B. Procedural  On June 5, 2024, Moving Defendants filed  this Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiffs. To date, no opposition has  been filed.     On June 12, 2024, Moving Defendants filed  a Motion to have Requests for Admission Deemed Admitted and Requests for  Sanction. On July 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief attaching  verified denials of the subject RFAs. On July 2, 2024, Moving Defendants filed  a reply brief.    II.  ANALYSIS   A.     Motions to  Compel the Deposition of Plaintiffs    Legal Standard  A party seeking discovery from a  person who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral  deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of  business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command:  (1) only the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production  of business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the  deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,  electronically stored information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §  2020.020.)¿   A service of a deposition subpoena  shall be affected a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the  deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated  documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to  travel to the place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿  Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent  who is a resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the  subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a  court session if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220,  subd. (c).)¿ A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for  contempt without the necessity of a prior order of the court directing  compliance by the witness.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 2025.450, subdivision (a) states, “[i]f after service of a deposition  notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or  employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party  under section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under section  2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce  for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible  thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move  for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the  production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,  or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2025.450(a).)  California Code of Civil Procedure  section 1987.1, subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the  attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things  before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a  deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in  subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and  an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,  modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as  the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court  may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from  unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the  right of privacy of the person.”  “[U]pon motion reasonably made by  the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling  compliance with, subpoenas.” (Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n  (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.)   Discussion                Here, Moving Defendants have filed a motion for an order  compelling the depositions of both Plaintiffs, Cecilia Tapia De Ulloa and Edwin  J. Ulloa. Moving Defendants argue that it is essential that the Plaintiffs be  deposed to ascertain any information they have regarding liability and damages,  which Moving Defendants will likely be presented by them at the time of trial  to support their case. Moving Defendants contend that without these  depositions, they will not be able to accurately project Plaintiffs’ claimed  damages, assess the strengths and weaknesses of plaintiffs’ case, to retain the  appropriate experts, to prepare for trial, or to consider pre-trial resolution  by settlement.                Further,  this Court notes that Moving Defendants have complied with the requirements of  making this said motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, et  seq. For example, Moving Defendants have: (1) set forth in their motion,  specific facts showing good cause for justifying the ordering of Plaintiffs’  depositions pursuant to the subpoenas; (2) the motion is also accompanied by a  meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2024.450(b)(1)-(2).) Without an  opposition brief, the Court assumes that Plaintiffs do not have an opposition  to the motion. As such, the Court finds good cause to GRANT the motions to order  compliance with the deposition subpoenas of Plaintiffs.   The Court will discuss the scheduling for the  depositions at the hearing on this motion so that the compelled depositions  will be scheduled per court order.   Sanctions               Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 2025.450, subdivision (g)(1), “[i]f a motion under subdivision (a) is  granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing  with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and  against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless  the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2025.450(g)(1).)                Here, counsel for Moving Defendants,  Betsey J. Jeffery, Esq., notes in her declaration (“Jeffery Decl.”) that Moving  Defendants have accrued sanctions in the amount of $3,447.90 in connection with  this motion. The total amount is based on her declaration where she asserts she  spent at least 0.4 hours of attorney hours on meet and confer efforts, 3 hours  in drafting the subject motion, 0.7 hours appearing for the “no-show”  depositions and doing certificates of non-appearance, with an additional 3  hours of anticipated attorney work in reviewing and relying to the opposition,  appearing at the zoom hearing, a $60 filing fee, $1,506.40 in court reporter  fees and with an hourly rate of $265.                This Court notes that no opposition  was filed and no reply brief or notice of non-opposition was filed by Moving  Defendants’ counsel, and thus, that amount will not be accounted for. This  Court also notes that 3 hours to prepare a general discovery motion is an  excessive amount of time for the current case. As such, the Court GRANTS Moving  Defendants’ request for sanctions, but in the lowered amount of $2,255.40  because there was no opposition to review and no reply to prepare.  The monetary sanctions are payable by  Plaintiffs and/or by their counsel to the offices of defense counsel on or  before July 30, 2024.     B.      Motion to  Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted    Legal Standard  A party must respond to  interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,  subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide  timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses  to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also  waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or  work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no  time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the  cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are  required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific  Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411 Further, where there has been no timely response to a Code  of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order  compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all  objections, including privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to  whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise  objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to  compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not  attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the  motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good  cause" is required.    Discussion                 Here, the Court notes that Plaintiffs’  opposition brief indicates that they have subsequently served verified  responses to the Moving Defendants’ Requests for Admission, and this Court  further notes that it finds those responses to be in substantial compliance. If  Moving Defendants take issue with Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 as it relates to  the Requests for Admission, they may file a Motion to Compel Further Responses  to the form interrogatory 17.1.          Because the untimely,  but substantially Code-compliant admissions and denial were served prior to the  hearing of this motion, the substantive motion to deem the RFAs admitted is  mooted. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2033.280(a).) However, this does not moot the Moving Defendants’ request for  sanctions. Moving Defendants have requested monetary sanctions be imposed on  Plaintiffs and/or their respective counsels in the amount of $1,120. This  amount is supported by Betsey J. Jeffery’s declaration (“Jeffery Decl.”) as well.  She asserts that she has spent 2.5 attorney hours drafting the motion, an  additional 1.5 hours of anticipated work in reviewing and replying to the  opposition ,and appearing at the zoom hearing, a $60 filing fee, and at a rate  of $265 per hour. Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to  deem RFAs admitted if, as here, the Court finds that the responding party has  submitted a response to the RFAs that is in substantial compliance with Section  2033.220.  “It is mandatory that the  court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely  response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).)  The Court thus awards monetary sanctions in  the lowered amount of $855 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and/or Plaintiffs’  counsel, payable to defense counsel on or before July 30, 2024. III. CONCLUSION   For the foregoing reasons, Moving Defendants’ Motion for an Order Compelling  the Depositions of Plaintiffs, Cecilia Tapia De Ullo and Edwin J. Ulloa is  GRANTED and sanctions are awarded in the amount of  $2,255.40.   Further, Moving  Defendants’ Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted is MOOTED.  However, mandatory sanctions are awarded in the amount of $855.    Moving Defendants are ordered to give  notice. 