 Case Number:  19STCV42431    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           5/3/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       19STCV42431 RICHARD HARRIS vs PARK LA BREA LLC
Motion:                    JOINDER ON MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendant Universal Protection Service LP
Notice:                      Insufficient
 
Ruling:                    JOINDER ON MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS
DENIED.
 
On November 26, 2019,
Plaintiff, appearing in pro per, filed the present premises liability case
against Defendants Park La Brea LLC and Universal Protection Service LP. The
trial is currently scheduled for May 21, 2024. Plaintiff filed what appears to
be a motion for summary judgment on March 18, 2024, against Defendant Universal
Protection Service LP. However, the Court already granted Universal Protection
Service LP’s motion for terminating sanctions and dismissed Universal
Protection on March 7, 2024. 
Additionally,
per California Code of Civil Procedure § 437c, notice of the motion and
supporting papers must be served on all other parties to the action at least 75
days before the appointed hearing time and no later than 30 days before the
date of the trial.  The hearing for the
summary judgment is scheduled for May 3, 2024, which is less than 30 days
before the trial, and the motion was filed on March 25, 2024, which is less
than 75 days from the hearing date. 
 
Because
a motion for summary judgment is potentially case dispositive and usually
requires considerable time and effort to prepare, a summary judgment motion is
perhaps the most important pretrial motion in a civil case. The 75-day deadline
is mandatory, and the court has no authority to short the minimum notice period
for a summary judgment hearing.
 
Thus, the present
motion is denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 