 Case Number:  22STCV29158    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           5/3/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV29158 CAROLINA PARRA vs JUAN ERNESTO
SOTO VALLADARES
Motion:                    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE
Moving Party:           Non-Party DB Insurance Co
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE IS GRANTED.
 
Background
On September 8, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present motor accident case. The Complaint alleges that a
semi-tractor operated by Defendant Juan Ernesto Soto Valladares and owned by
Defendant Global Transport Enterprise struck Plaintiff’s vehicle.
Following the incident,
adjustors and investigators made multiple unsuccessful attempts to contact the
Defendants during the insurance claims process. Even after this matter was
assigned to Counsel for Defendants’ insurance carrier, they also failed to reach
the Defendants despite multiple attempts. To date, the Defendants have not
filed an answer. DB Insurance Co, Defendants’ insurance carrier now moves the
court for intervention to file an answer on behalf of Defendants. No opposition
to this motion has been filed.
Legal Standard
 
“A¿nonparty
shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or ex parte
application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in
intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which
intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (c).)
 
“(1)¿The court
shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied:
 
(A)¿A provision of law confers an unconditional
right to intervene.
 
(B)¿The person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that
person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.
(2)¿The court
may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (d).)
 
“Pursuant to section 387 the trial court has
discretion to permit a nonparty to intervene where the following factors are
met: (1) the proper procedures have been followed; (2) the nonparty has a
direct and immediate interest in the action; (3) the intervention will not
enlarge the issues in the litigation; and (4) the reasons for the intervention
outweigh any opposition by the parties presently in the action.”¿(Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th
383, 386.)
 
Discussion
 
DB Insurance seeks leave to intervene. The
case was filed on September 8, 2022, and the Defendants have not yet filed an
answer. Despite numerous attempts, parties have been unsuccessful in locating
or communicating with the Defendants. It seems likely that the Defendants will
not respond to Plaintiff's complaint. DB Insurance issued a commercial general
liability insurance policy to both Defendants and may provide coverage for
Plaintiff’s claims. If DB Insurance is not allowed to intervene, Plaintiff would
likely obtain a default judgment against the Defendants. Consequently, DB
Insurance would be liable for a portion of the default judgment.
 
DB Insurance meets all the Reliance Ins.
Co. factors.¿First, the proper procedures have been
followed.¿DB Insurance has petitioned the Court by
noticed motion and included a copy of the proposed answer-in-intervention.
 
Second, DB Insurance has a direct and
immediate interest in this action.¿DB Insurance
insured Defendants when the alleged accident occurred.¿Should Plaintiff enter a default judgment against Defendants, Plaintiff
could then proceed against DB Insurance under Insurance Code section 11580,
which permits a judgment creditor to proceed directly against any liability
insurance covering the defendant. Thus, intervention is appropriate because DB Insurance
may be required to satisfy any default judgment entered against Defendants.
 
Case law also supports DB Insurance’s right to
intervene.¿“An insurer’s right to intervene in an action against the
insured, for personal injury or property damage, arises as a result of
Insurance Code section 11580.¿Section
11580 provides that a judgment creditor may proceed directly against any
liability insurance covering the defendant, and obtain satisfaction of the
judgment up to the amount of the policy limits.¿ Thus, where the insurer may be subject to a direct action under
Insurance Code section 11580 by a judgment creditor who has or will obtain a
default judgment in a third party action against the insured, intervention is
appropriate.”¿ (Reliance Ins. Co., supra, 84
Cal.App.4th at pp. 386-387.)
 
Third, intervention will not enlarge the scope
of issues in this litigation.¿As
reflected in its proposed answer-in-intervention, DB Insurance seeks only to
litigate liability and damage issues as they relate to Defendants.¿Intervention is appropriate because DB Insurance’s proposed answer
is limited to issues raised by the pleading.
 
Fourth, Plaintiff did not file an opposition
and from DB Insurance’s representation, Plaintiff consents to the intervention.
Thus, Plaintiff will suffer no prejudice. Further, the benefits of allowing DB
Insurance to intervene outweigh any opposition by the parties presently in the
action. Intervention will conserve judicial resources and expediency by
eliminating the need for a separate action between Plaintiff and DB Insurance.
 
Thus, DB Insurance’s Motion to intervene is
GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.