 Case Number:  22STCV04856    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           5/3/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      22STCV04856 SVETLANA DREYFUSS vs SPIRE
HOSPITALITY
Motion Name:           MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS
ADMITTED
Moving Party:           Defendant Spire Hospitality
Responding Party:    Plaintiff
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                     MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS
ADMITTED IS GRANTED.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness
of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).
 
If a party to
whom request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the
party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including based
on privilege or the work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting
party can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for
monetary sanctions. CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless
the party to whom the request was made serves a response in substantial
compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a
motion to compel further discovery responses, a motion to deem RFAs admitted
does not have any meet and confer requirements.

Discussion
 
On February 8, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present slip and fall case against multiple defendants,
including Spire Hospitality. On March 7, 2023, Defendant Spire Hospitality
served RFA, Set One, on Plaintiff. On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff's counsel
acknowledged receipt of the discovery responses.
Plaintiff failed to
provide the discovery responses by the statutory deadline and did not respond
to Defendant's subsequent inquiries regarding the overdue discovery responses.
On July 7, 2023, Defendant moved the Court to deem the contents of its RFA, Set
One, admitted. No opposition has been filed.
It is undisputed that
Plaintiff failed to provide the discovery responses by the statutory deadline.
Plaintiff did not file an opposition or any other filing indicating that the
discovery response had been served prior to the hearing. Thus, Defendant's motion
is granted. The contents of Defendant Spire Hospitality’s Requests for
Admissions, Set One, are deemed admitted.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.