  Case Number:  20STCP02298    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



Aria Resort & Casino Holdings, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Han Yeo aka Han
  S. Yeo aka John H. Yeo aka S. Yeo Han aka Han Seo aka Yeo Han Soo,
                        Defendant.


 Case No.:          20STCP02298
 Hearing Date:   4/17/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Aria Resort & Casino
  Holdings, LLC’s Motion for Assignment Order and Order Restraining Judgment
  Debtor.



 
I. Background
A. Relevant
Procedural History
On July 20, 2020,
Plaintiff Aria Resort & Casino Holdings, LLC (ARC), a Nevada limited
liability company, filed an application for entry of judgment on sister-state
judgment. The application involved a $145,578.82 Nevada state court judgment in
favor of Plaintiff ARC as against Defendant Han Yeo, an individual residing in
Glendale, California.
That same day, the
Clerk entered the sister-state judgment against Defendant Yeo.
Later that day,
Plaintiff ARC served notice of entry of judgment on sister-state judgment
against Defendant Yeo.
On February 21, 2024,
Department 1 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse reassigned this action to
Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse (the Court).
B. Motion Before the
Court
On March 27, 2024,
Plaintiff ARC filed a motion for (1) an assignment order directing that “[a]ll
payments, profits and/or commissions due or to become due to [Defendant Yeo]
from any of the following entities[–]Brand Worldwide Group, Inc.; Brand Restaurant
Group, Inc.; Kaviar Sushi Bar; and/or any of their subsidiaries[–]shall be paid
to the [Plaintiff ARC], in care of its attorneys of record, Law Office of
William A. Orzel, to be applied to the judgment herein until such judgment is
fully satisfied or this order is amended,” and (2) an order decreeing that Defendant
Yeo “is forbidden to assign, encumber, spend or otherwise transfer said income
or other earnings owed or payable so that the right to payment sought will be
available to be applied to the [sister-state] judgment.”
Plaintiff ARC served
this motion on Defendant Yeo by mail to Defendant Yeo’s residential address in
Glendale, California and to Defendant Yeo’s business address in Pasadena,
California.
Defendant Yeo failed to
oppose Plaintiff ARC’s motion within the statutory period.
No reply or notice of
non-opposition from Plaintiff ARC appears in the record.
Plaintiff ARC’s motion
for assignment order is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion for Assignment Order:
GRANTED.
A.
Legal Standard
“Except
as otherwise provided by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on
noticed motion, the court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the
judgment creditor or to a receiver … all or part of a right to payment due or
to become due, whether or not the right is conditioned on future developments,
including but not limited to the following types of payments: (1) [w]ages due
from the federal government that are not subject to withholding under an
earnings withholding order,” “(2) [r]ents,” “(3) [c]ommissions,” “(4)
[r]oyalties,” “(5) [p]ayments due from a patent or copyright,” and “(6)
[i]nsurance policy loan value” (Code Civ. Proc., §708.510, subds. (a)(1)-(6).)
In
determining whether an assignment order should be issued, the Court should
consider (1) the reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural
person and any dependents of the judgement debtor; (2) other payments the
judgment debtor must make in satisfaction of other judgments and wage
assignments; (3) the amount remaining to be due on this judgment; and (4) the
amount of the right to payment that is being assigned to the creditor. (Code
Civ. Proc., §708.510, subds. (c)(1)-(4).)
In
conjunction with an application for an assignment order, a judgment creditor
may seek a restraining order preventing the judgment debtor from assigning or
otherwise disposing of the right assigned to creditor under CCP §708.510. (Code
Civ. Proc., §708.520, subd. (a).) 
B.
Analysis

Plaintiff’s motion involves an
application by a judgment creditor for an order assigning a judgment debtor’s
payment rights in Brand Worldwide Group, Inc., Brand Restaurant Group, Inc.,
Kaviar Sushi Bar, and/or any of their subsidiaries, and that forbids Defendant
Yeo from doing anything to assign, encumber, spend or otherwise transfer said
income or other earnings owed or payable so that the right to payment sought
will be available to be applied to the sister-state judgment. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§708.510, subds. (a); see Mot., Proposed Order.)
Plaintiff’s motion attaches proof
of service satisfying statutory requirements. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510,
subd. (b); see Mot., POS [service by mail].)
Plaintiff’s motion is supported by
a declaration from Plaintiff ARC’s counsel and exhibits that are attached to
counsel’s declaration, which explain the connections that Defendant Yeo is
alleged to have to the above referenced companies/businesses. (Mot., Orzel
Decl., ¶¶ 1-6, Exs. 1-5.)
Defendant Yeo has failed to oppose
this motion, lending to its merit. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
Based on the above, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff ARC’s motion. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Aria Resort & Casino
Holdings, LLC’s Motion for Assignment Order and Order Restraining Judgment
Debtor is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Aria Resort & Casino
Holdings, LLC’s proposed order is concurrently signed by the Court.