 Case Number:  20STCV40546    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  C Simpson v. Loma Linda, et al.
CASE NO.:  20STCV40546
HEARING:   11/09/23 
#8
 
    
I.       
Defendants’
Motion to Transfer Venue is DENIED. 
   
II.       
Defendants’
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Mental Examination is GRANTED. 
Prevailing Party to give Notice.
Motion to Transfer Venue
Defendants Loma Linda University entities and
employees (Defendants) move for an order transferring venue to San Bernardino
County pursuant to CCP § 397(c).
Background
Plaintiff
Jesse Simpson (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint for personal injuries sustained on
October 24, 2018 at Defendant Loma Linda University Medical Center in San
Bernardino County. Plaintiff was asked to leave the hospital premises and
refused. He was then allegedly assaulted by security personnel when they
detained him.
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff’s
Objections Nos. 1-9 are overruled.
Legal Standard
On a timely motion, the
court must order a transfer of an action when the court designated in the
complaint is not the proper court. (CCP § 396b.)  A motion for transfer under this section must
be made within the time permitted to plead. (Ibid.)  
“The
court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the following cases … (c) When
the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the
change.” (CCP § 397.)  Although this
section contains no express time limitation, a motion for change of venue based
on convenience of witnesses must be made within a reasonable time after the
answer is filed. (Willingham v. Pecora (1941) 44 Cal.App.2d 289.)  
Timeliness

The
operative complaint was filed on October 22, 2020.  The Motion to Transfer Venue was filed on
April 27, 2023.  Defendants argue the
motion is timely because there were delays associated with serving all
defendants and the illness of counsel. 
Defendants argue that it became clear to them that a transfer of venue
was warranted only after reviewing voluminous medical records and the police
reports.  The court is not
persuaded.  The reasons given by
Defendants for granting the motion – i.e., most of the witnesses are healthcare
workers who reside in San Bernardino County, the majority of relevant documents
are located in San Bernardino County, and all of the events giving rise to the
lawsuit occurred in San Bernardino County – are reasons which were apparent at the
outset of this lawsuit.  Defendants have failed
to explain why they waited two and one-half years to file the motion.  Accordingly, the court determines that the
motion is untimely.  
Procedurally,
the hearing on this motion has been continued several times since the motion
was filed in April 2023.  In a minute
order dated May 19, 2023, the court determined that this case is not a personal
injury case, so it vacated the May 23, 2023 hearing date for the motion and
transferred the case to the Southeast District. 
On July 3, 2023, over Plaintiff’s objection, the trial setting
conference was continued so the Motion to Transfer Venue could be heard on
October 4, 2023.  In a minute order dated
September 27, 2023, the court granted Defendants’ ex parte application to
continue the October 4, 2023 hearing based upon newly discovered evidence.  None of the continuances addressed the timeliness
of the Motion to Transfer Venue and Plaintiffs have consistently objected to
Defendants’ requests to continue the motion hearing.  
Moreover,
these continuances were granted even though trial had been continued several
times before.  Pursuant to stipulation,
trial was continued from April 21, 2022 to March 24, 2023.  On February 10, 2023, Defendants applied ex
parte to continue trial again due to former defense counsel’s health concerns
and retirement.  Despite opposition by
Plaintiff, the court granted the request and trial was continued to September
29, 2023.  In doing so, however, the
court noted, “The parties should not anticipate any further trial
continuances.  The 09/29/2023 is a firm
trial date and the Parties should be prepared and ready to proceed with trial
on said date.” (Minute Order, February 14, 2023.)  The court determines that the motion was
untimely as of the date it was filed in April 2023, and nothing which has
occurred since then leads the court to a different conclusion.  
Accordingly,
the Motion for Transfer of Venue is DENIED.
 
Motion
to Compel Independent Mental Examination 
This personal injury action was filed by Plaintiff
JESSE SIMPSON on October 22, 2020. Plaintiff alleges injuries to his neck,
severe pain, mental suffering, emotional distress, and humiliation. (Complaint
¶24.) 
 
          Objections
 
Plaintiff’s
Objection to the Defendants’ Reply in Support of Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Mental Examination and Declaration of Lukas Alexanian, M.D. is
OVERRULED. As a general rule, a party is not allowed to submit new evidence or
new arguments with their Reply brief as doing so prevents the opposing party
from addressing the new evidence and/or arguments. Here, however, Defendants;
arguments and the Declaration of Dr. Alexanian address Plaintiff’s arguments in
Opposition. Thus, the declaration and Reply brief arguments do not fall within
the rule. 
 
Legal Standards
 
“(a)
If any party desires to obtain discovery…by a mental examination, the party
shall obtain leave of court. (b) A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration….” (CCP §2032.310.)  
 
“The
court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.” (CCP §2032.320.)
 
“If
a party stipulates that (1) no claim is being made for mental and emotional
distress over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries
claimed, and (2) no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional
distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for damages, a
mental examination of a person for whose personal injuries a recovery is being
sought shall not be ordered except on a showing of exceptional circumstances.”
(Doyle v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1885.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants
seek to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff because his Complaint and
discovery responses have placed his mental condition at issue.  But for “the failures and misconduct of
DEFENDANTS … PLAINTIFF would not have suffered physical harm, serious and
severe emotional distress, anxiety, depression, humiliation, shame, loss of
sleep, fear and rage …” (Complaint ¶ 32.) 
Similarly, Plaintiff’s discovery responses state: “the battery triggered
psychiatric and psychological conditions including depression, mental
suffering, humiliation, anxiety, hopelessness and a generalized fear.”
(Jacobsen Decl., ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff argues
that Defendants are required to meet a higher burden (i.e., exceptional
circumstances) because he is willing to stipulate that (1) no claim is being
made for mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated
with the physical injuries claimed, and (2) no expert testimony regarding this
usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the
claim for damages.  According to
Plaintiff, exceptional circumstances do not exist because this case is a
“garden variety emotional distress claim.” 
(Opposition 1:5-8.)  However,
Plaintiff’s characterization of his lawsuit is undermined by the damages he is
seeking – Plaintiff seeks over $10,000,000.00 in non-economic damages alone. (Jacobsen
Decl. ¶ 4; Ex. C [Plaintiff’s Statement of Damages].)  Under the circumstances of this case, the
court determines that Defendants have established good cause for the
contemplated mental examination of Plaintiff. 

 
The
mental examination shall be limited as follows:
 
The
mental exam shall be limited to Plaintiff’s current medical and psychological
symptoms, mental status, and treatment as well as his prior medical and
psychological symptoms, mental status, and treatment as is relevant to the
October 24, 2018 incident in accordance with accepted medical standards.  The examination will include a complete
psychiatric evaluation conducted by oral interview. Dr. Alexanian will be
permitted to ask questions about plaintiff’s responses to written discovery,
medical records obtained via discovery and subpoena in connection with this
action, the pleadings, and plaintiff’s deposition testimony concerning his
various medical and psychiatric conditions as it pertains to his mental and
psychological damages. He will not, however, be allowed to ask questions that
would invade the attorney-client privilege. Likewise, the mental examination
will not involve any type of physical examination and will not involve any
blood tests or other intrusive medical studies or procedures. No one other than
Dr. Alexanian and plaintiff will be allowed to attend the examination, though
both plaintiff and Defendants will be permitted to record the examination with
audio technology. Plaintiff will not be required to fill out any patient
information form of any type whatsoever, including “new patient” forms,
insurance forms, identification forms, authorizations for records, arbitration
forms, waivers, and releases, and shall not be asked to do so by Dr. Alexanian
or his staff. The medical professional’s office will also not be permitted to
take photographs, fingerprints, or other identification information from
claimant, including driver’s license, Social Security number and home address.
Plaintiff will likewise not be required to disclose his telephone number or
email address. All information obtained in the course of the mental examination
shall remain confidential and will be used only for the purpose of the
prosecution, defense, or settlement of this lawsuit, and/or post-judgment
proceedings, but for no other purpose. Upon request, LLUMC shall enter into a
protective order and mark the information obtained from the examination as
confidential. Finally, Plaintiff shall not designate Dr. Alexanian as an expert
witness. Dr. Alexanian shall remain as a consultant to Defendants.
 
 
The
Motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff JESSE SIMPSON is ORDERED to attend an IME with Dr.
Lukas Alexanian, M.D. within 30 days of the date of this hearing, at the
offices of Dr. Alexanian, located at 1560 E. Chevy Case Dr., Ste. 130,
Glendale, CA 91206.  