 Case Number:  22NWCV01237    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  C RAMIREZ v. FORD
MOTOR COMPANY
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01237
HEARING:  11/09/23
 
#4
 
Defendant FORD MOTOR COMPANY’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving Party to give Notice.
 
This “lemon law” action was filed by Plaintiff MARIA RAMIREZ
(“Plaintiff”) on November 7, 2022. On June 16, 2023, the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
The FAC alleges, in pertinent part, “On August 11, 2022,
Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with FORD regarding a 2020 Ford
Explorer….” (FAC ¶15.) “Defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested
themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including but not
limited to transmission, electrical, interior, suspension, and HVAC.” (FAC ¶ 18.)
“Defendant was unable to conform the Subject Vehicle to the applicable express
warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts.” (FAC ¶21.) “Defendant
FORD has failed to either promptly replace the Subject Vehicle or to promptly
make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.” (FAC ¶23.) 
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: (1) Violation
of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Negligent Repair. 
 
Defendant FORD MOTOR COMPANY (“Defendant”) demurs, for the
second time, to Plaintiff’s First and Second Causes of Action. The Court notes
that the arguments raised in the instant Demurrer are almost identical to the
arguments raised in Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings (heard on
May 18, 2023). 
 
First Cause of Action – Violation of Song-Beverly Act-
Breach of Express Warranty
Defendant argues that Plaintiff bought a used 2020 Ford Explorer
from a dealership, and that Defendant did not issue any warranties in
connection with the sale of the Subject Vehicle as a used vehicle sold by the
unidentified dealer. 
 
The recent decision from the Fourth District, Rodriguez v. FCA US,
LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 (Rodriguez) holds that the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act does not apply to used vehicles sold with a
balance remaining on the manufacturer’s express warranty. (Id. at 225.)  “Though we think Jensen was correctly
decided, we agree with Dagher that its statement about ‘the Act’s
coverage for subsequent purchasers of vehicles with a balance remaining on the
express warranty, must be read in light of the facts then before the court, and
are limited in that respect.’ [Citation.] Given that those facts included a car
leased with a full manufacturer’s warranty issued by the manufacturer’s
representative, the court was not asked to decide whether a used car with an
unexpired warranty sold by a third party reseller qualifies as a ‘new motor
vehicle.’” (Id. at 224.) Rodriguez is, however, pending before
our Supreme Court and thus constitutes only persuasive authority and “has no
binding or precedential effect.” (CRC Rule 8.1115(e)(1).) 
 
This Court finds Rodriguez to be persuasive, given the facts of
the instant case. Here, Plaintiff does not allege or argue that Defendant
issued a new or full express warranty with the vehicle at the time of sale to
the plaintiff. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff urges this Court to follow the binding
authority of Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
112. However, as indicated above, Jensen is distinguishable. In Jensen,
the manufacturer-affiliated dealer issued a new car warranty with the
plaintiff’s lease. (Id. at 119.) Those facts are not alleged here. 
 
Accordingly, pursuant to Rodriguez, the demurrer to the first
cause of action is SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
Second Cause of Action – Negligent Repair 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s third cause of action, as alleged, is
barred by the economic loss rule. 
 
The economic loss
rule provides that “where a purchaser’s expectations in a sale are frustrated
because the product he bought is not working properly, his [or her] remedy
is said to be in contract alone, for he [or she] has suffered only economic
losses.”  (Robinson Helicopter Company
v. Dana Corporation (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  “Tort damages have been permitted in contract
cases where a breach of duty directly causes physical injury; for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts; for wrongful
discharge in violation of fundamental public policy; or where the contract was
fraudulently induced…. in each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.”  (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 989–990.) 
 
In Robinson, the California Supreme Court carved out
a “narrow” and “limited” exception to the economic loss rule, holding that “a
defendant's affirmative misrepresentations on which a plaintiff relies
and which expose a plaintiff to liability for personal damages independent of
the plaintiff's economic loss” is excluded from the economic loss rule.  (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 993.)  
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges a claim for negligent repair which does not fall within the
narrow exceptions carved out by the California Supreme Court in Robinson.  Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant
engaged in any intentional misconduct or made any affirmative
misrepresentations. As alleged, the economic loss rule bars Plaintiff’s
recovery under the second cause of action. 
 
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to amend.

 
In the interests of justice, 15 days leave to amend is GRANTED.  