  Case Number:  24STCV11347    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  12 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
Acevedo
v. Salt & Straw, LLC, et al.
24STCV11347
 
Dept.
12 SSC 
Hon. Carolyn B. Kuhl
Date of Hearing: December 3,
2024
 
Defendants’ Unopposed Motion to File Confidential Settlement
Agreement and Declaration of Evan J. Smith Under Seal
 
Tentative Ruling:  The Motion is denied.  
 
 
Plaintiff filed his
Class Action Complaint on May 6, 2024, alleging causes of action on behalf of “all
mobility impaired/wheelchair-bound persons located in California who have
patronized Salt & Straw ice cream shops identified [in the Complaint] who
have been, or who were, prior to the filing of the Complaint, denied the full
and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, programs, facilities, privileges,
advantages, or accommodations of any of the Salt & Straw ice cream shops
identified [in the Complaint] … .” 
(Compl., ¶ 24.)  
 
        On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff informed the
court that the parties had reached an individual settlement of Plaintiff’s
claims.  (Notice of Settlement, July 26,
2024.)  On October 3, 2024, the parties
sought dismissal of this action, including dismissal of the class claims.  (See Stipulation and [Proposed] Order to
Dismiss Action, Oct. 3, 2024.)  In
support of their request for dismissal, the parties lodged the settlement
agreement and a declaration by Plaintiff’s counsel, Evan J. Smith.  The declaration by Evan J. Smith (Smith
Declaration) was filed in the record in redacted form.
 
        Defendants now move to seal both the
settlement agreement in its entirety and the redacted portions of the Smith
Declaration.  
 
“The court may order that a record be filed under seal
only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd.
(d).)  “A party requesting that a record
be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing
the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a
declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
(b)(1).)  “The court must not permit a
record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of
the parties.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.551, subd. (a).)  
 
“[A] contractual obligation not to disclose can
constitute an overriding interest within the meaning of [California Rules of
Court,] rule [2.550].”  (Universal
City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283 (Universal
City).)  However, the existence of an
overriding interest in preventing public disclosure is only the beginning of
the inquiry required by California Rule of Court 2.550 before a record may be
sealed.  A party seeking to have a record
sealed must offer facts to establish that the “overriding interest supports
sealing the record,” and that “[a] substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed.”  (California Rules of Court, rule
2.550(d)(2)-(3).)  Or, as the court in Universal
City put it, the party moving to seal the documents must make a “specific
showing of serious injury” resulting from the public filing of the confidential
documents.  (Universal City, at p.
1282.)    
 
The settlement and
the Smith Declaration have been filed conditionally under seal in connection
with the request for dismissal.  The
decision by this court as to whether to dismiss the class claims depends in
part on the nature of any consideration received by Plaintiff under the
settlement agreement.  In other words, a
plaintiff’s compensation received in order to dismiss a putative class action
is not the strictly personal affair of that plaintiff.  Even though parties ordinarily have an
interest in enforcing a contractual obligation not to disclose settlement terms
(see Hinshaw, Winkler, Draa, Marsh & Still (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th
233, 241 disapproved of on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531), when an individual settlement is made by a plaintiff who
originally brought a class action, the public has an interest in ensuring that
the plaintiff is not taking monies that fairly belong to the class.  The court’s decision on that issue ordinarily
should be subject to public scrutiny.  An
important judicial function would be hidden from the public should the amount
of an individual settlement be concealed whenever a plaintiff seeks permission
to dismiss class claims.  Therefore, the
ordinary interest of parties in settling a matter confidentially may be
overcome by the public interest when the settlement is a pre-requisite to
dismissal of class claims.   
 
With these principles in mind, the court turns to the
declaration of Alana C. Srour (Srour), which is the only declaration submitted
in support of Defendants’ sealing request. 
The declaration consists of just four paragraphs.  Srour explains that she is counsel of record
for Defendants in this action.  (Srour
Decl., ¶ 1.)  Srour claims that the
settlement agreement reached in this action “contains a confidentiality
provision requiring Plaintiff to keep the amount of the settlement, the terms
and contents of the settlement, and all matters relating to the settlement
confidential.”  (Srour Decl., ¶ 2.)  Srour opines that “[t]here is substantial
risk of prejudice to Defendant’s legitimate business interests should the terms
of the [settlement agreement] be released or disclosed.”  (Srour Decl., ¶ 3.)  Srour then claims that “disclosure of the
[settlement agreement] may result in frivolous claims filed against
Defendants.”  (Srour Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
Srour’s declaration does not contain sufficient facts to
support the requested sealing order.  Instead,
Srour merely offers the unsupported conclusion that the filing of the
settlement in the public record of this action will somehow cause third parties
to file “frivolous” actions against Defendant. 
Srour’s declaration is thus very far from providing factual support for
the contention that the filing of the settlement in the public record of this
litigation might actually prejudice the parties.  In other words, the conclusions provided in
the four-paragraph declaration do not provide this court with a “specific
showing of serious injury.”  Given the
lack of a specific showing of serious injury, the Motion must be denied.   