  Case Number:  23TRCV04058    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
BONNIE
  VERONESE, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04058




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DORYLUS,
  LP, et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 3,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Dorylus, LP and
joinder by Lavi & Associates, Inc. and South Bay Management Services
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Bonnie Veronese and Steven Wohn
Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The motion to strike is DENIED as
to para. 49 and prayer at 2. as to fifth cause of action and prayer at 5. for
attorney’s fees in the complaint.
The motion is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND as to paras. 24, 32, 36, and 53 and prayer at 2. as to first, second,
third, and sixth causes of action.
Defendants are ordered to file an
answer within twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On December 5, 2023, plaintiffs
Bonnie Veronese and Steven Wohn filed a complaint against Dorylus, LP, Lavi
& Associates, Inc., and South Bay Management Services for (1) premises
liability, (2) gross negligence, (3) personal injury, (4) breach of contract,
(5) breach of warranty of habitability, and (6) NIED.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP §436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP
§436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Dorylus, LP (and joinder
by Lavi & Associates, Inc.) requests that the Court strike paras. 24 (under
the first cause of action for premises liability), 32 (under the second cause
of action for gross negligence), 36 (under the third cause of action for
personal injury), 49 (under the fifth cause of action for breach of warranty of
habitability), and 53 (under the sixth cause of action for NIED) and prayer at
para. 2 for punitive damages as to the first, second, third, fifth, and sixth
causes of action and prayer at para. 5 for reasonable attorney’s fees as
allowed by statute.
            The complaint alleges that the
property at issue is 204 Palos Verdes Blvd., Unit B, Redondo Beach, 90277.  Complaint, ¶1.  Plaintiffs resided at the property from
January 20, 2014 to August 2023.  Id., ¶2.  Defendant Dorylus owned the property during
plaintiffs’ residency.  Id., ¶3.  Defendant Lavi & Associates was the
leasing agent and the property manager during the first several years of
plaintiffs’ residency.  Id., ¶4.  South Bay Management Services was the
property manager during the last approximately year and a half of their tenancy.  Id., ¶5. 
The subject property had many defects and problems.  Among the defects and problems were the
following:  a. plaintiffs made years of
complaints regarding the plumbing from the main bathroom to the back
bathroom.  The plumbing and defects
resulted in continual poorly working plumbing backing up regularly and
routinely clogged drains.  b. Mildew
collected in the back bathroom because the air vent did not work.  c. There were several leaks in the dining
room and kitchen, which were not timely addressed and not repaired
properly.  Even after two attempts to
repair there were continuing leaks resulting in so much moisture that mushrooms
grew from the ceiling.  d. Windowsills
were bubbling and cracking due to the infiltration of moisture.  e. Walls constantly cracked with paint coming
off in large pieces from moisture in the unit. 
All of the above created constant mold and mildew in the unit, which
permeated clothing, accessories, furniture, linens, and other personal
property.  f. The oven barely worked, and
the dishwasher was always broken.  g.
Plaintiffs had to install their own screens because none of the windows had
screens and the landlord would not install them.  h. There were ants in the summer so severe
that no food could be left outside the refrigerator.  Frequent requests that the landlord spray for
bugs were ignored.  Id., ¶10.
            The complaint also alleges that
throughout their tenancy, plaintiffs suffered from sinus congestion, coughing,
sneezing, cramps, tearing eyes, headaches, lack of focus and concentration,
signs of neuropathy, and other symptoms for which they did not know the
cause.  Id., ¶11.  In the spring of 2023, plaintiffs discovered
that Bonnie was pregnant.  During
conversations with her doctors, she discovered that the mold and mildew in the
apartment was probably causing their symptoms. 
She was also advised to move as soon as possible because exposure to
toxic mold would be harmful to their unborn child.  Id., ¶12. 
They immediately relocated to a relative’s home.  Id., ¶13. 
Many of their belongings have had to be stored and are contaminated with
mold.  Id., ¶14.  Since leaving the premises, they have
consulted with physicians who have confirmed that their symptoms are related to
toxic mold exposure over a lengthy period of time.  Id., ¶15. 
Defendants repeatedly complained to defendants about the despicable
conditions on and in the premises. 
Repairs were insufficient, untimely, or never done, which left the
premises in a dangerous and unhealthy condition.  Id., ¶17.
            Defendants argue that the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages in that
they do not show that defendants acted with fraud, malice, and oppression.  
            In opposition, plaintiffs argue that
the allegations are sufficient.
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that the allegations are
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages under the fifth cause of
action for breach of habitability (para. 49). 
A tenant may state a cause of action in tort against his landlord for
damages resulting from a breach of the implied warranty of habitability.”  Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.
App. 3d 903, 918-19; see also Smith v. David (1981) 120 Cal. App. 3d
101, 112 n.3 (a tenant “may seek general and punitive damages for . . . breach
of warranty [of habitability]”).  The
court in Stoiber found that plaintiff stated sufficient facts to support
exemplary damages when she “alleged that defendant had actual knowledge of
defective conditions in the premises including leaking sewage, deteriorated
flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof, broken windows, and other unsafe and
dangerous conditions . . . [and] alleged defendants ‘In maintaining said
nuisance, . . . acted with full knowledge of the consequences thereof and the
damage being caused to plaintiff, and their conduct was willful, oppressive and
malicious.’”  Stoiber, supra, at
920 (citation omitted). 
Plaintiffs have alleged breach of the
warranty of habitability.  The
allegations support malice in that defendants had actual knowledge of the
defective conditions, defendants failed to act, defendants maintained the
defective conditions, and defendants acted with full knowledge of the
consequences and the damage (health and safety) being caused to plaintiffs.
As to paras. 24 (under the first
cause of action), 32 (under the second cause of action), 36 (under the third
cause of action), and 53 (under the sixth cause of action) and prayer at para.
2 for punitive damages as to the first, second, third, and sixth causes of
action, the allegations are insufficient. 
“Inasmuch as Civil Code section 3294 requires as a prerequisite to the
recovery of punitive damages that the defendant ‘has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice,’ the cases have uniformly recognized that proof of
negligence, even gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant
an award of punitive damages.”  Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted).
As to prayer at 5. for attorney’s
fees, defendants make no argument.
The motion is therefore DENIED as
to para. 49 and prayer at 2. as to fifth cause of action and GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to paras. 24, 32, 36, and 53 and prayer at 2. as to first,
second, third, and sixth causes of action. 
The motion is DENIED as to prayer for attorney’s fees.
ORDER
 The motion is DENIED as to para. 49 and prayer
at 2. as to fifth cause of action and prayer at 5. for attorney’s fees.
The motion is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND as to paras. 24, 32, 36, and 53 and prayer at 2. as to first, second,
third, and sixth causes of action.
Defendants are ordered to file an
answer within twenty days.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of the ruling.