 Case Number:  21STCV14409    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 2, 2023                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Walter Le Vaughn Mann, Sr. v. County of
Los Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV14409            
 
PITCHESS
MOTION FOR DISCOVERY OF PROBATION OFFICER PERSONNEL RECORDS PURSUANT TO
EVIDENCE CODE SECTION 1043

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Walter Le Vaughn Mann, Sr.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant County
of Los Angeles
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination and whistleblower
retaliation that was filed on April 15, 2021. Plaintiff alleges that he was
subjected to extensive retaliation for reporting serious financial misconduct
within the Los Angeles County Probation Department, including a demotion and
denial of accommodations for his medical condition. 
 
Plaintiff moves for discovery of
probation officer records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1043.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Pitchess motion
is GRANTED to the extent described herein. 
 
The Court sets an in camera
hearing for December 7, 2023, at 1:30 pm in Department 47, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. The custodian of records is to produce at the hearing all
potentially responsive documents for in camera inspection by the Court. 
 
The Court orders the parties to
meet and confer regarding the preparation and filing of a joint stipulation to
a protective order concerning the redaction of potentially responsive documents
as to private personal information, and as to limitations on the use of the
records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1045. The parties are directed to
file any such joint stipulation on or before the date of the in camera
hearing.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for discovery of probation
officer records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1043.
 
Legal Standard
 
Obtaining discovery of peace officers’
personnel records is a two-step process. First, the party seeking discovery
“must file a motion supported by affidavits showing ‘good cause for the
discovery,’ first by demonstrating the materiality of the information to the
pending litigation, and second by ‘stating upon reasonable belief’ that the
police agency has the records or information at issue.” (Warrick v. Superior
Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.) Second, if the Court finds good cause
for the discovery, “it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and
discloses only that information falling within the statutorily defined
standards of relevance.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Pitchess procedure applies when “discovery or
disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the
Penal Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code § 1043(a).) 
 
Penal Code § 832.5 applies to “complaints by members of the
public against the personnel of these departments or agencies.” (Penal Code §
832.5(a)(1).) “Complaints and any reports or findings relating to these
complaints shall be retained for a period of at least five years.” (Id.
§ 832.5(b).) They “may be maintained either in the peace or custodial officer’s
general personnel file or in a separate file designated by the department or
agency.” (Ibid.) 
 
The term “personnel records” is defined as follows: 
 
“Personnel
records” means any file maintained under that individual's name by his or her
employing agency and containing records relating to any of the following: 
 
(1)
Personal data, including marital status, family members, educational and
employment history, home addresses, or similar information. 
 
(2) Medical
history. 
 
(3)
Election of employee benefits. 
 
(4)
Employee advancement, appraisal, or discipline. 
 
(5)
Complaints, or investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction
in which he or she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining
to the manner in which he or she performed his or her duties. 
 
(6) Any
other information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy. 
 
(Penal Code § 832.8(a).) Under
Evidence Code section 1043, a party may seek disclosure of these records by
filing a regularly noticed motion with the appropriate court. (Evid. Code §
1043(a).)
 
Challenge to Service
 
            Defendant
contends that Plaintiff failed to give written notice to the government agency
that has custody and control of the records sought, as required by Evidence
Code section 1043(a). Defendant’s argument is specious. The Los Angeles County
Probation Department is a division of the County of Los Angeles, who is the
Defendant in this case. Defendant does not dispute that it received written
notice of this motion. Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is not procedurally
defective on this basis. 
 
Good Cause
 
Under Evidence Code section 1043, a
Pitchess motion must include:
 
(1) Identification of the proceeding in
which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or
disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the
governmental agency which has custody and control of the records, and the time
and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard.
 
(2) A description of the type of
records or information sought.
 
(3) Affidavits showing good cause for
the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to
the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon
reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or
information from the records.
 
(Evid. Code § 1043(b).) The good cause requirement creates a
“relatively low threshold for discovery.” (Riske v. Superior Court
(2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 655-56.) A party seeking records need only
demonstrate through affidavits a “plausible factual foundation” that the
records are material to the subject matter of the pending litigation. (Id.)
The affidavits may be based on information and belief, and may be made by
counsel, as the party seeking disclosure usually does not know the contents of
the records. (Abatti v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 39, 51.)
 
            Here, the
Notice of Motion identifies the proceeding, the party seeking disclosure, the
governmental agency with custody and control of the records, and the officers
whose records are sought, as required by subdivision (b)(1). The Notice of
Motion also describes the records sought, as required by subdivision (b)(2).
 
            Plaintiff
seeks 25 sets of documents from the personnel files of County of Los Angeles
Probation Department officers Adam Bettino, Robert Smythe, Hannia Bocklen,
Nancy Neville, Ron Barrett, and himself, divided into five categories. These
categories are (1) complaints made by Plaintiff about others (Requests Nos. 1,
2, 6-8, 11, 14, and 17); (2) documents related to an investigation of
purchasing improprieties regarding a professional development training in June
of 2019 (Nos. 3, 5, 12, and 15); (3) documents regarding possible complaints
made against Plaintiff (Nos. 4, 9-10, 13, 16, and 18): (4) documents pertaining
to the adverse employment actions alleged in the Complaint (Nos. 5, 22-25); and
(5) documents pertaining to any investigation of the claims asserted in this
action, or with respect to Plaintiff’s Department of Fair Employment and
Housing complaint and Government Tort claim. (Nos. 19-21.) 
 
            The
Declaration of Pouya Chami in support of the Motion states upon information and
belief that Plaintiff and the other officers named were involved in an
investigation of purchasing improprieties regarding a professional development
training event at Shutters on the Beach Hotel in Santa Monica, California on
June 14, 2019. (Declaration of Pouya Chami ISO Mot. ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s counsel
further states—again on information and belief—that the records will memorialize
Plaintiff’s complaints and Defendant’s response thereto regarding the
allegations in the pleadings. (Id. ¶ 13.)
 
            Defendant,
in opposition, asserts that Plaintiff has not demonstrated good cause for the
production and that there is no compelling need for the records because
Defendant concedes that the Plaintiff’s complaints regarding the Shutters
incident were substantiated. Defendant cites nothing showing that it has
conceded anything in this case, and the factual question of whether Plaintiff’s
complaints were meritorious has not been presented to the Court. The Court is
not persuaded by Defendant’s conclusory, unsupported assertions concerning the
motion as a whole. 
 
            Defendant
also offers specific objections to some of the categories of documents sought. 
 
1.     
Complaints Made by Plaintiff (Requests Nos. 1,
2, 6-8, 11, 14, 17)
 
Defendant objects to this category arguing,
if responsive documents exist, Plaintiff “has that information or certainly
could get it in a less intrusive fashion.” (Opposition p. 6:16.) Defendant also
asserts that these requests invade the privacy of the officers whose records
are sought. Defendant supports neither assertion with evidence nor explanation
of how the cited legal authority applies to the facts. Bare conclusions are insufficient
to demonstrate the documents should not be produced for in camera
review. 
 
2.     
Documents Related to Shutters Incident
Investigation (Requests Nos. 3, 5, 12, and 15)
 
Defendant asserts, without any
explanation, that Plaintiff’s request includes matters privileged under the
deliberative process. Defendant offers no explanation of the deliberative
process privilege’s application here nor the interest in nondisclosure of the
materials sought. (See Citizens for Open Gov’t v. City of Lodi (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 296, 305.) Defendant bears the burden of demonstrating the
application of the privilege. (See Id. at 306.) A conclusory statement
that the privilege applies is not sufficient.
 
3.     
Documents Regarding Possible Complaints Against
Plaintiff (Requests Nos. 4, 9-10, 13, 16, 18)
 
Defendant does not object to
production of documents responsive to these requests following in camera
review by the Court. 
 
4.     
Documents Pertaining to Adverse Employment
Actions Alleged in Complaint (Requests Nos. 5, 22-25)
 
Defendant asserts these categories
are the subject of ordinary discovery not involving probation officer records. The
Court disagrees. Plaintiff’s notice of motion plainly states that it seeks
documents responsive to these categories contained within probation
officer personnel records that are protected by Evidence Code section 1043 et
seq. Defendant has not demonstrated that these documents should not be
produced for, at minimum, in camera review. 
 
5.     
Documents Pertaining to Investigation of
Plaintiff’s Claims (Requests Nos. 19-21)
 
Defendant objects to these requests
as dealing with “absolutely privileged documents that are protected by attorney
client, attorney work product and other privileges.” (Opp. p. 5:26-27.) These
requests seek:
 
(19) Any and all documents pertaining
to any and all witness statements of any employee of the County of Los Angeles
pertaining to any allegation in the subject lawsuit filed by Plaintiff against
Defendant during the period of April 1, 2019 to the present.
 
(20) Any and all documents pertaining
to any investigation Defendant County of Los Angeles conducted concerning
Plaintiff’s Government Tort Claim dated October 20, 2020. 
 
(21) Any and all documents pertaining
to any investigation Defendant County of Los Angeles conducted concerning
Plaintiff’s DFEH complaint dated October 20, 2020, DFEH Matter Number:
202010-11673130.
 
(Notice of Motion p. 4:21-28.) These requests, on their
face, encompass documents embraced by the attorney-client privilege and the
work product doctrine because they include all documents pertaining to
investigation of Plaintiff’s allegations after they were formally made, without
limitation. Plaintiff does not address Defendant’s objection to these requests
in his reply brief. 
            That said,
although the requests encompass privileged materials on their face, not all
materials that are responsive to these requests are necessarily privileged. The
Court will therefore limit production in response to these requests to materials
not subject to the attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine,
but will require Defendant to produce a privilege log identifying any materials
not produced. 
 
In Camera Review
 
            The parties
agree that, pursuant to Evidence Code section 1045, the records sought must be
reviewed in camera to determine if the records are discoverable. 
 
[I]f “the
trial court concludes the defendant has fulfilled these prerequisites and made
a showing of good cause, the custodian of records should bring to court all documents
‘potentially relevant’ to the . . . motion. . . . The trial court ‘shall examine the information in
chambers’ (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (b)), ‘out of the presence and hearing of
all persons except the person authorized [to possess the records] and such
other persons [the custodian of records] is willing to have present.’ … Subject
to statutory exceptions and limitations . . . the trial court should then
disclose to the [moving party] ‘such information [that] is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation.’ [Citations.]”  
 
(Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at 1086,
bold emphasis added.) 
 
Evidence Code section 1045 sets forth certain statutory
limitations on relevance: 
 
(b)¿In
determining relevance, the court shall examine the information in chambers in
conformity with Section 915, and shall exclude from disclosure: 
 
* * * 
 
(2)¿Facts sought to be disclosed that are so remote
as to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit. 
 
(c)¿In
determining relevance where the issue in litigation concerns the policies or
pattern of conduct of the employing agency, the court shall consider whether
the information sought may be obtained from other records maintained by the
employing agency in the regular course of agency business which would not
necessitate the disclosure of individual personnel records. 
 
All document production will be limited as set forth in
Evidence Code § 1045(b) and (c). 
 
//
Protective Order
 
            Defendant contends that any
information that the Court concludes should be disclosed should be subject to a
protective order. 
 
Production of documents following the in camera inspection is subject to a protective order: 
 
The court shall, in any case or proceeding
permitting the disclosure or discovery of any peace or custodial officer
records requested pursuant to Section 1043, order that the records disclosed or
discovered may not be used for any purpose other than a court proceeding
pursuant to applicable law. 
 
(Evid. Code § 1045(e).)  
 
If the
court determines the requested personnel records are relevant within the
meaning of section 1045, subdivision (a), and do not fall within the exceptions
set forth in section 1045, subdivisions (b) or (c), the court should generally
order their production subject to an order “that the records disclosed … may
not be used for any purpose other than a court proceeding pursuant to
applicable law.” (§ 1045, subds. (d), (e).) 
 
(Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at
1088.)  Plaintiff does not address this request
in his reply brief. Moreover, no proposed protective order has been filed by
either party. The Court will therefore exercise its discretionary authority to
order the parties to meet and confer regarding a stipulation to a protective
order concerning the redaction and limitations on disclosure, pursuant to
Evidence Code section 1045 subdivisions (d) and (e), of any documents to be
produced.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Pitchess
motion is GRANTED to the extent described herein. 
 
The Court sets an in camera
hearing for December 7, 2023, at 1:30 pm in Department 47, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. The custodian of records is to produce at the hearing all
potentially responsive documents for in camera inspection by the Court. 
 
The Court orders the parties to
meet and confer regarding the preparation and filing of a joint stipulation to
a protective order concerning the redaction of potentially responsive documents
as to private personal information, and as to limitations on the use of the
records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1045. The parties are directed to
file any such joint stipulation on or before the date of the in camera
hearing.
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: November 2, 2023                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 