  Case Number:  23SMCV00916    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGCross-Defendant Rexford Manor Homeowners Association’s Motion to Compel Cross-Complainant David Schwarcz’s Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One is DENIED as MOOT.Cross-Defendant Rexford Manor Homeowners Association’s Motion to Compel Cross-Complainant David Schwarcz’s Discovery Responses to Demand for Production of Documents, Set One is DENIED as MOOT.Cross-Defendant Rexford Manor Homeowners Association’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.Cross-Defendant Rexford Manor Homeowners Association to give notice. REASONINGIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)Similarly, where there has been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. (Ibid.) There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) Where the motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required. (Contra Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1) [good cause requirement for motion to compel further responses].)Notably, where responses are provided but the responses are not verified, the responses “are tantamount to no responses at all.” (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 635-636.)Cross-Defendant Rexford Manor Homeowners Association (“Cross-Defendant”) served Defendant/Cross-Complainant David Schwarcz (“Schwarcz”) with its Special Interrogatories, Set One and Demand for Production of Documents, Set One, on December 21, 2023. (Mots., Partida Decls. ¶ 2.) Responses were due on January 22, 2024, and Cross-Defendant granted two extensions, but no verified responses were received. (Mots., Partida Decls. ¶¶ 3-4.)Schwarcz states in the opposition that substantive responses were provided, but the responses were not verified. (Opp’n, Spurley Decl. ¶ 4.) It appears the motions are intentionally vague about this point, as Cross-Defendant refers only to a failure to provide “verified responses” without informing the Court in any way that Cross-Defendant was seeking verifications. While it is true that unverified responses are tantamount to no responses, the Court would appreciate having all information relevant to a motion rather than learning this in the opposition. In any event, Schwarcz states that Cross-Defendant sought an extensive number of responses, but the Court notes that Schwarcz did not file a motion seeking a protective order due to the number of requests. Nonetheless, Schwarcz states that verifications were provided after receipt of this motion. (Opp’n, Spurley Decl. ¶ 10.)Accordingly, Cross-Defendant Rexford Manor Homeowners Association’s Motion to Compel Cross-Complainant David Schwarcz’s Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One is DENIED as MOOT, and Cross-Defendant Rexford Manor Homeowners Association’s Motion to Compel Cross-Complainant David Schwarcz’s Discovery Responses to Demand for Production of Documents, Set One is DENIED as MOOT.If a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or requests for production is filed, the Court may impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c); 2031.300, subd. (c).) If a motion to have requests for admission deemed admitted is filed, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)Cross-Defendant requests $406.50 in monetary sanctions for each motion. The Court exercises its discretion to deny the request for sanctions here. The Court encourages resolution of issues without court intervention, and the motions do not demonstrate that Cross-Defendant exhausted all avenues to obtain the verifications before filing the motions. Moreover, Cross-Defendant did not inform Schwarcz that it would file the motion if verifications were not provided by a certain date, and Cross-Defendant did not provide all necessary information to the Court upon filing its motions. For these reasons, Cross-Defendant Rexford Manor Homeowners Association’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.